OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

298 U.S.

to modify his judgment for error of fact or law or even
revoke it altogether. Doss v. Tyack, 14 How. 297, 313;
Basset v. United States, 9 Wall. 38, 41; Bronson v.
Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, 415; Henderson v. Carbondale
Coal & Coke Co., 140 U. S. 25, 40. Finality was lacking
until his choice had been announced.
The appeals being timely, the decree which dismissed
them should be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. ET AL. V. PUBLIC
UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 746.

Argued April 7, 8, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The carriers to whom the Interstate Commerce Act applies are
common carriers exclusively. P. 173.
2. For the purpose of determining the application of the Interstate
Commerce Act, transportation begins when the merchandise has
been placed in the possession of a common carrier. P. 175.
3. Coal mined in Pennsylvania was carried by the owner's private
facilities to his plant in Ohio, where it was cleaned," broken and
sorted; thence it was shipped by rail to the owner's customers in
Ohio. Held, that the movement by rail was not part of an interstate movement subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, and
that the rail rates were subject to Ohio regulation. P. 175.
4. The Court will not examine points not made in the complaint
nor included in the assignments of error or the statement of points
relied upon for reversal. P. 177.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court, of three

judges, refusing injunctive relief from an order of a state
commission fixing switching charges.

PENNA. R. CO. v. P. U. COMM'N.
170

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. Frederic D. McKenney and Guernsey Orcutt,
with whom Messrs. Leo P. Day and John J. Fitzpatrick
were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. August G. Gutheim and Donald C. Power, with
whom Mr. John W. Bricker, Attorney General of Ohio,
was on the brief, for the Ohio appellees.
Mr. Don Rose for Pittsburgh Coal Co., appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the
Court.
An order of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
directs the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Erie
]Railroad Company, appellants in this court, to adhere to
local or intrastate rates in switching and delivering four
carloads of bituminous coal to consignees in Youngstown,
Ohio, and in switching and delivering any other carloads
that may be tendered hereafter in similar conditions.
The question is whether the effect of such an order as
applied to the transactions exhibited in the record is to
regulate common carriers by rail in the business of interstate transportation, and thus to trench upon the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Pittsburgh Coal Company, an appellee in this court,
is the owner of coal mines in Pennsylvania, so situated
that the product of the mines can readily be conveyed
by use of the owner's cars and tipple to barges waiting
to receive it on the Monongahela River. Much of the
coal is sold to consumers in Ohio. The company has its
own barges in which the coal is towed by its own tug
boats, first over the Monongahela River and then over
the Ohio, to Smith's Ferry, Pennsylvania'. There it has
its own right of way, with tracks and cars and engine.
The coal, when transferred from the barges to the cars,
is taken over this right of way, a distance of about eleven
miles, to Negley, Ohio. At Negley, or near by, is the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of Ilie Court.

298 U.S.

Brush River Plant, owned by the coal company, where
the coal is dumped from the cars, washed, freed from foreign matter and impurities, and broken up or assorted
into the sizes desired by the customers. Then for the
first time it is ready for shipment to fill specific orders,
which often are not received until after it has left the
mines. Up to that point the carriage has been solely
by a private carrier, making use of its own facilities, its
trains and tugs and barges.
I At Negley the coal after being put in shape for
sale is
loaded upon the cars of the Pittsburgh, Lisbon and Western Railroad Company, referred to in the record as
Lisbon, for transportation to consignees at Youngstown
or elsewhere. Lisbon is a connon carrier by rail, which
connects at Signal, Ohio, with the tracks of the Youngstown and Suburban Railroad Company, referred to in the
record as the Y. & S. The route of that line, about 22.2
miles, is between Signal and Youngstown, where there
are interchange facilities with the Pennsylvania and the
Erie.
On September 17, 1934, Lisbon received from the Pittsburgh Coal Company at Negley four carloads of bituminous coal to be transported via the Y. & S. to Youngstown, the cars to be there transferred, first to the Pennsylvania and then to the Erie, for delivery to consignees
in Youngstown identified in the shipping orders. Lisbon
and Y. & S. followed these instructions. Upon tender of
the cars at the proper interchange track, Pennsylvania
refused to accept or switch them except upon payment of
the road haul charges on file with the Interstate Coinmnerce Commission. The switching rates prescribed by
the State Commission were $7.65 per car, a charge which
covered the intermediate service of the Pennsylvania and
the delivery service of the Erie. No switching rates for
such traffic had been filed with the federal Commission
by any of the trunk lines, but the haul charges, calcu-

PENNA. R. CO. v. P. U. COMM'N.
170

Opinion of the Court.

lated to the next destination beyond, were $94.50 per car.
Upon the rejection of the four carloads the Pennsylvania
gave written notice to the Y. & S. that thereafter carloads of bituminous coal from mines outside Ohio would
not be accepted for delivery within the Youngstown
switching limits until all charges were prepaid at rates
published in the tariffs on file with the federal Commission.
Following the receipt of this notice, the Y. & S. filed
with the Ohio Commission its complaint against the Pennsylvania and the Erie, the two companies having acted
in concert in demanding the higher rates. Other lines,
including the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, and
the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad Company, intervened in the proceedings, as did also the Pittsburgh Coal
Company. After a full hearing the Commission held in a
careful opinion that in the circumstances stated the State
of Ohio had jurisdiction by .its Commission to regulate
the charges for switching services at Youngstown, and
that the rates thereby prescribed were binding on the carn order was made accordingly. This order was
riers.
sustained by a District Court of three judges, application
having been made for relief by injunction both interlocutory and final. Judicial Code § 266; 28 U. S. C.
§ 380. The case. is here upon appeal. Ibid.
First:The transportation of the coal from Negley, Ohio,
to Youngstown in the same state, was an intrastate service, not subject to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act, and its character in that regard was not
changed because of preliminary carriage from the Pennsylvania mines in barges and cars belonging to the
shipper.
Appellants say that from the moment the coal left the
mines in Pennsylvania there was a continuing intention
to deliver it to consumers in another state, whether their
identity at the beginning was known or unknown, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

that a movement impelled by that intention is interstate
commerce which Congress has the power to regulate 'at
any stage of the ensuing transit. Baltimore & Ohio S. TV.
R. Co. v. Settle, 260 U. S. 166, 173; Ohio RailroadComm'n
v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101, 108 ;-Federal Trade Comm'n
v. Pacific States PaperAssn., 273 U. S. 52, 64. But there
is confusion of thought in such a statement of the problem. Not all commerce is transportation, and not all
transportation is by common carriers by rail. The question for us here is not whether the movement of the coal is
to be classified as commerce or even as commerce between
states. The question is whether it is that particular form
of interstate commerce which Congress has subjected to
regulation in respect of rates by a federal commission.
The Interstate Commerce Act (49 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.)
is aimed at common carriers exclusively, § 1 (1), (3), and
not even at all these. With exceptions plainly unrelated
to this case, § 1 (1) (b), (c), carriers, even though cominon, are unaffected by the act unless they are carriers
wholly by railroad, or if partly by railroad and partly by
water, are operating under "a common control, management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage or shipment." § 1 (1) (a). Cf. Cincinnati,N. 0. & T. P. Ry. Co.
v. InterstateCommerce Comm'n, 162 U. S. 184; Louisville
& N. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; Standard Oil Co. v.
United States, 179 Fed. 614; Mutual Transit Co. v. United
States, 178 Fed. 664. There are limitations, moreover, in
respect of the conduct' to be controlled in addition to the
foregoing limitations in respect of the carriers to be regulated. Even though the activities are those of common
carriers by rail, the statute does not apply "to the transportation of passengers or property . . . wholly
within one State and not shipped to or from a foreign
country from or to any place in the United States." § 1
(2) (a), (b). For many purposes, as for example in testing the validity of state taxation, merchandise is deemed

PENNA. R. CO. v. P. U. COMM'N.
170

Opinion of the Court.

to be in interstate commerce when it has started on its
journey, though still in the possession of consignor or
seller. Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U. S. 469, 475;
ChamplainRealty Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S. 366. Not
so, however, in determining the application of this act.
Transportation begins for that purpose, if not for others,

when the merchandise has been placed in the possession
of a carrier. Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota, supra; Coe v.

Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 528; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U. S. 82, 95; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498, 527. And
"wherever the word 'carrier' is used in this chapter it shall
be held to mean 'common carrier.'" § 1 (3).
With the aid of these definitions the problem before us
takes on a new simplicity. The only transportation of
this coal by a common carrier of merchandise either by
railroad or by water was intrastate transportation in Ohio
between Negley and Youngstown. The transportation
between Pennsylvania and Ohio was by the owner, who
was not a common carrier, but furnished implements of
carriage for its own use exclusively. Appellants would
have us hold that this interstate. transportation by an
owner who does not carry for any one else will be tacked
to the intrastate transportation by railroads who are in
business as common carriers, and the movement thus consolidated brought within the statute. The statute and
the decisions as we read them forbid this unifying process.
The Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548, 562; McCluskey v.
Marysville & Northern Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 36, 39, 40; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 275 U. S.
257; Campbell River Mills Co. v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P.
R. Co., 42 F. (2d) 775, 777, 778; aff'd, 53 F. (2d) 69, 72,
73; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. McGirr's Sons Co., 287 Fed.
334.
Two cases in this court (United States v. Erie R. Co.,

280 U. S. 98, and Texas. & New Orleans Ry. Co. v. Sabine

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of tihe Court.

298 U.S.

Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111) are put forward with special
emphasis by appellants as supporting a different conclusion.
Of these, the first had to do with a shipment of wood
pulp imported from abroad to Ioboken, New Jersey,
where the merchandise was 1o be transshipped by rail to
Garfield in the same state. The haul from Iloboken to
Garfield was held to be subject to regulation by the federal Commission. The ease differs from the one at hand
in at least three particulars: (1) the carriage to Hoboken,
as will appear from an examination of the record, was
effccted by a common carrier; (2) the ultimate consignee
was known from the beginning; (3) the rail transportation was "in fact a part of foreign commerce." 280 U. S.
at p. 102. Upon a shipment of merchandise to or from
a foreign country, the Interstate Commerce Act applies to
the carriage in this country, though that part of the
carriage is within the limits of a single state. § 1 (1)
(c), (2) (a). Cf. Denver & Rio Grande R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Coinm'n, 195 Fed. 968, 972; OregonWashington R. & N. Co. v. Strauss & Co., 73 F. (2d)
912; Lees & Sons Co. v. Reading Co., 148 I. C. C. 603;
In re Transportation of Sugar, 22 I. C. C. 558.
Texas & New Orleans Ry. Co. v. Sabine Tram. Co.,
supra, though differing in details from the case of the
Erie Railway, illustrates the same principle, and is to be
distinguished on like grounds.
Neither in the cases cited by the appellants nor in any
others known to us has transportation by a common carrier been combined with carriage by an owner for the
purpose of subjecting the whole to the operation of the
statute when the parts would be exempt. Such a fusion,
if permitted, would lead to strange results. The situation
laid before us would not be changed in its essentials if
a co~perative association of farmers doing business in
Pennsylvania close to the state line were to use a fleet of
trucks belonging to the association or its members to

PENNA. R. CO. v. P. U. COMM'N.
170

Opinion of the Court.

carry milk or vegetables from Pennsylvania to a railroad
station in Ohio. Even though this were done systematically and not casually or in sporadic instances, the ensuing
transportation by rail, if kept within Ohio, would not
be transportation between the states within the meaning
of the Act of Congress. If the concept of transportation
is in need of expansion, it is for the legislative department
of the government to determine how great the change
shall be.
We have found it unnecessary to consider in the disposition of the case whether the treatment of the coal at
Negley would break the continuity of the movement from
the mines, even if interstate transportation would otherwise exist. Cf. Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, supra, at p. 526; Alabama
Great Southern R. Co. v. McFadden & Bros., 232 Fed.
1000; aff'd, McFadden & Bros. v. Alabama Great Southern R. Co., 241 Fed. 562; Board of Trade of Chicago v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 33; Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St.
Louis S. TV. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 151, 152; General
Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211.
Second: The appellants have woven into their brief a
suggestion, not contained in their statement of points relied upon 'for reversal, that the ownership by the coal
company of a controlling interest in the shares of the
Lisbon and the Y. & S. has a bearing on the nature of
the transit between Negley and the mines. There is
insinuation, if not argument, that in building and operating a private right of way the coal company has nullified
restraints imposed upon the railroads by the federal
Commission, and for that reason must be treated as if it
were a common carrier itself.
No such point was made in the complaint, nor do the
assignments of error present it adequately here,
The decree should be affirmed, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.
65773°-3t----12

