468

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

MORGAN

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

298 U. S.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 686.

Argued April 29, 30, 1936.-Decided May 25, 1936.

1. Under § 310 of the Packers & Stockyards Act, a hearing is prerequisite to a valid order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing
rates for Market Agencies. P. 473.
2. Upon review under the Packers & Stockyards Act of an order of
the Secretary of Agriculture fixing rates of such agencies, all
questions touching the regularity and validity of the proceedings
before the Secretary are open. P. 477.
3. The Secretary's recitals of his procedure in such cases are not
conclusive on the question whether the statutory requirements
were obeyed. Id.
4. If upon the facts alleged before the court on review of the
Secretary's order the full hearing required by the Act was notgiven, the plaintiffs are entitled by the terms of the Act itself
to prove the facts and have the order set aside. Id.
5. It is not essential to the validity of a rate order made by the
Secretary of Agriculture under the Packers & Stockyards Act that
each of several respondents be given a separate hearing, or that
a preliminary report be made by the examiner who took the testimony and be submitted to the parties in order that they may
take their exceptions and address their arguments to the points
thus raised. P. 478.
6. The function of the Secretary of Agriculture in fixing rates under
the Packers & Stockyards Act is not that of ordinary executive
action, but is both legislative ana judicial in quality; fundamental procedural requirements must be obeyed; a full hearing of
both evidence and argument must be given; nothing can be
treated as evidence which is not introduced as such; facts and.
circumstances which ought to be considered must not be excluded
and those that should not legally influence the conclusion must
not be considered; findings based on the evidence must embrace
the basic facts needed to sustain the order. P. 479.
7. An order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing rates for Market
Agencies under the Packers & Stockyards Act is invalid if the
evidence and arguments were heard and considered by an assistant
to the Secretary but not by the Secretary himself. P. 481.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

Argument for Appellees.

8. If the duty of ascertaining and fixing just and reasonable rates
for Market Agencies, imposed by the Packers & Stockyards Act
on the Secretary of Agriculture, may lawfully be delegated by him
in a particular case to an assistant,-a question not here presented
or determined-it would be for the assistant to make the order
as well as to conduct the hearing. Pp. 478, 481.
8 F. Supp. 766, reversed.

APPEALS from decrees of the District Court of three
judges dismissing fifty bills brought by Market Agencies,
under the Packers & Stockyards Act, to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the Secretary of Agriculture
fixing maximum rates to be charged by them for buying
and selling livestock. The cases were consolidated in the
court below for trial.
Messrs. Frederick H. Wood and John B. Gage for
appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Dickinson, with whom
Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Wendell Berge, Henry
McClernan, and G. N. Dagger were on the brief, for the
United States et al., appellees.
Appellants' insistence on rates which will cover actual
costs is unwarranted in principle and is designed to defeat and nullify the rate-making power conferred by the
Packers & Stockyards Act.
This case does not present any issue of confiscation.
There is no merit in appellants' contention that the
prescribed rates are "ruinous" in their effect upon
appellants' businesses.
The rates prescribed by the Secretary were determined
by a lawful method.
The Secretary's findings with respect to reasonable
unit costs and profits are supported by substantial
evidence.
The Act of Feb. 9, 1889, 5 U. S. C. 517, confers upon
the Assistant Secretary the power to perform such duties

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Appellees.

298 U. S.

as may be assigned by the Secretary and is not limited
to the performance by the Assistant Secretary of mere
ministerial matters.
There is no support for the contention that an administrative officer, authorized by law to make quasijudicial decisions, cannot rely upon the assistance and
advice of subordinate officers and departmental employees. Inhabitants of West Springfield v. Mayo, 265
Mass. 41. See also Hisey v. Peters (1896), Patent Decisions, p. 22; In re Jem Yuen, 188 Fed. 350.
If, as appellants contend, it was incumbent upon the
Secretary to hear oral arguments personally, it would
seem likewise incumbent upon him, and far more
important, personally to hear the testimony of the
witnesses.
The fact is, however, that the Act expressly provides
in § 402 that "The Secretary, in person or by such agents
as he may designate, may prosecute any inquiry necessary to his duties under this Act in any part of the
United States," and in § 407 that "The Secretary shall
have the power to appoint, remove, and fix the compensation of such officers and employees . . . as shall be
necessary to the administration of this Act . . ." It is
plain that the Act contemplates that testimony shall
be taken, by such examiners and agents as the Secretary
designates; and indeed it is obvious that this is the only
practicable procedure.
The Act, moreover, does not expressly provide for
oral argument before the Secretary. The provisions
with respect to hdaring are found in § 310, which requires merely a full hearing.
As for the contention that the District Court erred in
striking the allegations made on information and belief
to the effect that the Secretary had not read the record,
the briefs, or. considered the oral arguments, the best
answer is found in the language of that court, that the

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

Opinion of the Court.

theory of these allegations is supported by nothing in
the Act and that a construction of the Act consistent
with that theory would destroy it altogether as a measure capable of practical administration. Cf. United
States v. Great Northern Ry., 287 U. S. 144.
It would indeed be a novel and dangerous doctrine if
parties affected by administrative decisions, by alleging
upon information and belief that the administrative
tribunal had not given pending matters careful consideration or had signed orders upon insufficient deliberation,
could go behind such orders and compel the members of
such tribunals to testify in court as to the adequacy of
the consideration given by them to the issues involved.
It might well lead to the paralysis of administrative tribunals. It is enough that public officials are presumed
to be conscientious and to do their duty, and that they
take full legal responsibility for their decisions.
The cases cited by appellants (Southern Ry. Co. v.
Virginia, 290 U. S. 190; Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91;
Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22, 56-57) are not in point.
Those cases merely hold that due process requires a fair
hearing-a general proposition of undisputed validity.
A motion to strike only admits the truth of the allegations to secure a ruling upon their legal adequacy. By
moving to strike these allegations the Government did not
admit their truth in the same sense that would attach to
an admission in an answer.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are fifty suits, consolidated for the purpose of
trial, to restrain the enforcement of an order of the Secretary of Agriculture, fixing the maximum rates to be
charged by market agencies for buying and selling livestock at the Kansas City Stock Yards. Packers and
Stockyards Act, 1921, 42 Stat. 159, 7 U. S. C. 181-229.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

The proceeding was instituted by an order of the Secretary of Agriculture in April, 1930, directing an inquiry
into the reasonableness of existing rates. Testimony was
taken and an order prescribing rates followed in May,
1932. An application for rehearing, in view of changed
economic conditions, was granted in July, 1932. After
the taking of voluminous testimony, which was concluded in November, 1932, the order in question was
made on June 14, 1933. Rehearing was refused on July
6, 1933.
Plaintiffs then brought these suits attacking the order,
so far as it prescribed maximum charges for selling livestock, as illegal and arbitrary and as depriving plaintiffs
of their property without due process of law in violation
of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. The District Court of three judges entered decrees sustaining the
order and dismissing the bills of complaint. 8 F. Supp.
766. Motions for rehearing were denied and, by stipulation, the separate decrees were set aside and a joint and

final decree was entered to the same effect. Plaintiffs
bring this direct appeal. 7 U. S. C. 217; 28 U. S. C. 47.
On the merits, plaintiffs assert that the ultimate basis
for the reduction in commission rates is the Secretary's
opinion that there are too many market agencies, too
many salesmen, and too much competition in the business; that the Secretary has departed entirely from the
evidence as to the actual cost of employing salesmen in
selling cattle a't these yards and has made an allowance
for salaries which is based on pure speculation and is
wholly inadequate to meet the cost of the service; that
he has substituted in place of his accountants' figures
as to actual expenditures, with respect to the item entitled "Business Getting and Maintaining Expense," a
hypothetical allowance greatly less than actual cost; and
that the Secretary has thus made findings without evidence and an order, essentially arbitrary, which prescribes

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

Opinion of the Court.

unreasonable rates. The Government answers that,
while the Secretary is not authorized expressly to prescribe or limit the number of firms that may engage
in the market agency business, he is under a duty to
take cognizance of evidence tending to show that, under
present competitive conditions, certain costs actually incurred are unreasonable; that in determining what are
just and reasonable rates, he must give consideration to
evidence of the excessiveness of costs and if such evidence
shows that there are many market agencies not receiving
a sufficient volume of business to entitle their costs to
be regarded as reasonable, the Secretary must take cognizance of that fact; that it was in this view that the
Secretary made certain findings as to the inadequacy of
the present business at the stockyards to support economically all the firms now striving to make a profit;
that his findings, supported by evidence, were directly
pertinent to the determination of reasonable costs, and so
determining the Secretary was authorized to fix the rates
prescribed in his order.
Before reaching these questions we meet at the threshold of the controversy plaintiffs' additional contention
that they have not been accorded the hearing which the
statute requires. They rightly assert that the granting
of that hearing is a prerequisite to the making of a valid
order. The statute provides (42 Stat. 159, 166, § 310;
7 U. S. C. 211):
"See. 310. Whenever after full hearing upon a complaint made as provided in section 309, or after full
hearing under an order for investigation and hearing
made by the Secretary on his own initiative, either in extension of any pending complaint or without any, complaint whatever, the Secretary is of the opinion that any
rate, charge, regulation, or practice of a stockyard owner
or market agency, for or in connection with the furnishing of stockyard services, is or will be unjust, unreasonable, or discriminatory, the Secretary--

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

(a) May determine and prescribe what will be the
just and reasonable rate or charge, or rates or charges, to
be thereafter observed in such case, or the maximum or
minimum, or maximum and minimum, to be charged, and
what regulation or practice is or will be just, reasonable,
and non-discriminatory to be thereafter followed; .
The allegations as to the failure to give a proper hearing are set forth in Paragraph IV of the bill of complaint,
quoted in full in the margin.' The allegations in substance are: That separate hearings were not accorded to
the respective respondents (plaintiffs here). That at the
1 Paragraph

IV of the bill of complaint is as follows:

"Petitioner states that the Order is null and void in that this peti-

tioner was denied a full hearing before the Secretary upon the matters
and things referred to in the Order of Inquiry as provided for in said
Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, and the enforcement of the Order
would take Petitioner's property without due process of law, in
violation of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, in that:
"(a) The Secretary overruled and denied the request of this petitioner for a separate, individual and independent hearing apart from
any other of the respondents named in said Notice of Inquiry to the
prejudice of this petitioner.
"(b) This petitioner requested at the conclusion of the hearings
held under said Notice of Inquiry before the said John C. Brooke,
that said Examiner prepare a tentative report upon the evidence to
be presented to the petitioner atd the Secretary subject to oral
argument as to any exceptions thereto which the petitioner might
care to present, so that in this manner a hearing might be had before
the Secretary without undue inconvenience to the Secretary, but said
request was denied and no tentative report was exhibited to petitioner and no oral argument upon the issues presented by said Order
of Inquiry and the evidence taken by said Examiner was at any
time had before the Secretary.
"(c) The Secretary, without warrant or authority of law, delegated to the said R. W. Dunlap and Rexford G. Tugwell, purporting
to be at the times hereinbefore named Acting Secretaries of Agriculure, authorities and powers vested solely in the Secretary involving
the exercise of discretion and the determination of issues in respect
to the justice, reasonableness and lawfulness of the rates and charges

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

475

Opinion of the Court.

conclusion of the taking of the testimony before an examiner, a request was made that the examiner prepare a
tentative report, which should be subject to oral argument and exceptions, so that a hearing might be had
before the Secretary without undue inconvenience to
him, but that the request was denied and no tentative
report was exhibited to plaintiffs and no oral argument
upon the issues presented by the order of inquiry and
the evidence was at any time had before the Secretary. That the Secretary, without warrant of law, delegated to Acting Secretaries the determination of issues
of this petitioner. At each and all of the times hereinabove referred
to, when the said oral arguments were presented after the original
hearing in said proceeding and after the re-hearing thereof, the then
Secretary of Agriculture was in Washington, D. C., at his office in the
Department of Agriculture, and at said time was neither sick, absent,
nor from any other cause disabled in the performance of official
duties of said Secretary of Agriculture, and a purported appointment
of any other person as Acting Secretary of Agriculture was illegal,
null and void under the laws of the United States.
"(d) Petitioner states on information and belief, and, therefore,
alleges the fact to be, that the Secretary at the time said Order was
signed by him had not personally heard or read any of the evidence
presented at any hearing in connection with this proceeding and had
not heard or considered oral arguments relating thereto submitted
on behalf of this petitioner and had (sic) read or considered any
briefs submitted by petitioner in this proceeding, but that the sole
information of said Secretary with respect to said proceeding was
derived from consultation with employees in the Department of
Agriculture, out of the presence of this petitioner or any representative of this petitioner.
"By reason of each and all of the foregoing facts, petitioner avers
that said course of action so taken by the Secretary was without
warrant and authority of law, and by reason of each and all of the
acts and omissions in this paragraph referred to (including the denial
of petitioner's request for a separate hearing and the overruling of
objections) this petitioner has been denied the 'full hearing' before
the Secretary to which the petitioner is entitled under said Packers.
and Stockyards Act, 1921, and under the Constitution of the United
States."

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

with respect to the reasonableness of the rates involved.
That when the oral arguments were presented after the
original hearing, and after the rehearing, the Secretary
was neither sick, absent, nor otherwise disabled, but was
at his office in the Department of Agriculture and the
appointment of any other person as Acting Secretary
was illegal. That the Secretary at the time he signed
the order in question had not personally heard or read
any of the evidence presented at any hearing in connection with the proceeding and had not heard or considered
oral arguments relating thereto or briefs submitted on
behalf of the plaintiffs, but that the sole information of
the Secretary with respect to the proceeding was derived
from consultation with employees in the Department of
Agriculture out of the presence of the plaintiffs or any
of their representatives.
On motion of the Government, the District Court
struck out all the allegations in Paragraph IV of the
bill of complaint and the plaintiffs were thus denied
opportunity to require an answer to these allegations or
to prove the facts alleged.
Certain facts appear of record. The testimony was
taken before an examiner. At its conclusion, counsel for
respondents stated "that he would continue to demand
that the Secretary hear personally the argument of the
evidence in behalf of the individual respondents, or at
least have some definite course of procedure adopted
whereby the examiner, or some one else, should formulate a report on the evidence so that the respondents
could have the character of hearing and right to present their side of the issues in this case, which they
believe the law entitles them to." The Government does
not suggest that this request was granted and plaintiffs
say that it was denied. Oral argument upon the evidence was had before the Acting Secretary of Agriculture. Subsequently, brief was filed on plaintiffs' be-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

477

Opinion of the Court.

half. Thereafter, reciting "careful consideration of the
entire record in this proceeding," findings of fact and
conclusions, and an order prescribing rates, were signed
by the Secretary of Agriculture.
First.-The Packers and Stockyards Act makes the provisions of all laws relating to the "suspending or restraining the enforcement". or the "setting aside" of the orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission applicable to the
"jurisdiction, powers and duties of the Secretary" in enforcing the provisions of the Act. § 316; 7 U. S. C. 217.
These suits for the review of the administrative action
were thus directly authorized and appeal lies under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913. 38 Stat. 219,
220; 28 U. S. C. 47. Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420, 443; Acker v. United States, ante,
p. 426. All questions touching the regularity and validity
of the proceeding before the Secretary are open to review. United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265
U. S. 274, 286-290; Florida v. United States, 282 U. S.
194, 212-215. When the Secretary acts within the authority conferred by the statute, his findings of fact are
conclusive. Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States,
supra;St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v. United States, ante,
p. 38; Acker v. United States, supra. But, in determining whether in conducting an administrative proceeding
of this sort the Secretary has complied with the statutory prerequisites, the recitals of his procedure cannot be
regarded as conclusive. Otherwise the statutory conditions could be set at naught by mere assertion. If upon
the facts alleged, the "full hearing" required by the statute was not given, plaintiffs were entitled to prove the
facts and have the Secretary's order set aside. Nor is it
necessary to go beyond the terms of the statute in order
to consider the constitutional requirement of due process
as to notice and hearing. For the statute itself demands'
a full hearing and the order is void if such a hearing was

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

denied. Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91; United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., supra; Floridav. United States,
supra; United States v. B. & 0. R. Co., 293 U. S.454, 464.
Second.-The outstanding allegation, which the District Court struck out, is that the Secretary made the rate
order without having heard or read any of the evidence,
and without having heard the oral arguments or having
read or considered the briefs which the plaintiffs submitted. That the only information which the Secretary
had as to the proceeding was what he derived from consultation with employees of the Department.
The other allegations of the stricken paragraph do not
go to the root of the matter. Thus, it cannot be said
that the failure to hear the respondents separately was
an abuse of discretion. Again, while it would have been
good practice to have the examiner prepare a report and
submit it to the Secretary and the parties, and to permit
exceptions and arguments addressed to the points thus
presented,-a practice found to be of great value in proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commissionwe cannot say that that particular type of procedure was
essential to the validity of the hearing. The statute does
not require it and what the statute does require relates to
substance and not form.
•Nor should the fundamental question be confused with
one of mere delegation of authority. The Government
urges that the Acting Secretary who heard the oral argument was in fact the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture
whose duties are prescribed by the Act of February 9,
1889 (5 U. S. C. 517), providing for his appointment and
authorizing him to perform such duties in the conduct
of the business of the Department of Agriculture as may
be assigned to him by the Secretary. If the Secretary
had assigned to the Assistant Secretary the duty of holding the hearing, and the Assistant Secretary accordingly

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

Opinion of the Court.

had received the evidence taken by the examiner, had
heard argument thereon and had then found the essential facts and made the order upon his findings, we should
have had simply the question of delegation. But while
the Assistant Secretary heard argument he did not make
the decision. The Secretary who, according to the allegation, had neither heard nor read evidence or argument,
undertook to make the findings and fix the, rates. The
Assistant Secretary, who had heard, assumed no responsibility for the findings or order, and the Secretary, who
had not heard, did assume that responsibility.
We may likewise put aside the contention as to the circumstances in which an Acting Secretary may take the
place of his chief. In the course of administrative routine, the disposition of official matters by an Acting Secretary is frequently necessary and the integrity of administration demands that credit be given to his action
in that capacity. We have no such question here. The
Acting Secretary did not assume to make the order.
Third.-What is the essential quality of the proceeding
under review, and what is the nature of the hearing which
the statute prescribes?
The proceeding is not one of ordinary administration,
conformable to the standards governing duties of a purely
executive character. It is a proceeding looking to legislative action in the fixing of rates of market agencies.
And, while the order is legislative and gives to the proceeding its distinctive character (Louisville & Nashville
R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S.298, 307), it is a proceeding
which by virtue of the authority conferred has special attributes. The Secretary, as the agent of Congress in
making the rates, must make them in accordance with the
standards and under the limitations which Congress has
presdribed. Congress has required the Secretary to determine, as a condition of his action, that the existing
rates are or, will be "unjust, unreasonable, or discrimina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

tory." If and when he so finds, he may "determine and
prescribe" what shall be the just and reasonable rate, or
the maximum or minimum rate, thereafter to be charged.
That duty is widely different from ordinary executive action. It is a duty which carries with it fundamental procedural requirements. There must be a full hearing.
There must be evidence adequate to support pertinent
and necessary findings of fact. Nothing can be treated
as evidence which is not introduced as such. United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., supra. Facts and
circumstances which ought to be considered must not be
excluded. Facts and circumstances must not be considered which should not legally influence the conclusion.
Findings based on the evidence must embrace the basic
facts which are needed to sustain the order. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville R. CO.,
supra; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., supra; Floridav.
United States, supra; United States v. B. & 0. R. Co.,
supra.
A proceeding of this sort requiring the taking" and
weighing of evidence, determinations of fact based' upon
the consideration of the evidence, and the making of an
order supported by such findings, has a quality resembling that of a judicial proceeding. Hence it is frequently described as a proceeding of a quasi-judicialcharacter. The requiremerit of a "full hearing" has obvious
reference to the tradition of judicial proceedings in which
evidence is received and weighed by the trier of the facts.
The "hearing" is designed to afford the safeguard that
the one who decides shall be bound in good conscience
to consider the evidence, to be guided by that alone, and
to reach his conclusion uninfluenced by extraneous considerations which in other fields might have play in determining purely executive action. The "hearing" is the
hearing of evidence and argument. If the one who de-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
468

Opinion of the Court.

termines the facts which underlie the order has not considered evidence or argument, it is manifest that the hearing has not been given.
There is thus no basis for the contention that the authority conferred by § 310 of the Packers and Stockyards
Act is given to the Department of Agriculture, as a department in the administrative sense, so that one official
may examine evidence, and another official who has not
considered the evidence may make the findings and order.
In such a view, it would be possible, for example, for
one official to hear the evidence and argument and arrive
at certain conclusions of fact, and another official who
had not heard or considered either evidence or argument to overrule those conclusions and for reasons of
policy to announce entirely different ones. It is no
answer to say that the question for the court is whether
the evidence supports the findings and the findings support the order. For the weight ascribed by the law to
the findings-their conclusiveness when made within the
sphere of the authority conferred-rests upon the assumption that the officer who makes the findings has addressed himself to the evidence and upon that evidence
has conscientiously reached the conclusions which he
deems it to justify. That duty cannot be performed by
one who has not considered evidence or argument. It is
not an impersonal obligation. It is a duty akin to that
of a judge. The one who decides must hear.
This necessary rule does not preclude practicable administrative procedure in obtaining the aid of assistants
in the department. Assistants may prosecute inquiries.
Evidence may be taken by an examiner. Evidence thus
taken may be sifted and analyzed by competent subordinates. Argument may be oral or written. The requirements are not technical. But there must be a hearing in a substantial sense. And to give the substance
of a hearing, which is for the purpcw of making dtr', .77::

1(3 -

1

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

minations upon evidence, the officer who makes the determinations must consider and appraise the evidence which
justifies them. That duty undoubtedly may be an onerous one, but the performance of it in a substantial manner is inseparable from the exercise of the important
Authority conferred.
The Government presses upon our attention the case
of Local Government Board v. Arlidge [1915] A. C. 120,
reversing King v. Local Government Board [1914] 1
K. B. 160. That case has provoked much discussion, but
we do not think it necessary to review it, as it relates to
a different sort of administrative action and is not deemed
to be pertinent to a proceeding under the statute before
us and to the hearing which is required by the principles established by our decisions.
Our conclusion is that the District Court erred iii striking out the allegations of Paragraph IV of the bill of
complaint with respect to the Secretary's action. The
defendants should be required to answer these allegations
and the question whether plaintiffs had a proper hearing
should be determined.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.

Reversed.

