ZIMMERN v. UNITED STATES.

167

Opinion of the Court.

ZIMMERN

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 766.

Argued April 3, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

An order made by a district judge on his own motion during the
term at which a decree has been entered, reciting the need for an
amendment of the decree and extending the term to a future day
for the declared purpose of allowing such amendment, without
specifying the change in contemplation, has the effect of suspending the operation of the decree so that no appeal can be taken
from it until it has been amended or confirmed. P. 169.
79 F. (2d) 703, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

297 U. S. 701, to review a judgment dis-

missing an appeal.
Mr. Lawrence Koenigsberger for petitioners.
Mr. CharlesE. Wyzanski, Jr., with whom Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General Jackson, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and S. E. Blackham were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question in this case is whether the petitioners appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals within the time
prescribed by law.
The United States brought suit to set aside a deed by
Samuel Zimmern to his wife, and another deed, in which
the wife joined, to his children, a separate parcel of real
estate being the subject of each. At the time of the conveyance Samuel Zimmern was indebted to the complainant for a deficiency of income taxes duly assessed against
him. The deeds were attacked upon the ground that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

had been made without consideration and with fraudulent
intent. The District Court after a trial sustained the
charge of fraud and gave judgment in favor of the complainant for the relief prayed for in the bill. Its decree,
which was entered on March 3, 1934, directed a sale of
the two parcels, and the payment of the proceeds to the
United States to be applied upon the taxes after deducting
what was due to the wife by reason of a homestead exemption allowed by the local law. Nothing was said in
the decree as to the exception or reservation from the sale
of her inchoate right of dower.
The term at which the cause was tried would have expired, unless extended, on May 28, 1934. However, before
that date, the judge made an order extending the term for
ninety days, the order being prefaced with the following
recital: "It appearing to the court that a decree was
entered in this cause on March 3rd, 1934 and for good
reason shown it will be necessary to modify or amend said
decree."" No petition for rehearing in behalf of the wife,
Leila Zimmern, appears in the record, nor any motion
for an amendment. A petition in behalf of Samuel Zimmorn does appear, but it was filed on August 11, 1934,
when the time to appeal had already gone by if the original decree was then presently in force. Cf. Conboy v. First
National Bank of Jersey City, 203 U. S. 141, 145. Two
* For greater certainty the terms of the order are here stated in
full:
"It appearing to the Court that a decree was entered in this cause
on March 3rd, 1934 and for good reason shown it will be necessary
to modify or amend said decree,
"It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged by the Court that the
November Term of this Court which expires on the 28th day of
May, 1934 be, and the same is, extended for ninety (90) days from
that date, in which time all matters and orders in connection with
this cause and the amendments of the decree' may be entered.
"Done this I1th day of May, A. D., 1934.
ROBERT T. EiiVIN, Judge."

ZIMMERN v. UNITED STATES.
167

Opinion of the Court.

(lays later the judge made an order amending the decree
by directing that the sale be subject to any dower rights
of the wife, 'and in all other respects denying whatever
motions were before him. Appeals by all the defendants
were taken and allowed. Under the applicable statute
(28 U. S. C. ยง 230), the appeals were too late if the time is
to be computed from the date of the decree as originally
entered. They were regular if the time is to be computed
from the date of the amendment. The Court of Appeals
held that what had been corrected by the amendment was
an accidental slip or omission, not affecting the issues in
suit (Federal Equity Rule 72), and inoperative to toll the
statute. Accordingly, the appeals were dismissed, two
opinions being written, one upon the original hearing and
the other upon rehearing. 79 F. (2d) 703; 80 F. (2d) 993.
This court granted certiorari to review a ruling as to practice that might tend, if erroneous, to introduce confusion
into the law.
We think the decision misapprehends the effect of the
order of May 11, 1934, in which the judge who had tried
the cause declared himself dissatisfied with the decree
that he had, made, and to give himself an opportunity to
wake the necessary changes extended the term then drawing to a close. He did not limit the amendment to matters of form only as distinguished from those of substance.
Ile did not act, so far as the record shows, at the instance
of the defendants, still less upon a showing of error in
only one particular. He stated broadly and, for all that
appears, of his own motion that changes must be made,
and without a word to indicate whether he meant them
to be great or little. We think the effect of that order
was to suspend the operation of the decree so that no
appeal could be taken from it until it had been amended
or confirmed, and its vigor thus restored. Until such action had been taken it was no longer a decree at all. The
judge had plenary power while the term was in existence

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Statement of the Case.

298 U.S.

to modify his judgment for error of fact or law or even
revoke it altogether. Doss v. Tyack, 14 How. 297, 313;
Basset v. United States, 9 Wall. 38, 41; Bronson v.
Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, 415; Henderson v. Carbondale
Coal & Coke Co., 140 U. S. 25, 40. Finality was lacking
until his choice had been announced.
The appeals being timely, the decree which dismissed
them should be reversed, and the cause remanded to the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit for further proceedings in harmony with this opinion.
Reversed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. ET AL. V. PUBLIC
UTILITIES COMMISSION OF OHIO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 746.

Argued April 7, 8, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The carriers to whom the Interstate Commerce Act applies are
common carriers exclusively. P. 173.
2. For the purpose of determining the application of the Interstate
Commerce Act, transportation begins when the merchandise has
been placed in the possession of a common carrier. P. 175.
3. Coal mined in Pennsylvania was carried by the owner's private
facilities to his plant in Ohio, where it was cleaned," broken and
sorted; thence it was shipped by rail to the owner's customers in
Ohio. Held, that the movement by rail was not part of an interstate movement subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, and
that the rail rates were subject to Ohio regulation. P. 175.
4. The Court will not examine points not made in the complaint
nor included in the assignments of error or the statement of points
relied upon for reversal. P. 177.
Affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court, of three

judges, refusing injunctive relief from an order of a state
commission fixing switching charges.

