BASSICK CO. v. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.

415

Syllabus.

BASSICK MANUFACTURING CO. v. R. M. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 23. Argued October 21, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.
1. Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, and 10 of Gullborg Patent No. 1,307,734,
for a means of lubricating metal bearings, particularly those of
automobiles, claimed a combination of (1) a type of pin fitting;
(2) a grease gun; (3) a connecting hose; and (4) a type of
coupler. The only novel feature of the combination was in the
construction of the coupler, which, utilizing a perforated sealing
disk mounted to reciprocate in the bore of the coupler with means
for yieldingly pressing the disk against the end of the pin fitting,
operates upon uncoupling to produce a suction effect which removes excess lubricant from the point of contact of the two members. Held, to that extent the claims disclose novelty and invention. P. 420.
2. The finding of the Circuit Court of Appeals that the accused
grease gun of respondent (in No. 23) lacked the only novel feature of the Gullborg patented combination and that it therefore
did not infringe,-sustained. P. 422.
3. Claims 14 and 15 of Gullborg Patent, No. 1,307,734, for a combination of the type of pin fitting covered by Gullborg Patent,
No. 1,307,733, with a grease gun of any type, held not contributorily infringed either (1) by the sale of pin fittings of a type not
covered by Patent No. 1,307,733, even though a grease gun of the
"suction effect" type could be used therewith; or (2) by the sale
of grease guns which could be used with the patented pin fitting
but which did not embody the improved coupler evidenced by
the patent in suit. Pp. 424-425.
4. A patentee cannot, by improving one element of an old combination whose construction and operation is otherwise unchanged,
in effect repatent the old combination by reclaiming it with the
improved element substituted for the old element. P. 425.
73 F. (2d) 543, affirmed.
74 F. (2d) 1019, reversed.
* Together with No. 31, Rogers et al. v. Alemite Corporation.
Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Thifd Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

298 U. S.

295 U. S. 726, to review judgments in two

cases from different circuits, involving questions of the
validity and infringement of a patent. The cases are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lynn A. Williams, with whom Messrs. Albin C.
Ahlberg and Elwood Hansmann were on the brief, for
petitioner in No. 23.
Mr. Frank S. Busser, with whom Mr. Leonard L.
Kalish was on the brief, for respondent in No. 23.
Mr. Leonard L. Kalish for petitioners in No. 31.
Mr. Lynn A. Williams, with whom Mr. Albin C.
Ahlberg was on the brief, for respondent in No. 31.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTs

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In these cases writs of certiorari were granted to resolve conflicts with respect to the scope and alleged
infringement of claims 1 to 6, 8, 10, 14 and 15 of the
Gullborg Patent No. 1,307,734. In No. 23 the Circuit
Court of Appeals, while holding the claims valid, so construed them as to exculpate the accused devices from the
charge of contributory infringement.' In No. 31 the
Circuit Court of Appeals gave the claims a broader construction and adjudged that the petitioners were guilty
of contributory infringement.2
The subject of the patent is a device for lubricating
metal bearings, particularly those of automobiles. It
has occasioned much litigation.' Before the date of Gull'Hollingshead Co. v. Bassick Mfg. Co., 73 F. (2d) 543.
'Rogers v. Atemite Corporation, 74 F. (2d) 1019.
Many district court decisions are unreported. Reported decisions
in district and circuit courts of appeal are: Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Auto

BASSICK CO. v. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

415

borg's invention grease cups were used for bearing lubrication. The cup was connected with the bearing by '$
tube and oil or grease was forced through the tube into
the bearing by screwing down a cap or plunger which
was part of the cup. It became common to substitute,
in place of the grease cup, a tubular fitting and to force
grease through the fitting by means of a "gun" consisting
of a compression chamber and an attached hQse, the
latter coupled to the fitting by a screw thread or bayonet
coupling. In the case of the bayonet coupler the fitting
had lugs or pins and the couplet device had slots which
engaged such lugs, or pins to form a tight union. The
grease would then be forced from the chamber of the
gun into the bearing by the use of a plunger or pump.
In some of the prior art appliances the aperture of the
fitting was kept closed when greasing was not being
done by a ball or capsule held against the opening of
the fitting by a spring. This closure is. opened, during
the greasing operation, by the pressure of the grease.
Gullborg conceived the idea of a fitting in which, instead
of pins or lugs set on either side, there should be a' pin
running directly through the-tube and extending out on
either side. He used that portion of the pin which
bisected the tube as the base of a spring to hold in place
a metal ball which closed the aperture of the fitting.
This invention was novel in the respect that while others
Equipment Co., 13 F. (2d) 463; Lyman Mfg. Co. v. Bassick Mfg.
Co., 18 F. (2d) 29; Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Standard Products Mfg.
Co., 19 F. (2d) 937; Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Larkin Automotive Parts
Co., 19 F. (2d) 939; Larkin Automotive Parts Co. v. Bassick Mfg.
Co., 19 F. (2d) 944; Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Ready Auto Supply Co., 22
F. (2d) 331; Bassick Mfg. Co. v. Rogers, 26 F. (2d) 724; Alemite
Mfg. Corp. v. Hi-Pressure Sales Co., 33 F. (2d) 912; Bassick Mfg.
Co. v. Adams Grease Gun Corp., 39 F. (2d) 904, 52 F. (2d) 36;
Bassick Mfg. Co. v. United Grease Gun Corp., 40 F. (2d) 549;
Alemite Corporation v. Lubrair Corporation, 62 F. (2d) 899.
65773*-36-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

had similarly closed the aperture of the fitting none had
employed the pin both to form the lugs for engaging
the slots of the coupler and to form the base of the
spring supporting the ball closure. For this invention he
applied for and obtained a patent, No. 1,307,733, which
is not here in suit. Recognizing that when a bayonet
coupler is secured to the pin fitting, and the grease is
forced through the fitting into the bearing under great
pressure, upon uncoupling the gun from the fitting some
grease will remain around the end of the fitting and the
orifice of the coupler which is not only useless but likely
to soil the clothing of the operator or others using the
machine, and litter the place where the greasing is done,
Gullborg set about to devise a means for eliminating this
residuum of grease. He conceived the idea of placing a
movable perforated cup-shaped disk or washer in the barrel of the coupler held by a spring against the orifice
of the coupler. The intended operation of his device was
that when the coupler had been fastened over the pin
fitting the spring should press the washer against the ball
in the pin fitting so that the tube in the fitting would be
open to receive the grease and, upon application of
pressure to the grease, the washer would thereby be
firmly pressed against the opening of the pin fitting,
thus causing a tight union and preventing exudation of
grease. His specification asserts that the invention
makes possible the injection of grease under very high
pressure. The design of the bayonet slots is such that,
in uncoupling, the coupling member of the gun will at
first be moved slightly forward on the pin fitting thus
backing up the perforated washer in the bore of the
coupler. As the two parts are then drawn apart by the
retraction of the coupler, the cup-shaped washer will be
forced forward by the spring. This will cause a vacuum
behind the washer and the air rushing in through the

BASSICK CO. v. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.
415

419

Opinion of the Court.

perforation in the washer will draw with it any grease
which would otherwise adhere about the orifices of the
fitting and the coupling.
While Gullborg's invention was confined to an improvement in the hose coupler, which is but one element
in the old and well understood combination of a compression chamber or pump, a hose, a hose-coupler, and a
grease cup or fitting connected to the bearing to be lubricated, his claims are not for the improvement as such
but all are for a combination of the old elements with
the improved form of coupler. They are too long to set
forth in full. Claim 2 may be taken as typical of a number of them. It reads:
"2. The combination with a hollow coupling member
having a pin projecting from one side thereof and a
spring-pressed closure, of a pump, a discharge conduit
having one end secured to the outlet of said pump, a second hollow coupling member for receiving the closed end
of said first named coupling member secured to the other
end of said conduit and provided with a bayonet slot
adapted to co-act with said pin, a perforated sealing disk
mounted to reciprocate in the bore of said coupling member, means for yieldingly urging said sealing disk against
the closed end of said first named coupling member, and
means for limiting the movement of said sealing disk in
the direction of said second coupling member."
The claimed combination is, therefore, of four things:
(1) a type of pin fitting which was old in the art; (2)
a pump for creating pressure, which was old; (3) a hose
to connect the two; and (4) a well-known type of coupler,
the only novel feature of which is the perforated sealing
disk mounted to reciprocate in the bore of the coupler
with means for yieldingly pressing the disk against the
end of the pin fitting and means for limiting the movement of the disk in the direction of the pin fitting (which

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

signifies merely some sort of shoulder at the orifice of the
coupler to prevent the spring from forcing the disk out of
the end of the bore).
Nothing is said in specification or claims concerning
the release of the high pressure in the gun before uncoupling, but evidently this must be done if the movement of the perforated disk is to create a vacuum. The
petitioner concedes that if the high pressure is maintained the grease packed behind the washer will move
forward with it and not only prevent the creation of a
vacuum back of the washer but continue to exude from
the coupler through the perforation in the washer. It is
explained that the pressure may be released by a slight
retraction of the plunger in the grease gun so as to permit
the spring and washer to perform their function of creating a suction when the pin and coupler are disengaged.
Claims 1 to 6, inclusive, and 8 and 10, have been
repeatedly held valid, but the invention has generally
been limited to the novel means whereby upon the uncoupling of the gun from the pin fitting a suction is
produced which removes excess lubricant from the point
of contact of the two members. Although in the instant
cases the validity of the claims is denied, we think they
disclose novelty and invention to the extent indicated.
Claims 14 and 15 are of a different order. Claim 15
may be taken as typical. It is:
"15. The combination with a grease cup comprising
a tubular member having a closure seat, a closure, a pin
extending through said tubular member and from both
sides thereof, and a spring confined between said pin and
closure, and tending to hold said closure on its seat, of a
grease pump having a discharge conduit, and means coacting with the ends of said pin for detachably connecting the discharge end of said conduit with said grease
cup.))
It will be noted that this claim describes a combination consisting of the pin fitting of Gullborg's patent

BASSICK CO. v. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.
415

421

Opinion of the Court.

No. 1,307,733, with any grease pump having a bayonet
type coupler. Nothing in the claim discloses the cup
shaped reciprocating disk yieldingly pressed forward
against the closure of the pin fitting. Grease guns having such a bayonet coupling were old in the art. The
question is whether claims 14 and 15, unless restricted
to the combination of a grease gun and coupler and a
pin fitting such as are described in the specifications of
the patent, are void as attempting to extend the monopoly of Gullborg's patent No. 1,307,733, to exclude the
use therewith of any grease gun except one having the
suction device of the patent in suit.
With this background we pass to consideration of the
specific cases presented.
No. 23.
The petitioner, as owner of the Gullborg patent, filed
a bill in the district court to restrain alleged infringement by the respondent. The latter did not sell pin fittings but did sell two types of grease pumps. The slotted
coupler of the first has no slidably mounted cup-shaped
perforated disk in its bore. Confessedly there is no
means for producing the suction effect claimed for Gullborg's invention. The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the decision of the district court, held that in view of
the limited scope of the invention disclosed in claims 1 to
6, inclusive, and 8 and 10, this device did not infringe. It
further decided that as claims 14 and 15 must be limited
to a combination embracing couplers embodying the suction effect,-the only novel feature of the patent,-or
else be held void as attempting to gain protection for
something not covered by the invention, this grease pump
did not infringe those claims. The petitioner does not
contest the holdings. The second gun sold by the respondent combines a receptacle containing grease under a
pneumatic pressure of about one hundred pounds, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

exit of which is connected to a pipe discharging into
the chamber of a plunger-operated pump and a hose attached at the base of the pump chamber terminating in
a coupling device like that of the Gullborg patent. The
method of operation is that when the plunger is retracted
beyond the orifice of the supply pipe grease is forced into
the pump chamber by the air pressure in the receptacle.
By the downward stroke of the plunger, the entrance to
the pump-chamber is closed and the grease therein forced
into the hose and through the coupling and pin fitting to
the bearing. By successive strokes a very high pressure
can be built up in the hose. The Circuit Court of Appeals found, and we think correctly, that with this arrangement it was impossible to release the pressure in
the grease line between the pump and the bearing before
uncoupling the hose from the pin fitting, so as to permit
the spring to force the disk forward in the bore of the
coupler and create a suction as in Gullborg's patent;
and that the accused device was subject to the very exudation of grease at the point of union which Gullborg's
invention was intended to obviate. It therefore held
that the accused grease gun lacked the only novel feature
of the patented combination.
The decision went upon a question of fact. The petitioner offered no evidence to prove that the accused
device operated to produce the suction effect claimed in
the patent but relied upon the physical exhibits consisting of its own and the respondent's apparatus and upon
ocular demonstrations of their operation. The respondent introduced evidence to show the absence of the suction effect in its device and combatted the inference
sought to be drawn from the physical operation of the
two exhibits. We are satisfied that the Circuit Court of
Appeals was correct in its decision that the accused
device did not embody the novel feature claimed in the
patent.

BASSICK CO. v. HOLLINGSHEAD CO.
415

423

Opinion of the Court.

As respects claims 14 and 15, which are for a combination of the pin fitting covered by Gullborg's patent No.
1,307,733 with a grease gun and coupler of any type, the
Court of Appeals held that these must be read as claiming a combination of the patented pin fitting and a gun
with the coupling device described in the specifications
and having the suction effect set forth in the other claims
or must be held void as unlawful attempts to extend the
monopoly of the pin fitting which is described in patent
1,307,733. The court sustained these claims by restricting their scope to conform to the other claims based on
the suction effect and held they were not infringed by
the respondent's apparatus. We do not understand the
petitioner to seek a reversal of this holding. Its petition
for certiorari and the assignments of error are bare of
any attack upon this portion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals' decision. These claims, however, are drawn in
question in No. 31 and may more properly be discussed
in that connection.
No. 31.
In this case the respondent, as owner of the Gullborg
patent No. 1,307,734, sued the petitioners, who neither
made nor sold pin fittings of the type covered by Gullborg's patent No. 1,307,733, nor grease pumps or guns
having the coupler construction of those described and
claimed in the patent in suit. But the petitioners did
sell pin fittings of a type with which a grease gun of the
description of Gullborg's could be used, and grease guns
having a bayonet slotted coupler, which could be used
either with the pin fittings of Gullborg's patent No.
1,307,733 or with others not covered thereby. These
sales were charged to be contributory infringements of
patent No. 1,307,734. The district court so held and
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
What has been said with respect to claims 14 and 15
need not be repeated. The petitioners' grease guns are

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U. S.

of an old unpatented type having couplers of a different
construction from that disclosed in the patent. There
is no assertion that they produce the suction effect of
Gullborg's invention. The petitioners' pin fittings are
not of the type described in Gullborg's patent No.
1,307,733.
The proofs establish that the prior art embraced the
use in combination of a grease gun composed of a chamber or pump, a hose, a hose-coupler, and a spring-closed
fitting, the coupling being of the pin and slot or bayonet
type. The respondent's position is, nevertheless, that if
the petitioners furnish a gun, a part of this old unpatented and unpatentable combination, for use with the
patented pin fitting of Gullborg's No. 1,307,733, they contributorily infringe claims 14 and 15 of the patent in
suit because those claims described the combination of
any grease gun with the patented pin fittings. Again,
the respondent says that as pin fittings made in accordance with the prior- art, but susceptible of use with a
gun covered by the patent in suit, were sold by petitioners, these sales constituted contributory infringements
of all the claims of the patent.
It is plain that Gullborg invented improvements of
two of the mechanical elements of an old combination
consisting of grease pump, hose, hose-coupler, and a
grease cup or pin fitting. First, he contrived an improved pin fitting. This he patented as such (No.
1,307,733.) Secondly, he invented an improved form
of coupler to be attached to the end of the hose leading
from the pump to the fitting. Instead of patenting this,
as he did the pin fitting, he claimed a combination of
pump, hose-coupler, and pin fitting, and embodied in the
combination his improved form of coupler.
(No.
1,307,734, the patent in suit; claims 1-6, 8 and 10). He
further claimed the combination between his patented
pin fitting and any form of grease gun whether that

BASSICK CO. v.'HOLLINGSHEAD CO.
415

425

Opinion of the Court.

claimed in his patent or unpatented and old in the art.
(Claims 14 and 15.) The question then is whether, by
this method, the patentee, by improving one element of
an old combination whose construction and operation
is otherwise unchanged, may, in effect, repatent the old
combination by reclaiming it with the improved element
substituted for the old element. That this cannot be
done is shown by numerous cases in this and other
federal courts."
Leeds & Catlin v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 213
U. S. 301, 325, on which the respondent relies, is not in
point. There the patent was a pioneer patent and the
combination was of elements which were novel and
neither of which possessed utility without the other.
Each element was necessary to the operation of the other.
The invention did not, as here, consist of thc mere improvement of one element of an old combination.
We are of the opinion that the owner of the patents
cannot extend the monopoly of its patent for a pin fitting
to preclude the use therewith of any grease gun not embodying the improvement in the coupling device evidenced by the patent in suit; and cannot extend the
monopoly of the combination patent in suit to prevent
the use of a pin fitting which does not infringe the fitting
patent, 1,307,733, with a gun having a coupler such as
that claimed in the patent in suit.
Electric Light Co. v. Peninsular Light P. & H. Co., 101
Fed. 831; Heald v. Rice, 104 U. S. 737, 755; Underwood v. Gerber,
149 U. S. 224, 227, 229; Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co.,
152 U. S. 425, 431, 432; Carbice Corporation v. American Patents
Development Corp., 283 U. S. 27, 31, 32; Wagner Typewriter Co. v.
Webster Co., 144 Fed. 405, 409; Langan v. Warren Axe & Tool Co.,
184 Fed. 720; Harvey Hubbell, Inc. v. General Electric Co., 267 Fed.
564; Troy Wagon Works Co. v. Ohio Trailer Co., 274 Fed. 612;
General Electric Co. v. Ohio Brass Co., 277 Fed. 917; Radio Corporation v. Lord, 28 F. (2d) 257; Wall Pump & C. Co. v. Gardner
Governor Co., 28 F. (2d) 334.
4Edison

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.

426

298 U. S.

Syllabus.

In No. 23 the decree is affirmed. In No. 31 the decree
is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or
decision of these cases.
ACKER ET AL. v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 655.

Argued April 3, 6, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. In ascertaining a reasonable unit cost, as the basis for a uniform
rate for Market Agencies, under the Packers & Stockyards Act,
the Secretary of Agriculture was not bound to adopt any one
agency's costs or an average of the costs of all of them; to do so
would be to leave out of consideration relative size, relative volume,
and relative efficiency of individual agencies. P. 429.
2. In fixing such rates, the Secretary was not bound to adopt as his
allowance for salesmen's salaries an average of salaries theretofore
paid; and he was justified in refusing to assign, as part of the selling cost, fictitious salaries to the proprietors of such agencies whose
actual recompense for their activities is the profit from their own
business. P. 429.
3. In the fixing of such rates the Secretary may determine from the
evidence what is a fair and adequate allowance for the cost of
getting and maintaining business; this is not purely a question
for the managerial judgment of the market agencies. P. 430.
4. The objections that the Secretary arbitrarily used a single year
as the test period and arbitrarily refused a rehearing, are not
sustained. P. 431.
5. Under ยง 316 of the Packers & Stockyards Act, the District Court
sits not to afford a trial de novo but to review the administrative
action. Where the issue before the Secretary was the reasonableness of the charges of market agencies for their personal services,
no question of confiscation being involved, and where adequate
notice and hearings were afforded, and the evidence carefully

