OCTOBER TERM[, 1935.
298 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

Here, the allegation in the bill of complaint as to jurisdictional amount was traversed by the answer. The
court made no adequate finding upon that issue of fact,
and the record contains no evidence to support the allegation of the bill. There was thus no showing that the
District Court had jurisdiction and the bill should have
been dismissed upon that ground.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint for the want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

McNUTT, GOVERNOR OF INDIANA,

ET AL. V.

McHENRY CHEVROLET CO., INC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 710.

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

Argued April 1, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges permanently enjoining the enforcement of a statute regulating the business of purchasing retail contracts
of sale on the instalment plan. The case was tried with
the one next preceding.
APPEAL

Mr. Joseph W. Hutchinson, Asst. Atty. Gen. of Indiana, qnd Mr. Leo M. Gardner, with whom Mr. Philip
Lutz, Jr., Atty. Gen., was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. John Thomas Smith and Phillip IV. Haberman, with whom Messrs. Duane R. Dills, Stanley B.
Ecker, and Paul Y. Davis were on the brief, for appellee.

McNUTT v. McHENRY &c. CO.
190

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This is a companion case to McNutt v. General Motorf
Acceptance Corp., decided this day, ante, p. 178., Re
spondent, McHenry Chevrolet Co., Inc., is a dealer, selling automobiles at retail for cash or on the installment
plan. It brought this suit to restrain the enforcement of
Chapter 231 of the Acts of 1935 of the General Assembly
of Indiana, providing for the regulation of the business of
retail installment sales. Respondent assailed the Act as
depriving it of its property without due process of law
and denying it the equal protection of the laws contrar
to the Fourteenth Amendment. The District Court
granted a permanent injunction, and a direct appeal lies.The allegation of the complaint that the matter in
controversy exceeds the sum of $3,000 in value, exclusive
of interest and costs, was denied by the answer. Ini support of the general jurisdictional allegation, respondent
refers to the facts, as found by the District Court or not
questioned by appellants, that the net worth of its business is in excess of $3,000; that it has on hand cars of
the combined value of $16,000; that in the five months
expiring May 31, 1935, it sold 481 cars, the aggregate
retail prices of which amounted to about $164,000; that a
substantial majority of its sales-about 65 per cent. during the first five months of 1935--consisted of installment or time sales; that based upon orders and criteria
commonly employed to forecast future sales, it expected
to sell approximately 330 cars in June and July of 1935,
and 495 cars during the second six months of that year.
Respondent also refers to allegations of its complaint
that its present and future earnings and the conduct of
its business would be rendered uncertain by reason of the
risk involved in making future commitments for the purchase of automobiles and the inability to obtain future
commitments for the resale of such automobiles and for

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

those on hand, and for the sale of retail installment contracts covering the automobiles on hand, as well as cars
which might be ordered, to the General Motors Acceptance Corporation or any other finance company. These
allegations were put in issue.
The District Court-made findings with respect to the
character and extent of respondent's business but the
record contains no finding or evidence showing the
amount of the loss, if any, which would be caused by the
regulations assailed.
Respondent contends that the burden of proving the
lack of jurisdiction rested upon those challenging the
jurisdiction. We have considered and overruled the similar contention in our opinion in McNutt v. General
Motors Acceptance Corp., supra. In this aspect we find
no substantial difference between the two cases.
The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
cause is remanded with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

