OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

McNUTT, GOVERNOR OF INDIANA, ET AL. V. GENERAL MOTORS ACCEPTANCE CORP.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 709.

Argued April 1, 1936.-Decided May 18, 19)36.

1. In a suit in the District Court to enjoin, as unconstitutional, the
enforcement of a state statute requiring the plaintiff to obtain a
license for his business and otherwise subjecting the business to
regulation, the value in controversy, in the absence of a showing
that the plaintiff cannot obtain the license or is prevented by the
statute from prosecuting the business, is not the value or net
worth of the business but the value of the right to be free from
the regulation; and this may be measured by the loss, if any, that
would follow the enforcement of the rules prescribed. P. 181.
2. Under § 5 of the Act of March 3, 1875, Jud. Code, § 37, 28
U. S. C. 80, a plaintiff in the District Court must plead the essential jurisdictional facts and must carry throughout the litigation
the burden of showing that he is properly in court; if his allegations of jurisdictional facts arelchallenged by his adversary in any
appropriate manner, he must support them by competent proof;
and even where they are not so challenged, the court may insist
that the jurisdictional facts be established by a preponderance of
evidence or the case be dismissed. Pp. 182, 189.
3. In a suit for an injunction in the District Court, the allegation
of the jurisdictional ambunt may be traversed by answer. P. 189.
4. In a case in the District Court, the allegation of jurisdictional
amount had been traversed, yet no adequate finding on the issue
of fact was madq by the court and no evidence to support the
allegation was introduced. Held that the bill should be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction. P. 190.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which enjoined the enforcement of a statute regulating the business of purchasing contracts' arising out
of retail instalment sales.
APPEAL

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

179

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Joseph W. Hutchinson, Assistant Attorney General of Indiana, and Mr. Leo M. Gardner, with whom
Mr. Philip Lutz, Jr., Attorney General, was on the brief,
for appellants.
Messrs. John Thomas Smith and Phillip W. Haberman,
with whom Messrs. Duane R. Dills, Stanley B. Ecker,
and Paul Y. Davis were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Respondent, General Motors Acceptance Corporation
of Indiana, brought this suit to restrain the enforcement
of Chapter 231 of the Acts of 1935 of the Gene'al Assembly of Indiana. That Act provides for the regulation of
the business of purchasing contracts arising out of retail
installment sales, including provisions for licenses, for
classifications of contracts, and for fixing maximum
"finance charges." The validity of the Act was challenged as depriving respondent of its property without
due process of law and denying it the equal protection of
the laws in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution. An interlocutory injunction
was sought and, upon hearing by three judges (28
U. S. C. 380), a final decree was entered, upon findings
of facts and conclusions of law, granting a permanent injunction. No opinion was rendered. The case comes
here by direct appeal.
The question arises whether the matter in controversy
exceeds the sum or value of $3,000, exclusive of interest
and costs, so as to give the District Court jurisdiction.
Jud. Code, § 24 (1), 28 U. S. C. 41 (1). The complaint
alleged that the requisite amount was involved and this

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

allegation was denied by the answer. On the argument
in this Court leave was given to file an additional brief
upon the question of jurisdiction and respondent has
submitted its brief accordingly.
Respondent points to the allegations of its bill that the
"net worth" of its business exceeds $50,000; that in 1934
it purchased retail installment contracts in Indiana aggregating in excess of $7,000,000; that the value of such
purchases for the first six months of 1935 was in excess of
$4,000,000; and that during 1934 respondent purchased
in Indiana approximately 23,000 installment sales contracts from more than 500 retail dealers. These allegations were sustained by the findings of the District Court.
The bill also alleged that respondent maintained offices
in Indiana for which it paid yearly an aggregate rental
of $1 ,147; that it employed on the average 85 employees
*whose aggregate annual salaries amounted to about
$150,000. Respondent also refers to its allegations that
the Act limits the amount which respondent "may receive
as its gross profit for the purchase of an installment contract to a sum not exceeding the maximum 'finance
charge' which may be fixed by the Department of Financial Institutions,"-by prohibiting respondent "from purchasing any retail installment contracts at a less price
than the unpaid balance thereon"; that the Act limits the
amount which may be given by respondent "to retail
sellers out of the gross 'finance charge' received from
retail buyers under installment sale contracts" sold to
respondent, by requiring the Department "to fix this
maximum amount without regard to any differentiation
as between contracts sold to licensees by retail sellers
with recourse against such sellers, and contracts sold by
retail sellers without recourse against them; and that in
other respects the statute imposes burdensome requirements which impair the "efficiency of the operations and
earnings" of respondent.

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

181

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent invokes the principle that jurisdiction is
to be tested by the value of the object or right to be protected against interference. Hunt v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 205 U. S. 322; Bitterman v. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co., 207 U. S. 205; Berryman v. Whitman
College, 222 U. S. 334; Glenwood Light Co. v. Mutual
Light Co., 239 U. S. 121; Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263.
But in the instant case, the statute does not attempt to
prevent respondent from conducting its business. There
is no showing that it cannot obtain a license and proceed
with its operations. The value or net worth of the business which respondent transacts in Indiana is not involved save to the extent that it may be affected by the
incidence of the statutory regulation. The object or
right to be protected against unconstitutional interference is the right to be free of that regulation. The value
of that right may be measured by the loss, if any, which
would follow the enforcement of the rules prescribed.
The particular allegations of respondent's bill as to the
extent or value of its business throw no light upon that
subject. They fail to set forth any facts showing what,
if any, curtailment of business and consequent loss the
enforcement of the statute would involve. The bill is
thus destitute of any appropriate allegation as to jurisdictional amount save the general allegation that the
matter in controversy exceeds $3,000. That allegation
was put in issue and the record discloses neither finding
nor evidence to sustain it.
In the absence of any showing in the record to support
that general allegation, the question is upon which party
lay the burden of proof. Respondent contends that the
burden of proving the lack of jurisdiction rests upon the
party challenging the jurisdiction and cites decisions of
this Court to that effect. The question is thus sharply
presented.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

The jurisdiction .of the District Court in a civil suit
of this nature is definitely limited by statute to one"where the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of
interest and costs, the sum or value of $3,000, and (a)
arises under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority, or (b) is between citizens of different
States, or. (c) is between citizens of a State and foreign
States, citizens or subjects." Jud. Code, § 24 (1), 28

U. S. C. 41 (1).
Further, the Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 5 (18 Stat.
472) as now applied to the District Courts (Jud. Code,
§ 37, 28 U. S. C. 80), explicitly charges those courts with
the duty of enforcing these jurisdictional limitations.
The provision in its present form is as follows:
"If-in any suit commenced in a District Court, or removed from a state court to a District Court of the
United States, it shall appear to the satisfaction of the
said District Court, at any time after such suit has been
brought or removed thereto, that such suit, does not
really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said District Court,
or that the parties to said suit have been improperly or
collusively made or joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, for the purpose of creating a case cognizable or
removable under this chapter, the said District Court
shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the.
suit or remand it to the court from which it was removed,
as justice may require, and shall make such order as to
costs as shall be just."
It is incumbent upon the plaintiff properly to allege
the jurisdictional facts, according to the nature of the
case. "Where the law gives no rule, the demand of the
plaintiff must furnish one; but where the law gives the
+ule, the legal cause of action, and not the plaintiff's
demand, must be regarded." Wilson v. Daniel, 3 Dall.

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

18'3

Opinion of the Court.

401, 407, 408; Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550, 560;
Vance v. Vandercook Co. (No. 2), 170 U. S. 468, 481;
Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77, 85, 86. Where
the pleadings properly alleged the jurisdictional facts, as
for example, with respect to diviersity of citizenship and
jurisdictional amount, it was necessary at common law,
and before the passage of the Act of 1875, to raise the
issue of want of jurisdiction by plea in abatement. And
where the jurisdictional issue was thus raised, the burden
of proof was upon the defendant. The objection was
waived by pleading to the merits. De IVolf v. Rabaud,
1 Pet. 476, 498; Sheppard v. Graves, 14 How. 505, 510;
De Sobry v. Nicholson, 3 Wall. 420, 423; Farmington v.
Pillsbury, 114 U. S. 138, 143. In equity, the defense
could be presented by plea or demurrer but not by answer. Livingston's Executrix v. Story, 11 Pet. 351, 393;
De Sobry v. Nicholson, supra; Hunt v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 333. Demurrers and pleas were
abolished by Rule 29 of the Equity Rules promulgated
in 1912. 226 U. S., appendix p. 8.
By the Conformity Act of 1872 (17 Stat. 197; R. S.
914; 28 U. S. C. 724) all defenses in civil actions at law
were made available to a defendant in the federal courts
under any form of plea, answer or demurrer which would
have been open to him under like pleading in the courts
of the State within which the federal court was held.
In that view we decided that where, under the Nebraska
Code of Civil Procedure, the answer took the place of all
pleas at common law, in abatement or to the merits, the
allegation of the citizenship of the parties, which was
properly made in the petition and put in issue by the
answer, must be proved by the plaintiff. And where the
record showed "no proof or finding upon this essential
point" the judgment was reversed for want of jurisdiction. 'Roberts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653, 656-658. See, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

the same effect, W. L. Wells Co. v. Gastonia Cotton Co.,
198 U. S. 177, 182.
The Act of 1875, in placing upon the trial court the
duty of enforcing the statutory limitations as to jurisdiction by dismissing or remanding the cause at any
time when the lack of jurisdiction appears, applies to
both actions at law and suits in equity. The trial
court is not bound by the pleadings of the parties, but
may, of its own motion, if led to believe that its jurisdiction is not properly invoked, "inquire into the facts
as they really exist." Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S.
115, 120; Gilbert v. David, 235 U. S. 561, 567; North
Pacific Steamship Co. v. Soley, 257 U. S. 216, 221.
This Court has had occasion to consider the application
of the statute under varying conditions. See Barry v.
Edmunds, supra; Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U. S. 315;
Deputron v. Young, 134 U. S. 241; Anderson v. Watt,
138 U. S. 694, 701; Wetmore v. Rymer, supra; Steigleder
v. McQuesten, 198 U. S. 141, 143; Gilbert v. David,
supra; North Pacific Steamship Co. v. Soley, supra;
Broad-Grace Arcade Corp. v. Bright, 284 U. S. 588.
In Anderson v. Watt, supra, a suit in equity, the Court
said that under the Act of 1875 "the objection to the
jurisdiction upon a denial of the averment of citizenship
is not confined to a plea in abatement or a demurrer, but
may be taken in the answer, and the time at which it
may be raised is not restricted." In Wetmore v. Rymer,
supra, an action of ejectment, after a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, the trial court set them aside and
entertained defendant's motion to dismiss for want of
jurisdiction, giving leave to both parties to file affidavits
showing the value of the land in controversy. Upon consideration of the evidence, the trial court decided that the
jurisdictional amount was not involved. This Court disagreed with that conclusion. Speaking of the effect of

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

185

Opinion of the Court.

the Act of 1875, the Court observed that the statute did.
not prescribe any particular mode in which the question
of jurisdiction was to be brought to the attention of the
court, nor how, when raised, it should be determined.
The Court said: "When such a question arises in an action at law its decision would usually depend upon matters of fact, and also usually involves a denial of formal,
but necessary, allegations contained in the plaintiff's
declaration or complaint. Such a case would be presented when the plaintiff's allegation that the controversy was between citizens of different States, or when,
as in the present case, the allegation that the matter in
dispute was of sufficient value to give the court jurisdiction was denied.-In such cases, whether the question was
raised by the defendant or by the court on its own motion, the court might doubtless order the issue to be tried
by the jury." But "the questions might arise in such a
shape that the court might consider and determine them
without the intervention of a jury" and "it would appear
Io have been the intention of Congress to leave the mode
of raising and trying such issues to the discretion of the
trial judge."
In Gilbert v. David, supra, an action at law in the federal court in Connecticut, the question arose with respect
to the citizenship of the plaintiff-which was put in issue
by defendants' answer. Later, defendants moved to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction. Plaintiff then
moved to strike that motion from the files upon the
ground that it was an irregular method of raising the
question and because the matter was already in issue
under the pleadings. Taking that view, the trial court
directed the trial to proceed upon the question of jurisdiction, and upon hearing the testimony the court found
that both parties were citizens of Connecticut and dismissed the action. The judgment was affirmed by this
Court. The Court said: - "Under the former practice,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

before the passage of the Act of 1875 ... it was necessary
to raise the issue of citizenship by a plea in abatement,
when the pleadings properly averred the citizenship of
the parties. . . . The objection may be made now by
answer before answering to the merits, or it may be
made by motion.... It may be raised by a general denial
in the answer, where the state practice permits of that
course. Roberts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653. In the State of
Connecticut, under the form of denial contained in this
answer, the answer raised the issue. . . . Moreover, the
parties to the suit regarded the matter as at issue under
the pleadings, and it was so held by the court. . . The
question was properly before the court." The Court
further held that while the question might have been
submitted to the jury, the trial court was not bound to
take that course and that it was its privilege to dispose
of the issue upon the testimony. From the citation of
Roberts v. Lewis, supra, it is apparent that the Court considered that the burden of proof upon the issue of citizenship was upon the plaintiff, and it also appeared from
the record that the plaintiff assumed that burden upon
the trial.
In North PacificSteamship Co. v. Soley, supra, the suit
was in equity and the question. was whether the jurisdictional amount was involved. The plaintiff's allegation to
that effect was denied by the answer. Upon hearing the
evidence offered by the complainant, and that of the
defendant, the trial court held that the jurisdictional
amount was not involved and dismissed the suit. On
idirect appeal to this Court, under the former practice
where jurisdictional questions alone were presented, the.
Court said: "The objection that jurisdiction to entertain
the suit did not exist is one which may be taken by
answer. Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694. Indeed, under
§ 37 it is the duty of the court, when it shall appear to its
satisfaction that the suit does not really and substan-

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

187

Opinion of the Court.

tially involve the necessary amount to give it jurisdiction,
to dismiss the same, and this the court may do whether
the parties raise the question or not. In the present case
the issue was raised by answer, and, therefore, it became
necessary for the court to determine the question of
jurisdiction upon the facts presented, and when brought
directly here, it is the duty of this court to review the
decision upon the testimony as one presenting a jurisdictional question." The Court then considered the facts
and sustained the ruling of the District Court.
The question of the burden of proof was considered by
this Court in Chase v. Wetzlar, 225 U. S. 79. That was
a suit in equity in the federal court in New York to
enforce "equitable liens upon or claims to the title of
personal property," and jurisdiction depended on the
presence of the property within the district. 18 Stat.
472; Jud. Code, § 57; 28 U. S. C. 118. The allegation of
the bill that the property was within the district was
traversed by the plea, which was held to be "sufficient in
law and form," and to which a general replication was
filed. The case was heard upon the pleadings and the
trial court ruled that the burden was upon the complainant to establish the existence of the essential jurisdictional facts which the plea traversed, and as no proof
had been offered by the complainant the bill was dismissed for the lack of jurisdiction. On direct appeal this
Court affirmed the decree.
As to the contention that the defendant was bound to
prove the allegations of his plea, the Court observed:
"The theory as to the burden of proof being on the defendant, on which this proposition proceeds, it is insisted,
is sanctioned by the following decisions of this court:
Sheppard v. Graves (1852), 14 How. 505; De Sobry v.
Nicholson (1865), 3 Wall. 420; Wetmore v. Rymer
(1898), 169 U. S. 115; Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange (1907), 205 U. S. 322. And a decision of the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298.U.S.

cuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in Hill v.
Walker, 167 Fed. 241, is also referred to as containing a
full summary of the decided cases on the subject." The
Court distinguished those cases upon the ground that
none of them involved the question of jurisdiction under
the statute requiring the presence of property within the
district. In view of that distinction, the'Court thought
it unnecessary "to now consider the conflict of opinion
which has sometimes arisen concerning whether the doctrine of the cases relied upon and the fundamental conception upon which those cases rested entirely harmonizes
with the provision of the act of 1875 requiring a Federal
court of its own motion to dismiss a pending suit when it
is found not to be really within its jurisdiction-see
Roberts v. Lewis, 144 U. S. 653, and the cases cited in
the dissenting opinion in Hill v. Walker, supra," because
the Court thought .that the doctrine was inapplicable
to the case before it. The existence of property within the
jurisdiction was deemed to be such a fundamental prerequisite to the exercise of power to render a binding
decree that in no possible view could it be said that the
plaintiff did not have the burden of proving the essential
jurisdictional fact. The Court concluded its discussion of
the point by saying: "In other words, even putting aside
for the. sake of argument the effect on the doctrines announced in the decisions relied upon of the enactment of
the act of 1875 as to the duty to dismiss to which we have
referred, the burden of proof to establish that the court
was vested with power to act, we think, in a case like this,
in the nature of things rested upon the complainant."
Chase v. Wetzlar, supra, pp. 85-87.
The question which was thus suggested and put aside
in Chase v. Wetzlar is definitely before us in the instant
case and should be decided. The Act of 1875 prescribes
a uniform rule and there should be a consistent practice
in dealing with jurisdictional questions. We think that

McNUTT v. GENERAL MOTORS &c. CORP.
178

189

Opinion of the Court.

the terms and implications of the Act leave no sufficient
ground for varying rules as to the burden of proof. The
prerequisites to the exercise of jurisdiction are specifically
defined and the plain import of the statute is that the
District Court is vested with authority to inquire at any
time whether these conditions have been met. They are
conditions which must be met by the party who seeks the
exercise of jurisdiction in his favor. He must allege in
his pleading the facts essential to show jurisdiction. If
he fails to make the necessary allegations he has no
standing. If he does make them, an inquiry into the
existence of jurisdiction is obviously for the purpose of
determining whether the facts support his allegations.
In the nature of things, the authorized inquiry is primarily directed to the one who claims that the power of
the court should be exerted in his behalf. As he is seeking relief subject to this supervision, it follows that he
must carry throughout the litigation the burden of showing that he is properly in court. The authority which
the statute vests in the court to enforce the limitations
of its jurisdiction precludes the idea that jurisdiction may
be maintained by mere averment or that the party asserting jurisdiction may be relieved of his burden by any
formal procedure. If his allegations of jurisdictional
facts are challenged by his adversary in any appropriate
manner, he must support them by competent proof. And
where they are not so challenged the court may still
insist that the jurisdictional facts be established or the
case be dismissed, aiid for that purpose the court may
demand that the party alleging jurisdiction justify his
allegations by a preponderance of evidence. We think
that only in this way may the practice of the District
Courts be harmonized with the true intent of the statute
which clothes them with adequate authority and imposes
upon them a correlative duty.

OCTOBER TERM[, 1935.
298 U.S.

Counsel for Parties.

Here, the allegation in the bill of complaint as to jurisdictional amount was traversed by the answer. The
court made no adequate finding upon that issue of fact,
and the record contains no evidence to support the allegation of the bill. There was thus no showing that the
District Court had jurisdiction and the bill should have
been dismissed upon that ground.
The decree is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint for the want of jurisdiction.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

McNUTT, GOVERNOR OF INDIANA,

ET AL. V.

McHENRY CHEVROLET CO., INC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 710.

DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

Argued April 1, 1936.-Decided May 18, 1936.

Decided upon the authority of the case last preceding.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges permanently enjoining the enforcement of a statute regulating the business of purchasing retail contracts
of sale on the instalment plan. The case was tried with
the one next preceding.
APPEAL

Mr. Joseph W. Hutchinson, Asst. Atty. Gen. of Indiana, qnd Mr. Leo M. Gardner, with whom Mr. Philip
Lutz, Jr., Atty. Gen., was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. John Thomas Smith and Phillip IV. Haberman, with whom Messrs. Duane R. Dills, Stanley B.
Ecker, and Paul Y. Davis were on the brief, for appellee.

