COMPAGNIE GENERALE v. ELTING.

217

Counsel for Parties.

COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSATLANTIQUE v.
ELTING, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 6.

Argued October 14, 1935.-Decided May 18, 1936.

1. Section 20 (a) of the Immigration Act of 1924 imposes a fine
upon '"the owner, charterer, agent, consignee or master" of any
vessel arriving in the United States from any place outside, who
fails to detain any alien seaman employed on such vessel, after
inspection by the immigration officer in charge at the port of
arrival, if required by such officer to do so.
Held, that the duty to detain is personal, and that where the
requirement is made of the master, the owner, if not notified of it,
is not liable if the seaman escapes. P. 222.
2. While the admiralty law regards the master of a ship as theagent of the owner, ยง 20 (a), supra, takes no account of that
relation but deals with the master jijst as it does with the owner;
if either is notified to detain, he must comply or be subjected to
fine. Nothing in the section indicates that notice to the master
to detain an alien seaman, and his failure to obey the direction,
are to be imputed to the owner and made the basis of fining him.
P. 225.
74 F. (2d) 209, reversed.
CERTIORARI in two cases; 295 U. S. 724, to review judgments upholding fines imposed by immigration authorities
upon the owners of two vessels for failure to detain on
board certain alien seamen. The actions were by the
shipowners for the recovery of sums deposited by them in
advance to obtain clearance of their vessels.

Mr. Roger O'Donnell, with whom Messrs. William J.
Peters and Lambert O'Donnell were on the brief, for
petitioners.
*

Together with No. 7, Hamburg-American Line v. Elting, Collec-

tor of Customs. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Respondent.

298 U.S.

Assistant Attorney General MacLean, with whom Solicitor General Reed and Messrs. Paul A. Sweeney, M. Leo
Looney, Jr., and W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for
respondent.
Service on the commander and the fourth officer of the
Ile De France and on the chief Officer of the Milwaukee
of notices directing the owners of these vessels to detain
alien seamen on board, constituted a sufficient compliance with the statute and immigration rules to charge
the owners of the vessels with liability to fine for failure
to detain as required.
Section 20 of the Immigration Act of 1924 finds its
origin in ยง 32 of the Immigration Act*of 1917 which it
expressly repealed. Section 32 of the 1917 act imposed
liability only for "negligent failure" to detain, and made
a notice in writing to detain "by the immigration officer
in charge at the port of arrival" a condition precedent
to liability to fine. This section was found inadequate
to prevent the illegal entry into this country of aliens
under the guise of seamen. The entire purpose of ยง 20
was to provide more effective means to combat such
illegal entry. United States v. Winchester & Co., 40 F.
(2d) 472, 473. The existence of negligence and the requirement of "notice in writing" as a condition precedent
to liability to the penalty were eliminated. The statute
places upon the persons named therein an absolute duty
to detain all seamen on board prior to their inspection
by the immigration authorities, and continues this duty,
after inspection, as to such alien seamen as are required
to be detained by the immigration authorities.
During the absence of the master, the person in charge
of a vessel is obviously the acting master, at least so
far as the control of the crew is concerned. In the
instant cases there is no evidence in the record that the
officers served were not in charge of the vessels at the
time service was made, or that the masters were 'actually

COMPAGNIE GENERALE v. ELTING.
217

219

Argument for Respondent.

on board and in charge at such time. It was the duty
.of the immigration officers to serve the officers who were
in charge of the vessels. The law is well settled that
there is a presumption of regularity attaching to the acts
of public officials.
Unless the officer who is the. acting master during the
master's absence may lawfully be served, alien seamen
might be allowed, to land illegally and no one would be
chargeable with the duty of detaining them on board.
The master of the vessel is the agent of the owner.
American Asiatic Co. v. Robert Dollar Co., 282 Fed. 743,
749; The Penza, 9 F. (2d) 527; cf. Suzuki v. National
Surety Co., 290 Fed. 942. It has been held that service on
the master of a notice to detain alien seamen on board
is sufficient to charge the owner with liability for failure
to detain such alien seamen on board as required. British
'Empire Steam Nay. Co. v. Elting, 74 F. (2d) 204, cert.
den., 295 U. S. 736; United States v. Winchester & Co.,
40 F. (2d) 472; United States v. Columbus Marine Corp.,
62 F. (2d) 795.
It is obvious that a corporation which owns a vessel
can only be served with notice to detain on board through
the medium of an agent, and if such notice is to be effective, such agent must be on board the vessel. The master
is the agent of the owner for all ,purposes. The Woodland, 104 U. S. 180; The J. P. Donaldson, 167 U. S. 599.
The obvious intention of the Act would seem to be,
in the final analysis, to make the owner, through the medium of the vessel, the guarantor of the payment of any
fine irrespective of whom it may be levied against, because the statute provides that if an order to detain on
board has been served and such order is not complied
with, the vessel shall not be granted clearance pending
the determination of the liability to the payment of such
fine, or while the fines remain unpaid, unless there be de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

posited a sum sufficient to cover such fine or a bond with
sufficient surety to secure the payment thereof.
Actual service on the owners of the vessels of notice
of liability to fines and their subsequent appearance and
objection to the imposition of the fines is sufficient compliance with the statute and the immigration rules.
In administrative proceedings of this nature, all that
the law requires is that the owner shall have an opportunity to be heard. Lloyd Sabaudo Societa v. Elting,
287 U. S. 329, 336. In the instant cases, the owners were
served with notice of liability to fine; they participated
in the hearings to determine whether fines should be
imposed; and, in all -respects, were parties to the proceedings. Therefore, due process was afforded these petitioners and their appearance and submission to the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Labor corrected any defect in
"the notices, if there were any such defect. British Empire Steam Nay. Co. v. Elting, supra.
By leave, of Court, Mr. Delbert M. Tibbetts filed a brief
on behalf of the Rio Cape Line and other steamship
owners, as amici curiae, urging reversal of the judgment
below.
MR. JUsTIcE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These cases are much alike. Each involves the validity of a fine imposed on the owner of a foreign ship for
an asserted failure to detain on board certain alien seamen after their examination. In both the owner seeks
to recover money deposited with the collector of customs
to cover the fine, if and when imposed. The deposit was
made to obtain clearance of 'the vessel pending the admjnistrative proceedings which resulted in the fine. A
trial by jury resulted in a directed verdict and judgment
for the collector, which the Circuit Court of Appeals

COMPAGNIE GENERALE v. ELTING.
217

221

Opinion of the Court.

affirmed. 74 F. (2d) 209. The cases are here pn certiorari, which was granted because of an apparent divergence in Court of Appeals decisions.
The material facts, taken largely from controlling
allegations and admissions in the pleadings and in part
from undisputed evidence are as follows:
In No. 6 the Ile de France, owned by a foreign corporation, arrived at the port of New York from a foreign
port February 6, 1930, with two aliens in her crew.
Under the supervision of the immigration officer in
charge, an inspector boarded the ship, examined the crew,
and directed the master to detain the two aliens on the
ground that they were not shown to be bona fide. seamen.
The master endeavored to detain them, but they escaped
during the night following the direction given to the
master. The direction was in writing and addressed "To
the Owner, Agent, Consignee, Master or Officer in Charge
of the Ile de France,"but was neither served on the owner
nor brought to its knowledge prior to the escape. The
master reported the escape and the, immigration officer
then served on the New York agent of the ship a notice
to the effect that a fine was about to be imposed for the
failure to detain; that a hearing would be allowed if
desired; and that the ship would be granted clearance
for her outward-bound voyage upon condition that there
be deposited with the collector of customs the sum of
$2,000 to cover the fine, should one be iriiposed. The
owner made the deposit under protest, and through counsel requested and participated in a hearing; after which
the administrative officers imposed on the owner a fine
of $1,000 in respect of each of the alien seamen not
detained.
In No. 7 the owner was another foreign corporation.
The direction to detain related to but one alien seaman,
was delivered to the chief officer of the ship, and was
then brought to the knowledge of the master but not to

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

the knowledge of the owner. The master took steps to
detain, but the alien seaman escaped. The amount of
the deposit, as also the fine, was $1,000. In all other
material respects the facts are like those in No. 6.
The statute under which the fines were imposed is ยง 20
(a) of the Immigration Act of 1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 164,
8 U. S. C. 167 (a), which provides:
"The owner, charterer, agent, consignee, or master of
any vessel arriving in the United States from any place
outside thereof who fails to detain on board any alien
seaman employed on such vessel until the immigration
officer in charge at the port of arrival has inspected such
seaman (which inspection in all cases shall include a personal physical examination by the medical examiners),
or who fails to detain such seaman on board after such
inspection or to deport such seaman if required by such
immigration officer or the Secretary of Labor to do so,
shall pay to the collector of customs of the customs district in which the port of arrival is located the sum of
$1,000 for each alien seaman in respect of whom such
failure occurs. No vessel shall be granted clearance pending the determination of the liability to the payment of
such fine, or while the fine remains unpaid, except that
clearance may be granted prior to the determination of
such question upon the deposit of a sum sufficient to
cover such fine, or of a bond with sufficient surety to
secure the payment thereof approved by the collector of
customs."
The purpose of the section is to prevent aliens from
unlawfully gaining entrance into the United States under
the guise of seamen, and to this end it makes provision
for detention on board, both temporary and continued,
and for imposing fines on those who, when under a duty
to detain, fail to do so. I*t relates to all vessels arriving
within from without the United States with alien seamen employed thereon. Such vessels may be either do-

COMPAGNIE GENERALE v. ELTING.
217

Opinion of the Court.

mestic or foreign, may be owned by individuals or corporations, may be engaged in transportation for hire 'or
otherwise, and may be, as the section plainly contemplates, in the immediate control of the owner or of a
charterer, agent, consignee or master.
The fine is laid, not on the owner generally, but on the
"owner, charterer, agent, consignee or master of any vessel.., who fails to detain" until an examination is made,
or "who fails to detain" after examination "if required"
by the immigration officer "to do so."
Our present concern is with a fine for failing to detain
after examination. A duty so to detain does not arise
unless and until such detention is required by the immigration officer. Obviously the requirement must be communicated to the one on whom the duty is to rest; otherwise he could not be regarded as "required" so to detain
or as "failing" to do so. This is conceded in the brief
for the collector, where it is said: "The statute employs
the word 'required' in respect of the continued detention.
Of course, this means that in some manner the order of
detention must be brought home to the party sought to
be charged."
Here the requirement was communicated to the master
* of the ship but was not in any way brought to the knowledge of the owner; and yet the administrative officers
imposed the fine on the latter. The court below sustained this administrative action on the theory that the
master of a ship represents the owner, and therefore
notice given to the master may and should be imputed
to the owner. But in our opinion the section does not
admit of the application of that theory. It contains
nothing indicative of a purpose to regard notice to one
of the enumerated persons as binding the others or any
of them. On -the contrary, it deals with all in the same
way, includes each of them in the enumeration by reason
of his relation to the vessel and his authority over her,

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

and puts each on a plane of individual duty and liability
regardless of any relation of one to another.
We conclude therefore that so much of the section as
is pertinent here is intended to have effect as follows:
A master in charge who is required by the immigration
officer to detain alien seamen after examination becomes
thereby personally charged with a duty to detain them,
and, if he fails therein, becomes personally subject to the
prescribed fine. The same thing is true of the owner,
charterer, agent or consignee. But none is charged with
a duty so to detain ui4less he is notified of. that requirement, and notice to one does not without more operate
as notice to another.
Earlier decisions in the Court of Appeals, while dealing
with facts somewhat different from those now presented,
gave to the section a construction similar to that which
we give to it. In United States v. J. H. Winchester &
Co., 40 F. (2d) 472, there was an effort to subject the
agent of a foreign ship to a fine for a failure to detain
after inspection. Notice to. detain had been served on
the master but not brought to the knowledge of the
agent. Counsel for the Government urged that, as the
ship was foreign, notice to the master bound all, including the agent. But the court held that the section makes
no distinction between foreign and domestic vessels; that
to be effective the notice to detain must be brought home
to the party sought to be charged; and that notice to
the' master does not suffice to charge the agent. United
States v. Columbus Marine Corp., 62 F. (2d) 795, involved another effort to collect a fine from a ship's agent.
A detention order addressed to all who are enumerated
in the statute had been served on the master but not on
the agent. The court followed the decision in the Winchester case, ruled that as the order was served only on
the master it did not impose any duty on the agent, and
therefore that he was not liable for the failure to detain.

COMPAGNIE GENERALE v. ELTING.
217

225

Opinion of the Court.

Lancashire Shipping Co. v. Elting, 70 F. (2d) 699,1 presented still another effort to fine a ship's agent where
the order to detain had been communicated to the master
only. The court held that the agent, being without
notice of the order, was not required to detain; and in
rejecting a contention that the notice to the master
bound the agent the court said:
"The master was not the representative of the agent
and in accepting service of the detention order, he may
not be assumed to have acted for it [the agent]. The
master is a party under the statute made liable for his
violation. He must be regarded as acting in his individual capacity in taking the order."
While the admiralty law regards the master of a ship
as the agent of the owner,' the section before us takes no
account of that relation but deals with the master just
as it does with the owner. If either is notified to detain
he must comply or be subject to a fine. Nothing in the
section indicates that notice to the master and a failur-et
by him are to be imputed to the owner and made a baijs
for fining the latter.
We conclude that the direction of verdicts for tht
collectcr was error and that the judgments should be\
reversed and the cases remanded to the District Court
for a new trial.
Judgments reversed.
'Certiorari denied, 293 U. S. 594.
'The agency is not general but special, as is explained in General
Interest Insurance Co. v. Ruggles, 12 Wheat. 408, 411-412.

5773 ._3e-

15

