OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
298 U.S.

Syllabus.

Court Act, June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 3, 36 Stat. 539, 542,
Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat.
208, 219. Here, the jurisdiction of that Commission was
challenged. It and the Oregon Short Line were joined
as defendants in the original bill. Paragraph 20 of Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act authorizes any
party in interest to apply to "any court of competent
jurisdiction" to enjoin an unauthorized abandonment;
and if, on such application, Talbot branch should be held
to be a spur, it could not be abandoned legally without
the consent of the Public Utilities Commission of Idaho.
It is only because the plaintiffs sought also to have the
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission annulled
(compare Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry.,
270 U. S. 266, 271-274) that the case was one for three
judges and could be brought here by direct appeal under
the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
A ffirned.

THE ARIZONA

ET AL.

v. ANELICII,

ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 667.

Argued April 1, 2, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The provisions of the Jones Act allowing seamen a common-law
form of remedy for injuries in which "all statutes of the United
States modifying or extending the common law right or remedy in
case of personal injury to railway employees shall apply," and
granting like remedies to the personal representatives of seamen
when injuries result in death, became integral parts of the maritime law and are to be construed liberally and in harmony with the
principles of that law as they were before the enactment. P. 118.
2. Under the maritime law, prior to the Jones Act, a seaman injured
in the course of duty on navigable waters, due to negligence in
providing a defective appliance for use in his work on the ship,

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Argument for Petitioners.

had a cause of action for indemnity against the ship or 6wner, to
which assumption of risk was not a defense. P. 120.
3. Construing the Jones Act in harmony with this principle, assumption of risk is not a defense to an action brought under that Act
for the death of a seaman caused by the negligence of the master
in providing a defective appliance. From the failure of the
Employers' Liability Act to abolish this defense in cases of injury
or death of railway employees not caused by violations of the
Safety Appliance Act there cannot be inferred an intention in the
Jones Act to introduce the defense into the maritime law. P. 123.
183 Wash. 467; 49 P. (2d) 3, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

297 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of

a judgment recovered by the administratrix of the estate
of a deceased seaman in an action for wrongful death
attributed to a defective appliance for stopping a winch
used for hauling in fish nets aboard ship.
Mr. Ralph S. Pierce for petitioners.
In The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, were stated certain propositions of maritime law which could be regarded as settled,
but the Court did not undertake to state all the principles
of maritime law governing personal injuries to seamen.
Contributory negligence has always been regarded in
admiralty as a defense, in part at least, The Max Morris,
137 U. S. 1, yet there is no mention of it in The Osceola.
Assumption of risk is regarded as peculiarly applicable to
seamen in The Iroquois, 194 U. S. 240, and there is likewise no mention of it in The Osceola. The language used
in The Osceola is clear cut and definite and should not be
construed as an attempt to cover the whole field of maritime torts in four short propositions.
Moreover, as pointed out in Lindgren v. United States,
281 U. S. 38, this is a situation in which The Osceola is not
applicable. That decision was dealing solely with the
rights of an injured seaman; and by the admiralty law his
personal representatives, upon his death, had no cause of

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

298 U.S.

action against the master of the vessel. The cause of
action which the seaman had, based upon unseaworthiness, died with him.
By the Jones Act, Anelich's personal representatives,
he having died as the result of his personal injuries, may
maintain an action for damages at law with a trial
by jury, and in such action all statutes of the United
States conferring or regulating the right of action for
death in the case of railway employees are applicable.
The right of action thus asserted is identical, conferred by the same section of the Act of Congress, with
that which a railway employee's personal representative
might assert; it is for alleged negligence on the part of
the employer contributing proximately to the employee's
injury. Petitioners cannot see any basis for a distinction between the rights of the personal representatives
of a railway employee and of a seaman. The former is
given a right of action, which he may exercise under certain conditions; the latter, once utterly without remedy,
is given the same right as the former, by virtue of the
same statute, which he may exercise under the same
conditions.
Respondent's right here differs in no degree from what
Anelich's would have been had he lived. The Jones
Act gave to his personal representative the identical
right possessed by representatives of a railway employee;
and it is our position that it also gave to the seaman
himself the same rights, to be exercised to the same
extent, as' a railway employee's. Assumption of risk,
a common law defense to an action at law for negligence,
is available to the employer of railway employees; and it
is equally available to the employers of seamen when an
action at law is brought for damages, for negligence, under the Jones Act.

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Argument for Petitioners.

The pronouncements of this Court regarding the Jones
Act indicate that this is the proper interpretation of the
enactment. Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375.
Respondent's action is based upon negligence, a common law concept, a common law breach of duty, brought
into the maritime law. Engel v. Davenport, 271 U. S. 33.
If the seaman must assume the burden of proving negligence and subjects himself under § 53 to the defense of
contributory negligence, there seems no logical reason
why, under § 54, he does not assume the risk, a common
law defense to the common law right he seeks to assert.
Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130, 138. Warner
v. Goltra, 293 U. S. 155, indicates nothing to the contrary.
The continued use by certain courts of the term "unseaworthiness" in decisions of cases arising under the
Jones Act seems inexplicable; negligence is the only
proper term, and unless the seaman is invoking, as he
might, the relief accorded to him by the old maritime
rules, unseaworthiness is not a true part of the picture.
We find, however, certain courts, particularly the Second Circuit, stating, in actions brought under the Jones
Act, that as to any unseaworthiness or defective conditions of the vessel or equipment, there can be no defense
of assumption of risk. Grimberg v. Admiral Oriental
S. S. Line, 300 Fed. 619; Ives v. United States, 58 F. (2d)
201.
The majority of the courts, when confronted with cases
under the Jones Act, properly have treated the question
of assumption of risk as though common law negligence
and its defense, as modified by the Federal Employers'
Act, were alone involved. In re Luckenbach S. S. Co.,
16 F. (2d) 168, 171; Peterson v. Sanford Tug Co., 28 F.
(2d) 283; The Ipswich, 46 F. (2d) 136; McCahan Sugar
Co. v. Stoffel, 41 F. (2d) 651; Cronec v. Ohio R. Co., 48
65773* --- 36U---8

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Argument for Petitioners.

298 U.S.

F. (2d) 497; The Calvert, 51 F. (2d) 494; The Zealand,
49 F. (2d) 781; Stevens v. O'Brien & Co., 62 F. (2d) 633;
The Cricket, 71 F. (2d) 261; Maloney v. United States,
7 F. Supp. 14; Southern Ry. Co. v. Hermans, 44 F. (2d)
366.
State courts have likewise applied the common-law rule
of assumption of risk to actions involving maritime torts.
The State of Washington, prior to the latest decision in
this case, had in many cases permitted to the employer of
seamen or of other maritime workers the defense of
assumption of risk, both before and after the passing of
the Jones Act. Assumption of risk is and always has
been a maritime defense. The Iroquois, 194 U. S. 240;
The Cri~ket, 71 F. (2d) 261; Maloney v. United States,
7 F. Supp. 14.
Nor is this confined merely to risks of heavy seas or of
falling from aloft, but has been applied in many cases
prior to the Jones Act which involved unseaworthy condition of ships or appliances. The Maharajah, 40 Fed.
784; The Serapis, 51 Fed. 91; The Luckenbach, 53 Fed.
662; The Saratoga,94 Fed. 221; Jefries v. DeHart, 102
Fed. 765; The Scandinavia, 156 Fed. 403; Globe S. S. Co.
v. Moss, 245 Fed. 54; Cunard S. S. Co. v. Smith, 255 Fed.
846, 849.
Petitioners concede that when a seaman is ordered by
his superior officer to use defective equipment, and that
order is the impelling force causing such use, there is no
assumption of the risk of danger from such use.
With but few exceptions, all of the decisions of the Circuit and District Courts, and without exception all of the
decisions of this Court, indicate that the defense of
assumption of risk and the other common law defenses are
equally a part of the maritime law except in so far as the
exigencies of maritime life require an alteration; and so
far as assumption of risk is concerned, the only alteration

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Opinion of the Court.

required is that made necessary by the stern duty of
obedience upon the part of a seaman to orders from his
superior officers. When that factor is removed, so far as
assumption of risk is concerned there is no/distinction
between maritime and commorA law assumption of risk;
and the last cited cases from the Second Circuit illustrate
that where the reason for the distinction fails, the
distinction also fails.
Mr. Wilbur Zundel, with whom Mr. Samuel B. Bassett
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case certiorari was granted because of the importance of the question, to review a determination of
the Supreme Court of the State of Washington, 183 Wash.
467; 49 P. (2d) 3, that assumption of risk is not a defense to an action brought under the Jones Act, 41 Stat.
1007, 46 U. S. C. § 688, to recover damages for the injury
and death of a seaman caused by a defective appliance, a
part of the equipment of a fishing vessel on which he was
employed.
The injury occurred at sea, when respondent's intestate
was engaged in hauling in, with a power winch, the purse
line of a fishing net. During this operation the drums
of the winch, as was customary, were kept in continuous
revolution at a speed of about eighty revolutions per
minute. The two ends of the purse line, whose function
is to purse, or close, the net at the bottom, were reeved
through blocks hanging from a davit at the side of the
vessel, from which they ran respectively to the aft and
forward drums of the winch. Decedent was stationed
at the aft drum, where his duty, like that of the winchman at the forward drum, was to take several turns of
his end of the purse line about the revolving drum and

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

hold the line taut, so that the winch would haul it in, and
to coil the line as it came off the drum. When the rings
at the bottom of the net through which the purse line
passes came to the surface of the water, a bridle, or strap,
was passed around the net and rings and attached to block
and tackle suspended from a boom of the vessel. The
purse line is then customarily thrown off the drums, and
the net is raised higher by taking several turns about the
forward drum with the line from the block and tackle,
which then carries a load of about a ton and a half, and
hauling on it. It was at this stage of the operation that
decedent was injured. The purse line had been removed
from the forward drum, and several turns of the line from
the block and tackle, which was supporting the net, had
been taken around this drum, when, in some way which
does not clearly appear, the decedent's leg became entangled in the purse line, which was not clear of the aft
drum. Before the winch could be stopped his leg was
drawn onto the drum by the purse line, the bones were
broken and the flesh lacerated. Septicemia ensued, from
which he died.
Power was transmitted to the winch by a countershaft
connected by a chain gear drive with the main, or propeller, shaft. There were two methods for starting and
stopping the winch. One was by the operation of a lever
located between decks, near the engine, which controlled
the clutch on the main shaft. The other was by a lever
located above deck, on the starboard side of the winch
frame, between the drums, by which the jaws of the
clutch connecting with the chain drive of the winch could
be engaged with the corresponding jaws of the clutch
keyed.ontp the main shaft. Attached to the'winch frame.
by a string was a forked piece of wood designed for use
as a brace to hold the winch lever in a position which
would cause the clutch to engage, and prevent its slipping

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Opinion of the Court.

or disengaging while the winch was in motion. When
placed in position this brace extended from a cleat on the
frame of the winch to the winch lever.
It is respondent's contention that the clutch was so
defective, through long wear, that it would not remain
engaged without the use of the brace to hold it in position; that the presence of the brace in position at the
moment of the accident so prevented or delayed use of
the lever at the winch that it was necessary to use the
lever below deck to disengage the clutch on the main
shaft in order to stop the winch; and that the consequent delay, after the alarm was given,was the proximate
cause of decedent's injury.
The trial court refused petitioners' request to charge
that voluntary assumption by decedent of the risk of injury by the unsafe appliance was a defense to the action,
and denied their motion for a non-suit and for a directed
verdict. It left it to the jury to say whether petitioners
had negligently failed to provide decedent with a safe
appliance with which to work, and whether such failure
was the proximate cause of the injury and death. The
state Supreme Court sustained the judgment of the trial
court upon a verdict for respondent, holding that, in the
circumstances disclosed by the evidence, assumption of
risk is not a defense in a suit under the Jones Act.
We granted certiorari to -review the ruling upon the
assumption of risk, and not for the purpose of reexamining
the evidence of negligence and proximate cause. With respect to the latter, it suffices to say that, although the
testimony was conflicting, there was evidence from which
the jury could have found that the clutch controlled by the
lever at the winch was negligently allowed to remain in a
defective condition; that because of the defect it would
not remain engaged and the winch drums would not turn
continuously unless the lever controlling the clutch was

118

OCTOBER TEFM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

held in position by the brace; that the use of the brace
to prevent the worn clutch from slipping or, disengaging
rendered the winch defective, and unsafe to those required
to work in its vicinity, and that the use of the brace, and
the consequent delay in stopping the winch from the engine room, when the alarm was given, was the proximate
cause of the injury and death. We do not discuss other
questions of lesser moment, including those growing out
of the alleged negligent failure of petitioners to provide
decedent with prompt and appropriate medical attention
as a contributing cause of his death, but direct our attention to the questi~t brought here for review, whether assumption of risk is a defense to suits under the Jones Act.
Since the maritime law allowed no recovery for the
wrongful death of a seaman, see Lindgren v. United
States, 281 U. S.38, respondent's asserted right of actiof
is conferred by § 33 of the Jones Act, 41 Stat. 1007, 46
U. S. C. § 688, which gives to a seaman injured in the
course of his employment, at his election, a right of action
for damages at law, with trial by jury, in which "all
stafutes of the United States modifying or extending the
common law right or remedy in case of personal'injury
to railway employees shall apply." In case of the death
of the seaman, as a result of the injury, it similarly gives
a right of action to his personal representatives in which
"all statutes of the United States conferring or regulating
the right of action for death in the case of railway employees shall be applicable."
Section 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 35
Stat. 65, 45 U. S. C. § 51, thus incorporated in the Jones
Act by reference, gives a right of recovery for the injury
or death of an employee of a common carrier by rail, in
interstate or foreign commerce, "resulting in whole or in
part from the negligence of any oT the officers, agents, or
employees of such carrier, or by reason of any defect or

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Opinion of the Court.

insufficiency, due to its negligence, in its . . . appliances,
machinery . . . or other equipment." By § 3 of the
Act, 45 U. S. C. § 53, contributory negligence does not
bar recovery, but is ground for apportionment of the
damages between employer and employee, and by §§ 3
and 4, 45 U. S. C. §§ 53, 54, it is provided that no employee shall be held to have been guilty of contributory
negligence or "to have assumed the risk of his employment in any case where the violation by such common
carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of employees
contributed to the injury or death of such employee."
The Jones Act thus brings into the maritime law new
rules of liability. The source from which these rules are
drawn defines them but prescribes nothing as to their operation in the field to which they are transferred. "In that
field their strength and operation come altogether from
their inclusion in the maritime law" by virtue of the Jones
Act. The election for which it provides "is between the
alternatives accorded by the maritime law as modified and
not between that law and some non-maritime system,"
Panama Railroad Co. v. Johnson, 264 U. S. 375, 388, 389;
and see Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372,
380, 381; Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130.
In applying the Federal Employers' Liability Act, in
suits brought by railroad employees, it has been settled
by numerous decisions of this court that assumption of
risk is a defense in a suit brought to recover for injuries
resulting from defective appliances, the use of which is
not required by the Federal Safety Appliance Act, see
SeaboardAir Line Ry. Co. v. Horton, 233 U. S.492; Jacobs
v. Southern Ry. Co., 241.U. S. 229; Boldt v. Pennsylvania
R. Co., 245 U. S. 441, 445. The fact that the statute deils
with and extends a common law form of liability, provides
for its enforcement in common law courts, and prescribes
that certain common law defenses, including assumption

OCTO3ER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

of risk, shall not be available in specified cases, led to the
conclusion that such defenses, when not excluded by the
terms of the statute, are impliedly authorized.
But the Jones Act does not, by its own terms, or by
those adopted by reference from the Employers' Liability
Act, prescribe that assumption of risk shall be a defense
to the liability imposed for injuries to seamen on navigable waters, or, apart from the specific references to
the fellow servant and contributory negligence rules, purport to enlarge or modify the defenses available in maritime law to suits brought to recover for such injuries.
In the absence of such a definite command the scope of
the new rules of liability and the nature of the defenses
to them must be ascertained by reference to their new
setting in the admiralty system.
While the martime law before the enactment of the
Jones Act permitted no recovery for injuries resulting
in the death of a seaman, or generally for injuries resulting from the negligence of a fellow servant or the mas.er,l a seaman who fell sick or was injured in the course
of his employment was entitled to "maintenance and
cure," "at least as long as the voyage continued," see
Pacific Steamship Co. v. Peterson, supra, and to recover
from vessel or owner indemnity for injuries due to unseaworthiness of the vessel or "failure to supply and to
keep in order the proper appliances appurtenant to the
ship." These propositions were laid down in answering
certified questions in The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, 175,
and they have often been cited with approval by this
Court. See Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., supra, 379,
In The Osceola, 189 U. S. 158, the Court did not answer the
certified question, whether the master is a fellow servant, since it
eoncluded that in any event the owners were not liable generally for
injuries resulting from negligence unless they were occasioned -by
tinseaworthiness or defect in appliances appurtenant to the ship,

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Opinion of the Court.

380; Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, 259 U. S. 255;
Pacific Steamship Co. v. Peterson, supra, 134; Lindgren
v. United States, supra.
In declaring, in The Osceola, without qualification as
to the assumption of risk, that the owner and vessel were
liable to indemnify seamen for injuries caused by unseaworthiness of the vessel, and that unseaworthiness embraced defective appliances appurtenant to the ship, this
Court adopted the pronouncements of many earlier cases
in admiralty in which the rule was applied or recognized."
It was definitely applied by this Court in Carlisle Packing Co. v. Sandanger, supra; cf. Plamals v. S. S. Pinardel
Rio, 277 U. S. 151, 155.
-The seaman's right of indemnity for injuries caused by defective
appliances or unseaworthiness seems to have been a development
from his privilege to abandon a vessel improperly fitted out. The
privilege was recognized in Dixon v. The Cyrus, 2 Pet. Adm. 407
(D. C. Pa. 1789), where it was held that7 the law will imply an
engagement to the mariners that "the ship shall be furnished with
all the necessary and customary requisites for navigation, or, as the
term is, shall be found seaworthy." This case was relied on in
several early cases recognizing the seaman's right to consequential
damages for injuries resulting from faulty equipment. Halverson v.
Nisen, 3 Saw. 562; The Noddleburn, 28 Fed. 855; The Lizzie Frank,
31 Fed. 477; and see The Wenonah, 1 .Hask. 606. The rule that
-unseaworthiness releases the seaman from his contract is of uncertain origin, but it is closely related to the master's obligation to owner
and shipper that the vessel be well -equilhped and ballasted. See
Marine Ordinances of Louis XIV, Book II, Art. VIII, Moloy, De Jure
Maritimo et Navali, (7th ed. 1722) p. 223. The seaman's right of
indemnity was sustained in The City of Alexandria, 17 Fed. 390;
The Edith Godden, 23 Fed. 43; Olson v. Flavel, 34 Fed. 477; The
A. Heaton, 43 Fed. 592; The Frank and Willie, 45 Fed. 494; The
Julia Fowler, 49 Fed. 277. A seaman was denied recovery for injuries in Couch v. Steele, 3 El. & Bl. 402 (1853), on the ground that
the owner owed to seamen no duty to make the vessel seaworthy.
This case was disapproved in The Noddleburn, supra, 857, which
allowed recovery for an injury due to defective rigging. The Mer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

Before the Jones Act contributory negligence was
ground for mitigation of damages in suits brought by seamen to recover for injuries attributable to defective equipment, see The Wanderer, 20 Fed. 140; Olson v. Flavel,
34 Fed. 477, overruling Peterson v. The Chandos, 4 Fed.
645; The Frankand Willie, 45 Fed. 494; The Julia Fowler,
49 Fed. 277; John A. Roebling's Sons Co. v. Erickson,
261 Fed. 986, 987; Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry, 263 Fed.
523; Storgard v. France & Canada S. S. Corp., 263 Fed.
545; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson, 289 Fed. 964, aff'd 264
U. S. 375. But no American case appears to have recognized assumption of risk as a defense to such a suit. In
numerous cases this defense was either denied or ignored
in circumstances plainly calling for its application had it
been available. Halverson v. Nisen, 3 Saw. 562; The
Edith Godden, 23 Fed. 43; The Julia Fowler, supra; The
Noddleburn, 28 Fed. 855; Olson v. Flavel, supra; The
A. Heaton, 43 Fed. 592; Lafourche Packet Co. v. Henderson, 94 Fed. 871; Globe S. S. Co. v. Moss, 245 Fed. 54;
The Colusa, 248 Fed. 21; Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry,supra.
The seaman assumes the risk normally incident to his
perilous calling, see The Iroquois, 194 U. S. 240, 243;
Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry, supra, but it has often been
pointed out that the nature of his calling, the rigid discipline to which he is subject, and the practical difficulties
of his avoiding exposure to risks of unseaworthiness and
chant Shipping Act of 1876, 39-40 Vict. Ch. 80, § 5, provided that
there should be imported into every contract of service between the
owner of the vessel and the seamen on board an implied obligation
"that the owner of the ship and the master, and every agent charged
with the loading of the ship or the preparing thereof for sea or the
sending thereof to sea shall use all reasonable means to insure the
seaworthiness of the ship for the voyage at the time when the voyage
commences and to keep her in a seaworthy condition for the voyage
during the same." See Hedley v. Pinkney & Sons S. S. Co., [1894]
A. C. 222, strictly construing this statute.

THE ARIZONA v. ANELICH.
110

Opinion of the Court.

defective appliances, make such a defense, as distinguished
from contributory negligence, see Seaboard Air Line Co.
v. Horton, supra, 503, peculiarly inapplicable to suits by
seamen to recover for the negligent failure to provide a
seaworthy ship and safe appliances. See The Colusa,
supra, 24, 25; Cricket S. S. Co. v. Parry, supra, 526;
Grimberg v. Admiral Oriental S. S. Line, 300 Fed. 619,
621; U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp. v. O'Shea, 55 App.
D. C. 300; 5 F. (2d) 123, 125; States S. S. Co. v. Berglann,
41 F. (2d) 456, 457.
Like considerations, and others to be mentioned, require a like conclusion with respect to the modified and in
some respects enlarged liability imported into the maritime law by the Jones Act. The legislation was remedial,
for the benefit and protection of seamen who are peculiarly the wards of admiralty. Its purpose was to enlarge
that protection, not to narrow it. Cf. Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., supra. Its provisions, like others of the
Merchant Marine Act, of which it is a part, are to be liberally construed to attain that end, see Cortesv. Baltimore
Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 375; Jamison v. Encarnacion,
281 U. S. 635, 639; Alpha S. S. Corp. v. Cain, 281 U. S.
642; Warner v. Goltra, 293 U. S. 155, 157, 160, and are to
be interpreted in harmony with the established doctrine
of maritime law of which it is an integral part. The
denial in the Federal Employers' Liability Act of the defense of assumption of risk refers only to suits founded
on the Federal Safety Appliance Act, applicable alone to
railroads. It can raise no inference as to the availability
of the defense in suits brought to recover for injuries to
No provision of the Jones Act is inconsistent
seamen.
with the admiralty
rule as to assumption of risk. The
purpose and terms of the Act and the nature of the juristic
field in which it is to be applied, preclude the assumption
that Congress intended, by its adoption, to modify that
rule by implication. Such has been the conclusion

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Syllabus.

298 U.S.

reached generally by the lower federal courts, although
not with entire unanimity.'
Affirmed.
BEADLE v. SPENCER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 676.

Argued March 31, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The provisions of the Employers' Liability Act specifically imposing liability for injuries caused by negligence of officers and fellow
employees, or by defects in equipment due to negligence, were
adopted for the maritime law. by the Jones Act, 46 U. S. C. 388.
P. 128.
2. Assumption of risk is not a defense to a suit brought under the
Jones Act by one who is a seaman according to the maritime law,
for personal injuries resulting from negligent failure of the master
to provide safe appliances or a safe place in which to work. The
Arizona, ante, p. 110, followed. P. 129.
3. This rule applies although the injured seaman was employed on
a coasting vessel which was in port at the time of his accident.
P. 129.
4. It is unnecessary to decide in this case whether employees on a
vessel who are not seamen according to the maritime law, but who
have been given the status of seamen for the purpose of enabling
theni to bring suit under the Jones Act, see InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50, are entitled to the immunity from
the defense of assumption of risk accorded by the maritime law to
seamen. P. 130.
'Denying the defense: Grimberg v. Admiral Oriental S. S. Line,
300 Fed. 619; U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp. v. O'Shea, 55 App.
D. C. 300; 5 F. (2d) 123; Coast S. S. Co. v. Brady, 8 F. (2d) 16;
Zin'nel v. U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 10 F. (2d) 47; Howarth
v. U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 24 F. (2d) 374; Masjulis v.
U. S. Shipping Board E. F. Corp., 31 F. (2d) 284; States S. S. Co.
v. Berglann, 41 F. (2d) 456; United States v. Boykin, 49 F. (2d) 762;
Ives v. United States, 58 F. (2d) 201; Pittsburgh S. S. Co. v. Palo,
64 F. (2d) 198; Hanson v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 65 F. (2d) 457;
The New Berne, 80 F. (2d) 244. Contra: The Ipswich, 46 F. (2d)
136; Stevens v. R. O'Brien & Co., 62 F. (2d) 632.

