UNITED STATES v. IDAHO.
99

Syllabus.

still closer, a rod away, I saw fire from the brakes. When
I heard the speeder and heard the train, I looked away
from the track towards some cornstalks to see if there was
a chicken there. "When I looked back, then I saw it."
Could not see man on speeder very plain and could not
say whether he moved before being hit. Saw train "about
a hundred feet or so" before it-struck speeder, headlight
beaming, man sitting down on speeder.
Nothing in all this gives substantial support to the notion that the headlight failed to illuminate the track 800
feet ahead, or was below the required standard. Other
portions of the evidence stressed for respondent are no
more helpful to her position.
The challenged judgment must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in

the consideration

or decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES

ET AL. v.

IDAHO ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.

No. 420. Argued March 13, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. A decree of the District Court annulled and enjoined the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
authorizing the abandonment of trackage, on the ground that the
trackage in question was a "spur" within par. 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act and that the order therefore was not within
the authority of the Commission. Held, that the decree was
based on findings amply supported by the evidence. P. 108.
2. Upon the question whether trackage is a "spur," an order of the
Commission adjudging it not so and permitting abandonment is

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Counsel for Parties.

298 U.S.

not conclusive, even though based on substantial evidence, but is
subject to judicial review. P. 109.
3. Although the better practice in such cases is to introduce all relevant evidence before the Commission, new evidence upon the
question whether the trackage is a "spur"-a mixed question of
law and fact-may be received by the District Court in a suit
to set aside the order permitting abandonment. P. 109.
4. In a suit to set aside for error or irregularity an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission on a matter within its jurisdiction, the United States is the only party named as defendant;
others become parties by intervention. P. 109.
5. A suit against the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission and a railroad company to enjoin the abandonment of
trackage under an order allowing it made by the Commission in
excess of its jurisdiction, and also to annul the order,-held properly brought in the three-judge District Court, and the decree
appealable to this Court directly. P. 109.
10 F. Supl. 712, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges setting aside and enjoining action under a certificate of the Interstate Commerce Commission purporting
to permit ,arailroad company to abandon certain trackage. The suit was brought against the United States, the

Commission and the railroad company, as defendants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom. Solicitor General

Reed, Assistant Attorney General Dickinoon, and Messrs.
E lmer B. Collins and Edward M. Reidy were on the brief,

for the United States and Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants.
Messrs. J. M. Souby, George H. Smith, Robert B. Porter, and W. Hal Farr filed a brief on behalf of the Oregon Short Line R. Co., appellant.
, Mr. Maurice H. Greene, with whom Mr. Bert H. Miller, Attorney General of Idaho, was on the brief, for

appellees.

UNITED STATES v. IDAHO.
105

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Interstate Commerce Act provides in Paragraph 18
of Section 1 that no interstate carrier "shall abandon
all or any portion of a line of railroad, or the operation
thereof, unless and until there shall first have been obtained from the [Interstate Commerce] Commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience and
necessity permit of such abandonment." Paragraph 22
provides that the "authority of the Commission" conferred
by Paragraph 18 shall not extend to the "abandonment of
spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks, located . . . wholly within one State." Transportation
Act, 1920, c. 91, ยง 402, 41 Stat. 456, 477-478. Compare
Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry., 270 U. S.
266; Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. v. Jackson & Eastern Ry.,
271 U. S. 244; Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Northside
Belt Ry., 276 U. S. 475.
The Oregon Short Line Railroad, an interstate carrier,
owns nine miles of track, in Teton County, Idaho, known
as the Talbot branch and extending to a coal mine at
Talbot. It applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission for authority to abandon that trackage. The
State intervened through its Attorney General and Public Utilities Commission. They objected, among other
things, on the ground that the Interstate Commerce Commission was without jurisdiction, since the so-called T'albot branch was in fact a "spur" or "industrial track"
located wholly within the State. The objection was overruled; and authority to abandon the trackage was granted
by Division 4. Oregon Short Line Railroad Company
Abandonment, 193 I. C. C. '697.
The State and its Public Utilities Commission then
brought this suit in the federaf court for Utah against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
Opinion of the Court.

298 U.S.

United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission, and
the Oregon Short Line, a Utah corporation, praying that

the order authorizing abandonment be set aside and other
relief. The case was heard before three judges. The sole
controversy was whether the trackage was a "spur" or
"industrial track"; and, therefore, excluded from the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The
record made before the Commission was introduced in
evidence; also some testimony "which merely amplified
evidence already in the record." The court found, among
other things:
(1) The trackage was constructed during the period of
federal control by the United States Railroad Administration, pursuant to a contract with the owners of coal
mines situated at Talbot, for the single purpose of serving
them. The owners agreed to furnish the right of way and
to pay part of the cost of construction; and they agreed
also that the railroad might tear up the tracks on their
failure to supply for transportation a minimum specified
tonnage. For a period of four years after construction no
rail transportation was maintained, because of litigation
involving the mines.
(2) In 1924, on application of the coal company, the
Public Utilities Commission of Idaho, over objection of
the Oregon Short Line that it lacked jurisdiction, held
that the line was a spur track. It ordered the railroad
to repair and operate it upon receiving from the coal
company a bond conditioned upon the company delivering a specified minimum coal tonnage each year for five
years. The railroad complied with the order. Subsequently, it procured a judgment on the bond for breach
of the condition.
(3) The Oregon Short Line has never maintained a
train schedule or regular service over this trackage; has
never furnished express, passenger or mail service; has
maintained no buildings, loading platforms or agent at

UNITED STATES v. IDAHO.
105

Opinion of the Court.

any point along the trackage; and has had no telegraph
or telephone line in connection therewith. Bills of lading for cars of coal are made out by the mine company.
There are practically no shipments in the opposite direction, the few supplies for the mine being sent up in the
empty coal cars when ordered.
The District Court concluded that the Talbot branch
was constructed and has been maintained for the purpose
of serving a single industry; that practically no other
industry is served; that this trackage does not invade
new territory; that its continued operation or abandonment is of local and not of national concern; that it is
therefore a "spur"; and hence, that the order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission was in excess of its
jurisdiction. The court annulled the order and enjoined
its enforcement. 10 F. Supp. 712.
The decree should be affirmed, because on findings
amply supported by the evidence the trackage is a spur.
Appellants object that, since the findings and order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission were made on substantial evidence, they are conclusive, and that it was
error to admit the testimony first offered in the District
Court. Compare Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United
States, 280 U. S. 420, 444. Although it would have been
better practice to have introduced all relevant evidence
before the Commission, as appellee's counsel concede, the
court did not err in admitting the additional testimony.
For whether certain trackage is a 'Jspur" is a mixed question of fact and law left by Congress to the decision of
a court-not to the final determination of either the
federal or a state commission.
This suit is not one brought to set aside for error or
irregularity an order of the Commission on a matter
within its jurisdiction. In such a-proceeding the United
States is the only party named as defendant; others interested become parties by intervention. See Commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1935.
298 U.S.

Syllabus.

Court Act, June 18, 1910, c. 309, ยง 3, 36 Stat. 539, 542,
Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat.
208, 219. Here, the jurisdiction of that Commission was
challenged. It and the Oregon Short Line were joined
as defendants in the original bill. Paragraph 20 of Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act authorizes any
party in interest to apply to "any court of competent
jurisdiction" to enjoin an unauthorized abandonment;
and if, on such application, Talbot branch should be held
to be a spur, it could not be abandoned legally without
the consent of the Public Utilities Commission of Idaho.
It is only because the plaintiffs sought also to have the
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission annulled
(compare Texas & Pacific Ry. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry.,
270 U. S. 266, 271-274) that the case was one for three
judges and could be brought here by direct appeal under
the Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220.
A ffirned.

THE ARIZONA

ET AL.

v. ANELICII,

ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 667.

Argued April 1, 2, 1936.-Decided April 27, 1936.

1. The provisions of the Jones Act allowing seamen a common-law
form of remedy for injuries in which "all statutes of the United
States modifying or extending the common law right or remedy in
case of personal injury to railway employees shall apply," and
granting like remedies to the personal representatives of seamen
when injuries result in death, became integral parts of the maritime law and are to be construed liberally and in harmony with the
principles of that law as they were before the enactment. P. 118.
2. Under the maritime law, prior to the Jones Act, a seaman injured
in the course of duty on navigable waters, due to negligence in
providing a defective appliance for use in his work on the ship,

