OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE
IN CHAMBERS

REPUBLICAN PARTY OF HAWAII ET AL.

V.

MINK ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-428.

Decided November 29, 1985

An application by the Republican Party of Hawaii and two Honolulu City
Councilmen-who had been recalled from their offices in an October 5,
1985, election, and who sought to run in a special election scheduled for
November 30 to fill the vacancies caused by the recall-to stay the Hawaii Supreme Court's judgment (or to enjoin the City Clerk's conduct)
is denied. The Hawaii Supreme Court's judgment construed a provision
of the Honolulu City Charter as preventing the recalled Councilmen
from appearing on the ballot and ordered the City Clerk to enforce the
Charter provision in the November 30 election. It was almost impossible in the length of time available to ascertain whether four Justices of
this Court would vote to note probable jurisdiction of an appeal from the
Hawaii Supreme Court's decision, or whether a majority of this Court
would be likely to reverse that decision. The "stay equities" of the case
and the usual presumption of constitutionality accorded to state and local
laws require denial of the application.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

Applicants, two recalled City Councilmen of the city of
Honolulu and the Republican Party of Hawaii, ask me to stay
an order of the Supreme Court of Hawaii, or to affirmatively
enjoin the conduct of respondent Pua, the City Clerk of the
city of Honolulu. They claim that the following provision
of the Honolulu City Charter violates the United States Constitution as interpreted by this Court in Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780 (1983):
"No person, who has been removed from his elected office or who has resigned from such an office after a recall
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion in Chambers

474 U. S.

petition directed to him has been filed, shall be eligible
for election or appointment to any office of the city
within two years after his removal or resignation."
Applicants Matsumoto and Paccaro were recalled in an election held October 5. They seek to run in a special election
called to fill the vacancies caused by the recall which is scheduled for tomorrow, Saturday, November 30., The stay application was presented to me about 1 p.m., eastern standard
time, today, Friday, November 29. The Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit concluded that the City Charter provision as it construed it was unconstitutional, but the Supreme
Court of Hawaii has now adopted a narrowing construction,
which nonetheless prevents Matsumoto and Paccaro from appearing on the ballot, and ordered the City Clerk to enforce
the provision in tomorrow's election.
It is almost impossible in the length of time available to me
to ascertain whether four Justices of this Court would vote to
note probable jurisdiction of an appeal from the decision of
the Supreme Court of Hawaii, or whether a majority of this
Court would be likely to reverse the decision of that court.
The City Charter provision as interpreted by the Supreme
Court of Hawaii is not, in my judgment, clearly unconstitutional under our decision in Anderson v. Celebrezze, supra.
Under these circumstances, the "stay equities" of the case
and the usual presumption of constitutionality accorded to
state and local laws lead me to deny the application.

