WARD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup,. Or.

Syllabus.

tion whether the writ has been allowed by a judge authorized to do so.
The Supreme Court of Iowa, which rendered the judgment complained of, is composed of a chief justice and three
associate justices, and this writ is allowed by one of the associate justices.
We are of opinion that the act of Congress requires that,
when there is a court so composed, the writ can only be
allowed by the chief justice of that court, or by a justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States. In case of a writ
to a court composed of a single judge or chancellor, the
writ may be allowed by that judge or chancellor, or by a
justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
The result of this cotnstructiou of the statute is that the
associate justice of the Supreme Court of Iowa who allowed
the present writ had no authority to do so, and it is accordingly
DISMISSED.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE, with whom concurred the CHIEF
JUSTICE and Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting.
I dissenit from the opinion just read. The objection was
not taken by the counsel for the defendant in error. The
writ of error was allowed by an associate justice of the Suprerne Court of the State-the court by which the alleged
error was committed. This, I think, was sufficient. In my
judgment the construction given to the provision in question, of the statate, is unwarrantably narrow.

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

1 When a plaintiff presents as an important part of his case a written proposal, he is not at liberty to insist on a recovery on the ground of mere
suspicion that there was a verbal proposal differing froin the one ia
writing introduced by the plaintiff.
2. If there is noevidence at all of a different verbal proposal it is the duty
,)f
the court to tell the jury there is none, when requested.

Dec. 1871.]

eW4RD

V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.
8. It is error in the cout in such case to. charge the jury that they may find
such a verbal proposition, when there is nothing but mere suspicion on
which they can do so.
4. Where there is such a written proposal it is the duty of the court, at the
request of either party, to construe it, and in doing so the admitted
facts concerning the relations of the parties to the transaction are to be
considered.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Michigan.
This was an action of assunipsit brought by the United
States against one Ward to recover the sum of $45,000-so
much money had and received by the defendant to the use
of the plaintiffs.
The whole of tie testimony was embraced in a bill of exceptions.
The f cts out of which the implied promise was supposed
by the United States to arise were thus: In the years 1856
and 1857 the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway Company were
building their road, and were in an embarrassed condition, in which it became important to them to obtain the
delivery of their iron rails by giving rewarehousi-lg bonds
with. surety. To obtain acceptable sureties they offered to
pay a large compensation for the use of the names of responsible persons, and in that way the defendant became surety
on numerous bonds of the corporation, given to the plaintifl
at various times, amounting to over $90,000. This railway
company, while these bonds were unpaid, .was sold out, with
all its property and franchises, and was purchased by a new
organization under the laws of Michigan, which took the
name of the Detroit and Milwaukee Railroad Company, and
this latter company, in the process of transmutation, made
or recognized a lien on the road and other property in favor
of the United States for the whole or a part of the debt evidenced by these bonds, but denied any liability on the part
of the corporation for those bonds; and it seemed probable
that both the defendant and the agents of the United States
were ignorant of the existence of this lien until after a conpromise (hereafter to be mentioned) of the bonds. At this
stage of the proceedings the defendant was the only solvent

WARD

V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. CIL

Statement of the ease.

surety, and he insisted that he was discharged by the dealing of the plaintiffs with his principals. In this state of
things the bonds were placed in the hands of the District
Attorney of the United States for suit.
All this appeared from a stipulation entered into between
the parties to the suit, and "given in evidence on the trial by the
counsel of the plaintiff to prove the issue on its part." The paper
so given in evidence thus began :
"It is stipulated by counsel for the defendant that the following statements are facts, and that the same may be admitted in
evidence upon the trial of this cause on the part of the plaintiffs."
Among these statements was this one:
"That in April, 1863, the board of directors of said railroad
company was applied to by the defend*ant verbally to make a
proposition of compromise of said bonds, which was put in writing by the president, on the 14th day of May, as follows:
DETROIT AND MILWAUKENrAILROAD CO.,
DETROIT, May 14th, 1863.

E. B. WARD.
MY DEAR SIR: Referring to the conversation we have had on the subject of the duty bonds due the United States, I am authorized to say that
if you can procure the settlement and cancelling of them for a sum not exceeding $80,000 currency, that sum to include your services and any claim
you may have against the company on account of those bonds, this company
is ready to pay, and will pay that sum; one-half on your making the arrangement with the government, and the other half within thirty days
thereafter. This offer, however, not to be considered as waiving any de
fence the company has to said bonds and claims.
CAPTAIN

Yours truly,
C. C.

TROWBRIDGE,

President.

"And that subsequently, in April, said board did verbally
make the said defendant the said proposition."
The plaintiffs also introduced as a witness, Trowbridge
(the party signing the proposition above set out), and he
testified that though he had not heard the first conversation
between the board and defbndant, he afterwards heard of it
from Mr. Brydges, managing director, or from Mr. Emmons,
counsel for the company, and that after this and upon r'e.

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

ducing it to writing, in answer to the question of the defendant, as to what the board had decided as to his proposition, he repeated it orally to the defendant as he understood
it, and as so stated, and as he understood it, it was fully expressed in the letter of May 14th. Trowbridge had become
president of the company during these transaetions.
After lis interview, above mentioned, with the directors
of the company, Ward had a conference with the District
Attorney of the United States, in which, while denying his
liability, be offered to pay $35,000 in full for the delivery
of the bonds on his own account, whether the company did
or did not furnish the money, as he hoped they would; saying, "that the company was apt to be behind when money
was to be paid out." This offer was afterwards accepted,
and the $35,000 was paid and the bonds delivered to Ward.
It was conceded as part of the ease that the agents of the
United States had no knowledge of the offer of the company
to pay the $80,000 when Ward made his proposition, nor
until after the bonds were delivered and the $35,000 paid
and accepted as a compromise; and further conceded that
Ward received the $80,000, and had part of it, or all, in his
hands when the compromise was finally accepted.
The District Attorney of the United States becoming acquainted with what had passed between Ward and the company, and especially with the proposition about the $80,000,
demanded the sum of $45,000 (the difference between this
sum just named and the $35,000 paid), alleging that it had
been paid to Ward for the purpose of being delivered to
the government, on a compromise of their claim against him
and the road. Ward, insisting that he was under no sort of
obligation to pay any sum to the government, as the compromise had been fair, stated nevertheless, that since making
the compromise he had learned of the making or recognition
by the new company of the lien on the road and other property in favor of the United States for the debt evidenced by
the bonds, and as that might have put the claim of the government on a better basis than it stood, before, be was willie did accordingly
ing to pay over a check fbr $22,028.

WARD V.

UNITED

STATES.

'[SUP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pay it over to the government agent, l)t before it was presented at bank, stopped the payment of it. At the time when
the check was given, Ward said that in giving it he was doing
better by the government than he was doing by himself;
that the government were getting about 75 per cent. on their
claim, while he was getting only some 55 per cent. on what
he claimed.
It was upon this state of facts mainly that the United
States asserted that the entire $80,000 was money had and
received by Ward to their use, and sued fbr the $45,000 not
paid over.

The defendant's counsel requested an instruction to the
jury that there was no evidence from which they could infer
any other contract between the defendant and the railroad
company concerning this $80,000 than the one found in the
written proposition. The learned judge refused, however,
this request, and charged the jury that there was evidence
tending to show that the written proposition of May 14th,
1863, did not fully evidence the terms made to the defendant
by the railroad eompkany in April, when he made the proposition of compromise to the district attorney, and added:
"I do not deem it necessary or expedient to say what the
legal effect of that proposition is, as if,
in your opinion, it is but
a partial expression of the arrangement, or is different from the
oral arrangement of April, a construction would only tend to
complicate your inquiries."
The jury were also told that it was for them to find what
the arrangement or proposition wai between the railroad
company and the defendant in reference to a compromise
of these bonds, and whether there was any other different
proposition than that reduced to writing May 14th, 1863, or
whether that evidenced the precise terms of the arrangement
between the company and defendant when the latter opened
negotiations with the district attorney. They were told also
that upon their finding in that respect would depend their
verdict.
There were several other prayers for instruction asked b)

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V.

UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

the defendant's counsel and refused by the court, on which
error was assigned; among them these:
"That the proposition of May 14th did not constitute the defendant the agent of the company to pay over to the plaintiff
the sum of $80,000, or any given sum, but that under it he was
at liberty to make any arrangement he saw fit with the plaintiffs for a settlement and cancellation of the bonds held by them.
"That if the jury find that said $80,000 was paid to the defendant by the railroad company under the said proposition, the
plaintiffs are not entitlod to recover any portion of the money
thus paid to him, as in such case it was not paid to the defendant for the use of the plaintiffs, but to pay him in full for his
own services and claims, and ft;r procuring the settlement and
cancelling of the bonds held by the plaintiffs, and for the de.
livery of the same to the railroad company.
"That even if the jury find that the defendant was guilty of
either fraudulent disclosures or concealments in his negotiations
with the plaintiff and thereby obtained the compromise in question, the plaintiff cannot recover in this action, unless they find
under the charge of the court that the whole $80,000 was spe.
cifically paid to the defendant to pay the plaintiff."
But the court refused to give any of these instructions.
It charged, also,
"That the defendant Ward was: in conscience and equity
bound under the circumstances of the interview, when he offered
$35,000 in the compromise to the attorney of the government
to disclose whatever information he possessed, not accessible
alike to both parties, which would materially affect or influence
the decision of the government in coming to a conclusion upon
the offer of $35,000, so that if he misrepresented or concealed

any material fact which the government ought to have been
informed of, and thereby obtained a surrender of the bonds for
a less sum than would have been demanded had the government

been fully advised,.thc government is not bound to abide by
the settlement."
Verdict and judgment having been given for the United
States for the $45,000 claimed, with interest, the defendant

brought the case here.
VOL. XIV.

WARD

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. (CL

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Messrs. C. J. Walker and G. F. Edmunds, for the plaintiff
in error:
1. There was no evidence tending in the least degree to
prove that the $80,000 was paid to defendant under any other
proposition or arrangement than the written one of May
14th, 1863.
There is not a scintilla of evidence that tends to show
that the original verbal proposition differed from the written
one. It was the proposition of compromise of the bonds
which was put in writing by Trowbridge, the president, on
the 14th of May, for which the defendant verbally applied
in April, and no other or different one, and it was the said
proposition that was embodied in the written proposition,
which the board verbally made to the defendant subsequently to his application for the proposition from the company.
Whether there was evidence tending to prove that the
original verbal proposition was different from the written
proposition was a question of vital importance. This, under
the charge of the court, was the hinge upon which the controversy turned. And the refusal to charge as requested,
and the charge as given, substituted conjecture for deduction, and could hardly fail to mislead and confuse the jury.
But whatever may have been the character of the verbal
proposition made before the money was paid over, there
was no evidence tending to show that it was eelually paid
over to defendant upon any other proposition than that of
May 14th, or for any other purpose than that mentioned
therein.
2. The court erred in refnsing to give any construction to
the written proposition or contract of May 14th.
According to the very theory of the charge of the court,
the jury were at liberty to, and might well have found, that
the proposition or arrangement under which the defendant
received the $80,000, was the written one of May 14th. On
that hypothesis it was clearly the duty of the court to give
construction to this written instrument. There was vital
error in refusing to give such construction. It left the jury

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

85

Argument for the Government,

to give any construction they saw fit to this most imFortaut
instrument, upon which the rights of the parties turned.
3. The defendant was entitled to the instructions that he
asked as to the meaning of the proposition of May 14th.
The instrument is to be read in the light of surrounding
circumstances. A compromise was contemplated, not of
one claim, but of two; the claims both of the defendant and
of the United States. To effect this compromise the company were willing to pay $80,000, and they proposed to the
defendant that if he would discharge his own claim and procure a settlement and cancellation of that of the plaintiffs,
they would pay him $80,000. He was at liberty to make
the best bargain with the plaintiffi that he could; to pay
them in cash or to get time, or to pay in anything else that
the plaintiffs would receive. All that the interests of the
company required was the discharge of the two claims. The
$80,000 was to be paid in one entire sum for the double purpose; not a part, proportionate or otherwise, to apply on the
claim of each. They may have expected that it would have
cost the defendant more than it did to take up the bonds
held by the plaintiffl but that expectation, if proved, would
have nothing to do with the construction of the paper. That
left him at liberty to make the best bargain he could with
the plaintiffs, and he was to have for himself all that remained, were it more or less.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, contra:
1. There was nothing which would have justified the court
in instructing thejury, as requested, that the evidence tended
to show that the money was paid by the company under the
written proposition of May 14th. On the contrary, the evidence rather tended to show that the verbal proposition,
made by the board of directors in April, was in reality the
one under which it was paid. Trowbridge, who reduced
the proposition to writing in the form of a letter addressed
to the defendant, testified that he heard nothing of the defendant's application to the company until after it occurred,

86

WAiD V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. CI.

Argument for the Government.

and that his first information respecting the proposition
made to the defendant came from the managing director, or
from the company's attorney ; that after receiving this information, and before writing his letter, he, in response to
an inquiry from defendant, repeated orally to the latter the
proposition as he understood it, and that the proposition as he
understood it was fully expressed in said letter. The verbal
proposition was the one upon which the defendant acted in
treating with the plaintiff's attorney for the compromise, and
which the defendant must be presumed from his conduct to
have relied upon, and there is no evidence that it was superseded by any other; for the written proposition of May 14th
was not put forth as an independent proposition, designed
to take the place of the previous verbal proposition, but
merely as a memorial of the latter as it was understood by the
writer.
The whole case indicates, indeed, that the written proposition was an afterthought; a contrivance to conceal an irregular transaction. The claim which really disturbed the company was not the defendant's, but that of the government,
and to settle it the $80,000 was given to Ward. Having by
his fraudulent concealments got them to take less than half
the sum, he adroitly gets the written letter in order that he
may apply the balance to his own use.
2. If this was all so, there was no need of the court giving
any construction to the letter of May 14th. But if there had
been such need, the requests of the defendant, on this subject, should not have been granted; for the view taken by
him of the meaning of the contract-on an assumption of
which meaning as true, the requests foi' instruction were
founded-was an erroneous view.
What the defendant undertook to bring about, and actually succeeded in bringing about, was a compromise-not as
between himself and the company, nor as between himself
and the plaintiff, but as between the company and the plaintiff. In this affair he was their common negotiator, the gobetween or mutual agent of both parties. There was, ,considering the nature of the undertaking, no incompatibility

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.

87

Opinion of the court.

in the office thus assumed by him. There existed, then,
such a fiduciary relation between the plaintiff and the defendant as to devolve upon the latter the obligation of making a frank and full disclosure of any fact which might influence the judgment of the former in making'the compromise.
From this point of view, it appears that there was no
error in rejecting the instructions requested, as to the construction of the proposition of May 14th.
Mr. Justice MILLER (having stated the case) delivered
the opinion of the court.
The whole of the testimony is embraced in a bill of exceptions, not long, and the questions to be decided here
arise out of the charge of the court to the jury and its refusal
to give instructions asked by the defendant.
It is quite clear that the court charged the jury that there
was evideiiee of a verbal contract differing from the one in
writing; that they might infer that the verbal contract was
such that defendant would be held in law to be a bailee for
the United States as to the whole $80,000, and designedly
left the impression that this was so clear that it was uiinecesoary for him to instruct them as to the legal effect of the
written contract on the rights of the parties.
Now, as all the testimony is in the bill of exceptions, and
as the plaintiffs read this written contract as part of their
case, we should be able to discern some evidence on which
the jury could find not only that there was a verbal contract
but that it differed from the written one, and that it showed
that the defendant received the entire $80,000 to the use of
the United States; for if this was not so the verbal contract
was insufficient to authorize the verdict. We have not been
able to find in the bill of exceptions anything which justified
this charge of the court.
It is clear from the paper given in evidence by the plaintiffs, and from the statement which it contains,* --and which
*

Quoted supra, p. 80, in small type.

WARD V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sul). Or.

Opinion of the court.

it stipulates are facts which may be admitted in evidence
upon the trial of this cause on the part, of plaintifl,-that the
plaintiffs themselves have shown by their own testimony
that the proposition which the defendant asked the railroad
company to make and which they did make verbally in
April is the proposition and the same proposition which was
reduced to writing by Trowbridge, the president, on the
14th May thereafter. The writing refers to the previous
conversation, and there is no attempt to conceal the fact
that the proposition was made at a previous time verbally.
Now the plaintiffs not only introduced the statement above
alluded to, but they proved by Trowbridge, their own witness, as part of their case, that the verbal proposition of
April was identical with the written proposition which they
had introduced.
How can they be permitted to contradict their own witness and discredit their own written testimony, consistently
with the rules of evidence ?
But if they could, we have searched in vain for any evidence which varies in the slightest degree that which we
have cited. It is in fact all that there is on that subject.
It has been, argued here, as it probably was before the jury,
that the written proposition was gotten up after the fact to
cover up a fraud; that in fact Ward was given the $80,000
For payment to the United States alone without reference to
his own claim on the company, and having concealed this
fiact and made a better compromise than was expected, he
had thispaper made out to include his own claim to give
color to a fraud. But of this there is nothing but the merest
suspicion of counsel. No witness has testified that the agreement of April was such as is here supposed, or that it differed from the writing of May 14th. The plaintifis themselves have proved that they were identical. It would be a
total disregard of all rules of evidence to allow them to go.
to the jury with an argument ibunded on mere suspicion, a
suspicion contradicted by their own evidence, and then have
the court charge that there was in the testimony a fimida.

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

tion for this suspicion, a foundation so strong as to render a
construction of the only real proposition which was proved,
useless and embarrassing to thent.
And if it could for any reason be conjectured that the
verbal proposal differed from the one made in writing, there
is nothing to show what that difference was, and whether it
might not have been even more fivorable to the defendant
than the one produced in writing. The jury were left by
the court, and in fact told to disregard the facts which were
proved, and indulge in the vagaries of their imagination, in
this the turning-point of the case.
Now, it is undeniable that Ward made a very enormous
profit in the transaction, and that he availed himself of a
knowledge of facts unknown to the officers of the governmient, in a manner which was well calculated to prejudice
the jury against his case, but this was no reason why the
court should authorize them to indulge this prejudice by a
disregard of the established principles of the law of evidence.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court erred
in refusing to instruct the jury that there was no such evidence, and in charging them that there was.
There were several other prayers for instruction asked by
the defendant's counsel and refused by the court, on which
error is assigned and which we do not deem necessary to
notice further than this: that some of the prayers seemed
to require a construction of the written proposition found in
the record.
Whether the specific prayers of the defendant's counsel
were such as should have been given or refused, we are of
opinioi that it was the duty of the court to have given the
jury a construction of that instrument, and as this duty will
probably arise, and the interpretation of the writing become
an important element of a new trial, we will consider it now.
The evidence makes it pretty clear that the original corporation, the principal in the warehouse bonds, was also indebted to the fefendant in a considerable amount, which appears to have never been liquidated. The corporation whose

WARD V.

UNITED

STATES.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

directors made the proposition to Ward, while it denied a
direct liability either to him or to the United States, found
a lien on their property which made them desire the settleMent of both these claims. These facts are undisputed, and
in view of them, and of the other fact that Ward was probably liable to the government for the full amount unpaid op
,the bonds, we are to determine what those directors meant.
The first and important element of their proposal is that
"we will pay $80,000 on account of these bonds if you can
procure a settlement and cancelling of them for a sum not
exceeding that amount." The second branch of it is that
this sum must include "your services in making this settlement, and any claim you may have against the company on
account of the bonds. When this arrangement is made the
company is ready to pay half that sum, and the other half
in thirty days thereafter."
Is this a proposition to pay Ward $80,000 if he procures
a settlement of both demands, leaving him at liberty to keep
as much or as little of it as he chose, provided he effected
their purpose? Or is it a proposal to pay generally the
$80,000 on the two demands, provided it be accepted in full
satisfaction of both ?
The language of the proposition is that they.will pay that
sum fbr a settlement of both claims. It does not say that
they will pay it to Ward, but will pay that sum on account
of these two demands. Ward had 'first called on them to
do something in the matter. This was their response.
Without entering into any further verbal criticism of the
language of the instrument, but looki4ig to the relations of
Ward to the government, and to the railroad company which
made the proposal, we think that its true construction is,
that the $80,000 was to be paid in settlement of the claims
of the government on the bonds, and of Ward's claim for
becoming surety, and a fair compensation for his services in
obtaining the compromise With the government.
With this construction of the instrument-the only evidence before the jury of the terms on which Tlefendant received the money-it should have been left to them to

Dec. 1871.]

WAF.D V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Clifford, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

ascertain how much was due the plaintiffs on account of the
bonds when the proposition was made, how much was due
the defendant for becoming surety for the railroad company,
and what was a fair compensation for his services in effecting the compromise with the United States.
These facts being ascertained, they should have been di.
rected to apportion the $80,000 between the plaintiffs and
the defendant, according to the amounts thus ascertained as
due to each, and make this the foundation of their verdict,
deducting from the proportion of the $80,000 falling to the
United States the $35,000 paid them by the defendant.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

AND

A NEW TRIAL AWARDED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Justices
CLIFFORD and DAVIS, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case. It
seems to me that the harge of the judge to the jury was
correct. The defendant was surety for the Detroit and Milwaukee Railroad Company on their rewarehousing bonds,
given to secure duties on railroad iron, for an amount admitted to be $76,000, besides interest. The property of the
company was sold under mortgages, and a new company
was formed by the purchasers, who purchased under a stipulation to recognize ai'd pay all sums due the Federal government for duties upon railroad iron which, it was admitted,
then amounted to $94,000. ,The purchasers, after organization, gave a mortgage in November, 1860, to secure the
payment, amongst other things, of the duties owing to the
government of the United States, so that the new company
assumed the payment of the duties in question. But their
assumption was not communictted to the officers of the government, and was not known by them. In April, 1863,
Ward, the plaintiff in error, urged upon the new company
to settle this claim, and also a claim which he had, by way
of compensation for becoming surety. The board of directors verbally made him a proposition.. afterwards put in
writing, to the effect that if he could procure the settlement
and cancellation of the bonds for a sum not exceeding eighty

WARD V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. CL~

Opinion of Clifford, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

thousand dollars currency (that sum to include his services
and any claim 1ie had), they would pay that sum-onehalf
on his making the arrangement, the other half within thirty
days. Thereupon Ward had an interview with the district
attorney, and after dilating upon the difficulties which would
be met with in collecting the money, the defences which the
company had against the claim, &c., said that he had been
urging the directors to do somethino in relation to the
bonds; that he thought they were going to have some money
that could be applied to this purpose, and that they would
do something in relation thereto. He then offered $85,000
in full for the bonds, saying that whether the company did
or did not furnish any money, as he expected they would,
he would pay that sum out of his own funds, and that the
company was apt to be behind'when money was to be paid
out. lie never said one word about the offer of the company to pay the $80,000, and yet he was the surety, and was
seeking to get up obligations that were his own as well as
the company's. Under these representations and this suppression of the facts, the district attorney was induced to
reconmend.the offer to the acceptance of the department,
and on the 24th of July, 1863. Ward paid the $35,000, got
possession of the bonds, and the next day delivered them to
the company and received from it the $80,000 which had
been offered. Afterwards, in February, 1864, when the district attorney had discovered the deception, and demanded
the balance of $45,000, Ward offet'ed him a cheek for $22,000,
on the plea that when the compromise was made he did not
know that the cpmpany had provided for the government
claim in their mortgage of November, 1860.
Upon this state of fhcts the government claimed that the
whole $80,000 was received for their use.
A singular feature of the case is, that the offer of the
company, made to Ward in April, was not put into writing
until the 14th of May, 1863, and was then written out at the
request of Ward, by Trowbridge, an oflicer of the railroad
company, who was not present when the vetbal proposition

Dec. 1871.]

WARD V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of Clifford, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting..

was made, but only heard of it from others. Ile wrote it
out in a fbrmal letter to Ward, dated May 14th, 1863, and
this letter and the evidence of Trowbridge as to what he
learned about it from others, is all the evidence we have of
its precise terms.
The judge left it to the jury to say whether the letter coitained the precise oral arrangement or not, with liberty to
take into consideration all the facts and circumstances of
the ease. The plaintiff in error complains of this feature of
the cha]ge. lie insists that there was no evidence that the
oral agreement was anything different from what the letter
stated it to be.
It seems to me that the judge went quite as far as he was
bound to go in favor of the plaintiff in error. The great
controlling facts of the ease were that the company' agreed
to pay this $80,000 to get clear of the bonds, and of all
claims in regard to them; that Ward never informed the
government officials of this offer, but made representations
whici entirely ignored any such state of things-representations, to say the least, that were disingenuous, considering
the relation ln which he stood to the parties as surety on the
bonds. Upon these representations he got a compromise,
and afterwards had the offer of the railroad company put in
writing in the shape in which it now stands in Trowbridge's
letter. Ile finally received the money and pocketed it all,
except $35,000, which he paid to the government.
His conduct was surely an estoppel against himself, so far
as the government was concerned. He was under an obligation to disclose the offer which had been made to him.
He admits he received the $80,000 on account of the bonds.
He cannot be permitted to say that he received part of the
money for himself. If that was the arrangement why did
he not tell the district attorney so? As between him and
the government, the latter had the prior right to be paid out
of the fid.
Ward was surety to the governmentt for the
payment of its whole claim. He must be deemed in 'aw,
under the circumstances, to have received the money for the
use of the government. Hence the judge was right in de.

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED SPIRITS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

clining to' say what the true construction of Trowbridge's
letter was.

I think the judgment should be affirmed.

HENDERSON'S DISTILLED S1IRITS.
1. Parties have a right to enter into a stipulation waiving a jury in the District Court, and to submit their case to the court upon an agreed statement of facts, independent of any legislative provision on the subject.
2. Where a forfeiture is made absolute by statute a decree of condemnation
relates bsck to the time of the commission of the wrongful acts, and
takes effect from that time, and not from the date of tle decree. Accordingly where a removal of distilled spirits from the place where distilled, with intent to defraud the United States of the tax thereon, was
alleged as a ground for the forfeiture of the spirits, it was held that
neither the subsequent payment of the taxes nor the fact that the
claimant was an innocent purchaser, without notice of the wrongful acts
of the antecedent owner, constituted a defence to the charge.
3. A removal of distilled spirits from the place where distilled to a bonded
warehouse of the United States, if made to secure the payment of the
tax to the governnient, is a lawful act, but if made with intent to defraud the United States of the tax, the act of removal is illegal, and the
spirits removed are subject to forfeiture. A removal of the spirits from
the place'where distilled to the bonded warehouse is not inconsistent
with , and may be a part of a scheme to defraud the United States of
the duties
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Missouri ; the case being thus:

On the 13th July, 1866, Congress passed an act to provide
internal revenue,* laying and levying taxes on many hundred products of the country. The act is a long act, having seventy-one sections, and covering seventy-five large and
closely-printed pages of the statute-book. The first thirteen
sections, which cover fifty-three of these pages, relate to the
levying and collecting of taxes on a great variety of things,
but not of a tax on spirits. Section 14th thus proceeds:
"That in case any goods or commodities for or in respect
whereof any tax is or shall be imposed, or any materials, uten.
* 14 Stat. at Large, 98-173.

