PALMER V. MARSTON.

[Slip. Ot

Statement of the case in the opinion.

"Under the constitution of 1868 the courts of. this State can.
not entertain an action based upon transactions in Confederate
treasury notes. We think the evidence discloses that this case
is founded upon dealings in unlawfill currency, and the court
has often refused to lend its aid to transactions reprobated by
law."
The constitution of 1868 was not in existence when the
case was decided by the District Court.
The Supreme Court founded its judgment alike upon the
constitutional provision and prior adjudications. Those adjudications are numerous and conclusive upon the subject.*
The constitution only declared a settled pre-existing rule of
jurisprudence in that State. The result iii this case would
have been necessarily the same if the constitution had not
contained the provision in question. This brings the case
within the authority of -Bethel v. Demarel.t Upon such a
state of ficts this court cannot take jurisdiction under the
section of the Judiciary Act upon which the writ of error is
CASE DISMISSED.
founded.

PALMER V. IMARSTON.
The principle of the preceding case affirmed in the same sort of example.
MOTION by Mr. W. S. Holman (Mr. E. T. Merrick opposing)
to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana, taken on the assumption that the case fell
within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra,
pp. 5, 6.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opin'-)n of the court.
Paimer sued Marston in the District Court of the parish
Hunley et al. v. Scott, 19 Lou. Ann. 161; King v. Huston, Ilubbel &
Co, lb. 288; McCracken v. Pool, lb. 359; Norton v. Dawson et al. 7 Ib. 464
t 10 Wallace, 637,

Dec. 1871.]

PALMER V. MARSTON.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

of East Feliciana, upon a promissory note made by Marston
to J. 0. Fuqua, and by him indorsed to Palmer, dated October 1st, 1863, for' $1687, and payable one day after date,
with interest at the rate of eight per cent. per annum from
date until paid. The defendant answered that $1000 of the
note had been paid, and that $949 of it was a part of the
purchase price of an African negro claimed to be a slave,
and that the slave had been freed by sovereign authority,
and that hence the note, to the extent of the amount last
named, was null and void.
The court held that, "whilst the law remains as pronounced by the late Supreme Court in the case of Waoi7wright v. Bridges,* and other cases, Fuqua, were he suing
to recover the amount of the note, which is the subject of
this controversy, would be defeated by this plea of failure
of consideration. Therefore, the plaintiff must fail also."
Judgment was given for the defendant. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, and that court
affirmed the judgment.
In the opinion of the court, as drawn up by one of the
judges, it is said:
"The balance of the note in suit in this action was clearly
given in renewal of obligations arising from the sale of a slave,
and is vitiated by this fact. It cannot be recovered under our
jurisprudence, as settled in Wainwright v. Bridges, and the
numerous eases which have followed that decision. Under the
rule established in the case of Groves v. Clark,t it is immaterial
whethei' the plaintiff became a holder before or after maturity.
We have been ask d by counsel to pass, in this case, upon the
validity under the Constitution of the United States of the article 128 of the Louisiana constitution of 1868, which declares
that contracts for the sale of persons are null and void, and shall
not be enforced by the courts of this State. We do not feel it
necessary to do this. The rule, that such contracts will not be
enforced by the courts of this State, was established in our jurisprudence in the year 1867. It was firmly settled and repeat.
*19

Annual, 234.

t- 21 Id. 567.

[Sup. Ct,

SEVIER V, HASKELL.

Syllabus.

edly acted upon before the adoption of the constitution of 1868,
and has been invariably adhered to ever since. The question
whether this article 128 be valid or invalid as an act of legislation, and in relation to article 10 of the Constitution of the
United States, may possess considerable speculative interest, but
we do not perceive that it can, in this ease, have a practical influence upon the result. For the reasons given it is ordered and
adjudged that the judgment appealed from be affirmed with
costs."
It thus appears that the provision of the State constitution
upon the subject of slave contracts was inno wise drawn in
question. The decision was governed by the settled principles of the jurisprudence of the State. In such cases this
court has no power of review. No right was claimed by
either party under any State law or the constitution of the
State which ws resisted upon the ground of repugnancy to
the Constitution, or a treaty or law of the United States, the
decision having been in favor of the validity of the right so
asserted. There is certainly no foundation for such a complaint on the part of the plaintiff in error. In the absence
of such a claim and decision we cannot take cognizance of
the case. This element, which is indispensable to our jurisdiction, is wanting. Substakitially the same question
arose in The Bank of West Tennessee v. The Citizens' Bank
of Louisiana, heretofore decided.* The writ of error was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The same disposition
must be made of this case.
WRIT DISMISSED.

SEVIER V.

HASKELL.

The Supreme Court of Arkansas ordered judgment for a plaintiff suing on
a note given for the price of slaves. Subsequently to this the State
of Louisiana ordained as part of its constitution, "that all contracts for
the sale or purchase of slaves were null and void, and that no court of the State
* Supra, p. 9, the preceding case.

