Dec. 1871.]

ThE JAVA.
Statement of the case.

such she was manifestly taken to be. The mevenents of
the Scotia were therefore entirely proper, and she was without fault.
DECREE AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE JAVA.
1. Though a steamship pursuing, in a crowded harbor, for her own greater
convenience in getting into dock in a particular state of the harbor,
a channel not entirely the ordinary one for vessels of her size, be
bound to more than ordinary precaution, yet if she has a right to
use that channel and do take such more than ordinary precaution, she
is -not responsible for accidents to other vessels that, with it all, were
inevitable.
2. Hence, where such a steamship pursuing in such a case such a channel,
with,tie utmost care, had occasion to cross at an acute angle the stern
of a large school-ship that stood high out of water (so obstructing view),
and thus struck and injured a small schooner that drifting along on the
other side of the sehool-ship, emerged suddenly at its stern-the steamship not having before seen the schooner, nor the schooner the stesmship-held that the steamship was not responsible; the more especially
as the schooner which was going out of port had just cast away her tug,
was drifting along with the tide, and having all her hands engaged in
hoisting sail, had no sails set so as to make her specially visible, nor
any lookout to see ahead.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
On the 7th of November, 1866, the Cunard steamer Java,
a screw-steamship of large size, drawing nineteen feet
water, and about 360 feet long (more than usual length), entered Boston harbor (a diagram of part of which is on a
page following), about noon, in fine, clear weather, the tide
being about one hour's ebb, and the wind blowing a three
or four knot breeze from the west. Her berth and point of
destination was a wharf at East Boston, about 2000 feet east
of the Boston Commercial Wharves. Her proper course in
coming up from what is called the Upper Middle until she
arrived within about a mile of the Commercial Wharves, and

190

Tuz JAVA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

seven-eighths of a mile from her own dock, was about northwest by west. At this point, a direct course to her dock
would require her to change her course about two points
more to the north. But almost directly in her path, a, little
to the right of it, lay at anchor a large school-ship for the
instruction of boys, nearly two-thirds of the distance between her and her dock, and about 17 feet out of water. Ifn
getting into her berth sh'e could go either to the right or to
the left of this school-ship. The main expanse of water (2000
feet wide) was to the left of the school-ship, but there was a
sufficient channel, and one recognized on charts as such, of
about 500 feet in width, at that period of tide, to the right
of it. Her most direct course would have been to the left,
and this was the one by which the Cunard steamships more
usually went in ; but they had, more than once, it was testified, gone in on the right, as other steamships not unfrequently did, and on this occasion the pilot chose the right,
for the reason, as alleged, that several vessels were lying at
anchor to the left or west of the school-ship, along in front
of the East Boston docks; and he judged that he could get
the Java more easily into her berth by going to the right
than on the other side. His ,idea was that owing to her
length, if going on the left side the vessel could not have
turned herself round without aid.
ie had scanned the
channel about a mile below the school-ship, and saw nothing
opposing.
It so hnppened'that just as the Java approached the schoolship, the schooner James McCloskey, laden with linseed,
came out from behind it, having been previously concealed
by it (her sails not being up), and although the Java was
only making about two knots an hour, had her lookouts all
in place anid vigilant, and used every exertion that human
skill co.ld devise, a collision was inevitable, and the schooner
and cargo were so much injured that she had to run on to the
East Boston flats to prevent sinking. The schooner, it may
be added, had been towed down from a wharf at East Boston to the school-ship by a tug, which she there discharged;
and she was now floating along with the tide while her crew

Dec. 1871.]

THE JAVA.
Diagram of the port of Boston.

Cunard

SN
School ShipI

THE JAVA.

[Sup. CL.

Argument for the libellants.

were hoisting her sails; and not having at the moment any
lookout. This suit was brought by the owners of the James
McCloskey to recover the damage to vessel and cargo.
The question was, whether the Java was in fault. INo
fault was seriously suggested but that pf going to the right
hand of the school-ship. The District Court decided in favor
of the Java. From that decision an appeal was taken to the
Circuit Court. It was there argued that, as matter of fact
and on the evidence before the court, the Java had pursued
an unusual course in attempting to go to her dock by the
passage to the right of the school-ship, and that for having
taken this unusual course she was liable for what had happened. The learned judge who delivered the opinion of that
court, in answer to this argunient, said:

"A vessel is not to be considered in fault merely because she
takes, for reasons of her own convenience or necessity, an unusual course; but when there is a usual and an unusual course,
the vessel taking the unusual course for her convenience does -it
at her peril, and is bound to see that she does it in safety."
Again he said:
"The school-ship for many years had been constantly, during
the winter months, kept moored in the same position near the
edge of the channel. She w s large and high out of water.
The pilot of the Java knew her position, and that the view of
asnall sailing vessel might be shut out by the school-ship. The
steamer was bound to guard against the emergency. If she
went under the stern of the school-ship at an acute angle under
such circumstances, she was bound by law to proceed so slowly
and with so much vigilance that she could keep out of the way
6f a sailing vessel."'
The Circuit Court accordingly reversed the decree of the
District Court, and decreed for the libellants. The owners
of the Java now brought the case here.
Mr. Richard Henry Dana, for the libellants, and in support
of the ruling below:
It is a well-settled rule of admiralty law, one enforced by

Dec. 1871.]

TnIE

SAVA.

Argument for the libellants.

statute,* that if a steamer approach a sailing vessel, the
steamer is required to takb the necessary measures to avoid
collision; and if collision occurs, and it is not shown to have
been inevitable, the steamer is, prima facie, in fault.t Inevitable accident is not simply when it is too late, but it
must appear that its being too late was not the fault of either
side. It must be undeistood to ibean "a collision which
occurs when both parties have endeavored, by every means
in their power, with due care and caution, and a proper
display of nautical skill, to prevent its occurrence."
It ip,
an equally settled rule that a steamer, in entering a harbor,
is bound to 'great caution. The vigilance is thrown on her
Ordinary care will not excuse her. Steamers, in such in
stances, have been held' in fault for not using precaution,
although they may have done their utmost at the time.ยง If
the night is too dark to distinguish a small vessel in season,
a large steamer should not attempt to go down the harbor.II
This court indeed always holds a steamer responsible for the
selection of her course. If she takes an unusual course, or
one that involves more risk than another, when she has an
election, or voluntarily puts herself in a position where, if a
sailing ivessel shall happen to come in the way, she cannot
avoid her, or cannot do so without extreme measures on her
part, she is responsible fbr the damage. And, in such cases,
it is not an excuse to show, that bultfor some mere error, not a
fault, in the other vessel, or some accident to her, the collision mqht not have occurred; it not being made clear that
the collision was occasioned by a fault of the other vessel to
which the course taken by the steamer did not contribute.
Now, to apply these principles to this case, the Java had the
usual broad channel, and deliberately elected to go through a
narrow passage, very seldom used by screw-steamers of her
" Act of 1864, eh. 69, art. 15, 13 Stat. at Large, 60.

t The Carroll, 8 Wallace, 302; The Oregon, 18 Howard, 570.
j The Pennsylvania, 24 Id. 318.
} The Southern Belle, 18 Id. 587.
The R. B. Forbes, 1 Sprague, 329.
The Isaac Newton, 18 Howard, 581 ; The Southern Belle, lb. 584; Fretz
v. Bull, 12 Id. 466.
VOL. XIV.

13

THE JAVA.

[Slip. Ot.

Argument for the libellants.

length and draft, for her own convenience solely. In doing
this, she took upon herself the risk, if ill consequences ensued. Such a vessel as she was-a steamer of great length
and draft, for which the passage inside was hazardous, in
case any craft should be in her way there-ought not to
have gone through that passage unless she knew that the
passage was clear.
At the place where she ported her helm to go that way,
the Java could not see the course inside the school-ship.
Still, if she had kept close on the right side of the channel,
the course would have been more open to her view. In
going through the passage, therefore, she had an election,
and chose to keep in the middle of the channel so as to bring
her to such an angle with the school-ship that she couhl not
see objects on the other side, or on the starboard bow of the
school-ship. She is chargeable with negligence in this election; for it is clear that as soon as she saw the McCloskey,
a collision was inevitable. Neither her helm, nor her machinery, nor her ground-tackle, nor all together, could prevent it.
The Java could never be sure that small vessels, tugs,
boats, barges, and scows, might not come into the passage
at an.y moment. They, on the other hand, had no reason
to expect that such a vessel as the Java would be there.
Some large steamers go inside, but not those we may reasonably affirm like the Java; and it is to be presumed that they
keep on the north side, in order to keep the passage open to
view, so that they can both see and be seen. Therefore, if
a small vessel left a wharf in East Boston to go inside, and
saw no steamer in view, she was justified in supposing she
should not meet one until she got clear of the school-ship.
This crossing the stern of the school-ship by a huge screwsteamer was a surprise.
The collision was not inevitable; for there were two other
courses open to the Java, in one of' which it could not, and
in the other probably would not, have occurred. Nothing
happened that she was not bound to anticipate as possible
or probable.

Dee, 1871,]

THE, JAVA.
Argument for the appellants.

The Circuit Court, though not receiving as of great weight
our argument that the Java pursued an unusual course, and
was therefore iii fault, yet takes a ground which was what
in effect we meant to urge, to wit, that "when there is a
usual and an unusual course, the vessel taking the unusual
course for her convenience does it at her peril, and is bound
So again, when saying
to see that she does it in safety."
had been, during the
years
for
many
school-ship
that the
position near the
the
same
in
winter months, "kept moored
edge of the channel; that she was large and high out of
water; that the pilot of the Java knew her position, and
that the view of a small sailing vessel might be shut out by
the school-ship, and that the steamer was bound to guard
against the emergency." These were the views, in truth,
meant to be presented by us, and we rely on them as true
ones.

Mr. W. G. Russell, contra.
We admit the obligation of a steamship to avoid a sailing
vessel; that the omission so to do renders the steamship
primifacie liable; that precaution on the part of the steamship must be seasonable; that extreme caution is required
in entering a port; that a departure from a course required
by established usage is a fiult; but we contend that the obligation to avoid a sailing vessel only arises where the vessels are in sight of each other, unless their failure to see
each other results from previous fault of the steamer; that
the primafacie case against the steamer may be overcome by
affirmative proof of due care; that the burden of proof is on
the libellants, and that there is no liability where fault is
disproved.
The Circuit Court erred in law by imposing liability
where there was no fault; or, in fact, by assuming that
the steamer might reasonably have anticipated meeting the
schooner, when, in fact, she had no reason to expect to
mee t her.
The facts show due care on the part of the Java. Neither
vessel was seen by the other till the collision was inevitable,

THE JAVA.

[Sup. Ot,

Argument for the appelants.

The school-ship concealed each vessel from the other. This
fact also determines the course of the two vessels.
The Java was not in fault for not sooner discovering the
schooner. Her lookout was sufficient, well stationed, vigilant. The schooner was not discovered, because without
canvas and in range of the schqol-ship. She was seen as
soon as visible.
The Java was not in fault in her course or the manner in
which she pursued it. The Cunard steamships are not exeluded from taking their course inside the school-ship by
non user. Usage of Cunarders not to take that course would
be inadmissible in law, and if it were admissible'no non user
is proved. Contrariwise, there was a not wholly infrequent
use by Cufiard ships and a quite frequent use by all other
steamships. The course of the schooner was not influenced
by her not expecting to meet the steamer.
Inside the school-ship was the proper course enough.
The Java took the course with all possible precaution. The
channel is shown on charts. That it is safe and proper is
proved by this fact; and, still more, by its frequent use by
all classes of steamships; an(1 there was the special reason
for taking it here that there were several vessels anchored
ahead of the school-ship, obstructing the outside course to
the Java's dock, and which would have obliged her to
make a great circuit and to go into dock in a, way which
without tugs it would have not been easy to do. Then the
Java took her course inside with all due caution. Caution
was observed in her equipment, management, and speed.
The vigilance of her lookout is proved. The pilot at only a
mile below the school-ship had scanned the whoie inside
passage and found it clear. She had all appliances in readiness for mancouvring rapidly, and her speed, when she discovered the schooner, was not over two knots. All this is
indeed admitted.
The Circuit judge assumes that the Java might reasonably
have expected to meet the schooner where, and as she in
fact met her. This was an error arising from neglect to observe the proved fact, that the pilot, only ten minutes before,

Dec. 1871.]

THE XAV'A.
Argument for thle appellants.

had scanned the whole passage and found it clear. There
was. an extreme, improbability that any vessel could come
into the passage unobserved. Any vessel under sail must
have been seen, and any vessel, except upon the exact line
taken by the schooner, would have been seen. The collision
was impossible, except by exactly such a combination of circumstances as occurred, Such a combination, so improbable,
that the Java was not bound to govern her course by anticipating it.
The Java took all proper measures, with all diligence,
after discovering the schooner. Upon this point no fact is
found agkiihst the Java in the Circuit Court. li every case
cited, where a steamship has been charged, it has been for
specific fault. In the case of the Java every fault charged is
disproved. So far as the Java is concerned, the case is one
of inevitable accident.
Then, on the other hand, the schooner was herself in
fault. She should 'have sooner discovered the steamer. She
had no lookout. This was in itself negligence. The Java
could have been seen more readily than the schooner. The
schooner was, moreover, in fault in thrusting herself helpless in the way of the steamer from behind the schoolship.
The learned judge, who gave the opinion of the Circuit
(Court, while denying the position taken before him by the
ibellants' counsel, that the Java having taken (as was assumed) an unusual course, yet falls into a mistake almost
as considerable. His view, that a vessel taking an unusual
course, even for her greater convenience, does it "at her
peril, and is bound to see that she does it safely," and bound
to proceed "so slowly and with so much vigilance" as to
make accident absolutely impossible-is a view entirely too
broad. It would oblige a vessel to follow what fronm her
structure or from the circumstances in which she might
happen to be would be a most inconvenient course, though
one commonly used by other vessels, or by herself in other
circumstances, an~d make her liable for even inevitable acci.
dent.

198,

THi@ JAVA.

[Sup. CL

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
If the expressions of the learned judge who delivered the
opinion of the Circuit Court, in answer to the argument
that the Java pursued an unusual course in attempting to
go to her dock by the passage to the right of the schoolship, and which have been commented on at the bar, mean
that she was bound to use more than ordinary precaution
by reason of taking an unusual route, they are correct; 'but
if they mean that she was liable at all events, whatever precautions she took, we cannot concur in the position. A
snall vessel might have been concealed by the school-ship,
and might have come out upon the Java unawares, whichever side of the school-ship she had gone. It was shown by
the evidence that the Cunard steamers had before passed in
by the same route which the Java took, and it seems on
this occasion to have been the preferable pne, inasmuch as
the Java, from her great length, could not, by herself, have
turned into her dock had she taken the other route and
gone around the vessels lying at anchor. She had a perfect
right to go by the passage which she took, as much so as
the James McCloskey had to come out by that passage; and
in doing so, she was not liable at all events; she was only
bound to use that degree of care and precaution which the
particular circumstances of the case demanded. There is
not the slightest evidence that in this regard anything was
wanting, or that there was any lack of skill or vigilance on
the part of the pilot and crew of the Java.
On the other hand, the James McCloskey was not without fault. She had been towed down from one of the East
Boston wharves to the school-ship, and there discharged her
tug, and floated along slowly with the tide, without having
her sails up (her crew being engaged in hoisting sail), without being under control, and entirely concealed from the
view of the Java by the intervention of the school-ship.
She came out from behind the latter without any notice or
warning. If either ship is to blame, we think the blame
rests with her, rather than with the Java.
It is contended that the Java ought to have anticipated

Dec. 1871.]

1W

THE MERRIMAC.
Statement of the case.

the possibility .of a small vessel lying behind the school-ship.
The answer is, that she took every reasonable precaution
which the circumstances required. She proceeded very
slowly, only two knots an hour; she had lookouts posted in
every proper place; as soon as the schooner was seen, she
took every means in her power to stop and back and avoid
the collision. How could she anticipate the possibility of a
vessel lying behind the school-ship, without sails hoisted,
incapable of being seen in a bright, clear day, drifting along
helplessly with the tide, ready to drop under the Java at her
approach ? Is it not applying too severe a rule to the Java,
to require her to anticipate all this, and to require the
schooner to anticipate nothing?
It seems to us that if this was not an inevitable accident,
so far as the Java was concerned, it would be very difficult
to imagine a case of inevitable accident not caused by external force, as of winds and waves.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
tions to

REVERSED,

with direc-

DISMISS THE LIBEL.

THE MERRIMAC.
1. The fact that a steamship is in charge and under the control of a pilot
taken on board conformably to the laws of the State, is not a defence to
a proceeding in rem against her for a tortious collision ; the laws of the

State providing only that if a ship coming into her waters, refuse to
receive on board and pay a pilot, the master shall pay the refused pilot
half pilotage, and no penalty for the refusal being prescribed.
China '(7 Wallace, 58) affirmed.

The

2. A steamship of 2000 tons having a tag, each of 500 tons, on each side.
condemned as guilty of a rash act for sailing in a place from 70 to 7M
feet wide, which was little or no more than the width of the ship and
tugs abreast, between a buoy which indicated an entire obstruction of
navigation, and a ship aground with a steamtug on each side.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana, in a case of collision condemning the Merrimac for
damages done to the Gladiator.

