CAPERTON,

v.

BALLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

'Statement of the case.

CAPERTON V.

BALLARD.

To bring a case here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, on the
ground that the provision of the Constitution which ordains that "full
faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records
and judicial proceedings of every other State," has been violated by a
refusal of the highest State court to give proper effect to a judicial
record of another State, it is necessary that it appear that the record
have been authenticated in the mode prescribed by the act of May 26th,
1790, "to prescribe the mode in which the public acts, records, and
judicial proceedings in each State shall be authenticated, so as to take

effect in every ether State."
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of Western Viirginia ; the case being thus:
The Constitution of the United States ordains "that full
faith and credit shall be given in each State to the public
acts, records, and judicial pf'oceedings of every other State,"
and also ordains that " the Congress may by general laws
prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedi~igs shall be proved, and the effect thereof."
Congress in execution of this power thus given to it, by
act of May 26th, 1790,* passed a statute prescribing the
mode in which "the records and judicial proceedings of the
courts of any State shall be authenticated, so as to take effect
in every other State.." This statute enacts:

"That the records and judicial proceedings of the courts of,
any State shall be proved or admitted in any other court within
the United States, by the attestation of the clerk and the sel
of the court annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, as the
case may be, that the said attestation is in due form."
The act their proceeds:
"And the said records and judicial proceedings, authenticated
as aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given to thorn in
every court, within the hunited States, as they have by law or
* 1 Stat. at Large, 122.

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON V. BALLARD.

Statement of the case.

usage in the courts of the State from whence the said records
are or shall be taken."
In this state of the law one William A. Ballard, as administrator of William Ballard, deceased, brought suit against
a certain Caperton, in the State' Circuit Court of Monroe
County, West Virginia-a county prior to abott the 20th
of June, 1863, of Virgifiia, but after that date a county of
West Virginia-for a tortious seizure, sale, and destruction
of the property of the intestate.* The letters of adminis
tration were issued to the plaintiff by the Circuit, Court of
Monroe County, on the 25th of April, 1866, after, the s'uppression of the rebellion. In bar of the suit the defendant
pleaded that on the 16th of February, 1863, letters had been
-duly granted by the County Court of the same county, on
the same estate, to one John 0. Ballard, who properly qualified as administrator. To this it was replied that the lett6rs
were granted by a court in rebellion, and void.
On the trial the plaintiff produced evidence to show that
he was regularly appointed administrator by the Monroe
County Circuit Court, on the 25th of April, 1866. The defendant, on the other hand, in order to sustain his plea,
offered in evidence an order front the County Court of the
same county, dated February 16th, 1863, reciting that administration of the estate of William Ballard, deceased, is
granted to John C. Ballard, who had made oath, &c., and
" that letters in due form are granted to him." This order,
so far as the record shows, was certified in no other manner
than by the teste of the clerk, one Lewis Callaway. There
was not even a seal attached to the certificate. The defendant then offered evidence that he had paid to this administrator the net proceeds of the alleged tortious seizure and
sale of the decedent's property, and he requested the court
* The defendant, in this case, was the same one as in the preceding case;
fnd his acts were done, here as there, as provost marshal of the Confederate
government. This case, accordingly, had certain points in common with
the preceding case, but as those points had been already decided wten the
opinioh in this one was given, the court only noticed now one point not
presented by that case.

240

CAPERTON V.. BALLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

to charge that if the administration of the plaintiff's intestate had been granted to John C. Ballard by the County
Court, composed of justices who held their commission
under the authority of the Commonwealth of Virginia issued
to them in 1860, such appointment was sufficient to authorize him to act as such administrator, and that there could be
no other appointment subsequent thereto until the original
appointment was set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction. The court refused so to charge, but on the contrary
charged that if on the 16th of February, 1863, when the
appointment of John C. Ballard was made by the Monroe
,County Court, that court was in rebellion against the government of the United States, and was composed of justices
who were then engaged in giving aid and comfort to the
rebellion by levying supplies, &c., its proceedings were void,
and that their appointment to John C. Ballard gave no authority, and that it was not necessary to set aside an invalid
order of such a court in order to give effect to the plaintiff's
appointment, which was made by a competent tribunal.
Judgment having been given against the defendant, he
took the case to the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Vir,
ginia, where the instruction was declared to have been proper
and the judgment was affirmed.
The judgment was now brought here by the defendant,
Caperton, on an assumption that he could properly bring it,
on the case stated, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
Mr. J. Hubley A shion (with whom was Mr. B. Stanton), having
asked to have the writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdiction; Messrs. Conway Robinson, R. T. Merrick, and Simeon
Nash, argued contra, and in support of the jurisdiction, that it
existed under that clause of the Constitution which provides for giving effect in one State to the judicial proceedings of every other State, and that this constitutional provision had been disregarded, because the courts in West
Virginia did not give proper effect to the letters granted in
1863 by the court of a county which at that time formed a

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON v. BALLARD.

241

Opinion of the court.

part of Virginin, but which, when the subsequent letters
were granted, and this suit was tried, had become incorporated into West Virginia.*
Mr: Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This court has repeatedly declared that it is only under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act that it takes cognizance of error committed in the highest courts of a State.
There must be a Federal question, within the terms of that
section, to enable us to review the decision of a State tribu
nal. Is there such a question here?
It is argued that a constitutional provision har been disre
garded, because the courts in West Virginia did not give
proper effect to the letters graitted in 1863 by the court of a
county which at that time formed a part of Virginia, but
which; when the subsequent letters were granted, and this
suit was tried, had become incorporated into West Virginia.
It may be conceded that the decision on this subject could
be reviewed, if the record showed a state of case in which
this provision of the Constitution was applicable, but in the
absence of this we cannot consider the point, whatever may
be the hardship of this particular suit. The same constitutional provision which ordains " that full faith and credit
shall be given in each State to the public acts, records, and
judicial proceedings of every other State," also ordains that
"the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner
in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved,
and the effeict thereof'." Congress acted on this subject, and
on the 26th of May, 1790, prescribed the manner in which
judicial records, and the proceedings of the courts of any
State shall be authenticated, so as to be considered proved
and admitted in any other court in the United States. This
act declares further that the said records and judicial proceedings, authenlicaled as aforesaid, shall have such faith and
credit given to them in every other court within the United
.

See Virginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wallace, 89, for the dates connected

with',the formation of the new State of West Virginia.
VOL., XIV.
16

CAPERTON V.. BALLARD.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

States as they have by law, or usage, in the courts of the
State from whence the said records are or shall be taken.
The mode of authentication prescribed by the law requires
the attestation of the clerk with his seal attached, and the
certificate of the judge that the attestation was in due'form.
If a judicial proceeding has the effect of' record evidence in
the courts of the State from which it is taken, it has the
same effect in the courts of' every other State. To receive
this conclusive effect, however, it must not only be pleaded
but proved in conformity with the act of Congress on the
subject. Unless this is done there is nothing for this court
to act upon.
It is only through the instrumentality of the statute that
the clause of the Constitution, which the plaintiff in error
relies on, can be invoked for his protection. Legislation
was required to make the constitutional provision effective,
and this havihg been done by a general law, it requires no
argument to show that a party cannot claim that a right
under the Constitution and law has been denied him by a
State court, unless he has used the means for his protection
which the statute directs.
This the plaintiff in error failed to do. He relied for his
justification upon letters of administration granted in 1863
by the County Court of Monroe County, while it was a part
of Virginia, but did not furnish the legal evidence required
to establish the existence of the record. It would seem that
in Virginia, the tribunals intrusted with probate business
were designated by the name of County Courts, while in
West Virginia the Circuit Courts of each county were empowered to grant letters of administration. Doubtless the
County Court records of Monroe Cdnty were transferred to
the custody of the clerk of' the Circuit Court, after West
Virginia was admitted into the Union. Tims is fairly inferable from the fact that the only evidence offered of the grant
of letters in 1863 was the transcript of the records of the
County Court, under the hand o Lewis Callaway, styling
himself clerk of the Monroe County Circuit Court.
This pmoof, if received by the State court as sufficient to

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON

v. BALLARD.

243

Opinion of the court.

establish' the record of a judicial proceeding in Monroe
County, while a part of Virginia, lacked the formalities required by the act of Congress. The seal of the County
Court was wa)ting, as well as the certificate of the presiding
magistrates. It will not do to say that they could not be
procured on account of the anomalous condition in which
the records of the county were placed by the change of
jurisdiction. There is nothing to show that any effort was
made to supply the omission. In fact the case does not
seem to have been tried in reference to the conclusive effect
of the judgments of one State in the courts of another, It
rather seems to have been tried on the theory that the judgment was void because the court granting the letters was
disloyal. Indeed, neither in the pleading nor proof is the
particular provision of the Constitution on this subject relied
on. It is certainly not set up in words, nor from the plead..
ing itself could an inference even be drawn that Monroe
County in 1866 was not in the same State as ii 1868. It is
only through the history of the country that we ascertain
this fact.
It may be that the attertion of the court below was called
to the conclusive effect of judicial proceedings under the
Constitution and laws of Congress, but if so, there is nothing
in the record to show it. It is, doubtless, unfortunate that
the plaintiff in error did not in proper terms set up the right
he now claims, and conform his proof to the requirements
of the law. If he had done so, and the decision had been
adverse'to him, he could have had it reviewed here, although
the question would still arise whether the constitutional provision concerning the effect of judgments of different States
would be applicable on account of the tranifer of Monroe
County 6 the jurisdiction of West Virginia. As the case is,
the Federal question is not presented at all, and the writ of
error must be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

