Dec. 1871.1

THE CONTINENTAL.
Statement of the case.

of appellants was properly dismissed by the Circuit Court.
The decree is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

TH1i

CONTINENTAL.

1. Although one vessel may be sailing at night with lights other than
those whose use is made obligatory on her by acts of Congress, and may
by actually misleading another vessel tend to cause a collision, yet this,
will not discharge the other vessel if she, on her part, have suffered her-

self to be misled by the wrong lights when, if she had been intelligently vigilant, other indications would have pointed out or led her to
suspect that the vessel was not what her lights indicated.
2. Accordingly, where one vessel was using wrong lights, and the other was
not thus intelligently vigilant, the two vessels were made to livido

equally a loss by collision between them.
AN act of Congress-that of July 25th, 1866*-prescribes
that all coasting steamers and those navigating "batys, lakes,
or other inland waters, shall carry a green light on the starboard side, a red light on the port side, and in addition
thereto a central range of two white lights, the after light being
carriedat an elevation of at least fifteen feet above the liq/it at the,
head of the vessel; the head-light to be so constructed as to
show a good light through twenty points of the compass,
namely, from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on
either side of the vessel ; and the after light to show all around.
It also enacts that ocean-going steamers shall cart'y "at the
foremast-head a bright white light," on the starboard side a
green light, and on the port side a red light; these two last
so fixed as to throw the light from right ahead to two points
abaft the beam, and fitted with in-board screens projecting
three feet, so as to prevent these lights being seen across
the bow.
A previous act, the well-known one of April 29th, 1864,
for preventing collision on the waters,"t thus prescribes:
14 Stat. at Large, 228.

t 18 Id 58.

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ARTICLE 5. Sailing ships under way ... shall carry the same
lights as steamships under way, with the exception of the white

masthead lights, which they shall never carry.
ARTICLE 13. If two ships under steam are meeting end on, so

as to involve risk of collision, the helm of both shall be put to
port so that each may pass on the port side of each other.
ARTICLE 15. If two ships, one of which is a sailing ship and
the other a steamship, are proceeding in such directions as to
involve risk of collision, the steamship shall keep out of the way
of the sailing ship.
ARTICLE 16. Every steamship, when approaching'another
ship, so as to involve risk of collision, shall slacken her speed,

or, if necessary, stop and reverse.
These two statutes being in force, the steam propeller
North Hampton and the side-wheel steamboat Continental,
two vessels of rival lines, were in the habit of making regular
daily trips between New York and New Haven, on the Long
Island Sound; the North Hampton leaving New York about
6 P.M. on one day, and the Continental leaving New Ilavea
about midnight on the same day.
On the night of the 23(1 of October, 1868, the rival vessels were making their customary trips. That night, though
cloudy and with occasional spits of rain, was not very dark
nor windy. The sea was open and comparatively smooth.
About midnight, the wind being north-northeast, the North
Hampton approached New Haven, and by the captain's order
steered straight east-northeast for the New Haven lighthouse; a right course apparently for her to steer when about
to enter the harbor. She soon saw the lights of a steamer,
which she inferred, and rightly, was the Continental coming
down and out of the harbor. After the Continental came
down) the harbor, she changed her course to go down the
Sound towards New York.

"

When she first changed her

course," said the captain of the North Hampton, who was
examined as a witness, " she headed directly for the North
Hampton, which," said he, "I could tell by her range of
lights, they being exactly in range after she got her course."
He continued:

Dec. 1871.]

Tim

CONTINENTAL°

Statement of the case.

"After a little her course varied, a little southerly. She was
then, when she hauled up, on her course westerly, distant about
three miles. I continued going our course east-northeast until
I was distant from the Continental, I should judge, about threequarters of a mile. She was then bearing a very little on our
port bow, nearly ahead. I then gave one blast of the whistle
and changed my course ong point easterly to cast by north. I
received no response to that whistle for, I should say, nearly or
quite a minute. I then heard two blasts of the Continental's
whistle, which I immediately answered by one whistle, rung
two bells to stop the boat, and in the meantime told the pilot to
heave the wheel hard aport."
Notwithstanding this the two steamers came violently together, the Continental striking the North Hampton on her
port side a little abaft midships, nearly square on, and running through her in such a way that she went down in half
an hour; her passengers just escaping with their lives.
The defence set up by ihe Continental for this collision
was, the fact that the North Hampton had had no "central
range of two white lights;'' for want of which, as th- Continental alleged, she took the steamer for a sailing vessel, and
On the'subject
starboarded her helm instead of porting it.
of the North Hampton's lights generally, one of the boat's
hands of that vessel who had been at the wheel prior to the
collision, and left it when he saw the steamer coming down
the Sound, testified thus:
"I found the bow light burning brightly. The side lights
were also burning brightly. The stern light I found burning
dim. There were two lanterns in one box. They showed as
one light. I went aft and lowered it down. After I got the
box down, I went into the door where the space is, out of the
draft, so they would not blow out, and when there picked up
the wicks of both lights, one after another. After that was
done, I took them to the staff and put them in the box and
hoisted them up. I heard the North Hampton blow one whistle.
I was aft then, at the time of this first whistle, was just stepping inside the passage-way with the lights, as near as I can
recollect. After an interval there was a reply with two whistles
from the Continental. i was then coming out of the passage-

348

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

way, as near as I can remember. The North Hampton blew
one whistle again, directly after. I was then in the act of hoisting the lights at that time. After hoisting up the lights I saw
the Continental coming for us, and I ran forward on starboard
side. I got part of the way forward, when the vessels came
together and the concussion knocked me down."
It appeared from the testimony of those on board the
Continental that they had, in point of fact, mistaken the
North Hampton for a sailing vessel.
The lookout of the Continental-her forward deck lookout, who had no other duty than that of lookout-" not seeing the vessel itself, but seeing a green and white light"which he judged to be then a mile or a mile and a half distant-reported, five or six minutes before the collision, " Sail
off starboard bow," and was answered at the pilot-house,
"Aye, aye !"
The wheelsman, who heard the lookout's report, saw also
a green and white light, " but no red light then four or five
minutes before the collision, as he judged, and a mile or
a mile and a half off, the North Hampton's lights bearing
pretty much the whole time, until it was too late to a oid
the collision, about three points on the Continental's bow."
Be thereupon slarboarded his helm so as to keep her off.
The captain, who had been on the line for thirty years,
and who was in the pilot-house with the wheelsman, said:
"I saw the North Hampton's green.4nd white light; she had
no stern light; sometimes in a sailing vessel they come forward
and stick out a white light when they get frightened; sometimes
they have a light forward to overhaul the anchor-chain."
The captain added:
"A lookout reports a steamer as a steamer, and avessel as a
vessel; all he knows by is the lights; at night, he reports four
lights as a steamer, and two lights as a vessel. If' the vessel
seen has one colored and only one bright light, he reports her
as a sail vessel. That's his orders."
On board the Continental there happened to be, going

Dee. 1871.]

THE CONTINENTAL.
Argument for the North Htampton-

down the Sound that night, one Horton, for seven years a
Heligate pilot. He had been in the pilot-house, and saw a
green and white light-the white light forward, but he saw
no aft light. The vessel on which they were seemed to him,
he testified, to be a sailing vessel. He said:
"I guessed she was a sailing vessel because she did hot have
any stern light; I could not see her hull when I first saw'her.
It is generally the ease for.a vessel coming into port to take a
light forward, to get her clain and anchor ready, to drop anchor.
I went away from the pilot-house to the lower cabin after I saw
the lights. From the time I left the pilot-house till the collision
was five or six minutes. After the collision, I saw a stern light
halfway up the flag-mast."
As already mentioned, the Continental was starboarded
under the impression that the North Hampton was a sailing
vessel, and with a view of keeping out of her way.' The
North Hampton being in fact a steamer, and knowing that
the approaching vessel was one, ported. A collision came
of course.
The owners of the North Hampton having libelled the
Continental in the District Court of Connecticut, that court
dismissed the libel, considering that the North Hiampton
was in fault; having had no stern-light, and running in direct violation of law, which required, her to have a central
range of two white lights. The Circuit Court affirmed this
decree, and the owners of the North Hiampton brought the
case here.
Messrs. C. Donohue, C. R. Ingersoll, and J1. S. Beach, for the
appellants:
Assuming that the steamer could see only the bow and
side-lights of the propeller, it was a fault on her part to act
as if they were the lights of a sailing-vessel. A white light
is prohibited to a sailing vessel under way. She is forbidden
to carry any other light than the green light on her starboard
side, and the red light on her port side. Sea-going steamers
are required'to carry the single white light with the side
colored lights. Coasting and inland water steamers carry

TIE CONTINENTAL.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the North Hampton.

the colored side-lights viith the bow and stern white lights.
The lights, therefore, which the steamer saw, were lights
which a sea-going steamer must carry, but which a sailingvessel must never carry. And the steamer assumed that the
vessel carrying it was not the kind of vessel which the lights
declared it to be, but was the kind of vessel which the lights
declared it not to be. This was recklessness.
If a steamer sees a light which does not clearly indicate
the character of the vessel carrying it, she has no right to
jump to the conclusion that it is carried by a vessel of any
particular class, and especially not of that class which is forbidden to carry such a light. It is hei' duty to ascertain the
truth'by all the cautionary means in her power. She must
use all necessary vigilance to discover whether the strange
light is a fixed light or not-and if fixed, whether it is on a
vessel in motion or at anchor---and if on a vessel in motion,
what is the course of that vessel as indicating whether she
is moved by the wind or by steam. She must look for the
strength of the light seen as distinguishing a regulation-light
from an ordinary hand-lantern, commonly used about a vessel's deck-and watch for the sails of the vessel-her hullthe noise of her paddles, and the lights of her saloon, if a
stearner-and for all the usual indications characterizing the
differett classes of vessels. And if this inquiry cannot be
made without slackening her speed, she must slacken her
speed. If not without blowing her whistle, as a signal, she
must blow her whistle. She has no right to go on at all if'
she is in any reasonable doubt on the subject. IF, without
exercising all reasonable precautions, she insists upon going
on, and a collision occurs, she takes the risk, and the fault
is justly visited upon her. In the ease of The Gray Eagle,*
that vessel was held to be in fault because she did not, by
watching the bearings of the light of another vessel coming
towards her--The Perseverance-discoverthat the light was
in motion, an 1 therefore could not be upon a vessel at
9 Wallac, 505; iee also Nelson v. Leland, 22 Howard, 48; The Louisi.
ana v. Isaac Fisher et al., 21 Id. 1; The Birkenhead, 3 W. Robinson, 75

Dec. 1871.]

TiiE

CONTINENTAL.

Argument for the North Hampton.

anchor. And she was condemned as in fault, although the
Perseverance was carrying a light she had no right to carry.
And such is the law of negligence everywhere. If a man
goes upon a railroad track with shut eyes and deaf ears and
is run over, it is in vain for him to complain that the whistle
was not blown. In the present case no precaution whatever
was taken by the steamer to discover the character of the
approaching vessel. For it was manifest to the steamer, or
should-have been, that the vessel was approaching, and was
bound into New Have, harbor. The steamer knew that the
propeller was due at that place at that time. The two boats
were accustomed to meet on every trip of the propeller, and
were perfectly well known to each other. It was therefore
the steamer's duty to look out for the propeller, just when
and where the lights of this approaching vessel appeared.
But at least there was reason for a doubt, and, if so, it was
clearly her duty to settle that doubt. But those on board
did not allow any doubt whatever to enter their mind. They
assumed at once that it was a sailing-vessel thus coming
toward them, right in the eye of the wind, and they adhered
to that assumption stubbornly, until it resulted in disaster.
•2. The character of the light was manifested to the steamer,
beyond any question, by its bearings.
Those bearings are given to us by the wheelsman of the
Continental as three points on the starboard bow when the
light was first seen, and they continued the same without
alteration until the collision, or until it was too late to avoid
the collision. Now these bearings ought to have told those
navigating the steamer, that the vessel carrying those lights
was directly approaching the steamer. Otherwise they would
have changed.
3. And the wind, it is admitted, was north-northeast. The
vessel with the lights, therefore, was approaching directly in
the eye of the wind. And yet the captain of the Continental
swears that he supposed the North Hampton to be a sailingvessel all the while, and the court below tells us that lie was
justified in that supposition.
Again: the wind being north-northeast, a sailing-vessel,

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Sup. Ca.

Argument for the Continental.

in order to show her green light to the steamer, must have
been on her starboard tack, and could not have lain closer to
the wind ol that tack than a northwest course. This course
would have been nearly at right angles to the steamer's
course, and, if the vessel sailing on it was first seen three
points on the steamer's starboard bow, every minute would
carry her further out of the steamer's way, and would of
course change the bearings of her lights, and the relative
distance between her lights.
4. The orders which the captain of the steamer testifies
he had given to his lookout,* and upon Which the lookout
seems to have acted, on this occasion, shows him to have
had a very confused notion of the object of the regulation
lights, and indicates a habit of inattention to their particular
significance. It is not surprising that a lookout, receivin'g
such orders, should report the propeller as a sail, and is certainly not to be wondered at that the officer who could give
then should adopt such a report as infallible, and shut his
eyes and ears to any further evidence on the subject.
Messrs. E. H. Owen and T C. Doolittle, contra:
The North Hampton was running in open violation of
statutory requirement and of the well-settled rules of navi.
gation adopted for the purpose of preventing collisions, in
that she had no "' after light."
It is probable that at no time was the after light such as
the statute requires, for it is clear that it had been a poor,
defective light for some time previous to its being taken
down. But however this may have been, it was taken down
at the exact moment that it was specially needed to be up,
and kept down until'the Continental was completely misled
by the want of it, and a collision became inevitable.
The statute, by positive r'equirement, makes a central
range of white lights obligatory in inland waters. The requirement applies to all vessels under steam except "oceanbound steamers." And there is the greatest reason for the
*

See supra,.foot of p. 348.

Dec. IS871.]

TuE CONTINENTAL.
Argument for the Continental.

requirement, for without the central range of white lights.
the true course and direction of an approaching steamer
cannot be had in narrow work. With nothing but the
colored lights, steamers may be approaching nearly end on,
and so as to involve the risk of collision, when oile of them
is not visible. The colored lights are to be so constructed
as to shine from a point right ahead to two points abaft the
beam, so that one steamer approaching another on nearly 9
parallel course, a very little off eitber hand, would only see,
one colored light, and could not thereby determine hoy
near the two were approaching "' end on." The bow lighi
alone would not enable the approaching steamer to detei.
mine this fact without the aid of the after light, giving
thereby a central range of two white lights. If approaching
directly end on, the two white lights will be in range, and
if not, they will be " open."
It is no excuse for the North Hampton that her stern light,
having become dim, had been temporarily removed for the
purpose or being trimmed.*
The absence of the necessary range of lights did in fact
deceive, and could not fail to deceive, those in charge of and
navigating the Continental. The North Hampton was taken
to be a sailing-vessel; she was reported as such, and the
movements made on the part of the Continental were based
upon that idea.
It is no answer to say that those navigating the Continental, upon r(fleclion, might have known that the North Ilampton could not have been a sailing-vessel, because a sailingvessel does not carry a white light forward, and because,
with that wind, a sailing-vessel could not have,been heading
as ahe was. Although sailing-vessels are not permitted by
law to carry a white light, yet it was proved to be not unusual in the night, when making preparations fQr landing,
to have a light on the fbrward deck in getting lines and
chins ready. As she did not have the lights which steamers
are required to carry, the Continental was not bound to preRogers v.St. Charles, 19 Howard, 108; Chamberlain t Ward, 21 Id. 548.
VOL. XIV.

23

THE CONTINENTAL.
THE CONTINENTAL.
Opinion of the court.

[Sup. Cc
[Sup. Ct

sume, from the mere fact that a white Hght was seen at her
bow, that the vessel whose lights were seen was a steamer.
There is no evidence that " ocean-bound steamers," which
carry a white light forward, ever frequent or are ever seen
fiavigating any part of the Sound.
The North Hampton was also in fault in not having a
lookout. The fact that she had one is not asserted on the
other side. This was gross negligence. She was bound by
law to have one. Itwas necessary for her guidance. The
master and pilot had other duties to perform which rendered
them incompetent.* The fact that the Continental was seen
by the master and pilot does not obviate the objection. If
she had had a vigilant lookout, the lights of the Continental
and her direction would have been more carefully reported,
and the collision might have been avoided. A vigilant
lookout in the night, in a thoroughfire, is an absolute and
inflexible necessity. No one can tell what might have been
the effect of having a vigilant lookout forward.
The North Hampton was clearly in fault for sounding one
blast of her whistle, andl in attempting to cross over and
pass the Continental on her left or port side, thus throwing
herself right across the bows of the latter vessel.
The Continental was properly navigated and was' not in
any respect in fault. She was pursuing her lawful and
proper course on her voyage. She had all the lights required by law pr(jperly set and burning brightly. She had
a competent lookout properly stationed and fiithlfully attending to his duty. She had a competent engineer at his post
who answered all the orders from the pilot-house promptly.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Ships and vessels are held liable for damage occasioned
by collision, either on account of the culpable neglect or
complicity, direct or indirect, of their owners, or on account
of the negligence, nunskilfulness, or carelessness of those employed in their contiol and navigation. When employed in
* The Ottawa, 3 Wallace, 268.

Dee 1871.]

Tim,

CONTINENTAL.

Opinion of the court.

navigation ships and vessels should be kept seaworthy and
be well manned and equipped for the voyage, and in cases
where they are not seaworthy or not well manned or equipped, and a collision ensues between such a vessel and one
without fault in that respect, the owners of the vessel not
seaworthy or not well manned and equipped cannot escape
responsibility, if it appears that the unseaworthiness of the
vessel or the want of a competent master or of a sufficient
crew or of suitable tackle, sails, or other motive power, as
the case may be, caused or contributed to the disaster; and
as the owners of the vessel appoint the master and employ
the crew, they are also held responsible for their conduct in
the control and navigation of the vessel.
Controversies growing out of collisions are cognizable in
the admiralty, and when prosecuted in that jurisdiction, the
rules of decision are difl'rent in several respects from those
which prevail even in similar controversies when prosecuted
in the courts of common law. Where the collision occurs
exclusively from natural causes and without any fault on the
part of the owners of either vessel or those intrusted with
their control and management, the maritime rule, as defined
by the Federal courts is, that the loss shall rest where it
falls, on the principle that no one is responsible for such a
disaster when produced by causes over which human skill
and prudence could exercise no control.* Admiralty courts
everywhere have now adopted that rule, but it cannot be
applied where both or either of the vessels are in fault-as
where the vessel of the respondent is alone in fault the libellant is entitled to a decree for his damages, and the converse
of the proposition is equally true, that if the vessel of the
libellant is alone in ftult, proof of that fact is a sufficient defence to the libel, but if both vessels ire in fault, then the
damages must be equally apportioned between the offending
vessels. Much uncertainty often attends the inquiry by
which of those rules a given controversy should be determined, and where the evidence is conflicting the issue presented is frequently one of doubt and difficulty.
Union Steamsl ip Co. v. N. Y. and Va. Steamship Co., 24 ioward, 813.

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Full damages are claimed by the libellants in this case,
upon the ground that the steamboat of the respondents was
alone in fault, or if that theory cannot be sustained, then
they contend that both steamers were in fault and that the
damages should be divided. On the other hand, the respondents contend that the vessel of the libellants, the propeller, was wholly in fimlt, and that the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the libel should be affirmed.
Daily trips were run by the propeller between the ports
of New Haven and New York, carrying passe.ngers and
freight, and she was on her return trip from the latter port
and near the entrance to the harbor of her home-port when
she was struck by the Continental, the steamboat of the
respondents, on her port side, abaft her mridships, and damaged to such an extent that she sunk in half an hour. Corresponding trips were run by the steamboat of the respondents between the same ports, the Continental, however,
usually leaving the port of New Haven on the same day
that the propeller, the North Hampton, left New York on
ber return trip to the port where both steamers belonged.
Accustomed as they were to start on their respective trips
at stated hours, each knew pretty nearly when they would
meet and where they would pass each other on the route,
except when one or the other was detained by stress of
weather or other special circumstances, and the proofs exhibited furnish no i'eason to suppose that either of the steamers met with any detention during this trip. Testimony was
taken on both sides and both parties having been heard, the
District Court entered a decree for the respondents. Prompt
appeal was taken by the libellants to the Circuit Court, but
the Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the District Court,
and the libellants appealed to this court.
Before the Continental came out of the lower harbor her
lights were seen by those on board the propeller when the
two steamers were four or five miles apart. Distant from
each other as they then were, the better opinion is that they
were not at that time on courses which involved any risk of
collision, but the Continental, shortly after she came out of

Dec. 187 1.]

TnE CONTINENTAL.
Opinion of the court.

the lower harbor, hauled up as usual on her Sound course,
heading more directly towards her ultimate destination, and
from that moment the course of the two steamers was such
that the rules of navigation as well as the dictates of common
prudence made it the duty of each to adopt proper precautions
to prevent a collision. Beyond doubt they were approaching
each other nearly end on, within the maritime Taeaning of
that phrase, and under such circumstances all must admit
that the rules of navigation require that ' the helms of both
shall be put to port, so that each may pass on the port side
of the other."*
Extended argument to establish that theory of fact does
not appear to be necessary, as it agrees with the first finding
of the District judge and is supported by all the attending
circumstances as well as by the weight of the direct testimony.
Evidently the two steamers were tr enough apart at that
time to have adopted whatever precautions were necessary
to have prevented a collision, and it is clear that if each had
obeyed the rules of navigation, they would have passed each
other in safety. Fault is imputed to the steamboat Continental, because she did not port her helm as required by the
rules of navigation established by the act of Congress, but
the respondents contend that they were deceived and misled
as to the character of the approaching vessel and consequent
nature of their duty by the failure of those on board of the
propeller to display proper lights, as they also were required
to do by the same Congressional regulations, as amended by
a subsequent act.t
Evidence to that effect was given by one of the witnesses
called by the libellants. He testified that he was at the
wheel prior to the collision; that he saw the Continental
coming down the harbor and spoke to another seaman to
take his place; that the seaman spoken to did as requested;
that he went and called the master and the mates; that he
looked .at the lights; that the bow light and both the side
lights were burning brightly, but that the stern lighlt, which
* 18 Stat. at Large, 60.

t 14 Id. 228.

358

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

consisted of two lanterns and showed as one light, he found
was " burning dim ;" that he went aft and took down both
lanterns and went forward in the passage-way on the starboard side and having picked up the wicks carried the lanterns back and put thern in the box where they belonged ;
that he stepped forward into the passage-way to get out of
the draft, so that the wind might not blow the lights out, and
he further states that lie heard the propeller give one whistle
just as he was stepping into the passage-way with the lanterns; that ie also heard two whistles from the Continental
in reply just as he was returning to replace the lights in the
box; that the propeller, just as he was hoisting the lanterns,
again blew one whistle; that after he replaced the lights he
saw the Continental approaching the propeller, when he ran
forward part way and wasIknocked down by the concussion.
Such a disaster could not have occurred without fault on
the part of one or both vessels, as they had an open sea and
good weather, and the night, though cloudy, was not very
dark, as fully appears from the fact that those on board the
propeller saw the lights of the Continental when she was at
least four miles distant.
Coasting steamers are required to carry a central range
of two white lights as well as the red and green lights prescribed for ocean-going steamers, the after light to be carried
at least fifteen feet above the light at the head of the vessel,
and the requirement of the act of Congress in respeck to it
is that it shall "' show all around the horizon."* Signal
lights are required by the acts of Congress in order that they
may be seen by an approaching vessel in season to enable
those in charge of the vessel to adopt the necessary precautions to prevent a collision with the vessel whose lights are
so displayed, and when it appears that they were burning
so dimly as not to fulfil the purpose and object for which
they are required, they cannot be regarded as constituting a
compliance with the prescribed requirement.t Apply that
rule to the present case and it is quite clear that the propel.
14 Stat. at Large, 228-9.

j Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Howard, 566.

Dec. 1871.]

Tar,

CONTINE NTAL.

Opinion of the court.

Jer was in fault, and it appears that the District and Circuit
Courts both came to the conclusion that she was solely in
fault and denied to the libellants all claim fbr damages,
either as owners of the propeller or as bailees of the cargo.
Whether that decision is correct or not must depend upon
the evidence, as it is clear that the absence of one or more
of the lights required by the act of Congress will not necessarily cast upon the delinquent party the entire consequences
of such a disaster. Absence of lights in a case falling within
the acts of Congress renders the owners of the vessel liable
for the consequences resulting from the omission, but it
does not confer any right upon the other vessel to disregard
or violate any rule of navigation or to neglect any reasonable
or practicable precaution to avoid a collision which the circumstances afTrd the means and opportunity to adopt.
Steamers displaying proper signal lights are in that respect
without fault, but they have other duities to perform to prevent collision besides complying with that requirement, and
if they neglect to perform such other duties they will not be
held blameless because they displayed proper lights as required by the act of Congress upon that subject.*
Some conflict undoubtedly exists in the testimony as to
the precise manner in which the two steamers were approaching each other after the Continental came out of the
harbor and hauled up upon her Sound course, but the better
opinion we all think is that they were approaching each
other nearly end on, or substantially in that manner, as fouund
by the District Court. Inquiry as to what their respective
courses were before that time would be useless, as the respondents do not claim that either the lookout or master of
the steamboat saw the propeller or her lights before the
steamboat was put upon her Sound course. Unquestionably
the lights of the propeller might have been seen earlier, but
it is clear that they were not, if the witnesses are to be believed.
Lookouts are required to be vigilant, and it is not doubted
The Gray Eagle, 9 Wallace, 510.

THE CONTINENTAL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

if proper vigilance had been exercised in this case those on
board the steamboat might have ascertained the character
of the approaching vessel iii season to have adopted every
necessary precaution to have avoided a collision. Th-ey must
have expected to meet the propeller about that time, and
under the circumstances they had no right to assume vithout a closer scrutiny that the approaching vessel was a sailvessel because she did not show a stern light. She did show
a bow iglt, which might well have satisfied them that the
vessel was not a sail-vessel, as it is more reasonable to suppose that the stern light of a steamer has become dim or
extinguished thian that a sail vessel will show a, light not required nor authorized by the prescribed regulatiots. Proper
scrutiny as to the character of the approachling vessel would
or should have induced greater caution ott the part of the
master of the Continental, and if any doubt remained after
such scrutiny was made the steamboat should have slackened her speed or have stopped until every reasonable degree of uncertainty was overcome. Navigators have no
right arbitrarily to assume under all circumstaces that
every vessel approaching which does not show both the
signal lights and the central range of two white ligltts is a
sail-vessel which is bound to kee) her course, and that if
she does not she may be run down and sunk.

Prior to the enactment of the sailing rules neither steamers nor sail vessels, except on the lakes, were required to
carry lights of any kind, and yet the rules of navigation
were substantially the same as those prescribed in tlhe existing acts of Congress. Lights are now required, but the
omission of one vessel to comply with the requirement will
not excuse the other from the exercise of all due and reasonable care to prevent a collision.*
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, as the ease must
be, the eou't, is fully satisfied that those in charge (f the
steamboat did not exercise due care and vigilance to ascer.
tain the character of the approaching vessel, atd that if
13 Stat. at Large, 58; 9 Id. 382; 14 Id. 228; Steamship Company v.
Rarmball, '21 Howard, 384

Dec. 1871.]

D 1 ]IPV. MCCORMICK.
Statement of the case.

they had done so they would have been enabled to have
adotNled reasonable precaution~s to have prevented the eellision.

Consequently the court is of the opinion that both

vessels were in flault, and that the damages should be equally
apportioned between the offending vessels.*

Where twvo steamers are approaching each other in an
open sea on a night when the lights of a vessel nay be seen
five miles, the defence that one of the steamers mitook the
other for a sail-vessel camnot be admitted as valid, unless it
is established by fnll proof; and where, as in this case, it
appears that the approaching steamer showed a box 1ight in
addition to the red and green lights, the court will be still
less inclined to give credence to the theory as a valid defence.
DECEE REVERSED, and the cause remanded for further
proceedings in conformity to the opinion of this court.

PUGH V. MCCORMICK.
1. The 5th section of the act of July 14th, 1870 (16 Stat. at Large, 257),-by
which the power of collectors of internal revenue to post-stam p certain
instruments of writing and remit penalties for the non-stninping of them
when issued, is extended in point of time,-applies to notes issued before
the passage of the act as well as to notes issued subsequently.
2. Though error may have been committed by a court bolow on the then
state of statutory law, yet where a statute has been passed since that
court gave their judgment, changing the then existing law, so that if
the judgment were reversed and the case sent back, the court would
now and in virtue of the new statute have to rightly give the same
judgmient, that they gave before erroneously, this court will affirm.
8. Au indorsement of a promissory note need not be stamped under any existing -tatutes of the United States.

4. Nor a waiver in writing, by an indorser, of demand of payment and notice
of dishonor.

ON the 12th of April, 1863, R. C. Martin, at Assumption,
Louisiana, drew his promissory note hat one year for $7000,
Ciaharine v. Dickinson, 17 Howard, 170 ; 1 Parsons on Shipping, 527;
The Morning Light, 2 Wailace, 557.

