Dec. 1871.]

UNITED'STATES

V.

POWELL.

,Syllabus.
portion of the whole as the value of this tract represented,
which value or amount was shown by the marshal's sale; that
this sum, with costs, taxes, and interest, had been tendered and
was now in court.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson (a brief of Mr. Thomas Dent
being filed on the same side) argued contra, that the defendant, by
his tender, substantially confessed that he could not resist the
mortgage, but that his willingness to liquidate it pro tanto, by
showing a tender of a sum of money to the plaintiff some time
after the commencement of the suit, was no valid tender, that
the amount was insufficient, and that the whole mortgage-money
should be tendered. Independently of this, that such an attempt
to avoid an action of ejectment was unheard of; that'after condition broken, the mortgagor's rights were purely equitable,
and that he could obtain relief only in chancery.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is clear that the criterion by which the amount tendered'
was gauged was incorrect. To redeem property which has been
sold under a mortgage for less than the mortgage debt, it is not
sufficient to tender the amount of' the sale. The whole mortgage debt must be tendered or paid into court. The party offer
ing to redeem proceeds upon the hypothesis that, as to him, the
mortgage has never been foreclosed and is still in existence.
Therefbre he can only lift it by paying it. The money will be
subject to distribution between the mortgagee and the purchaser, in equitable proportions, so as to reimburse the latter
his purchase-money and pay the former the balance of his debt.
JUDGMENT

UNITED

STATES V.

AFFIRMED.

POWELL.

I. On a distiller's bond, given under the 7th section of the Internal Revenue
Act of July 20th, 1868 (15 Stat. at Large, 128), conditioned that the
obligors "shall in all respects comply with all the provisions (f law in
relation to the duties and business of distillers," the condition is prospective as well as present, and embraces such provisions of law relating

UNITED STATES V.

POWELL.

[Sup. (2t.

Statement of the case.
to the duties and business of distillers as may be in force during the
term for which tho bond is given, whether enacted before or after its
execution.
2. The "distillery warehouses," which distillers are required by the 15th section of the same act to provide, situated on their distillery premises, are
' bonded warehouses'," within the meaning of the joint resolution of
Congress of March 29th, 1869, which declares that the proprietors of all
" internal revenue bonded warehouses" shall reimburse to the United
States the expenses and salary of all storekeepers put by it in charge of
them.
3.These expenses properly include per diem wages paid to storekeepers for
taking charge of them on Sundays.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Ten-

nessee; the case being this:
A statute of July 20th, 1868,* requires that every person
intending to engage in the business o.f a distiller shall give
a bond with sureties, conditioned that the principals in the
bond
"Shall faithfully comply with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and business of distillers."
The statute also enacts:
" SECTION 15. That every distiller shall provide at his own ex-

pense a warehouse, to be situated on and to constitute a part of
his distillery premises, to be used only forthe storage of distilled
spirits of his own inanufacture,

. .

.

and such warehouse, when

approved by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, on report
of the collector, is hereby declared to be a bonded warehouse of
the United States, to be hnown as a distillery warehouse, and shall
be under the direction and control of the collector of the district, and in charge of an internal revenue storqkeeper assigned
thereto by the Commissioner of' Internal Revenue."
"SEcTION 52. Every storekeeper shall have charge of the
warehouse to whi'h he may be assigned, Under the direction of
the collector controlling the same, which warehouse shall be in
the joint custody of' such storekeeper and the proprielor thereof
and kept securely locked, and shall at no time be unlocked and. opened
or remain open unless in the presence of such storekeeper or other
- 16

tat. at Large, 127,

7.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES

V.

POWELL.

495

Statement of the case.

person who may be designated to act for him as hereinafter provided. And no articles shall be received in or delivered from
such warehouse except on an order or permit addressed to the
storekeeper and signed by the collector having control of the
warehouse."

With this statute in force, two persons, Powell and Hlildebrand, on the 1st December, 1868, gave a bond, with two
other persons as sureties, conditioned in the already-quoted
language of the statute "faithfully to comply with all the
provisions of law in relation to the business of distillers,"
and entered at once on the business of distilling. They constructed warehouses for the storage of spirits of their own
manufacture; of which storekeepers assigned by the Commissioner of the-Internal Revenue, and to whom the governmen t paid $4 wages per diem, took charge; taking such charge
during Sundays as well as during other days of the week.
Subsequently to the date of the bond above mentioned,
of 1st December, 1868; that is to 'say, on the 29th of March,
1869, Congress passed a joint resolution,* thus:
" The proprietors of all internal revenue bonded warehouses shall
reimburse the United States the expbnses arid salary of all storekeepers or other officers in charge of such warehouses."
Subsequently, again, to the date of this joint resolution,
that is to say, on the 29th of April ibllowing, the sathe distillers, with the former sureties, gave a second bod, conditioned in the same words as the first and in pursuance of
the same statute with it-constructing warehouses, &c., as
before, which were taken possession of by internal revenue
storekeepers, &c.-all exactly as before.
The government having paid all these storekeepers, deman(led of the distillers reimbursement for payments made
for their services after the 29th of March, 1869, when the
joint resolution of Congress was passed, including reimbursenient fbr services rendered on Sundays. The distillers
denied their obligation to pay for services on any day, under
either bond, because:
16 Stat. at Large, 62.

UNITED STATES V.

POWELL.

[Sul). Ot.

Argument in behalf of the United States.

1st. The storekeepers had been selected, appointed, and
put in charge by the government and not by them.
2d. The storehouses were not " bonded warehouses," in
contemplation of law, but were known as " distillery warehouses," being attached to their distillery and constituting
part of their distillery premises.
They denied, additionally, their obligation to reimburse
the government for payments made to men for working on
Sundays.
The government hereupon sued both principal and sureties
on both bonds, when the matters above staced were set up
by way of plea; the sureties pleading in addition that they
were.-sureties only, and as to the bond of December, 1868
(the bond first given), that at the date thereof the govern,meat by law was bound to pay the storekeepers, and averring that "the subsequently-passed joint resolution of 29th
of March, 1869, if applicable to distillery warehouses at
all, could not increase the responsibility of them, the said
sureties.
The court below was of opinion that all these pleas, except that one which alleged that the distillery warehouses
were not " bonded war'ehouses," were good, and charged
the jury accordingly. From the judgment which followed,
the United States brought the case here on error.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Altorne l-General, and Mr. C. H. Hill,
error:
Assistant Attorney-General, for the plaintiff in,
1. The condition that the principals "' shall faithfflly comply with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties
and business of distillers," is to be understood as embracing
such provisions of law as may be ini force during the period
for which the bond is given, whether enacted before or after
the execution of the bond. Thore is nothing in the language
employed that restrains the condition to statutes in force
when the bond is executed; the only limitation seems to be
that the provisions of law, with which the principals are
faithfully to comply, must relate to the duties and business
of distillers. The undertaking is prospective and contem-

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. POWELL.
Opinion of the court.

plates a continuing liability for the observance of the requirements of all provisions of that character which are or may
be 'passed. In King v. Nichols,* an action upon a sheriff's
bond, in Ohio, undei a statute requiring sheriffs to give
bond, with sureties, "' conditioned for the faithful discharge
of their respective duties," it was held that this language
was broad enough to embrace any duty that may have existed at the date of the bond, or that might have been imposed upon the officer by law during the tcrm for which it.
was given.
2. That the condition of the second bond applies to pro
visions of law concerning the duties and business of distillers
enacted subsequently to the date of that act, but prior to the
execution of the bond, can admit of no doubt.t
3. The joint resolution of March 29th, 1869, requiring
proprietors of all internal revenue bonded warehouses to
reimburse the United States the expenses and salary of all
storekeepers iii charge of such warehouses, clearly. extends
to distillers. The latter were bound to provide distillery
warehouses in carrying on thleir business as distille s, and
these warehouses are by the internal revenue laws declared
to be " bonded warehouses."
From the nature of the duties of storekeepers for distillery warehouses, as prescribed by the act of July 20th, 1868duties which embrace among other things the custody of the
warehouse-the duties must be continuous throughout the
entire term, Sundays included, as long as the storekeeper
remains in office. Sunday is indeed bbviously the day when
his vigilance may be most required.
No counsel appearedfor the defendants in error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Persons inending to en gage in the business of a distiller
are required to give notice in writing to the assessor of the
" 16 Ohio State, 83.
- Farr v. Hollis, 9 Barnewall & Cresswell, 315; State v. Bradshaw, 10
Iredell, 229.
VOL. XIV.
32

UNITED STATES ,V. POWELL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

district, stating their names and places of residence and the
place or places where the business is to be carried on, and
before proceeding with the business they are required to
make and execute a bond in the form prescribed by the
commissioner, with at least two sureties to be approved, by
the assessor of the district, conditioned that the principal
shall faithfully comply'with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and business of distillers, and that le
will pay all penalties incurred or fines imposed on him for a
violation of any of the said provisions.*
Pursuant to that requirement the two defendants first
named in the declaration made and executed the two bonds
therein described, conditioned in the very words of the
seventh section of the act contabiing the requirement, as appears by the record.
Distillers are also required by the fifteenth section of the
act to provide at their own expense a warehouse, situated
on and to constitute a part of their distillery premises, to be
used oily for the storage of distilled spirits of their own
manufacture; and the provision is that such warehouse,
when approved by the commissioner, on report of the collector, shall be deemed to be a bonded warehouse of the
United States and be known as a distillery warehouse, and
that it shall be under the direction and control of the collector of the district and in charge of an internal revenue
storekeeper assigned thereto by the commissioner.
Provision is also made by the joint resolution of the
twenty-ninth of March, 1869, that the proprietors of all internal revenue bonded warehouses shall reimburse to the
United States the expenses and salary of all storekeepers or
other officers in charge or such warehouses, and that the
same shall be paid into the treasury and accounted for like
other public moneys.t
Most of the material facts are either admitted or -not controverted by the pleadings. It is conceded as follows: (1.)
That the principal defendants engaged in the business of a
* 15 Stat. at Large, 127.

_f 16 Id. 652.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. POWELL.

499

Opinion of the court.

distiller for the periods mentioned in the declaration. (2.)
That they constructed warehouses for the storage of distilled
spirits of their own manufacture. (3.) That the warehouses
were in charge of internal revenue storekeepers assigned
thereto by the commissioner. (4.) That the plaintiffs paid
the per dicn wages of the storekeepers, and that they demanded of the defendants to be reirfbursed the amount so
paid for that service, and that the defendants refused to pay
as requested, and that the bonds described in the declaration
were duly executed.
Payment being refused, the plaintiffs brought an action
of debt to recover the amount. Service having been made
the defendants appeared and pleaded as follows: (1.) Performance. (2.) That they were not bound to pay the wages
of the storekeepers in charge of their distillery warehouse;
that the storekeeper was an officer appointed and selected
by the plaintiffs, and that lie was- placed by. them in the
distillery warehouse of the defendants, and that they, the
plaintiffs, were bound to pay his per diem wages. (3.) That
the warehouse attached to their distillery is known as a distillery warehouse and not as a bonded warehouse, as it constitutes a tpart of their distillery premises, and that the defendants are not bound to pay the wages of the storekeeper.
(4.) That the plaintiffs have no right to be reimbursed for
the wages they paid to the storekeeper for service rendered
or work done on Sunday or the Lord's day. (5.) Superadded is also the separate plea of the sureties-that the
plaintiffs at the time the first bond was executed were bound
to pay the storekeeper in charge of the warehouse, and that
the subsequent act, even if applicable to distillery warehouses, cannot change or alter their liability as sureties,
nor can it increase their responsibility.
1. Performance certainly is not proved as matter of' fact,
as it-is not pretended that the defendants have reimbursed
the plaintiffs for any part of the amount which the latter
paid to the-storekeepers fo their per diemr wages while tlhey
were in charge of the defendants' distillery warehouses,
which is all that need be remarked in respect to that defence.

500

UNITED STATES V. POWELL.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

2. Undoubtedly the storekeeper is an officer appointed
and selected by the plaintiffs, but the question whether the
defendants are bound to reimburse the plaintiffs the amont
paid for their per diem wages while in charge of their distillery warehouses is a question of law depending upon the
construction of the joint resolution to which reference has
been made. Argument to show that the question must be
answered in the affirmative, if the joint resolution is applicable to the case, is hardly necessary, as the language is
explicit that the proprietors of ait internal revenue bonded
warehouses shall reimburse to the United States the expenses and salary of all storekeepers or other officers in
charge of such warehouses.
3. Attempt is made to show that a distillery warehouse is
not a bonded warehouse Asithin the meaning of the joint
resolution, but the proposition cannot be maintained, as
the act of Congress provides that such a warehouse, when
approved by the commissioner, on report of the collector,

shall be deemed a bonded warehouse of the United States;
and it matters not that the act provides that it shall be
known as a distillery wareJhouse, as the requirement of the
act is that it shall be under the direction and control of the
collector of the district, and be in charge of an internal
revenue storekeeper assigned thereto by the cormnissioner.
Beyond all doubt, therefore, the internal revenue bonded
warehouse referred to in the joint resolution includes the
bonded warehouse known as the distillery warehouse described in the fifteenth section of the act imposing taxes on
distilled spirits.*
4. Suppose that it is so, still it is contended by the defendants that they are not bound by the first bond to reimburse
the plaintif for the amount paid to the storekeeper for that
service, because the bond was made and executed before the
passage of the joint resolution.
It must be admitted that any substantial addition by law
to the duties of the obligor of a bond, after the execution
* 15 Stat. tt Large, 130.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. POWELL.

501

Opinion of the court.

of the instrument, materially enlarging his liabilities, will
not impose any additional responsibility upon his sureties,
unless the words of the bond, by a fair and reasonable construction, bring such subsequently imposed duties within its
provisions.* Conceding that rule to be correct it becomes
necessary to examine the recitals and condition of the bond
first described in the declaration, as the question must depend very largely upon the construction of the language
there employed. By the recital of the bond it appearsthat
the principals therein named intended, on and after that
date, to be engaged in the business of distillers within the
fifth collection district of the State, and the condition of the
bond is that they shall in all respects faithfully comply withf
all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and business of distillers, and that they shall pay all penalties incurred or fines imposed on them for a violation of any of
the said provisions. Stronger language to signify an intention to stipulate that the principals in the bond should comply with duties subsequently imposed by law in relation to
the business of a distiller could not well be employed, as
the language of the bond is that they shall faithfully comply
with all the provisions of law in relation to the duties and
business of distillers, knowing as all the obligors did that
Congress might at any time enact new provisions imposing
nIew duties or vary those already imposed.t Both parties,
"tmust be assumed, knew that changes might be made in
,hat behalf at any time, and the defendants must have
understood that it never could have been intended that-a
new bond should be required with every modification made
in relation to the duties and business in which the principals
in the bond were about to engage. Where a person was
elected sheriff and executed a bond to the county conditioned that lie would well and faithfully in all things discharge the duties of the office during his continuance in the
same by virtue of his said election, the Supreme Court of
*Farrv. Hollis, 9 Barnewall & Creswell, 332.
t Bartlotte v.Governor, 2 Bibb, 586; Minor v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Peters, 78.

UNITED STATES V. POWELL.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Ohio held that the language of the bond was broad enough,
not only to embrace any duty imposed at the date of the
bond but any also that might be imposed upon the officer
by law during the term for which the bond was given.*
Bonds in such cases, as well as in cases like the one before
the court, are required to secure the faithful discharge of the
duties ordinarily imposed upon the principal obligor, without reference to the time when the law was passed imposing
the duty, and where; as in this case, the language of the bond
is sufficiently comprehensive to embrace duties subsequently
imposed, of a character corresponding with those required
at the date of the bond, the construction which gives a prospective as well as a retrospective operation to the condition
of the bond may well be adopted as both reasonable and
just to all concerned.t
Exceptional cases may doubtless arise, as where the condition of the bond is, in terms, or by a fair and reasonable
construction, limited to existing duties, or where the appointment is a temporary one, to expire at the end of the
next session of the Senate. Difibrent rules are applied in
the case of a temporary appointment, as the commission is
for a different tenure, and unless there is something in the
act under which the first commission issued showing that it
contemplated a permanent and continuing responsibility
under laws subsequently passed, the rule is that the liability
of sureties must be strictly confined to the duties created by
the acts passed antecedent to the date of the bond.t
Given, as the second bond was, subsequent to the passage
of the joint resolution, the defence that the bond is not embraced in that provision is entirely without merit, and is
accordingly overruled.
5. Reimbursement for services rendered or work done by
the storekeepers, or for money paid for their per diem wages
ley,
f
406,
$

King ot al. v. Nichols et al., 16 Ohio State, 82; United States v. Brad.
10 Peters, 343 ; Cameron v. Campbell, 3 Hawks, 285.
White v. Fox, 22 Maine, 341; United States v. Hudson, 10 Wallace
United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters, 127.
United States v. Kirkpatrick, 9 Wheaton, 730.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES

V. POWELL,

Opinion of the court.

on Sunday or the Lord's (lay, it is insisted cannot be lawfully claimed because the law, it is said, did not contemplate
their employment on that day.
Storekeepers, of the kind, may be appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury, in such numbers as may be necessary, with such compensation, not exceeding five dollars per
day, as shall be determined by the commissioner. They are
required to take an oath faithfully to perform the duties of
their office, and to give a bond to be approved by the commissioner for the faithful discharge of their duties, and they
are to have charge of the warehouses to which they may be
respectively assigned, under the direction of the collector
controlling the same, which warehouse, it is provided, shall
be in the joint custody of such storekeeper and the proprietor thereof; and the provision is that the warehouses shall
be kept securely locked, and shall at no time be unlocked
or opened, or remain open, unless in the presence of such
storekeeper or other person who may be designated to act
for him by the collector in case of absence from sickness or
from any other cause.* Safe custody. of the articles deposited in the warehouse is one of the primary duties of the
storekeeper, and it is clear that he is required to perform
that duty on Sunday as well as on every ordinary working
day of the week, as such custody is a work of necessity,
and, therefore, is not unlawful, even in jurisdictions where
worldly labor or business on the Lord's day is forbidden by
law.t
6. Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
defence set up in the separate plea filed by the sureties cannot be maintained, as the language employed in the conditions of the respective bonds is comprehensive enough to
bring the case within the duty imposed upon the proprietors
of internal revenue bonded warehouses by the joint resolution which requires such proprietors to reimburse the United
States for the expenses and salary paid to such storekeepers
or other officers in charge of such warehouses.
18 Stat. at Large, 146.
t IPowhatan SLeamboat Co. v. Appomattox RaiLoad Co , 24 Howard, 255.

504 PHMENIX INSURANCE COMPANY

V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

Diametrically opposite views were entertained by the pre
siding justice in the Circuit Court, and he accordingly in
structed the jury that neither the distillers nor their sureties
were liable to the plaintiffs under the first bond. (2.) That
the reimbursement to the plaintiffs by the distillers of the
salaries of storekeepers was not one of the duties of the
distillers for which the second bond was given.* (3.) That
the plaintiffs could not recover the amount paid to the storekeepers for services performed by them on Sundays, as the
law did not contemplate their employment on that day.
Under those instructions the jury returned their verdict
for the defendants, and the plaintiffs excepted and removed
the cause in this court. Having determined that the instructions were erroneous, it only remains to remark that the
judgment must be
REVEsRsE),

and the cause remanded with directions to

issue a

NEW VENIRE.

PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

HAMILTON.

1. Insurance may be effected in the name of a nominal partnership where
the business is carried on by and for the use of one of the partners;

especially when the property insured (grain) is held by the parties insured on commission only, and in the policy is described "as held by
them in trust or on commission, or sold and not delivered
2. In case of an insurance thus effected, where no representations are made
with regard to the persons who compose the firm, there is no misrepresentation on that subject which avoids the policy.

3. And where the firm has no actual care or (xstody of the property insured
(grain), but so far as regards its preservation from fire, it is entirely
in the control of the other parties, and is so understood to be by the
company making the insprance; the omission to inform the insurance

company of an agreement of dissolution previously made cannot be considered a concealment which will avoid the policy.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
Hamilton and Cook were partners in the grain commis.
* White v. Fox, 22 Maine, 341; State v. Bradsh-w, 10 Iredell, 232.

