814

FRENCH V. JSHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Upon principle, authority, and the express legislation of
Congress, we are constrained to hold that the adverse claim
of the plaintiff in error cannot prevail against the title of
the village.
The evidence excluded by the court is set out in full in
the bill of exceptions, and consists of copies of documents
relating to the surveys of Rector and Brown. The first of
these documents bears date on the 24th of September, 1839,
and the last on the 8th of October, 1855. They are communications from solicitors of the Land Office, setting forth
objections to the surveys, from Commissioners or the General Land Office, the Surveyor-General of Illinois and Missouri, the Secretary of War, and the Secretary of the Interior
upon the same subject; and finally a plat of the survey as
retraced by Brown-with a certificate appended by the Surveyor-General-which states that the survey so traced was
sanctioned by the Secretary of the Interior on the 23d of
February, 1855, with a large reservation in favor of the
United States at Jeffergon Barracks, and subject to all other
adverse claims.
As the right of the village, according to the judgment of
this court in Carondelet v. St. Louis,* had been fixed by the
resurvey of Brown, in 1834, which was conclusive, as regards all adverse individual claims, the testimony was clearly
irrelevant and incompetent and was properly r' jected. The
acts of 1812 and 1836 were inapplicable to the United States
and did not affct their rights.
JUDGMENT AFr'IRMED.

FRENCH

V.

SHOEMAKER.

1. A., B., C., and D., having a dispute about their rights in a railroad company, entered into a contract of settlement, by which they divided the
stock in certain proportions among them. A. refused to carry out the
contract. B. filed a bill to compel him to stand to his agreement. A.,

I Black, 179.

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

315

Statement of the case.
after answering, filed a cross-bill, insisting that B. ought to have made
C. and D. parties to his original proceeding. Held, that the bill, not
seeking any relief against B. and C., it was not necessary that they
should be parties.

2. Equity will not set aside a contract whose purpose is a settlement of disputes, simply because one party to it was in want of money when he
made it, and because such want may have been an inducing cause for

his making it; the party having been an intelligent person, who acted
deliberately and with knowledge of what he was doing. Equity fiyors
amicable compromise of controversies where pecuniary interests are

complicated and conflicting.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the District
of Virginia; the case was thus:
In the year 1854 the legislature of Virginia passed an act
to incorporate the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company. Two persons, J. S. French and Walter Lenox, subscribed for the whole stock; French taking three-fourths
and Lenox one-fourth, and French being made president
of the company. The road was built. French and Lenox,
however,,spent very little money of their own in its construction, but raised large sums by borrowing. When,
therefore, the road was built the company was seriously
embarrassed. Two deeds of trust had been executed in
1855, and in 1857 another deed wa's made to Lenox, as
trustee, to secure bonds, issued to raise money for the purposes of the road.
The civil war broke out when the road was in this condition. French and Lenox went South, and the government
took military possession of the road.
During their absence, a proceeding was instituted in the
Alexandria County Court for the removal of Lenox as trustee in the deed of trust to him, and for the substitution of a
new trustee in his place. A new trustee, one Stewart, was
appointed, and he proceeded in alleged conformity to the
deed or trust to sell the railroad.
Under the sale thus made, a new company was organized,
which assumed the name of the Washington, Alexandria,
and Georgelown Railroad Company; and the government
having relinquished the road in 1865, this company took

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. CtL

Statement of the case.

possession of it at once; and not long afterwards entered
into a contract with the Adams Express Company, represented by one Shoemaker, in relation to the conveyance of
express freiglit, and the furnishing by the company of means
to work the road. This contract did not prove satisfactory,
and by consent of both parties, a lease for ten years was
made to two persons, named Stevens and Phelps, in May,
1866; and in the following June, another contract for means
of operation and for the conveyance of express freight was
made for ten years with the Adams Express Company.
Litigation soon arose upon this lease and upon these contracts. One Davison, asserting himself to be a stockholder
of the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad
Company, filed his bill in the Alexandria County Court, in
November, 1866, alleging that the lease was made without
authority, and in fraud of' the rig'hts of the stockholders,
and praying that it might be set aside and annulled. The
Adams Express Company filed its bill about the same time,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Virginia, praying for the enforcement of its contract with
the company, and with the lessees; and under that proceedingan order was made by the Circuit Court fbr the appointment of receivers of the road, who took possession.
The Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company, describing itself as that company, by J. S. French, its president,
had already in March, 1866 (the government having, with
the suppression of the rebellion, given tp, as already said,
its possession, and French and Lenox having returned f'om
the South), filed its bill in the Aleoxadria County Court
asserting its title to the road, charging fraud in the whole
proceeding foi- the organization of the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad Company, and praying
that it might be declared void, and that a decree might be
made establishing its own original title to the road as unimpaired by that proceeding. But French, when lie returned
to Alexandria, was very needy, and so much in debt that he
was quite without means to work this railroad if he had had
it, or even to get a decree establishing the old company's

Dec. 1871.1

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.
Statement of the case.

title to it. Lenox was little or no better off. And the debts
of the road were very heavy.
In this condition of their pecuniary Conce,rns, and in the
general state of opposed and opposing' interests, in November, 1866, French and Lenox had an interview in Washington, at the house of Mr. Merrick, who had been the counsel
of Stevens and Phelps, with Shoemaker (representing the
Adams Express Cqmpany), Stevens and Phelps, the lessees
under the new, or as it was sometimes styled the "spurious"
road, and Dean Smith, who had been counsel of Shoemnaker,
at which interview an inchoate agreement was made fbr the
organization of a new company and the payment of the
debts of the old one. This meeting, which was a long one,
and where the whole condition of things was largely gone
into, was apparently satisractory to French. Shoemaker,
Stevens and Phelps, and Smith were the active managers
of the Washington, Alexandeia, and eorgelown Railroad at
this time, and perhaps its formal directors, but all seemed to
be of the opinion that the sale by the trustee Stewart and
the new organization could not stand illlaw.
This inchoate agreement remained unacted upon for some
months, its details being the subject of conversations among
the parties. It was subsequently reduced to writing, and at
another meeting signed by all the parties except French,
who was absent. It was not then dated; the date was left
in blank.
The stipulations of this agreement in substance were:
1st . That French and Lenox would convey all their interest in the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company
to a corporation to be formed as specified, or to devote all
of that interest to the common benefit of the parties, in time
proportion specified, should the Washington and Alexandria
Railroad be revived and the corporation by that name again
come into existence.
2d. That when the parties should have agreed to reorganize and should actually reorganize that company, or should
organize another company on the basis of the title of French
and Lenox, Stevens and Phelps would assign to the company

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

[SUP. Ct.

Statement of the case.

all their interest as lessees of the Washington, Alexandria,
and Georjelown Railroad Company, or hold the same for the
exclusive use of the parties to the agreement, according to
their respective interests.
3d. That Shoemaker, for himself and the Adams Express Company, would aid the corporation to be formed
or reorganized by money and credits; that is, to pay, settle
or compromise all liabilities of the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company, the liabilities of the lessees of
the Washington, Alexandria, and Georqetown Railroad Company for stock and materials for the road, and all the bona
fide liabilities incurred by them in behalf of the road; Shoemaker to be substituted in all rights of creditors paid by
him; all compromises to be for the benefit of all the parties
or the new organization ; no advances to discharge liens to
be refunded until the final end of litigation; a majority in interest to have the -ight to substitute other securities for any
thus acquired by him ; and the net roceipts of the company
to be formed or reorg'anized to be devoted to reimburse the
advances made by him, except 20 per cent. of the receipts,
to be divided among the parties to the agreement in proportion to their interests.
4th. That the agreement should be carried into effect on
the rendering of the decree of the Alexandria County Circuit Court in the case of The Washington and Alexandria
Railroad Company v. The Washington, Alexandria, and
George/own Railroad Company, and the new company to be
formed or reorgaized with a capital stock of 3000 shares,
to be divided among the parties thus: French and Lenox,
1250; Stephens and Phelps, 850; Shoemaker, 500; Dean
rmith, 200; G. W. Brent, 200.
5th. The lessees to be continued under the new corporation as general superintendent and manager, receiving 8250
per mo--th each until otherwise ordered by the board of
directors, as to salary.
When the agreement thus reduced to writing was presented to French, early in the year 1867, by Mr. G. W.
Brent, wh9 was the professional adviser of French and

Dec. 1871.1

11FRENCH
v. SHOEMAKER.
Statement of the case.

Lenox, French refused to sign it, for certain reasons which
were the subject of conversation between him and Brent;
one of the reasons being that a certain $5000 which were to
be advanced to him were not provided for in the agreement.
Finally, however, on the 6th of December, 1867, French
signed the contract. On the same day a separate contract
was made between French and Shoemaker, by which the
latter advanced the former $5000 on the transfer to the latter
of French's right and interest in the road. By this separate deed from French to Shoemaker, French conveyed, on
account of $5000 paid hint by Shoemaker, all his right and
interest in the railroad, for the purpose of securing the payment of the $5000, and for the purposes set forth in the
agreement oF same date, 6th December, 1867.
After the courts in Virginia had finally decided, as they
did on 28th August, 1868, the case of The Washington and
Alexandria Railroad Company v. The Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad Company in favor of the
plaintiff therein, reinstating the said company and annulling
the charter of the new company. Lenox (September 22d,
1868) called a, meeting of the parties who had signed the
agreement of 6th December, 1867; the purpose of the meeting being to carry into efbect the provisions of that agreement. French was present at the meeting. The meeting
directed, among other things, that Mr. Brent should prepare
and publish a call to form the new company in accordance
with the provisions of the Virginia code. The proceedings
were printed and French received a copy. Acting under
the instructions given to him, Brent did prepare a form of
call and caused to he called a meeting at the Mansion House
Iotel, in Alexandria, Va., for the 29th October, 1868.
The meeting was duly held. Lenox was present, and
voted on the stock assigned him by the agreement of 6th
December, 1867. Shoemaker was elected president of the
company. One day previously, that is to say, on the 28th
day of October, 1868, French filed a bill of complaint in the
Circuit Court of Alexandria County, Virginia, against Shoemaker, the Adams Express Company, and Lenox, setting

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKR.

[Sup.
Ct,
[p

Statement of the case.

forth that Lenox had made a fraudulent combination with
Shoemaker to injure and annoy the said Washington and
Alexandria Railroad Company, and had called a meeting
of stockholders at the Mansion House, in Alexandria, for
the 29th October, and he prayed an injunction against them
to forbid their holding the meeting under said notice, from
electing a board of directors, &c.
In the meantime, that is to say, on the 30th day of September, 1868, a writ of possession had been issued from the
Circuit Court of Alexandria County, Virginia, in the suit of
The Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company v. The
Washington, Alexardria, and Georgetown Rail road Company,
commanding the sheriff to put the former, the plaintiff, into
possession of the railroad and its appurtenances. This writ
of possession was taken out by French, as president of the
company.
Hereupon Shoemaker filed in the Circuit Court of the
United States for Virginia, against French, the bill on which
the decree now appealed from was made. The bill had been
prepared and was sworn to by Shoemaker on the 27th of
October, 1868. A subpcena, ordered against French on the
same day, and a rule to show cause why an injunction should
not be issued, were served on French, all on the same 27th
October; the day before he, French, applied for an injunction to prevent the meeting at the Mansion House to organize the new company.
The bill set forth most of the facts above stated, that the
complainant had offered to convey to French his interest in
the stock and property of the Washington and Alexandria
Railroad Company, on his paying the $5000 advanced, which
he had refused to do. It then prayed that the said French
might be restrained from doing any act whatever as president of the Washington and Alexandria Railroad C6mpany;
from interfering with the road and property of the said companny, or with the complainant and the parties to the agree-,
ment, in carrying out the provisions thereof and in organizing a new company, or from taking any legal proceedings
for that purpose; and prayed, further, thit French's interest

Dec. 1871.1

FRENCH

V.

SHOEMAKER.

Statement of the case.

might be sold by a, commissioner of the court for the payment of the said sum of $5000.
The answer of French set up as its main defence needy
circumstances and imposition. It was thus:
"The parties-Shoemaker, Stevens, Phelps, Smith-whom
the defendant met at Mr. Merrick's, were all strangers to him.
Some of them he had never seen before; others of thera he had
seen and knew by sight. His interview with them was solely
on the recommendation of' his counsel, G. W. Brebt. Such was
the embarrassment under which the defendant was suffering.
resulting from the fraudulent deprivation of his property and
the consequent want of himself and family, that he was scarcely
in a condition to investigate the nature of the proposition; and
such was the confidence which he had in his attorney, the said
G. W. Brent, under whose counsel he acted, that it was impos.
sible for him to suspect the propriety or the advantages of the
proposition thus made to him. Before, however, these propo
sitions were reduced to writing, the defendant was suddenly
called by telegraph to his home in Southwestern Virginia, on
account of the illness of a member of his family. This was in
the month of November, 1866. The defendant heard nothing
more of these negotiations until his return, in the month of
January, 1867, when the contract referred to in complainant's
bill, signed by the complainant, the said Stevens, Smith, Brent,
and Lenox, was handed to the defendant by the said Brent, and
the defendant was pressed by him to sign the same. Tho defondant declined to sign it, upon the grounds that it was not in
accordance with the verbal agreement; that it contained no
stipulation fbr the advance of the sum which was agreed to be
advanced to the defendant, and the advance of which was the
great inducement to his making the said agreement; and that
the contract, in many particulars, was essentially different from
the agreement discussed at the meeting. The defendant was
then threatened by the said Stevens, and those acting in concert
with him and the complainant, that they would keep the de.
fendant out of possession of the road for years; that they would
set up the contract in a court of equity, and making the impression upon the mind of the defendant that, by protracted litigation, they would render his property in said road unavailing to
him. Thus assailed, importuned, and threatened, the defendant,
VOL. XIV.

21

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

after having for nearly one year resisted their influences, being
greatly pressed by his necessities, was at length forced to sign
the said contract upon the condition that the complainants
would advance to the defendant the sum of $5000, and the further condition that the contract should be immediately carried
into effect.
"The defendant avers that the contract was void in law and
equity, because against public policy, having been fraudulently
made by the said complainant, Stevens, Smith, and Phelps, in
violation of the fiduciary relations they sustained to the said
Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad Company;
that the contract to purchase the interest of the said defendant
and the said Lenox, and to furnish, supply, and advance the
means to carry on the litigation of the suit then pending was illegal, and of the nature of champerty; and that for these reasons,
if there were none other, the complainant is not entitled to the
relief prayed for in his said bill, and especially is not entitled to
the injunction prayed for therein ; the contract being obnoxious
to the maxim that ' ex turpi contractu non oritur actio.'
"That upon the face of the contract thbre was no consideration sufficient to support said contract, and that it was drawn
with the fraudulent purpose and design of deceiving and defrauding the defendant, and he avers that the assignment aforesaid,
which he executed only as a mortgage to secure the $5000 advanced to hii by the complainant, was fraudulently prepared
by the complainant, the said Smith and the said Stevens, with
the design of deceiving the defendant into an assignment of his
interest and estate in the said road, fbr purposes other than
that which he intended.
"The defendant averred that the complainant, Phelps, Stevens,
Smith, and Brent, have conspired together for the purpose of
oppressing and defrauding him; that to this end they have imposed upon his confidence, taken advantage of his necessities,
seized upon his property, appropriated the earnings of the road,
three-fourths of the stock of which is owned by him, for the
purpose of preventing the company, of which he is president,
from obtaining possession of the road."
A cross-bill was also filed by French to set aside the arrangement. It set up the same facts as the answer; admitting, notwithstanding, that he, French, was for a long time

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCH V. SHOsMAKHR.

323

Statement of the case.

willing and anxious to carry out the arrangement, and asserting that the other parties had wholly failed to perform
their part of it, though he, French,, bad frequetitly urged
them to do so. It further insisted that Stevens and Phelps
were necessary parties to the original bill. The answer to
the cross-bill denied all its important allegations of fact.
The case as made out by tie proofs was much as that
already stated. There was no doubt that French was needy,
and it seemed probable that his want of money was the prevailing consideration with him when he finally determined
to sign the contract, but it was not proved that he acted unadvisedly or otherwise than his best interests in the complicated and embarrassed condition of the road and his own
embarrassed condition might reasonably seem to suggest.
The questions were: 1. Whether Stevens and Phelps were
necessary parties to the original bill. 2. If not, whether the
contract of Decemhoi' 6th, 1867, was binding on French?
If it was, then of course his act in taking possession of the
road with the view of excluding the other parties to the contract, and his application to the Circuit Court of Alexandria
County, Virginia, for an injunction to restrain the parties to
the agreement from holding a meeting to reorganize, was a
breach of faith which justified the complainant in invoking
the authority of the Circuit Court against him.
As to the first point the court below said:
"If the original bill sought any relief as against Stevens
and Phelps, or any aid from the court in carrying into efibect
the settlement contract as to them, it would be necessary to
make these persons parties. But such is not the case. The
bill seeks no relief as against them. There does not appear
to be any controversy between them and the original complainant. And we cannot see that the cross-complainant
has a right to have any controversy he may have with them
settled in this suit. It is very certain that at the time the
settlement contract was made he had no cause of complaint
against them. Nothing, so far as they were concerned, appears to have been concealed from him. The plain language
of the agreement, which he had before him nearly a wholo

FRENCH

V.

SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. CtL

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

year, stated their relation, and gave all the notice of circumstances connected with them which a court of equity will
require. If their subsequent conduct affords ground of complaint, it must be in regard to the stock assigned to them;
but this may be, and should be, as we think, submitted to
judicial scrutiny, in a proceeding founded on the settlement
contract; not hostile to it. The objection that Stevens and
Phelps are not made parties to the original bill must therefore be overruled."
On the second point-the merits-the court was of opinion
that the equity of the case was with the complainant, and
accordingly decreed that French be enjoined from any use
of the title of the president of the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company, and from any action to interfere
with any proceeding for the reorganization of the said company under the contract of the 6th of December, 1867, and
from any proceeding whatever not in accordance with the
said contract, without prejudice, however, to his right to the
stock assigned to him by the said contract, or to assert any
claim he might have against the company reorganized under
the contract, or against Shoemaker, or against the Adams
Express Company, not in contravention of the contract, or
to pursue by proper proceedings in law or equity any claim
he might have in respect to the distribution of stock made
by the contract, founded upon failure of consideration or
other cause.
From this decree French brought the case here by appeal.
Messrs. I. 0. , Claughton and B. Stanton, for the appellants;
Messrs. T. J. Durant and J. H. Bradley, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Complicated as the transactions are out of which the
present controversy has arisen, it will be impossible to explain the grounds of our decision in a manner which will be
satisfactory to the parties, without giving in the first place a
pretty full statement of the facts.
On the twenty-seventh of February, 1854, the legislature

Jec. 1871.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

325

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

of Virginia passed an act incorporating a company to construct a railroad between Alexandria and Washington, by
the name of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, and the record shows that three-fourths of the stock
of the company was taken by James S. French, and the
other fourth by Walter Lenox,'and that they continued to
own the whole stock of the company and the entire railroad
until they conveyed the same to the complainant. They
proceeded to build the road, and in procuring means for
that purpose they contracted large money obligations, and
to secure those obligations they executed the three deeds of
trust mentioned in the bill of complaint; that on the breaking out of the rebellion they went within the lines of the insurgents, and our government took possession of the railroad
and used it for military purposes; that during their absence
within the insurgent lines Joseph Davison presented a petition to the County Court of the State representing that he
was the agent and attorney of all the holders of the, bonds
in the deed of trust to Walter Lenox, and that the trustee
therein named was incapacitated from acting as such, and
praying that a certain other person named might be appointed
in his place; that the County Court removed the trustee
named in the trust deed and appointed the person mentioned
in the petition as substituted trustee, and that the substituted
trustee subsequeiutlv, on the 10th of April, 1862, sold the
railroad and everything belonging to it to the persons named
in the record, and that the purchasers and others associated
organized, or pretended to organize, a new company, called
the Washington, Alexandria, and Georgetown Railroad
Company. When the government relinquished the road,
some time in the year 1865, this new company took possession of the same, and on the first of February entered into
a contract with the Adams Express Company in relation to
the conveyance of express freight and the furnishing by the
latter of means to operate the road. On the twenty-eighth
of March, 1866, French and Lenox, having returned, caused
a suit to be instituted in the County Court in the name of
the Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company against

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the new company organized or pretended to be organized
under the sale, to recover the railroad and property belonging to it, upon the ground that the whole proceedings by
which the sale was made and the new company was formed
were fraudulent and null and void. Dissatisfaction arose as
to the contract with Adams Express Company, and on the
fifth of May, 1866, by consent of both parties a lease for ten
years was made by the new or spurious company to Oscar
A. Stevens and W. J. Phelps, and on the eighteenth of June
following another contract for means of operation andln respect to the conveyance of express matter was made for ten
years with the same express company. Litigations ensued
with respect to those contracts, some of which were pending
when the contracts which arc the foundation of the present
litigation were executed, and others were commenced at a
later period. Serious embarrassments surrounded the parties
who had caused the suit to be instituted to set aside the pretended sale of the road during their absence within the insurgent lines, and it was at this stage of the controversy, in
November, 1866, that it was arranged that the parties interested should meet for consultation, as shown by the proofs,
and as admitted by the respondents. James S. French, S.
M. Shoemaker, Walter Lenox, Oscar A. Stevens, J. Dean
Smith, and R. T. Merrick were present at the interview.
Satisfactory proof is exhibited that they came to an amicable
arrangement, subject to the condition that the pending suit
in the County Court to set aside the pretended sale of the
railroad: should be determined in favor of the old company.
They separated at the close of the consultation without reducing the agreement to writing, but it was drawn up in
form, leaving the date blank, not long after, and was signed
by all the parties except the complainant and respondent,
who were not present. By the proofs, however, it appears
that the complainant signed it shortly after and the respondent, on the sixth of December, 1867, also signed it, though
he earnestly objected to signing it when it was first presented
to him for that purpose not long after it was signed by the
other parties. Ile not only signed the agreement, but at

Dec. 1871.]

FRENC'II
.
v. SHOEMAKER.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the same time executed a conveyance of all his interest in
the railroad to the complainant to secure the repayment of
five thousand dollars advanced to him by the grantee, and
covenanted that it should be held by the grantee for the
purpose and objects declared in the contract executed at the
same time.
1. By that contract French and Lenox agreed to convey
all their right, title, and interest in the railroad to a corporation to be formed as specified, if such a company was formed,
or to devote all their interest to the common benefit of the
parties thereto, in the proportions specified, if the old company should be revived.
2. Stevens and Phelps agreed, if the parties decided to
reorganize the old company or to form a new one as there
suggested, to assign all their interest as lessees of the spurious
company to such new company, or to hold the same for the
exclusive benefit of the parties to the contracts in the proportions therein specified.
3. On behalf of himself and Adams Express Company the
complainant agreed to aid the organization to be formed or
revived, by money and credit, to pay, settle, or compromise
all liabilities of the old company, and the liabilities of the
lessees of the spurious company, for procuring stock and
materials for working the road, and all other bonafide liabilities incurred by themn on behalf of the road, the claimant
being substituted to all the rights and remedies of any such
creditors for the benefit of the parties to the agreement or
the organization by them formed or revived, subject to certain conditions therein specified, excepting twenty per cent.
of the receipts, which it was agreed should be divided among
the parties to the instrument according to their respective
interests.
4. They also agreed that the arrangement should be carried into eflect on the rendition of the decree of the County
Court in the pending case before mentioned, and that the
company shonld then be formed and organized with a capital
stock of three thousand shares, to be divided and distributed
as follows: French and Lenox to have twelve hundred and

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Or.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

fifty shares, Stevens and Phelps to have eight hundred and
fifty shares, S. M. Shoemaker to have five hundred shares,
J. Dean Smith to have two hundi'ed shares, and George W.
Brent also to have two hundred shares.
5. It was also agreed that the lessees should be continued
as general manager and superintendent, at two hundred and
fifty dollars each as salary until otherwise ordered by the
directors.
Five thousand dollars were paid by the complainant, or
agreed to be paid, at the date of the agreement, and in consideration thereof the respondent executed the instrument
called the assignment, in which he acknowledges the payment of that sum of money, and proceeds to say, " I do
hereby assign, convey, transfer, and set over unto the said
S. M. Shoemaker or his assigns, all my right, title, interest,
claim, and demand in and to the property, stock, road, roadlged, franchise, and charter of the corporation known as" the
old company, or " any interest I may possess in and to the
same, and do further agree to make such other and further
conveyances or assurance as may be hereafter required by
the grantee. or his assigns for the following purposes," to
wit: (1.) To secure the payment of five thousand dollars due
to the grantee as an advance on the same. (2.) For the purposes and objects set forth in the agreement bearing even
dafe herewith, between the parties therein named, and which
is particularly described in the pleadings.
Various defences were set up in the answer, but those
chiefly to be noticed are the two following: (1.) That the
signature of the respondent to the contract Was obtained by
fraud and oppression, that it is void as against public policy,
and because it was fraudulently obtained. (2.) That the assignment, though intended only as a mortgage to secure the
five thousand dollars advanced to him by the complainant,
was fr'audulently prepared with the design of deceiving the
respondent into ai assignment of his interest and estate in
the road, and that he was compelled to sign it by threats,
oppression, and persistent and deceptive influences and importunities.

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

329

Opinion of the court.

Proofs were taken and the parties were fully heard upon
the bill, answer, and replication, and upon the cross-bill,
answer, and replication, and upon the proofs, and the Circuit Court being of the opinion that the equity of the case
was with the complainant, granted an iinjunction perpetually
restraining the respondent fi'om any and every proceeding
not in accordance with the contracts. Appeal was regularly
taken to this court, and the principal error assigne(d here is
that the Circuit Court erred in setting up and eiforcing the
contracts for the conveyance by the respondent of his right,
title, and interest in the railroad to the complainant.
Complaint is also made that the decree of the Circuit
Court is equivalent to a decree for specific peformance, but
it is clear that it cannot be viewed in that light, as the contracts were executed and the conveyance made and delivered
nearly a year before the bill of complaint was filed, nor is
that the theory of' the defence as set up in the answer or in
the cross-bill. On the contrary, they both admit the execution of the agreement and the assignment to secure the sum
advanced, but the respondent appears to rely chiefly for his
defence upon the circumstances of hardship, imposition, and
oppression alleged in the answer as affording a jnst ground
to deny the prayer for relief contained in the bill iled by
the complainant. lie admits that the conveyance was made
to secure the sum of' five thousand dollars, but he alleges
that he tendered the amount to the complainant on condition that the complainant would reconvey the property to
him to be held as it was prior to the assignment, and that
the complainant refused to receive the money on those
terms.
Fraud is certainly charged in the ansver, but the charge
is wholly unsupported by any satisfactory proof,, and the
charge is virtually abandoned by the cross-bill, in which it
is alleged that the respondent, notwithstanding the oppression and injustice which compelled him to execute the agreement, was willing and anxious, and for a long time continued
to demand, that the same should be carried out according

FRNCH V. SHOEMARER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to its spirit and intent. What he there alleges as matter of
complaint is that it-was his necessities which compelled him
to make the sacrifice and to surrender his stock on the hard
terms of the agreement, and yet he affirms that he would
have been satisfied if the other parties to the agreement had
fairly and honestly performed their part of the same, but he
alleges that they have utterly failed so to do, though often
reminded of the delinquency and repeatedly urged to commence their peformance. Many instances of such alleged
failures are specified, but it is a sufficient answer to them all
to say that they are separately denied in the answer to the
cross-bill, and that the party making the charges has failed
to introduce any sufficient proof to warrant a finding in his
favor in respect to aiiy one of the accusations. Nearly eight
months elapsed after the contracts were signed before the
County Court rendered their decree annulling the charter
of the spurious company and restoring the railroad to its
rightful, owners. They entered the final decree on the
twenty-eighth of August, 1868, and on the twenty-second of
September following Walter Lenox called a meeting of the
parties to the agreement, and the record shows that the respondent was duly notified and that he attended the~meeting.
He not only attended the meeting but he knew that the persons composing the meeting intended to effeet an organization under the agreements described in the pleadings, as
they directed one of their number to prepare and publish a
call for another meeting to carry that purpose into effect in
accordance with the code of the State and as contemplated
by the terms of those agreements. Acting under those instructions the person designated for the purpose prepared
the foirm of a call for such a meeting to' be held on the
twenty-ninth of October then next, and caused the same to
be published; and the record also shows that the meeting
was regularly held pursuant to the call for the same, and
that the company was duly organized at that meeting by the
choice of the complainant as president of the company.
Prior to that meeting, however, to wit, on the thirtieth of
the preceding month, the respondent, claiming to act as

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCI

V.

SHOEMAKER.

331

Opinion of the court.

president of the road, obtained a writ of possession under
the decree annulling the pretended sale of the road, and it
appears that he was put in possession of the road by the
sheriff, to whom he delivered the writ for that purpose. Instead of co-operating with the other. parties to perfect the
organization the respondent applied to the County Court for
an injunction to restrain the other parties from holding the
meeting called for that purpose, but the subpcena was issued
in this case on the same day and the complainant obtained
a rule requiring the respondent to show cause why an injunction should not issue restraining him from doing any
act as president of the road, and from interfering in any
way to preveint the execution of the agreement, and it appears that the subpona and the order to show cause were
served on him the day before he obtained his injunction forbidding the contemplated meeting.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that the
defence of fraud is not proved, but inasmuch as that defence
is set up in several forms in the' answer it may be necessary
to say that the antecedent remarks upon the subject apply
to that defence in every fbrm in which it is presented.
Reference has also been made to the defence that the respondent was compelled to sign the contracts by threats,
oppression, and by persistent and deceptive influences and
importunities, but it becomes necessary to state that defence
more in detail and to give it a more careful consideration.
lie alleges that he was induced to sign the two instruments by threats that if he refused he should be kept out of
the possession of the road for years, and that in consequence
of his pecuniary embarrassments and through fear that the
parties would render his property unavailing to him in case
he continued to resist their importunities, he finally executed
the agreemeont; that being pressed for the want of pecuniary
means and overcome by threats, importunities, and deceptive
influences, he was ultimately forced to sign the agreement
upon the condition that the complainant would advance him
five thousand dollars, and that the contract should be im
mediately carried into effict.

FRENCH V. SHOMAKER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Even if admitted to be true the answer does not show
that the instruments were executed under duress, as the respondent admits that the sum of five thousand dollars was
to be advanced as a part of the consideration for the transfer,
and that he finally consented to the arrangement oni the
condition that the contract should be immediately executed.
Much discussion to show that a contract or written obligation procured by means of duress is inoperative and void
both at law and in equity is hardly required, as the proposition is not denied by either party. Actual violence, even at
common law, is not necessary to establish duress, because consent is the very essence of a contract, and if there be compulsion, there is no actual consent, and moral compulsion, such
as that produced by threats to take life or to inflict great
bodily harm, as well as that produced by imprisonment, is
everywhere regarded as sufficient in law to destroy free
agency, without which there can be no contract, because in
that state of the case there is no consent.* In its more extended sense duress means that degree of constraint or
danger, either actually inflicted, or threatened and impending, which is sufficient in severity or in apprehension, to
overcome the mind and will of a person of ordinary firmness.t Decided cases may be found which deny that contracts procured by menace of a mere battery to the person,
or of trespass to lands, or of loss of goods, can be avoided
on that account, and the reason assigned for that restriction
to the general rule is that such threats are held not to be of"
a nature to overcome the mind and will of a firm aid prudent man, because it is said that if such an injury is inflicted
sufficient and adequate redress may be obtained in an action
at law, but the modern decisions in this country adopt a
more liberal rule, and hold that contracts procured by threats
of battery to the person or of destruction of property may
be avoided on the ground of duress, because in such a case
there is nothing but the form of a contract without the
Brown v. Pierce, 7 Wallace, 214.
B

t Chitty on Contracts, 217; 2 Grecnleaf on Evidenco, 288.

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCH V.

SHOEMAKER.

Opinion of the court.

substance.* Grant all this and still the concession cannot
benefit the respondent, as the proofs exhibited in the record
are not sufficient to support the charges as made in the
answer. Substantially the same charges are made by the
respondent in his cross-bill, and every one of them is denied
by the complainant under oath in his answer to that bill.
Enotigh appears in the record to convince the court that
the respondent was in straitened circumstances, that his
business atffirs had become complicated, that he was greatly
embarrassed with litigations, and that he was in pressing
want of pecuniary means, but the court is wholly umable to
see that the complainant is 'esponsible for those circumstances or that he did any unlawful act to deprive the respondent of his property, or to create those necessities or
embarrassruents, or to compel him to do what he acknowledges lie did do, which was to yield to the pressure of the
circumstances surrounding him, and as a choice of evils accepted th, advance of five thousand dollars and the shares
assigned him in the new organization as proposed, and voluntarily signed both the agreement and the assignment.
Such an act as that of signing those instruments, under the
circumstances disclosed in the record, must be regarded,
both'in equity and at law, as a voluntary act, as it was anat.
tended by any act of violence, or threat of any kind, calculated in any degree to intimidate the party or to force the
result, or to compel that consent which is the essence of
every valid contract. Suppose lie consented reluctantly, as
he avers, still the fact is that he did consent when he might
have refused to affix his signature to the instruments, as he
had repeatedly done for the year preceding; and having
consented to the arrangement and signed the instruments
he,is bound by their terms, and must abide the consequencesof his o~n voluntary act, unless some of his other defences
set up in the answer have a better foundation.
Want of consideration is also averred in the answer, but
* Foshay v. Ferguson, 5 Hill, 158; Central Bank v.Copelaud, 18 Mary.
land, 317; Eadie v. Slimmon, 26 New York, 12; 1 Story's Equity Jurispiu.
dence, 9th ed. 239.

FRENCH

V. SHOEMAKER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

the terms of the instrument disprove the allegation, and the
proofs introduced by the respondent as well as those introduced by the complainant show that the defence is unfounded.
Mistake and misapprehension on the part of the respond.
ent are alleged, but the allegation is not sustained by any
satisfactory proof, and the attending circumstances, taken in
connection With the lapse of time from the original meeting
to the time the respondent signed the instrument, convinces
the court that the defence is without merit, which is all that
need be remarked upon the subject.
Delay in execution of the contract is also alleged in the
cross-bill, and that the complainant has failed to perform his
part of the agreement, but those allegations are expressly
denied in the answer to the cross-bill, and being unsustaine(l
by any satisfactory proofs the defence roust be overruled.
Inequitable and unconscionable contracts, it is said, ought
not to be sustained, but it is not possible to regard the a'rangement in question as falling within that category, as by
the terms of the agreement the complainant was to advance
five thousand dollars to the respondent and to aid the organization by money and credit, to pay, settle, and compromise
all liailities of the old company and the liabilities of the
lessees of the spurious company, for procuring stock and
materials for working the road, and all other bond fide fiabilities incurred by them in behalf of the road. Authentic
data to enable the court to compute the amount of those
liabilities are not given in the record, but enough appears to
satisfy the court that they must have been very large, and
amply sufficient to constitute a valuable consideration for
the contract.
Suggestion is also made that the contract was against public policy, as some of the parties were interested in the spurious company, but the court is of the opinion that the charge
is without any foundation, as it is clearly prope'r that parties
whose pecuniary interests are complicated and conflicting
should compromise the controversy, nor is it possible to see
how the respondent is injured even if some one or more of

Dec. 1871.]

FRENCH V. SHOEMAKER.

Opinion of the court.

the parties failed to perform their duty to the spurious company which was annulled.
Suffice it to say, in respect to the alleged want of proper
parties, that the court is of the opinion that the objection
cannot be sustained, and being entirely satisfied with reasons
given for overruling the objection in the Circuit Court it is
not necessary to give the point any further examination.
Want of mutuality in the contract is also suggested, but
it is clear that the suggestion is not well founded, as the
covenants to make the advance, pay the debts and liabilities
of the company, and to allot the stock'as stipulated,, could
beenforced by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Strong doubts are entertained whether any of those defences to the merits are open to the respondent, as the general rule is that where fraud is charged in the bill or set
up in the answer, the party making the charge, if it is denied in a proper pleading, will be confined to that issue,
but the court being disinclined to place the decision upon
that ground has determined to give each defence a separate
examination.
Parties who execute contracts must expect that they will
be enforced when due application for that purpose is made
to a court of justice, nor can they reasonably hope that courts
of justice will reopen matters which they have volun.tarily
and understapdingly closed. Even if the terms of adjustment were unfavorable to the respondent still he is bound
by the arrangement, as he voluntarily signed both the agreement and the assignment. Had he refused his assent to the
arrangement the case might have been different, but the
proofs show that he signed instruments after he had ample
time for inquiry, examination, and reflection, and having
dolne so, neither a court of equity or a cout of law can release him from the obligation to fulfil his contracts according to the terms or, the instruments.
DECREE

AFFIRMED.

Eyre v.Potter, 15 Howard, 42; Fisher v. Boody, I Curtis, 206; Price
v. Berrington, 7 English Law and Equity, 254.

