[Sup. Ct,

SEVIER V, HASKELL.

Syllabus.

edly acted upon before the adoption of the constitution of 1868,
and has been invariably adhered to ever since. The question
whether this article 128 be valid or invalid as an act of legislation, and in relation to article 10 of the Constitution of the
United States, may possess considerable speculative interest, but
we do not perceive that it can, in this ease, have a practical influence upon the result. For the reasons given it is ordered and
adjudged that the judgment appealed from be affirmed with
costs."
It thus appears that the provision of the State constitution
upon the subject of slave contracts was inno wise drawn in
question. The decision was governed by the settled principles of the jurisprudence of the State. In such cases this
court has no power of review. No right was claimed by
either party under any State law or the constitution of the
State which ws resisted upon the ground of repugnancy to
the Constitution, or a treaty or law of the United States, the
decision having been in favor of the validity of the right so
asserted. There is certainly no foundation for such a complaint on the part of the plaintiff in error. In the absence
of such a claim and decision we cannot take cognizance of
the case. This element, which is indispensable to our jurisdiction, is wanting. Substakitially the same question
arose in The Bank of West Tennessee v. The Citizens' Bank
of Louisiana, heretofore decided.* The writ of error was
dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The same disposition
must be made of this case.
WRIT DISMISSED.

SEVIER V.

HASKELL.

The Supreme Court of Arkansas ordered judgment for a plaintiff suing on
a note given for the price of slaves. Subsequently to this the State
of Louisiana ordained as part of its constitution, "that all contracts for
the sale or purchase of slaves were null and void, and that no court of the State
* Supra, p. 9, the preceding case.

Dec. 1871.]

SEVIER

V.

-IASKELL.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
should take cognizance of any suit founded upon such contracts, and that no
amount should ever be collected or recovered on any judgment or decree which
had been, or should thereafter be, rendered on account of any such contract or
obligation." On application by the defendant in the suit to supersede
and perpetually stay all proceedings on the judginent against him, the
Supreme Court overruled the application. The case being brought
here under an assumption that it was within the 25th section, held that
it was not so; and the case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction accordingly.

by 3ir. S. W. Williams to dismiss, for, want of jurisdiction, a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, taken under an assumption that the case fell within the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
The plaintiff in error was Sevier, adminlistrator of Jordan;
the defendant in error Haskell, admninistrator of Smith.
MOTION

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The case, so far as it is necessary to state it, was a proceeding in equity to foreclose a mortgage given by the intestate of Sevier to the intestate of Haskell, to secure the
payment of four promissory notes therein described, and the
accruing interest. The answer set up as a defenice that the
consideration of the notes was the purchase of eighty-five
slaves by Jordan of Smith ; that the slaves had since become
emancipated and lost to the estate of Jordan, and that the
consideration of the notes had thus wholly fiiled. The Circuit Court, at the May Term, 1867, decreed that the bill
should be dismissed and the complainant pay the costs. The
case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, and
that court, at the December Term, 1867, reversed the decree
and remanded the cause to the Circuit Court, with directions
to enter a decree for the. complainant, which was accord.
ingly done.
The plaintiffs in error applied to the Circuit Court at the
November Term, 1868, for an order that all further proceedings upon the decree should be superseded and perpetually stayed, for the reason that, on the 11th day of February,
1868, since the decision of the Supreme Court of the State

14

SEVIER V. HASKELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in the case was made, it was ordained by the constitution
of the State then adopted, that all contracts for the sale or
purchase of slaves were null and void, and that no court of
the State should take cognizance of any suit founded upon
such contracts, and that no amount should ever be collected
or recovered on any judgment or decree which had been, or
should thereafter be, rendered on account of any such contract or obligation. The Circuit Court overruled the application, and the plaintiffs in error excepted. The case was
again taken to the Supreme Court of the State and that
court affirmed the decision of the lower court.
Where the judgment of a State court is brought into this
court for review, to warrant the exercise of the jurisdiction
invoked, the case must fall within one of three categories(1) There must have been drawn in question the validity
of a treaty or statute of-or an authority exercised underthe United States, and the decision of the State court must
have been against the validity of the claim which either is
relied upon to maintain; (2) or there must have been drawni
in question a statute of, or an authority exercised under, a
State, on the ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, a law or treaty of the United States, and the decision must have been in favor of the validity of the State
law or authority in question; (3) or a right must have been
claimed under the Constitution or a treaty or law of, or by
virtue of a commission held or authority exercised under
the United States; and the decision must have been against
the right so claimed.*
The case before us is within neither of these classes. Before the State constitution of 1868 was adopted, the Supreme
Court must have proceeded upon the general principles of'
the jurisprudence of the State. Whether in applying those
principles that tribunal reached the proper conclusions, cannot be a subject of consideration by this court. We have
no authority to enter upon Fuch an inquiry. After the con14 Stat. at Large, 386.

Dec. 1871.]

STEINES v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

15

Opinion of the court.

stitution of 1868 was adopted, the plaintiffs in error relied
,upon tnat, to annul the decree which had been rendered.
The Supreme Court affirmed th6 validity of the decree, the
provision in the State constitution relied upon to the contrary notwithstanding.
Here, again, no Federal question is presented. What
considerations controlled the judgment of the court "s not
disclosed in the record. If it were held, as it well may have
been, that the provision in the Federal Constitution which
forbids any State to pass a law impairing the obligation of
contracts, protects from the operation of the State constitution slave contracts made prior to its adoption, as the contract here in question was sustained and enforced, still no
question arose of which this court can take cognizance. The
record exhibiting no such question, the motion must prevail.
WRIT DISMISSED.

STEINES V. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

1. The decision of the highest court of a State in granting or refusing to
grant a motion for a rehearing in an equity suit is not re-examinable
in this court ,under any writ of error which the court can issue to review the judgment or decree of a State pourt.
2. Where the record only shows that a particular judgment was given by
the highest State court, no writ under the 25th section lies if the judg.
ment may have been given on grounds which that section does not
make cause for error, as well as upon some ground which it does so
make.

MOTION by Mr. F. A. Dick (Messrs. Crews and Lecher opposing) to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Missouri; taken on an assumption that the case came within
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Jurisdiction may be exercised by this courf in three classes
of cases where a final judgment or decree in any suit in the

