Dec. 1871.]

STEINES v. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

15

Opinion of the court.

stitution of 1868 was adopted, the plaintiffs in error relied
,upon tnat, to annul the decree which had been rendered.
The Supreme Court affirmed th6 validity of the decree, the
provision in the State constitution relied upon to the contrary notwithstanding.
Here, again, no Federal question is presented. What
considerations controlled the judgment of the court "s not
disclosed in the record. If it were held, as it well may have
been, that the provision in the Federal Constitution which
forbids any State to pass a law impairing the obligation of
contracts, protects from the operation of the State constitution slave contracts made prior to its adoption, as the contract here in question was sustained and enforced, still no
question arose of which this court can take cognizance. The
record exhibiting no such question, the motion must prevail.
WRIT DISMISSED.

STEINES V. FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

1. The decision of the highest court of a State in granting or refusing to
grant a motion for a rehearing in an equity suit is not re-examinable
in this court ,under any writ of error which the court can issue to review the judgment or decree of a State pourt.
2. Where the record only shows that a particular judgment was given by
the highest State court, no writ under the 25th section lies if the judg.
ment may have been given on grounds which that section does not
make cause for error, as well as upon some ground which it does so
make.

MOTION by Mr. F. A. Dick (Messrs. Crews and Lecher opposing) to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Missouri; taken on an assumption that the case came within
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Jurisdiction may be exercised by this courf in three classes
of cases where a final judgment or decree in any suit in the

STEINES

v.

FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

[Sup. (Jt.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could
be had, is brought here by virtue of a writ of error to the
State court, as authorized to be issued under the act to
amend the act to establish the Federal judicial courts.*
First. Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty '
or statute of, or authority exercised under, the United States,
and the decision is against their validity.
Secondly. Where is drawn in question the validity of a
statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties,
or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of
their validity.
Thirdly. Where any title, right, privilege, or immunity
is claimed under the Constitution or any treaty or statute of,
or commission held, or authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege,
or immunity specially set up or claimed by either party
under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission or au,
thority.
Certain taxpayers of the county complained in the State
court that the County Court of the county entered into a
written agreement with the parties therein named to construct a certain county road and to pay the contractors for
the work and materials in constructing the same the several
sums and at the rates therein specified; that the County
Court agreed to make the payments in the bonds of the
county, and that the contractors agreed to accept the bonds
of the county in payment of all claims under the contract;
that bonds of the county to the amount of two hundred and
five thousand dollars were aceordingly issued by the County
Court, and were, by the authority of the County Court, delivered to the contractors; that the County Court did not,
before making the contract, submit the amount of the proposed expenditure to the voters of the county at any election
whatever, general or special, at any time or in any manner,
*

1 Stat. at Large, 85; 14 Id. 386.

Dec. 1871.]

STEINES V. FRANKLIN COUNTY.

17

Statement of the case in thq opinion.

as required by the law of the State in such case made and
provided.
Complaint is also made that the County Churt afterwards,
on the second of July, in the same year, passed an order
making the bonds transferable by the indorsoment .of the
contractors, and directed that the clerk should indorse the
order on the back of the bonds; and that the County Court
on the following day also ordered the county clerk to reissue
one hundred and eighty-six bonds in substitution of the same
number previously delivered, to correct an error in their
execution; and also that the County Court, on the sixth
of May, in the following year, ordered the county clerk to
issue bonds for the purpose 6f exchanging and taking up all
bonds previously issued for the consti:C1ction of such roads
and bridges, whether completed or in the progress of construction, it being understood that all bonds issued prior to
that date should be cancelled and destroyed, and that warrants should also issue for the payment of such interest as
had accrued to that time, and the charge is that bonds were
issued under that order to an amount equal to the whole
amount of the bonds held by the contractors and all other
holders, amounting in the aggregate, reckoning both issues,
to six hundred thousand dollars, and that warrants for the
payment of interest to that date, amounting to thirty thousand dollars, were also issued,' and yet the complainants
charge that the bonds previously issued have never been
cancelled, delivered up, or destroyed, but that they remain
to this day a charge against the property-holders and taxpayers of the county.
They also charge that the original agreement was, by collusion between the judges of the County Court and the contractors, fraudulently antedated and made to bear a rate of
interest greater than the legal rate at the time the agreement
was actually executed, and they also charge the fact to be
that the road is not made nor the work performed in accordance with the contract and specifications, and that the County
Court, or a majority of the judges thbreof, acting collusively
with the' contractors, fraudulently connived at these flagrant
VOL. XIV.

2

18

S1 INES

v.

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

violations of the contract to the great injury and oppression
of the property-holders and taxpayers of the county.

Other acts equally fraudulent and oppressive are also
charged against the respondents inthe bill of complaint, and
the complainants finally allege that the contract and agreement, and all the orders of the County Court based upon
the same or in relation thereto, are without authority of law,
and contrary to the provisions of the statute applicable in
such cases, and that the bonds are fraudulent, null, and
void; and they pray that an order may be made declaring
that the contract and agreement, and all the orders of the
County Court based upon the same or in relation thereto,
are null and void and of no effect, and that the parties holding the bonds shall deliver the same up, that the same may
be cancelled, annulled, and held fbr nought, and that an injunction may be issued enjoining and restrainin g the respondents from negotiating, selling, transferring, or disposing of the bonds, and enjoining and restraining the county
and the county treasurer from paying the same, either interest or principal.
Service was made' and the respondents appeared and filed
an answer, in which they admit that the County Court did
not submit the amount of the proposed expenditure to the
voters of the county, but they deny that it was required by
law that the County Court should d6 so before making the
contract for the consti:uction of the road. They admit that
interest was paid as alleged and that the bonds of the county
in lieu of those first issued were reissued to the contractors,
but they aver that it is not true that bonds of the county
were reissued to any other persons, and they deny that the

bonds of the county were issued to any greater amount than
two hundred and five thousand dollars, or that any greater
amount was ever paid to the contractors on account of the
road described in the contract; and they also aver that a
like amount of bonds in lieu of those reissued were at the
same time given up, cancelled, and retired.
Apart from the merits they also deny that the agreement
was antedated as alleged, and they also controvert each and

Dec. 1871.]

STEINES

v.

FRANKLIN COUNTY.

19

Opinion of the court.

every illegal and irregular act set up in the bill, and specifically deny all charges of fraud, collusion, and want of good
faith therein alleged and imputed, and they aver that they
have complied in all respects with their obligations and
duties in the premises.
Amendments were afterwards made to the bill and new
parties respondents were added; and the complainants filed
the general replication and the parties proceeded to take
proofs, and having been fully heard upon the merits, the
court made the following finding of facts: That nonie of the
allegations of fraud or collusion are proved, and that no
fraud, collusion, or conspiracy existed as charged; that the
bonds in question were not, nor were any of them, issued
without authority of law, and that the same were and are
valid, and were issued under legal authority; that the contractors were not the holders or owners of any of the bonds
at the commencement of the suit, and that the defendants
who were holders of the bonds at that time became such in
good faith for value, and that they were and are innocent
holderA and unaffected by any irregularity which may have
existed in the issue of the 6onds. Consequently the court
denied the prayer of the complainants for an injunction and
dismissed their bill of complaint. Exceptions were filed by
the complainants, pursuant to the practice in that court, and
the cause was removed into the Supreme Court of the State,
where the decree of the subordinate court was in all things
affirmed.
Argument to show that the case as exhibited in the pleadings does not present any question cognizable in this court
undera writ of error to a State court is hardly necessary, as
neither the bill of complaint nor the answer contains any
averment which would warrant such a conclusion or which
has any tendency to support such a theory. Instead of that
the bill is an ordinary bill to set aside a contract alleged to
have beer executed by the officers of a county without anthority of law, and for an injunction to enjoin and restrain
the county from paying certain bonds issued under the con-

STEINES V.

FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tract to pay certain contractors for the construction of a certain road described in the contract, and from levying any
taxes upon the property-holders of the county for that purpose, because the bonds, as the complainants allege, were
issued without authority and contrary to law and through
fraud and collusion between the County Court and the contractors; and also to enjoin and restrain the holders of the
bonds from transferring or otherwise disposing of the bonds
to other parties.
Clearly the pleadings do not present a case where is drawn
in question the validity of, or an authority exercised under
the United States; or where is drawn in question the validity
of a statute of, or an authority exercised under, any State,
on the ground of its being repugnant to the Constitution,
treaties, or laws of the United States; or where any title,
right, privilege, or immunity is cirned under the Constitution or any treaty or statute of or commission held or authority exercised under the United States; or where is drawn
in question the construction of the Constitution or of a treaty
or statute of, or commission held under, the United States,
as the language is in the corresponding provision of the
Judiciary Act. Cases not falling within' one or the other
of the three classes of cases mentioned are not re-examinable
in this court under a writ of error to a State court, as the
court possesses no other appellate jurisdiction in such cases
than that conferred by those provisions. Apply that rule to
the present case and it is as clear as anything in legal investigation can be that the pleadings in the case do not present
any question re-examinable in this court under a writ of
error to a State court.
Final judgments and decrees only of a State court are reexaminable in this court, and before the court can entertain
jurisdiction to re-examine such a judgment or decree, it
must-appear, either by express averment in the pleadings or
by clear and necessary intendment, that some one of the
questions mentioned in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act or in the second section of the act to amend the
Judiciary Act was raised in the State court and that it was

Dec. 1871.]

STEINES V. FRANKLIN COUNTY.
Opinion of the court.

there decided in the manner therein required to give this
court such appellate jurisdi'.tion, or that the State court
could not have reached the oonclusion it did without deciding the question and in the mannei' required by those proVisions to give this court jurisdiction in the case.*
Clear and necessary intendment that the question was
raised and must have been decided as claimed, in order to
have induced the judgment, is sufficient, but it is not sufficient to show that such a question might have arisen and
been applicable to the case, unless it appears in the record
that it did arise and was applied by the State court in disposing of the controversy.t
Had the record stopped there the case would be free of all
difficulty, but it does not stop there, as appears by the return
to the certiorarigranted by this court. On the contrary, the
respondents afterwards moved the court to set aside the decree and to grant a rehearing of the cause for the following
reasons, among others not necessary to be mentioned: (1.)
That the act of the legislature under which the bonds in controversy were issued is null and void because it is repugnant
to the constitution of the State. (2.) That the act in queshon is null and void because it is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, which forbids a State to pass any
law inpairing the obligation of contracts or to deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law; and the proposition submitted is that the State law in
question is repugnant to both of those provisions.
Much discussion of either proposition, is not required, as
the court is of the opinion that the decision of a State court
in granting or refusing a motion for rehearing in an equity
suit is not re-examinable in this court under any writ of
error which this court can issue to review the judgment or
decree of a State court. Beyond doubt the respective aver
* Rector v. Ashley, 6 Wallace, 147.

t Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 0 Wallace, 636; Furman v. Nichol, 8
Id. 66; Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 368.

STEINES V.

FRANKLIN

COUNTY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ments in question, if they had been embodied in the bill of
complaint, would have been sufficient to raise questions reexaminable in this court, and if' it had also appeared that
one or both of them had been decided in the manner required to give this court jurisdiction in such a case, or that
the State court could not have reached the conclusion it did
without deciding the question in that way, it would be plain
that the motion to dismiss ought not to be granted. Necessary jurisdictional allegations cannot properly be introduced
for the first time on a motion for rehearing, as the motion
itself is one addressed to the discretion of the court and one
in which the decision of the court in granting or refusing it
is not subject to review in an appellate court.* Such a motion is not founded in a matter of right, but rests in the
sound discretion o the court.t Matters resting in the discretion of a subordinate court cannot be assigned for error
in an appellate court.t Exceptions do not lie to the granting or refusing a new trial in a suit at law, nor will an appeal lie from the Circuit Court to this court from an order
of the Circuit Court in granting or refusing a petition for
rehearing in an eqlity suit for the same reason, which is
that the motion in the one case, or the petition or motion in
the other, is alike addressed to the discretion of the court,
as shown by all the deeisions in the Federal courts.
Even if it could be admitted that the questions suggested
were raised in the case by the motion for rehearing, it certainly does not appear that either of them was decided in a
way to give this court jurisdiction, as it is quite obvious that
the motion may have been denied upon grounds altogether
distinct from any question which is re-examinable in this
court. All the information the record contins upon the
* Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs, 10 Wheaton, 151 ; Peek v. Sanderson, 18
Howard, 42.
f Daniel v. Mitchel, 1 Story, 198; Dexter v. Arnold, 5 Mason, 315; Story's
Equity Pleading (7th ed.), ii 412, 417; Brown v. Aspden, 14 Howard, 25;
Emerson v. Davis, 1 Woodbury & Minot, 21 ; Jenkins v. Eldridge, 3 Story,
299; Public Schools v. Walker, 9 Wallace, 603 ; United States v. Knight,
1 Black, 488; Same v. Samperyac, Hempstead, 118.
1 Murphy v. Stewart, 2 Howard, 263; Morsell v. Hall, 13 Id. 212.

Dec. 1871.]

KINNEBEC RAILROAD V. PORTLAND RAILROAD.

28

Statement of the case.

subject is that the motion was subsequently overruled, unaccompanied by any statement as to the grounds of the decision, but it is quite clear that it may have been denied
because that objection to the bonds was not made in the bill
of complaint, or because the subsequent act of the legislatlre
confirmed the doings of the County Court under the prior
act, or because the court was of the opinion that the subsequent acts of the County Court or other officers estopped
the county from setting up that defence to the bonds in the
hands of innocent holders, or for many other reasons which
might be suggested, wholly irrespective of the questions
which it is supposed may be re-examined in this court. Suppose, therefore, it does appear that one or more of the questions which give jurisdiction under such a writ of error was
presented in the motion for rehearing, and that such a question may properly be presented in such a motion, still the
motion to dismiss must prevail in this case, because the
record shows that the motion might have been denied upon
other grounds, and it does not appear, even if those questions
did arise in the case, that either of them was decided by the
State court, or that the supposed erroneous rule was applied
by the State court in disposing of the controversy.*
Viewed in any light the case fails to show that this court
has any jurisdiction of the controversy, and the writ of
error is
DISMISSED FOR THE WANT OF JURISDICTION.

KENNEBEC RAILROAD V. PORTLAND RAILROAD.
The court reasserts the principle that, in cases brought here by writs of
error to the State courts, it will not entertain jurisdiction if it appears
that, besides the Federal question decided by the State court, there is
another and distinct ground on which the judgment or decree can be
sustained, and which is sufficient to support it.
MOTION by Mr. Arlemas Libbey (Mr. A. G. SlincIhfield opOposing) to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Judicial
Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, 636.

