216

CAPERTON V. BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

yielded to the importunities of the owners of the ship and
assumed the risk, subject to his claim on the owner of the
ship for indemnity. !Faulty navigation is also shown, which
of itself is a sufficient answer to the defence of inevitable
accident.
Palpable error is shown to have been set up in the original answer filed by the owners of the ship, and the court is
not satisfied that the defence set up in the amended answer
is entitled to any more credit. Such a defence as that set
up, that a ferry-boat suddenly and improperly crossed the
bows of the steamtug, if founded in fact, could easily be
proved by those who were on board the ferry-boat and know
what occurred. Instead of that, not even the name of the
ftrry-boat is given, either in the answer or in the proofs,
and. not a witness is called except the pilot and the master
of the ship, and their statements in that behalf are not satisfactory. No such defence is set up in behalf of the steamtug, and nothing of the kind was alleged in the original
answer filed by the owners of the ship shortly after the suit
was commenced. Neither of the courts below appear to
have given that defence much credence, and this court concurs with the subordinate courts that the defence is not
established.
DECREES AFFIRMED-

CAPERTON

v.

B WYER.

1. A Southern State passed in 1865 a statute of limitations enacting that in
computing the time in which any civil suit, proceeding, or appeal should

be barred by any statute of limitation, the term of time from the 17th
April, 1861, to the 1st March, 1865, should not be computed. It then
passed another, enacting that the time from 1st March, 1865, to 27th
February, 1866, should not be. The courts of that State were closed to
loyal suitors by the rebellion between the 17th April, 1861, and the 27th
February, 1866. On suit brought in Mfay, 1866, for a cause of action
which arose in 1862, and which but for this deduction of time would
have been barred in one year from 1862, by older statutes of iimitation, the defendant asked the court to charge that if the jury believed
that the right to bring the suit accrued more than one year before the

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERtTON v. BOWYER.
Statement of the case.

st of'March, 1865, their verdict should be for the defendant.

Held,

in view of previous decisions of this court and of Congressional legislation (referred to infra, p. 218), that it could not be inferred that the
court meant to declare the State statutes consistent with the Federal
Constitution, when it simply told the jury that in computing the statute
of limitations they ought to exclude the time between the 17th of April,
1861, and the 27th February, 1866, and that if the cause of action arose
in 1862, it was not barred.
2. Although a certificate of the presiding justice of the highest court of a
State, that there was drawn in question the validity of an act of the
State, on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States, and that the decision was in favor of its validity, is entitled to much weight, yet where evidently that court had nothing before
it but an exception taken and signed in the subordinate court which was
clearly insufficient to raise such a question, or to show that it was decided in a way to give this court jurisdiction, such certificate is not conclusive to show that a Federal question was raised in the case.
When a certificate of the presidingjustice of the highest court of a State
mentions that a certain Federal question was raised and decided in his
court, and does not state that any other was, this silence justifies the
conclusion that none other was; especially when a decision on the
matter where a second Federal question is alleged to have been passed
on may have been well decided on many other grounds not Federal.
3. A Federal question cannot be assumed to have been raised and passed on
in a State court so as to give jurisdiction to this court, under the 25th
section, when nothing appears in the record to show on what grounds
the decision of the matter in which the Federal question is alleged to
be involved was made.

ERRtoR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
West Virginia; the case being thus:
In July, 1862, the State of Virginia (with the exception
of certain counties, not including that of Monroe), being in
rebellion against the United States, and being so proclaimed
by the President on the 1st of that month, one Caperton,
provost marshal under the Confederate forces of Monroe
County (in which martial law had been declared by Jefferson Davis, March 29th, 1862), caused a certain Bowyer, who
had remained faithful to his allegianice, to be arrested and
thrown into prison, and there kept for a considerable time,
upon a charge of giving information to the forces of the
United States.
At this time the right to bring civil suits for false impris-

CAPERTON

v.

[Sup. Or.

BOWYER.

Statement of the case.

onment wag limited by the Virginia Code to apparently one
year.*
In 1863 certain western counties of Virginia, including
Mionroe County, aforesaid, having formed themselves into a
new State were duly received as such into the Union, and in
1865 and 1866 the new State passed two statutes, thus:
"An Act in relation to the Statutes of Limitation, passed March
1st, 1865.
"Be it enacted by the legislature of West Virginia: In computing the tiae in which any civil suit, proceeding or appeal shall
be barred by any statute of limitations,-the period from the 17th
day of April, 1861, to the date of the passage of this act, shall
be excluded from such computation."
"An Act in relation to the Statutes of Limitation,passed February
27th, 1866.
"Be it enacted by the legislature of West Virginia: In computing the time within which any civil suit or proceeding in trespass or case shall be debarred by any statute of limitation in the
counties of Monroe (&c., other counties named), the period from
the first day of March, 1865, to the date of the passage of this
act, shall be excluded from such computation."
Prior to the dates of either of these acts, that is -to say on
the 11th of June, 1864, the Congress of the United States
passed '" An act in relation to the limitation of actions in
certain cases," thus:

"That whenever, during the existence of thcpresent rebellion, any action, civil or criminal, shall accrue against any per-

son, who by reason of resistance to the execution of the laws of
the United States, or the interruptio,. of the ordinary course of

judicial proceedings, cannot be served with process for the commencement of such action or arrest of such person;
"Or whenever, after such action, civil or criminal, shall have
accrued, such person cannot, by reason of such resistance of the
laws, or such interruption of judicial proceedings, be served with
process for the commencement of the action;
"The time during which such person shall be beyond the
Code of Virginia, 1860, p. 638,

11.

Dee. 1871.]

CAPRTON

v. BOWYER.

219

Statement of the case.

reach of judicial process, shall not be deemed or taken as any
part of the time limited by law for the commencement of such
action,"
And in December Term, 1867, this court, in fIanger v.
Abbott,* decided that the time during which the courts in
the then lately rebellious States were closed to citizens of
the loyal States, was, in suits brought by them afterwards, to
be excluded from the computation of the time fixed by statutes of limitation within which such suits may be brought;
a principle subsequently affirmed, and perhaps extended,
A.D. 1870, in The Protector,t and in .Levyv. Slewart.:
The rebellion being declared, by the President's proclamation of April 2d, 1866, suppressed in Virginia, and the courts
of West Virginia open to all persons, Bowyer, on the 11th
May, 1866, sued Caperton in the State Circuit, Court of
Monroe County, in trespass for the false imprisonment which
as"Confederate provost marshal he had made in 1862, during the rebellion.
Caperton having demurred to the declaration and pleaded
the general issue, put in six special pleas:
1st. That the action was barred, because not brought
within one year next after the cause of it accrued.
2d. That it was not so brought within two years.
3d. That more than two years had elapsed after the right
of action accrued, and before March 1st, 1865, when the first
ot the above-quoted statutes of West Vir ginia was passed.
4th. That at the time of the supposed grievance both the
plaintiff and defendant were citizens and residents of Virginia, and that the whole time of limitation prescribed for
this action by the law of that State had run while the defendant resided in it, and before the said 1st of March, 1865,
when the act of that date was passed.
Then came a plea, thus:
5th. "That before the time of the supposed grievances,
the defendant had, on oath made in conformity with the law
6 Wallace, 532.

t 9 Ia. 687.

$ 11 Id. 244.

CAPERTON V.

BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

long existing in the Commonwealth of Virginia, declared
himself a citizen of the said Commonwealth, and solemnly
swore that he would be faithful and true to the said Commonwealth, and would support the constitution thereof so
long as he continued to be a citizen of the same, and until
and at and after the time of the said supposed grievances he
continued to be a'citizen of the same, and before and at the
time of the said supposed grievances the said Commonwealth was engaged in actual war, and an army consisting
of a large number, to wit, thousand soldiers, was raised
within the then territory of the said Commonwealth, for the
safeguard and defence of the same against those who then,
by those then acting at the city of Richmond,in said Commonwealth, as the authorities of said Comnonwealth, were
deemed the enemies thereof; and during the time that the
said army was in actual service within said territory for such
saf6guard and defence, and while the then actual authorities
of said Commonwealth and those in-the same confederacy
therewith were not only belligerents, but recognized as such
by the government of the United 8tates, General II. Heth,
the general and commander of troops forming part of said
army in actual service, did, under the authority of the executive power then in fact exercised over said Commonwealth and over those in the same confederacy therewith,
appoint this defendant provost marshal of the county of
Monroe; and while this defendant was such provost marshal under said appointment, the plaintiff was, without any
special order from or instigation of this defendant, taken
and imprisoned upon a charge of harboring deserters, and
was, by this defendant, discharged from imprisonment upon
his giving surety tr his good behavior; and all the supposed grievances whereof the plaintiff has complained, so
far as this defendant did or procured, caused, directed, ordered, instigated others to do the same, were acts done while,
this defendaut was such provost marshal under said appointment, and done in what was then in fact the territory of said
Commonwealth, and done in pursuance of the executive au
thority, which then in fact governed in said Commonwealth,

Dec. -1871.]

CAPERTON V.

BOWYER.

Statement of the case.

and in accordance with such laws, rules, and regulations a
then in fact prevailed therein."
This was followed by another plea, the
6th. That on the 7th September, 1865, the President had
granted him, the defendant, a full pardon and amnesty for
all offences by him committed, arising from participation,
direct or implied, in the said rebellion; and the defendant
took the oath prescribed in the proclamation of the President, dated May 29th, 1865, and the defendant duly notified
the Secretary of State, in writing, that he had received and
accepted the said pardon. And further, that all the grievances complained of in the declaration were act's arising
from participation, direct and implied, in the said rebellion.
The court sustained the declaration, and issue being tendered to the country on the general issue and the first three
of the special pleas, and the, court having, without assigning
any reasons, decided the three remaining ones to be bad, on
general demurrer, the case caie on to be triod.
The plaintiff having shown the imprisonment, the defendant offered in evidence, '' both in mitigation of damages and
as justification of the acts complained of," the already-mentioned pardon of the President. This pardon had five conditions annexed to it: (1.) That Caperton should take a certain oath. (2.) That lie should not acquire slaves, &c. (3.)
That he should pay certain costs. (4.) That be should not
claim certain property, or its proceeds. (5.) That lie should
notity the Secretary of State in writing that he accepted the
pardon. It was shown that Caperton had given the required
notice and had taken the required oath. 'What had "been
done in the other matters did not appear. The court excluded the pardon.
The defendant then requested the court to charge as folows:
"1st. If the jury believe that this action was not brought
within one year next before the right to bring the same accrued,
the verdict should be for the defendant.
"2d. If. the jury believe that the right to bring this action
accrued more than one year before the 1st day of March, 1865,

CAPERTON 'V. BowYELR.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the ca'be.

and that this action was not broqght until after the 1st day of
March, 1865, the verdict should be for the defendant."
The court refused so to charge, and charged thus:
"In computing the time of the statute of limitations in this
cause, the jury ought to exclude from the computatiqn all that
term of time between the 17th of April, 1861, and 27th of February, 1866, and if the cause of action arose in 1862, as alleged
in the declaration, then it is not barred by either of the statutes
of limitations upon which issues have been joined."
Verdict and judgment having, on the 25th July, 1867,
gone for the plaintiff, the judgment was taken from the Circuit Court of Monroe County, where the suit was brought,
to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of West Virginia. All that now was shown by the record as to the action of that court or the reasons of it, appeared in a certificate from its elerk, thus:
"The court having maturely considered the transcript of the
record of tbe judgment aforesaid, together with the arguments
of counsel thereupon, is of opinion, for reasons stated in writing
and filed with the record, that there is no error in said judgment; therefore it is considered by the court that the judgment
aforesaid be affirmed, and that the defendant in error recover
from the plaintiff in error, damages according to law, together
with his costs about his defence in this behalf expended.
"And the court doth certify that in the aforesaid judgment
there was drawn in question the validity of the statute of the
State of West Virginia, passed March 1st, 1865, entitled 'An
act in relation to the statutes of limitation,' on the ground that
it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States; and
the decision of this, the highest court of' law and equity in this
State in which a decision in said suit could be had, was in favor
of the validity of said statute."
From the affirmance by the Supreme Court of Appeals
the case was brought here, on the assumption that it came
within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra,
pp. 5, 6. A motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction having been made, the question ofjurisdiction was argued.

.Dec.
1871.]

CAPERTON V. BOWYER.
Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Messrs. Conway Robinson, R. T. lerrick, and Simeon Nash,
in support of the jurisdiction:
1. By the laws of Virginia, existing prior to the 1st of
March, 1865 (when a new statute was passed), all right of
Bowyer to sue Caperton had completely gone at the expiration of a year from July, 1862, the time of the alleged
trespass-gone, therefore, long before this act of 1865 was
passed, or this suit of 1866 was brought. Caperton thus had
an ascertained and fixed privilege, immunity, and right, such
as subsequent legislation could not deprive him of without
his consent.* Yet the' court, below decided that the State
of West Virginia could by a retrospective statute divest the.
right to the defence, which was thus complete under the
previous statute, and could give a new right of action. We
set up below and maintain here that such a decision is in
the face of the fifth amendment to the Constitution, which
says that "n o person shall be deprived of liberty or property
without due process of law." The judgment of the Court
of Appeals having been in favor of the validity of the statute
thus drawn in question by us, our right to come here under
the 25th section is clear.
2. Our right is equally clear, because that court affirmed
the ruling of the court below declaring our fifth special plea
bad.
1. "Use," says Vattel,t "appropriates the term of civil
war to every war between members of one and the same political society . .. The sovereign indeed never fails to term
rebels all subjects openly resisting him; but when these become of strength sufficient to oppose him, so that he finds
hihiself compelled to make war regularly on them, he must
be contented with the term of civil war." The terms rebels
and pirates were freely applied by George III and the British
Parliamnent to the Americans who were engaged in defending themselves and their fatnilies and property against Great
Battles v. Fobes, 18 Piqkering, 582; 19 Id.

578; Wright v. Oakley, 5

Metcalf, 405; Davis v. Minor, 1 Howard's Mississippi, 189; Couch v. McKee, 6 Arkansas, 495.
t

292.

CAPERTON V. BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Britain between 1775 and 1783. Yet when it was argued
before this court as to that war, that till the Declaration of
Independence, it was only a civil war, there was uttered from
its bench this language:
"But why is not a defensive war against Great Britain (call
it, if you will, a civil war) to be conducted on the same principles as any other? If it was a civil war, still we do not allow
it to have been a rebellion. Amer-ica resisted and became thereby engaged in what she deemed a just war. I was not the war
of a lawless banditti, but of freemen fighting for their dearest
rights, and of men lovers of order and government. Was it not
as necessary in such a war as in any between contending nations that the law of nations should be observed."*
Such language is no less applicable to the war waged by
men o' the Southern States from the spring of 1861 to the
spring of 1865, a war " which all the world acknowledges to
be the greatest civil war known in the history of the human
race."t " That civil war," said this courtJ " was carried on
upon a vast scale against the government of the United
States for more than four years. . . . The power which carried it on was recognized as suprenle in nearly the whole of
the territory of the States confederated in insurrection."
The two eases last cited and others ocenring in the interval
between then,ยง may be regarded as consistent with the law
of nations, as declared by Vattel,l that " whenever a numerous pirty thinks it has a right to resist the sovereign,
and finds itself able to declare that opinion, sword in hand,
the war is to be carried on between them in the same manner as between two different nations." The government of
such party, whether called as by publicists a government de
facto or denominated as hy this court a government of paramiount foiree, must, this court has said, "necessarily be
obeyed in civil matters by private citizens who, by acts of
*

Penhallow et al. v. Doane's Administrators, 3 Dallas, 110.

t Prize Cases, 2 Black, 669.

Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wallace, 7.

The Circassian, 2 Wallace, 148; The Venice, Id. 258; Mrs. Alexander's
Cotton, Id. 419; Mauran v. Insurance Co., 6 Id. 13, 14.
1

294.

Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wallace, 9.

Dec. 1871.]

CAPEPRTON V. BOWYER.
Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

obedience, rendered in submission to such force, do not become responsible as wrongdoers for those acts, though not
warranted by the laws of the rightful governent."
Now here Caperton set up below in his fifth plea a claim
to be exempt from liability under the laws of war, which
exempts one engaged iii war for certain acts done in the
prosecution thereof. The court below denied this right absolutely by sustaining the demurrer to the pleas setting up
that defence. Is this a right or claim set up under an au,
thority exercised uder the United States? It certainly iE
if international law is a law of the United States, of the na.
tion, and not of the several States. Whether this is so was
the question in the McLeod case, A.D. 1841, in New York,
growing out of the burning of the Caroline. The Supreme
Court of that State decided that the State had jurisdiction
to try and hang McLeod, notwithstanding Great Britain had
recognized the act as done under her orders, and asserted
that the British government, not McLeod, was responsible
for what was done.* Under the ruling of that court McLeod
was put on 'trial, but the Attorney-General of the United
States was sent by our government and was present at the
trial with the necessary documents to put the question on
record so it could be taken up, and the nation saved from a
war with Great Britain, by this strange decision of a State
court.
That the understanding of the administration and of wellinformed persons at the time was, that this, the Supreme
Court of the United States, had juxisdiction of the judgment
of the Supreme Court of New york, is clear from a notice
of the trial of McLeod in the National Intelligencer of May
22d, 1841. The editors alluding to this trial there say
"Whatever the.docision, whether for releasing or remanding
the prisoner, an appeal will probably be taken to the Court of'
Errors, from which a further appeal lies, in cases of this nature,
to the Supreme Court of the United States."
* People v: McLeod, 1 Hill.
VOL. xiv.

15

M'77.

CAPERTON V.

BOWYER.

[Sup. ( t,

Argument in support of the jurisdiction.

Mr. Choate, in a speech delivered on the 11th of June,
1841, in the United States Senate, maintains the same position.* lie says:
"The clear course of the government, therefore, was to do
what it did, to have McLeod's case fairly tried, and if needful,
to have his case brought into the National tribunals.,'
The well-known relations between Mr. Choate and Mr.
Webster, then Secretary of State, make it plain that the
views of this great constitutional lawyer upon the jurisdiction of this court, on a right set up as Colonel Caperton's
here was in this fifth plea, under international law, under
the laws of war, agreed with ours.t
This indeed must be the law, or the General Government
is at the mercy, on a question of foreign r'elations, of the
action of a State, or of its courts. So in the case of the late
civil war, parties for acts done in prosecution of that war
are liable or not liable for acts so done, just according to the
whim or prejudice of any State court. Is it possible that
this court has no jurisdiction over these questions to secure
that conformity which is essential to the administration of
justice ?
The validity of this right under the law of nations, part
of the law of the United States, the court below decidej
against.
3. This court has jurisdiction on yet a third ground. The
Constitution of the United States gives power to the President "to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against
the United States." The pardon was a valid exercise of
authority under the United States. And the decision of
the Circuit Court is against its validity or against the exemption set up under it. If the pardon could be pleaded in
bar, there was error itn the court's declaring plea eighth bad.
If it could not be so pleaded, then the court erred in not
" See National Intelligencer of June 17th, 1841.
t As to this see also Webster's Private Correspondence, vol. 2, p. 104
letter of May 16(h, 1841, to Fletcher Webster, and p. 112, letter of January

14th, 1842, to Mr. Bel z r,

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON

v. BOWYER.

227

Argument against the jurisdivtion.

admitting the pardon in evidence under the general issue in
mitigation of damages, and the error brings us within the
25th section.
Messrs. .J. fubley Ashlon and B. Stanton, contra, and in support of the motion to dismiss:
1. It is no matter whether the act of the legislature of
West Virginia of March 1st, 1865, is constitutional or not.
The decision as to the effect of the war on the old statute of
limitation was right independent of that statute, and of any
statute. That this is so was declared by this court at December Term, 1867, in Hanger v. Abbott, and in other cases
since.
Besides, on the 11th of June, 1864, Congress passed its
"act in relation to the limitation of actions in certain cases,"
in substantially the same form as the West Virginia law of
March 1st, 1865. That act applied to all cases, and all
places, when no suit could be brought by reason of resist.
ance to the laws or the interruption of judicial proceedings.
It did not in terms apply to the time that had elapsed prior
to its passage. The legislature of West Virginiat, acting
upon its own knowledge as to the time that the courts there
had been suspended, did but fix the precise time that the old
statute should be suspended, and in terms made it applicable to the time that had elapsed, prior to its passage. This
court, in Stewart v. Kah?,* held that Congress had power
to pass such a suspending act to operate retrospectively,
and also that the aet was a remedial statpte, entitled to a
liberal construction, and such as should be held to operate
retrospectively, although it did not do so in terms. It also
held that the act was applicable to suits pending in the State
courts.
It would be extraordinary to hold a declaratory act of a
State legislature, which in reality but defined and limited
the suspension of the statute of limitation, created by the
action of the courts and legislature of the General Govern11 Wallace, 493.

CAPERTON

v. BOWYER.

[Sup. ct

Argument against the jurisdiction.

ment, and existing independent of the State statute, unconstitutional and void.
2. Then does the case come here under the 25th section,
because the Circuit Court of Monroe County declared the
fifth special plea bad? We say the Circuit Court of Monroe
County, because there is no evidence that the Court of Appeals ever passed on that part of the case. Contrariwise, it
rather seems that they did not. Judging by the certificate
(supra, p. 222), no Federal question was raised but that relating to the new statute of limitations. If it was shown
that the Court of Appeals did decide against its validity,
had constat that a Federal question was thus passed on.
They may have decided the plea bad for other reasons, as
ex. 9r., for being argumentative, &c.
But what is the plea at best? It is simply that Caperton
acted under the authority of the rebel government, arid that
therefore he is justified. But this involves no question upon
the validity or construction of the Constitution of the United
States, or of any treaty, law, authority, or commission derived from the United States, no: upon the validity of any
State law on accoutnt of its being in conflict with any pro.
vision of the Constitution of the United States, or any treaty,
law, authority, or commission, derived from the United
States.
It is said that it involves a question of international law.
If it does, this can give this court no jurisdiction. The law
of nations is not embodied in any provision of the Constitution, nor in any treaty,. act of Congress, or any authority,
or commission derived from the United States. It is true
that the courts of the United States, like the courts of the
States, and of all other civilized countries, recognize the
law of nations as binding upon them; and it is argued that
as the government of the United States is charged with the
mana genent and control of our fbreign relations, the courts
of tile United States oglht to have the power of deciding
in the last resort, all questions of international law, otherwise difficulties may arise with fbreign n'ationson account
of erroneous decisions by the State courts which the gov.

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON

v.

BOWYER.

Argument against the jurisdiction.

ernment of the United States could not provide against.
But whatever force the argument of convenience might
have in a case arising between the United States and a
foreign nation, it has very little in a case arising out of a
defunct rebellion. It is no great hardship for parties who
have plunged the country into a bloody and protracted war,
and who have been pardoned for crimes the greatest known
to the law-treason, murder, arson, and robbery among
them-to be required to make redress for the injuries which
their neighbors have sustained at their hands.
The case of McLeod, in the Supreme Court of New York,
is referred to. The decision of that court was the subject
of much criticism at the time. It was disapproved by Mr.
Webster, who was then Secretary of State, and by. Mr. Crittenden, Attorney-General of the United States, and many
other distinguished jurists. Whether it was right or wrong
is not important for our present purpose. But no attempt
was made to bring the case before this court for revision.
And it seems probable, that if the administration had supposed that this court had appellate jurisdiction from the
New York courts in that case, that the case would have
been brought before this court. The administration was
Periously embarrassed by the decision. There was great
danger of the country being plunged into a war with Great
Britain, on account of its failure to surrender McLeod.
3till, the courts of New York were permitted to maintain
their jurisdiction and try McLeod for murder. The country
was relieved from further controversy by the jury finding
him not guilty.
What is still more conclusive as to the opinion of the
jurists of the country, as to the appellate jurisdiction of this
court on questions of international law is, that immediately
nfter the McLeod case was disposed of, an act of Cong.ress
passed, to give the courts of the United States jurisdiction
in similar cases that might thereafter arise. That act was
passed August 29th, 1842. It provided that a writ of habeas
corp-Kis might be issued by any judge of this court, or any
District judge of the United States, where any "subject or

CAPERTON v.

BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct

Argument against the jurisdiction.

citizen" of a foreign state, and "domiciled therein," was
imprisoned for any act done or committed under the anthority of any foreign state or sovereign, the validity or
effect whereof depended on the laws of nations. But this
law call have no application to the case at bar.
It is assunled by the other side that whenever the established government in a civil war exercises the powers and
rights of a belligerent, and applies to the contest the rules
and usages of war, that it thereby grants to the parties in
rebellion all the rights and immunities of a party to a public international war; that if it sends or receives a flag of
truce, exchanges prisoners, or blockades the ports of the insu'gent government, it thereby makes the insurgents a belligerent power, which has a right to demand all the rights
and immunities of an independent nation in a public international war. This is an error. It is one of the essential
attributes of sovereignty which belongs to every independent nation, to determine for itself, how it wil deal with
rebels and insurgents against its authority and government.,
It may treat on6 of its insurgent citizens as all enemy and
hold or exchange him as a prisoner of war, and another as
a rebel and traitor and hang him for treason. Writers on
international law say indeed that the rules and usages of
civilized modern warfare, which are applicable to international wars, are equally applicable to civil wars. But they
also say, that when an insurrection or rebellion is suppressed,
the government may prosecute the parties that are engaged
in it, and punish them for treason and rebellion.
The case now before the court cannot, in short, be distinguished from Jones v. hict man,* where it was held that "the
proportions and size of tl.e struggle did not affect its character," that there was no ' rebel government d4 facto in any
such sense as to give any legal efficacy to its acts," and that
the judgment of a rebel court was illegal and void, and could
not protect the judges and marshal from an action for false
imprisonment.
* 9 Wallace, 197.

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON

v.

BOWYER.

Restatetnent of the case in the opinion.

3. As respects the pardon, the certificate from the Court
of Appeals shows that it was not spoken of there at all. If
it was so spoken of, the court perhaps thought that it had
rightly been deemed insufficient either as evidence or plea,
because it did not appear that more than two conditions had
been observed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Special jurisdiction only is given to this court by virtue
of a writ of error to a State court, and unless the record
shows that the case falls within the conditions annexed to
the right of a party to invoke the exercise of the jurisdiction, the writ of error must be dismissed. Primarily those
conditions are two: (1.) That it shall appear that some one
of the questions specified in the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary Act, 6r the second section of the amendatory act,
did arise in the case. (2.) That the question which did so
arise in the case was decided by the court in the way therein
required to give this court jurisdiction to re-examine the
question, and the rule is settled that unless both those things
appear the jurisdiction does not attach.*
On the sixth day of August, 1866, the plaintiff brought
an action of trespass for false imprisonment against the
defendant in the State court, in which he alleged that the
defendant, on the twenty-ninth of June, 1862, with force and
arms, seized the plaintiff and incarcerate(d hin in a dungeon,
and imprisoned him there for twenty-four days, separated
from his home and family, and that he subjected him to
great danger and many hardships, and seriously impaired
his health and put him to great pain and distress, both of
body and mind.
Service having been made the defendant appeared and
demurred to the declaration, and filed seven other pleas, as,
follows: (1.) That lie was not guilty in manner and fbrm as
alleged. (2.) That the action was not brought within one
year next after the right to bring the same accrued. (3.)
I Stat. at Large, 85; 14 Id. 388.

232

CAPERTON

v.

BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

That the action was not brought within two years next after
the right to bring the same accrued. (4.) That more than
two years had elapsed after the right to bring the action
accrued, and before the present limitation act of the State
was passed. (5.) That the plaintiff and defendant were citizens of the same State, and that the whole time prescribed
as a limitation had elapsed before the present act modifying
the pre-existing law was 'passed. (6.) That the supposed
grievances were acts done by the defendant as provost marshal under the military orders of the State, in time of actual
war, as more fully set forth in the plea. (7.) That the President, on the seventh of September, 1865, granted the defendant a full pardon and amnesty for all offences by him
committed, arising from participation, direct or indirect, in
the rebellion.
Subsequently the plaintiff filed a joinder to the demurrer,
joined the issue tendered under the plea of not guilty, and
filed a replication to the six special pleas as follows: (1.)
That the action is not barred as alleged, and tendered an
issue to the country. (2.) That the action is not barred as
alleged in the second special plea, and also tendered an issue
to the country. (3.) That the action is not barred as alleged
in the third special plea, and tendered an i~sue to the country. (4.) Plaintiff filed a demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and
sixth special pleas, and the defendant demurred to the replication of the plaintiff to the defendant's first special plea.
All the issues of law were determined by the court in favor
of the plaintiff, that is, the court overruled the demtrrer to
the declaration, sustained the demurrers of the plaintiff to
the fourth, fifth, and sixth special pleas of the defendant,
and also overruled the demurrer of the defendant to the
plaintiff's replication to the defendant's first special plea,
which left nothing for trial but the issues of fact, which
were submitted to a jury, and the jury found all the issues
of fact in favor of the plaintiff, and that the defendant was
guilty as alleged in the declaration, and assessed damages
for the plaintiff in the sum of eight hundred and thirtythree dollars. Judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, and

Dec. 1,871.]

CAPERTON v. BOWYER.

283

Qpinion of the court.

the defendant excepted and removed the case into the Court
of Appeals of the State, where the judgment was in all
things affirmed. Whereupon the defendant sued out the
present writ of error and removed the cause into this court
for re-examination under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Jurisdiction, it is claimed by the defendant, may be sustained in this case upon three grounds, which will be separately considered: (1.) Because the judge told the jury that,
in computing the time of the statute of limitations, they
ought to exclude from the computation all that period of
time between the seventeenth of April, 1861, and the twentyseventh of February, 1866, as that ruling, as he contends,
was equivalent to a ruling that the recent acts passed by the
State upon that subject are valid laws, which he denies. (2.)
Because the court sustained the demurrer of the plaintiff to
the fifth special plea of the defendant, setting up belligerent
rights as a defence to the action. (3.) Because the court
excluded the pardon granted to him by the President when
offered in evidence under the plea of not guilty.
1. Two acts of limitation have recently been passed by
the State legislature. By the first, Which was passed on the
first day of March, 1865, it was enacted that, in computing
the time within which any civil suit, proceeding, or appeal,
shall be barred by any statute of limitations, the period from
the seventeenth day of April, 1861, to the date of the passage of the act, shall be excluded from such computation.*
By a subsequent act passed on the twenty-seventh of February, 1866, it is provided that, in computing the time within
which any civil suit, or proceeding in trespass or case, shall
be barred by any statute of limitations in certain counties,
including the county in which this suit was brought, the
period from the first day of March, 1865, to the date of the
pmsage of the act shall be excluded from such computation.f
Two prayers for instruction upon that subject were also
presented by the defendant which were refused by the eoirt,
*Sess.

Acts of West Virginia, 1865, p. 72.

f Ib. 1866, p. 92.

234

CAPERTON v. BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

but it is not necessary to reproduce them, as the question
involved is as fully raised by the instruction given to the
jury as by the refusal to give those instructions.
Exception was taken by the defendant to the refusal to
instruct and to the instruction given, but the grounds of the
exception are not stated, nor are the reasons for the ruling
given by the court. Such an exception is not sufficient to
show that any one of the questions mentioned in the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act was either raised or decided
in the manner therein required to give this court jurisdiction under a writ of error to a State court. Unless both
those things appear; that is, u~iless it appears that the question was raised and that it was decided in the way required,
the julisdiction does not attach, and it is clear that the exception is not sufficient to show that either occurred at the
trial. Nothing further was done upon the subject in the
court of original jurisdiction, but the cause was removed
into the Court of Appeals of the State, where the judgment
was affirmed. Appended to the judgment in that court is a
certificate signed by the clerk and certified by the presiding
justice of the court, that there was drawn in question the
validity of the act of the State passed March, 1865, in relation
to the statute of limitations, on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and that
the decision of the highest court of law and equity in the
State was in favor of its validity. Evidently that court had
before it nothing but the exception taken and signed in the
subordinate court, which is clearly insufficient to raise such
a question or to show that it was decided in a way to give
this court jurisdiction in such a case. Undoubtedly such a
certificate is entitled to much weight, as showing that the
question was decided by the court which gives it, and in the
manter required to give jurisdiction, but it is not conclusive
to show that the question was raised in the case, as the latter
question may depend upon the construction of the pleadings,
or, as in this case, upon the proper construction of the language of the bill of exceptions.
Necessary implication, it is said, will suffice, which may

Dec. 1871.]

7CAPERTON V. BoWYEr.
Opinion of the court.

be granted, but it can hardly be said iih this case that it must
necessarily be implied that the judge instructed the jury
that the State statute was consistent with the Federal Con
stitution. What he did tell the jury was that a certain
period of time should be excluded from the computation in,
determining the issues of fact presented by the pleadings,
whether the action was barred by the one or two years' limitations. Three years before that this court had decided
that the period during which the courts of the State where
the defendant resided were closed, by reason of the insurrection and rebellion, should not be deemed aid taken as a
part of such a limitation.*
Congress allowed one year froth the date of the act to the
time allowed for suing out writs of error and taking appeals
in districts where the sessions of the courts had been suspended or interrupted by insurrection or rebellion, and this
court decided that the act of Congress was a remedial, and
not a restraining one, and applied the rule laid down in the
prior case, that in computing the five years allowed for the
purpose, the period for which the courts were closed by insurrection or rebellion, must be excluded from the computation.t Provision was also made by Congress that the time
during which any person was beyond the reach of legal process, by reason of resistance to the execution of the laws, or
the interruption of the ordinary course of judici ' proceedings, shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time
limited by law for the commencement of any action, civil or
criminal. Objection was taken to the validity of that provision, but this court unanimously held it to be eonst ,utional.1
Prior to these decisions, founded upon acts of Congress,
this court had decided, as before remarked, that the periodI
dtring which the courts were closed by the insurrection
must be excluded from every such computation, and this
* Hanger v. Abbott, 6 Wallace. 584.

t 14 Stat. at Largo, 545; The Protector, OWallace, 687.
$ 13 Stat. at Large, 123; Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wallace, MQ

236

CAPERTON V. BoWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court has twice since that decided in the same way, every
justice of the court concurring in the opinion.* Enemy
creditors cannot prosecute their claims subsequent to the
commencement of hostilities, as the rule is universal and
peremptory that they are totally incapable of sustaining any
action in the tribunals of the other belligerent. Absolute
suspension of the right to sue and prohibition to exercise it
exist during war, by the law of nations, but the restoration
of peace removes the disability and opens the doors of the
courts.
Tested by these considerations, this court is of the opinion
that the judge of the State court may well have followed the
decisions of this court iu the instruction lie gave to the jury
without having intended to express any opinion as to the
constitutionality of the State law, and that it does not appear with sufficient certainty that the supposed Federal question did arise in the case, or that it was decided in the manner required to give this court jurisdiction under a writ of
error to a State court.
2. Next ground assumed is that the -court erred in sustaining the demurrer of the plaintiff to the fifth special plea
of the defendant, setting up belligerent rights as a defence
to the action.
Unquestionably it does appear that the plaintiff demurred
to that plea and that the court sustained the demurrer to
the plea, but it nowhere appears that the court held the plea
bad for the reason supposed by the defendant. On the con-.
trary, the plea is very defectively drawn, and it may be that
it was held bad for many other sufficient reasons, and the
fact that the certificate filed by the chief justice makes no
mention of this point justifies the conclusion that it was not
decided by the court of last resort. Questions presented in
a subordinate court are frequently waived-in the appellate
court, and it is plain law that questions not presented in the
court of last resort do not give jurisdiction in a case like the
mie before the court. Such a question may be raised in a
- Levy v. Stewart, 11 Wallace, 249 . Steinbach v. Stewart, lb. 572.

Dec. 1871.]

CAPERTON V. BowYEIR.
Opinion of the court.

bill of exceptions, but sufficient of the proceedings must be
stated to show not only that it was raised, but that it was
decided in the mantner required to give the jurisdiction.
3. All that remains to be considered is the question respecting the pardon. By the bill of exceptions it appears
that the defendant offiered the pardon, both in mitigation of
damages, and as a justification of the alleged wrongful acts,
and it appears that the plaintiff objected to the introduction
of the instrument and that the court sustained the objection,
and that the pardon was excluded. Enough appears to show
for what purpose the pardon was offered, but nothing appears to show upon what grounds it was rejected at the trial
or that the question was ever examined or decided by the
Court of Appeals. Five conditions are embodied in the
paroon, but the record shows that the defendant complied
with the first and fifth, and it does not show tit he has ever
violated any one of the others. No mention is made of that
ruling in the certificate of the chiefjustice, nor is there anything in the record to show that the exception was presented
to the Court of Appeals, unless that may be inferred from
the fact that the Court of Appeals found that there was no
error in the record and affirmed the judgnent. Questions
not decided in the State court, because not raised or presented by the complaining party, will not be re-examined in
this court on a writ of error sued out under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act.* Such is the settled practice,
and the act of Congress provides that it must appear that
the question presented for decision in this court was raised in
the State court, and that the decision of the State court was
given as required by that section.t Repeated decisions have
established that rule, and inasmuch as the point has been
several times ruled at the present session, we forbear to extend the discussion.
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

* Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, M36.

t Steines v. Franklin Co., supra, p. 16.

