Dec. 1871.]

KINNEBEC RAILROAD V. PORTLAND RAILROAD.

28

Statement of the case.

subject is that the motion was subsequently overruled, unaccompanied by any statement as to the grounds of the decision, but it is quite clear that it may have been denied
because that objection to the bonds was not made in the bill
of complaint, or because the subsequent act of the legislatlre
confirmed the doings of the County Court under the prior
act, or because the court was of the opinion that the subsequent acts of the County Court or other officers estopped
the county from setting up that defence to the bonds in the
hands of innocent holders, or for many other reasons which
might be suggested, wholly irrespective of the questions
which it is supposed may be re-examined in this court. Suppose, therefore, it does appear that one or more of the questions which give jurisdiction under such a writ of error was
presented in the motion for rehearing, and that such a question may properly be presented in such a motion, still the
motion to dismiss must prevail in this case, because the
record shows that the motion might have been denied upon
other grounds, and it does not appear, even if those questions
did arise in the case, that either of them was decided by the
State court, or that the supposed erroneous rule was applied
by the State court in disposing of the controversy.*
Viewed in any light the case fails to show that this court
has any jurisdiction of the controversy, and the writ of
error is
DISMISSED FOR THE WANT OF JURISDICTION.

KENNEBEC RAILROAD V. PORTLAND RAILROAD.
The court reasserts the principle that, in cases brought here by writs of
error to the State courts, it will not entertain jurisdiction if it appears
that, besides the Federal question decided by the State court, there is
another and distinct ground on which the judgment or decree can be
sustained, and which is sufficient to support it.
MOTION by Mr. Arlemas Libbey (Mr. A. G. SlincIhfield opOposing) to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Judicial
Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6 Wallace, 636.

24

KENNEBEC RAILROAD V. PORTLAND RAILROAD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Court of the State of Maine; taken on an assumption that
the case fell within the 25th section of the Judiciary Ac.t,
quoted supra, 5-6.
This motion had been delayed for some time by an effort
oil the part of the plaintiff in error to have the record so,
amended as to show that the State court doeided against it
one of the questions necessary to give this court jurisdiction;
and to obviate this difficulty it was agreed by the parties
here that the opinion of that court, delivered at the decision
of the case, might be considered as though it were a part of
the record.
The suit was a bill in chancery, brought by the Kennebee
and Portland Railroad Company against the Portland and
Kennebec Railroad Company, asserting the right to redeem
the railroad and its appurtenances, which had passed from
the former to the latter under what was supposed to be a
foreclosure of a mortgage.
The plaintiff set up several grounds- for this right to redeem, and he now alleged that one of the principal questions
in the case was, that the law under which the foreclosure
was had was passed, after the mortgage was executed, and
that the method of' foreclosure prescribed by that statute i-a
paired the obligation of the contract of mortgage, and was,
therefore, void by the Constitution of the United States.
And though it did not appear clearly from' the pleadings or
decree, or other proceedings in the case, that this question
was involved, it appeared nevertheless that the question was
discussed in one part of the opinion of the court, and that
the court was of the opinion that the statute did not impair
the obligation of the contract. The mortgage was made in
1852. The statute referred to was passed in 1857, and the
foreclosure complained of was had shortly after. It appeared at the same time, however, in another part of the
opinion, which was a very long one, covering thirty-three
8vo. pages, each much larger than those of these reports,
and in a smaller type (long primer) than the body of these
books is printed in-a part not referred to in any way by
the plaintiff in erro:-that the court founded its judgment

Dec. 1871.] KENNI:nc RAILROAD

V. PORrLAND RAILROAD.

25

Opinion of the court.

upon the ground that the foreclosure was valid, because the
metho(I which was followed conformed exactly to the mode
of forecloure authorized when the contract was made, by
the thn laws.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It las been repeatedly decided hy this court that the
opinion is no part of the record, and it is only by agreement oF counsel and consent of the court that it can be
looked into for such purpose. As the record, without the
opinion, does not show that such a question was decided, we
have examined the opinion with care, and have felt hound
to look to the whole of it, as well as that part of it relied on
by the plaintiff in error; and though the matter which the
plaintiff now alleges was one of the principal questions in
the ease-to wit, that the law under which the foreclosure
was had was passed after the mortgage was executed, and
that the method of foreclosure prescribed by that statute impaired the obligation of the contract of mortgage, and was,
theretore, void by the Constitution of the United Statesdoes not Clearly appear from the pleadings, or the decree, or
any other proceedings in the case, yet it does appear that
the question was discussed in the opinion of the court, and
that the court was of the opinion that the statute did not
impair the obligation of the contract.
If this were all of the case we should undoubtedly be
bound in this court to inquire whether the act of 1857 did,
as construed by the court, impair the obligation of the contract.*
But a fall examination of the opinion of the court shows
that its judgment was based upon the ground that the foreclosure was valid, without reference to the statute of 1857,
because the method pursued was in strict conformity to the
mode of foreclosure authorized, when the contract was made,
by the laws then in existence.
Now, if tile State court was right in their view of the law
Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Company, 1 Wallace, 116.

BARTEMEYER V. IOWA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the (ase.

as it stood when the contract was made, it is obvious that
the mere fact that a new law was made does not impair the
obligation of the contract, And it is also clear that this
court cannot inquire whether the Supreme Court of Maine
was right in that opinion.
Here is, therefore, a clear case of a sufficient ground on
which the validity of the decree of the State court could
rest even if it had been in error as to the effect of the act
of 1857 in impairing the obligation of the contract. And
when there is such distinct and sufficient ground for the
support of the judgment of the State court we cannot take
jurisdiction, because we could not reverse the case though
the Federal question was decided, erroneously in the court
below, against the plaintiff in error.*
The writ must, therefore, be
DISMISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

BARTEMEYER

V. IOWA.

When a Supreme Court of a State is composed of a chief justice and several associates, writs of error Lu LUL,court under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act must be signed by the chief justice; and if signed by
one of the associates only, it will be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

EaROi to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa; the
case being thus:
The 25th section of the Judiciar 3 Act, quoted supra, p.
5-6, which gives a right to this court to re-examine, in certain cases specified, the final judgment or decree of any suit
in the highest court of law or equity in which a decision in
the suit could be had, says that the same
"May be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United States, upon a writ of error, the citaRector v. Ashley, 6 Wallace, 142; Kingler v State of Missouri, 13 Id,
257; and Steines v.Franklin County, supra, 15.

