170

[Sup. (t.

THE SCOTIA.
Syllabus.

any such direction or to interfere in any manner with the
judicial discretion and judgment of the subordinate court.*
Viewed in the light of the return, the court is of the
opinion that the rule must be discharged and the
PETITION DENIED.

THE SCOTIA.
1. Although it is the clear duty of an ocean steamer sailing at night to
keep out of the way of a sailing vessel, yet if the course of the sailing
vessel, when first seen, is such, that compared with her own no collision
She need
is probable, the steamer is not bound to change her course.
but watch and see that the courses of the two vessels are preserved. It
is only when the sailing vessel does change her course, so as to render a
collision possible, that the steamer must change hers also; and if she
then makes the proper manoeuvres to take herself from the sailing
vessel, and when collision becomes more probable slows, stops, and
backs, all as the best judgment that can be formed in the emergency
suggests, she is not liable for the collision.
2. The statutes of the United States and the orders in council of Great
Britain having each prescribed the sort of lights which, on the one
hand, their steamers are to carry at night, and the different sort which,
on the other, their sailing vessels are to carry, and both nations adoptig
is this form the same distinction in the sorts of lights for the two
sorts of vessels respectively, the court declares that where a British
steamer and an American sailing vessel are navigating at night in the
known path of vessels navigating between the United States and Great
Britain, so that there is a reasonable probability that vessels in that
path would be either American or British, a steamer may, in the absence of knowledge, act upon the probability that a vessel whose light
she sees while she cannot distinguish at all the vessel herself, is such a
vessel as her light indicates, and apply the rule of navigation common
to the two countries accordingly.
6 Under the existing statutory regulations of the United States and Great
Britain (stated more fully infra, pp. 171-2), both of which on the one
hand require sailing vessels to carry colored lights and not to carry a
white one, and both of which on another require steamers to carry a
white light at their mastheads,-when an American sailing vessel carries in mid-ocean at night a white light hung at her bow, fastened low
Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 194; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Id. 634; Insurance Co. v. Wilson, 8 Id. 304; Ex parto Many, 14 Howard, 25.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCOTIA.

171

Statement of the case.
down, and carries no colored lights anywhere, a British steamer, not
able to discover what she really is, may be excused for mistaking her
for a steamer, and a steamer at a distance instead of near at hand.
4. Semble that the navigation laws of the United States requiring different
sorts of vessels to carry different sorts of lights, bind American vessels
on the high seas as well as in American waters, and that the people of
other nations navigating the high seas may properly sue our citizens in
our courts for injuries occurring through the disregard of them.
6. The rules of navigation established in the British orders in council, of
January 9th, 1863 (prescribing the sorts of lights to be used on British
vessels), and in our act of Congress of 1864 having, before the close of
the year 1864, been accepted as obligatory by more than thirty of the
principal commercial states of the world, including almost all which
have any shipping on the Atlantic Ocean, were in April, 1867, to be
regarded, so far as relates to the vessels of these states, as laws of the
sea. And of the historical fact that by common consent of mankind
they have been acquiesced in as of general obligation, courts may take
judicial notice.
6. These rules having prescribed that sailing vessels should not carry a white
light, and that steamers should carry one at their masthead, a sailing
vessel which carried a white light low down, so that she looked like a
steamer yet at a distance, was held to be without remedy where she
had collided with a steamer which mistook her for another steamer and
mancouvred accordingly.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, in a case of collision between the American
ship Berkshire and the British steamer Scotia, by which the
ship was sunk and totally lost..
On the 9th of January, 1863, a British order in council,
authorized by virtue of the Merchant Shipping Amendment
Act of July 29th, 1862 (25 and 26 Victoria), made a body
of "Regulations ' for preventing collisions at sea." Among
these were "Rules concerning lights," and "Steering and
sailing rules."
In the first class were these:
LIGHTS FOR STEAMSHIPS.

ART. 3. Sea-going steamships when under way shall carry(a) At the foremast head, a bright white light . . . of such a
character as to be visible on a dark night, with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of at least five miles.
(b) On the starboard side a green light, &c., visible on a dark

172

Tin SCOTXA.

IVup. A'1%

Statement of the case.

night, with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of at least two
miles.
(c) On the port side a red light, &e., visible on a dark night,
with a clear atmosphere, at a distance of 4t least two miles.
(d) The said green and red side-lights shall be fitted with inboard screens, projecting at least three feet forward from the
light so as to prevent these lights being seen across the bow.
LiGHTS FOR SAILING SHIPS.

6. Sailing vessels under way. . . shall carry the same
lights as steamships under way, with the exception of the white
masthead lights, which they shall never carry.
In the steering and sailing rules was this oneART.

SAILING SHIP AND SHIP UNDER STEAM.

If two ships, one of which is a sailing ship and the other a
steamship are proceeding in such directions as to involve risk
of collision, the steamship shall keep ot of the way of the sailing Ohip.
All these regulations, as originally promulgated by Great
Britain, were made applicable to all ships, whatever their
nationality,.within the limits of British jurisdiction, and to
British and French ships whether within British jurisdiction
or not. The Merchant Shipping Amendment Act, in virtue
of which these regulations were passed., provided also that
whenever it should be made to appear to the British government, that the government of any foreign country was
willing that these regulations should apply to the ships of
such country, when beyond the linits of British jurisdiction, Her Britannic Majesty might, by order in council, direct that such regulations should apply to the ships of such
foreign country, whether within British jurisdiction or not.
On the 29th April, 1864,* the Congress of the United
States passed ils "act fixing certain rules and regulations for
preventing collisions on the water," and these rules ag respects sea-going vessels being, to all intents, identical with
those above quoted from the British act, the British govern* 13 Stat. at Large, 68.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCOTIA.

178

Statement of the case.

ment regarded the act of Congress as an expression by our
government, that it was willing that the British regulations
should apply to our ships when beyond the limits of British
jurisdiction. The British government accordingly, by order
in council, directed that the regulations should apply to all
sea-going vessels of the United States, whether within British
jurisdiction or not.
The governments of, various other countries soon also
manifested' their willingness that the British regulations
should apply to their ships respectively, when beyond the
limits of British jurisdiction ; and orders in council accordingly directed that such regulations should apply to the ships
of such countries respectively, whether within British jurisdiction or not. The countries referred to were Austria, the
Argentine Republic, Belgium, Brazil, BreImen, Chili, Denmark pro!er, the Rephblic of the Equator, France, Greece,
Hambur'g, Hanover, the Hawaiian Islands, ILayti, Italy, Lubeck, Mecklenburg - Schwerin, Morocco, the Netherlands,
Norway, Oldenburg, Peru, Portugal, Prussia, the Roman
States, Russia, Schleswig, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Urugnuay.
These orders in council were published at various dates, from
January 13th, 1863, to February 6th, 1866. All countries
named except Denmark, Greece, the Hawaiian Islands,
Schleswig, and the United States, adopted the regulations
in 1863.
With these various statutes and orders in existence, the
Scotia, a British steamer of the Canard line, steering west
by north one-half north, was sailing about midnight on the
8th of April, 1867, near mid-ocean, from Liverpool towards
New York. Her lookouts were properly set, and her lights
rightly stationed, that is to say, a white light was at her masthead, a green light on her starboard'or right side, and a red
light on her port or left side; all burning brightly.
Sailing at the same hour, equally about mid-ocean, the
Berkshire, a sailing ship belonging to the American marine,
was on her voyage from New Orleans to Havre, and with a
wind free, blowing from about sonuth-southwest,was pursuing
a course southeast by cast one-half cast, as indicated by the

THE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

following diagram. The courses of the two vessels thus intersected at an angle of exactly one point.

~Place

of Colsion.

The Berkshire had no colored lights anywhere; nor any
light but a white light, and this was at her bow, fastened to
her anchor-stock, and raised about four feet above her deck.
Of course, if the Scotia should mistake this light for a light
fistened on the masthead of the Berkshire, she would infer
fr'om its apparent proximity to the water that the Berkshire
was far off.
The Scotia was first seen from the Berkshire bearing one
point or so off the ship's port bow, at a distance apparently
of five or six miles. Then the steamer's white masthead
light only was seen.
Immediately on her sighting the steamer, which was at
most from fifteen to twenty minutes before the collision, her
mate gave an order to luff; and she did luff; so as to head
more into the wind. The effect of this was to make her go
further to the south and thus diverge farther from the course
of the steamer. She continued in this new direction ten or
fifteen rhinutes, when, moving at the rate at which it was
proved that the vessels were moving, she could not have
been more than one or two miles from the Scotia. 1ier helm
was then suddenly put to starboard, then steadied for a brief
period, then put hard a-starboard and kept there, thus pointing her directly across the bow of the approaching vessel.
By keeping her helm hard a-starboard she was made to

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCOTrA.

Statement of the case.

change her course constantly. The diagram on the pre.
ceding page may perhaps assist the reader's comprehension.
The dotted lines represent the Berkshire's movements.
Before she bore away the red light of the steamer was
seen by her wheelsman, and probably by her lookout, if not
indeed by her master.
The Scotia stw the white light on the Berkshire in due
time, and first saw it off her port bow, from one to two
points. Seeing a white light, the deck officer of the Scotia
took the vessel for a steamer, and from the proximity of the
light to the water inferred that she was far off; coming in
fact just above the 'horizon, and accounting for the nonappearance of the usual colored lights because he supposed
that they had not come up to view.* He thus not only supposed the Berkshire to be a steamer, but judged that the
supposed steamer was at a much greater distance than it was
in fact. As already signified, the location of the light war..
ranted the supposition, and its color gave no indication that
it was on a sailing vessel. After its discovery the ship's
light opened on the steamer's port bow; how much it opened
was a matter somewhat agitated by the witnesses and the
counsel, though this court considered that matter immaterial,
because if it receded at all it indicated that there was then
no danger of collision without some change of' course, and
consequently no necessity to take m.easures to avoid one.
The weight of the evidence was that the ship had not then
turned her course northward, but if she had it was still
proved that her light opened on'the Scotia's port side, after
it was first seen, and before the steamer's course was changed.
Soon after, and because of the ship's change of course, her
light began to close in on the steamer's bow, and then for the
first time was there any apparent danger of collision. Then
the Scotia's helm was immediately ported, then hard ported,
and observing that the ship's light still closed in, orders were
given, in quick succession, to half-speed, slow, reverse, and
THe "Rules concerning Lights," it will be remembered, see supra, pp.
171-2, requires the white light of steamers to be such as shall be visible five
miles off; while the colored lights need be visible but two miles off.

176

TIHE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

back, but notwithstanding these orders, which were all
promptly obeyed, the vessels came together in the position
indicated on the diagram, and the Berkshire with her cargo
went right down in mid-ocean.
0 Berkshire o

0

0

0

0

The owners of the Berkshire, one Sears and others, now
for themselves and the owners of the cargo, filed their libel
in the District Court at New York, to recover the loss sustained by the collision. The libel charged, ot course, that
the collision occurred through the fault of the Scotia. The
District Court decreed for the respondents. The view of that
court was, that courts of admiralty were now required to
take judi-cial notice of the existence of the British orders in
council, and of the fact that so numerous maritime states
had accepted them; that so general an adoption by such
states of one rule had made a rule and usage of the sea;
that by this rule and usage-in other words, by the law of
the sea as it existed at the time of the collision-the Berkshire was bound to exhibit colored lights, and colored lights
alone; and that as she had not done so, she had no remedy.

Dee, 1871.]

THF, SO0MIA.
Argument for the sailing vessel.

The decree, therefore, was, that the libel be dismissed; and
the Circuit Court affirming this decree, the, case was now
here for review.
Mr. J. C. Carter,for the appellants:
The theory of the libellants is readily perceived. The
Scotia's white light was first inade about one point on the
Berkshire's bow, and some twenty minutes before he collision. The mate supposed it to be a sailing vessel standing to the westwai'd and closehauled on the wind. As the
Berkshire was sailing free, it waf her duty to keep out of
the way of other sailing vessels who were closehauled. The
man at the wheel was therefore ordered to keep his lufft
that is, to run nearer to the wind, which was done, and the
course of the Berkshire thus changed to windward about
three-quarters of a point. Finding that the luffing did not
have the effect of shaking the light off his bow, and supposing
that the course of the vessel was nearly opposite to his, but
really crossing his bow, he deemed it the safest course to starboard the helm and bear away before the wind while the light
was yet a great way off and there was ample time. This was
accordingly done. The light of the Scotia was soon under
the effect of the starboarding brought upon the starboard
side. The ship was kept away under her starboard helm
until the light was brought abaft the beam on the starboard
side, and then the helm was steadied. Soon after a red
light was discovered, and then -they were satisfied that the
vessel was a steamer. The heln was ordered again hard
a-starboard, but the steamer came up with rapidity and
struck the ship, breaking her open.
Now we think that this is a view which ought to exculpate
the ship. She did just what it was natural for her to do,
and, in the darkness of the night, proper. It is perfectly
settled in this court that it is the duty of steamers -to keep
clear of sailing vessels, No rule of the sea has been as emphatically declared of late times. We need not quote authorities to that point. The Scotia, in view of the great liability to error as to the position and distance of' lights on the
VOL. XIV.

12

THE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the sailing vessel.

water at night, ought to have somewhat changed her course
or slowed up, so soon as she saw how nearly the courses
met.
The argument of the other side of course will be that we
did not carry the side lights prescribed by the act of Congr(.ss and hy the British admiralty regulations. This is admitted by us. Thus it is said that we violated our statutes.
But the act of Congress prescribing the lights which sailing
vessels are to carry is but a municipal regulation of the
United States; and the Scotia cannot avail herself of such a
statute to convict an American vessel of a torl on the high
seas. All the questions in controversy are to be determined
without reference to the municipal laws of either nation;
and solely according to the general maritime law; and by
that law there was no obligation on the Berkshire to exhibit
any side lights, or not to exhibit a white light.
This precise question has arisen in England, and has been
determined by a series of decisions of the highest authority.
The question has arisen in every variety of form; sometimes
the defendants, foreigners, seeking to bind the plaintiffs,
British citizens, by the provisions of British statutes, and at
others, British plaintiffs claiming the benefit of British statutes against foreign defendants. But the decision has been
the same in all.*
Nor is the position tenable, that inasmuch as the obligations resting on the Scotia by a British statute relating to
lights were the same with those resting upon the Berkshire,
the rule should be enforced in this suit on some principle
of reciprocit.y. That question is strikingly concluded by authority. It happened to the principal libellant (Mr. Sears),
to invoke in his own behalf, in a British tribunal, on this
* Sir William Scott, in the Carl Johann, referred to in the Dundee, 1
Haggard's Admiiralty, 113; Nostra Signora de los Dolores (Lord Stowell),
1 Dodson, 290; The Zollverein (Dr. Lushington), Swabey, 96; Cope v.
Doherty (Vice-Chancellor Sir William Page Wood), 4 Kay and Johnson,
867; S. C., on appeal, 2 Do Gex and Jones, 626; The Saxopia (Dr. Lushington, and on appeal to P. C.), 1 Lush. 410; The Chancellor, 4 Law
Times, New Series, 627.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCOTIA.
Argument for the sailing vessel.

very notion of reciprocity, in a collision cause, in which his
ship was libelled by British. citizens, the protection of a
British statute; and he supported his claim by ptoof that
the United States had made a like enactment. The question. was most elaborately considered by Dr. Lushington,
and determined against him.* In the face of this decision,
it would be a singular exhibition of reciprocity, to yield to.
the claim of the Scotia.
There can be no reasonable doubt that this case is to be
governed, not by the municipal law of either the United
States or Great Britain, but by the maritime law. The main
question is, what is that law ? It is conceded that, at least
until a recent'period, it imposed no obligation upon either
of the vessels to carry colored lights, or precluded either
from carrying a white light. Now, has this law been
changed? No change has been proved, nor any evidence
offered tending to show such a change. Indeed, it is believed to have been the practice at the time, and to a great
extent is now, for sailing vessels not to exhibit colored lights
when away from the shore. But, conceding that any nurbet of municipal ordinances were proved, they do not make
any change in the maritime law. The high seas are outside
of the territory of municipal povers, and their laws have no
force there. Nor can any force be derived from them when
taken together. It cannot be maintained when the laws of
Great Britain, the United States, and France have, neither
separately nor collectively, any effect whatever on the sea,
that still if the concurring statutes of substantially all other
maritime states were added, the conbinei effect would be
to give to them effect there. How many nations must join ?
Who is to determine what is a maritime state, in order to
know whether all have joined ? Who or what is to apprise
the unlettered mariner that the municipal statutes of all nations have at last been brought into harmony ?
The municipal ordinances relied on by the District Court
* The Wild Ranger, 7 Law Times, N. S. 725 and 729; S. C., 1 Lushing

ton, 553.

THE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

do not constitute a body of statutes enacted by the nations
collectively, nor do they constitute anything in the nature
of a convention or treaty; at all events, not so far as the
United States are concernvd, and the other powers, save
Great Britain. They are municipal statutes, and nothing
more. Great Britain, indeed, by her act, seems to indicate
that in her view, as soon as other nations pass acts sirmilar
to her own, she will deem this to be an assent to a proposition made by her, and will then regard a convention as
agreed upon, which her courts are to respect; and it may
be very proper for her courts to act accordingly. But the
United States have never done anything of the kind.
On the view of the District Court, that these concurring
municipal enactments change the law of the sea, the question arises, at what point does this change become effectual ?
Is it when two, or three, or four, or what number of maritime states have concurred in the legislation? In the absence of any authoritative declaration by his own country,
when is the American navigator to know tha thk law
springs into operation ? In short, the whole view of the
District Court, whose decree was affirmed in the Circuit
Court, is so embarrdssed with difficulty, that however plau-'
sible it may be it cannot be safely maintained in practice.
Messrs. D. D. Lord and E. C. Benedict, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is plain that had the ship continued on her course after
she first saw the steamer's bright light, there could have
been no collision. And, still more, had she not afterwards
and when near the steamer put her helm to starboard she
would have been out of all danger. Even when she first
sighted the Scotia she had passed the point at which her
course and that of the steamer intersected. This is a neces
sary sequence from the facts that the angle between the
courses of the two vessels was exactly one point, and that
the light of the steamer, when first seen, bore from a point
to a point and a halt off her port 'bow. Besides, when the

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCOTIA.
Opinion of'tho court.

ship was first seen from the steamer, her bearing, it is clearly
proved, was from a point to two points off the steamer's
port bow. Such a bearing was impossible unless the ship
had already crossed the line of the, Scotia's course, and
passed the point at which the vessels could have come together unlesA one or the other had taken a new direction.
They must have passed with a wide berth between had the
ship made no change of her helm, or had she kept her luff,
in obedience to the mate's order. But by putting her helm
hard a-starboard she was made to change her course constantly till the collision occurred. Even before she bore
away the red light of the steamer was seen by her wheelsman, and probably by her lookout, if not indeed by her
master, doubtless in time even then to escape harm. Had
it not been then for the unfortunate order of the master to
starboard her helm, and bear away before the wind, this
case could not have arisen.
It must, however, be conceded that this, of itself, is not
sufficient to excuse the Scotia, if she failed to adopt such precautions as were in her tower, and were necessary to avoid
a collision. Meeting a sailing vessel proceeding in such a
direction as to involve risk, it was her duty to keep out of
the way, and nothing but inevitable accident, or the conduct
vand movements of the ship, can repel the presumption that
;he was negligent, arising from. the fact of collision. But
this duty of the steamer implies a correlative obligation of
the ship to keep her course, and to do nothing to mislead.
Nor is a steamer called to act, except when she is approaching a vessel in such a direction as to involve risk of collision. She is required to take no precautions when there
is no apparent danger.,
Was, then, the Scotia in fault? If she was, the fault must
have been either that she did not change her helm sooner,
or that she ported, or that she was unjustifiably late in
slackening her speed and reversing her engines. No other
fault is imputed to her. We have already said that she was
not bound to take any steps to avoid a collision until danger
of collision should have beeii apprehended, and we think

THE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Qt.

Opinion of the court.

there was no reason for apprehension until the ship's light
was seen closing in upon her. Assuming for the present
that she had no right to conclude that the light was on a
steamer and to manoeuvre accordingly, and, therefore, that
it was her duty to keep out of the way, it is still true that
all her duty at first was to watch the light in' order to discover certainly what it was, and to observe its course and
notice whether it crossed her own course. It is not the law
that a steamer must change her course, or must slacken her
speed the instant she comes in sight of another vessel's
light, no matter in what direction it may be. With such a
rule navigation cannot be conducted. Nor is such a rule
necessary to safety. It is, therefore, no fault that, seeing
the ship's light off her port bow, apparently at a distance of
several miles, the Scotia continued on her course without
slackening her speed, until that light began to close in upon
her. Then she ported her helm, the obvious effect of which
was to take her farther away from the approaching vessel.
Then she slowed her engines, stopped and backed, until, at
the time when the collision took place, she had ahnost, if
not entirely, ceased to move through the water. Had she
starboarded, instead of porting, the movement would have
turned her toward the Berkshire, and apparently would
have rendered collision more probable. Of the propriety of
her slowing her engines, stopping, and backing, there can
be no doubt. If, now, it be considered that she had been
misled by the nature and location of the light on the Berkshire, which indicated that the ship was at. a much greater
distance than she was in fact; that consequently the peril
came upon her suddenly, leaving short time for deliberation,
and if it be considered that she had been brought into this
extremity, first, by the il-judged and causeless change of
the ship's course, and, second, by the persistent effbrt of
the ship's master, to cross her bow after he had seen her red
light, and discovered certainly that she was a steamer, it
would be unjust to impute to her as a fault that she did
what she ought to have done, had the approaching vessel
been in fact a steamer, and that which at all events seemed

Dec. 1871.]

T E SOOTIA.
Opinion of the court.

most likely to avoid a collision. Certainly it was not her
fault that she did not know the Berkshire to be a sailing
vessel. And in all human probability the measures taken
by her to avoid a collision would have been successful if
they had not been counteracted by the constant veering of
the Berkshire, with her helm kept hard a-starboard.
Independently, therefore, of any statutory regulations,
and looking to the facts with reference to the old maritime
law alone, as it was before any modern legislation, we think
the Scotia was not chargeable with fault.
But we think the Scotia had a right to conclude that the
Berkshire was a steamer rather than a sailing vessel, and that,
when first seed, she was at the distance of four or five miles,
instead of being near at hand. Such was the information
given her by the ship's white light, fastened as it was to the
anchor-stock on deck, and no watchfulness could have enabled her to detect the misrepresentation until it was too
late. Both vessels were moving under similar regulations.
The Berkshire was an American ship, belonging to the mercantile marine, and she was required by the act of Congress
of April 29th, 1864, to carry green and red lights, which she
did not carry, and she was forbidden to carry the white
light, which she did carry. By exhibiting a white light, she,
therefore, held herself forth as a steamer, and by exhibiting
it from her deck, instead Of from her masthead, she nisrepresented her distance from approaching vessels. It is clear
the Scotia would have been justified in taking her'for a
steamer had she been known to, be an American ship. But
it is insisted on behalf of the appellants that, inasmuch as
the act of Congress is a mere municipal regulation, obligatory as a statute only upon American vessels, the Scotia, a
British steamer, cannot avail herself of it to fault an American ship, or to justify her own conduct. Waiving for the
moment consideration of the question whether this position
is well taken, it is yet true that the Berkshire was under the
statute, though on the high seas, and that the Scotia was
subject to and sailing under similar regulations (the British
orders in council of January 9th, 1863); that the collisiou

Tia.E SCfOTIA.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

happened in the known path of vessels navigating between
the United States and Great Britain, and that there was a
reasonable probability that vessels in that path would be
either American or British, anti would, therefore, carry the
lights prescribed by the laws of those countries. The
steamer might well, therefore, in the absence of knowledge,
act upon that probability, and in the emergency into which
she had been brought, might, without fault, apply the rule
of navigation common to the ships of both countries.
But, to return to the question, we think that independently of the act of Congress, considered as a mere municipal regulation, the Berkshire was bound to show a green
light on her starboard, and a red light on her port side,
without exhibiting any white light; and that the Scotia may
set up in defence her fiilure to carry such green and red
lights, as also the fact that she did improperly showa white
light. And we think that her breach of duty in these respects misled the officbrs of the steamer, and caused them
to act on the assumption that she was a steamer, and therefore under obligation to pass on the port side. If so, the
collision was solely due to the fault of the ship. We rest
this conclusion not solely, or mainly, upon the ground that
the navigation laws of the United States control the conduct of breign vessels, or that they have, as such, any extraterritorial authority, except over American shipping. Doubtless they are municipal regulations, yet binding upon American vessels, either in American waters or on the high seas.
Nor can the British orders in council control our vessels,
though they may their own. We concede also that whether
an act is tortious or not mast generally be determined by
the laws of the place where the act was committed. But
every American vessel, outside of the jurisdiction of a fbreign
power, is, fbr some purposes at least, a part of the American
territory, and our laws are the rules for its guidance. Equally
true is it that a British vessel i8 controlled by British rules
of navigation. If it were that the rules of the two nations
conflicted, which would the British vessel, and which would
the American, be bound to obey? Undoubtedly the rule

Dec. 1871.]

THIE SCOTIA.
Opinion of the court.

prescribed by the government to which it belonged. And
if, in consequence, collision should ensue between an American and a British vessel, shall the latter be condemned in an
American court of admiralty? If so, then our law is given
an extra-territorial effect, and is held obligatory upon British
ships not within our jurisdiction. Or might an American
vessel be faulted in a British court of admiralty for having
done what our statute required? Then Britain is truly not
only mistress of the seas, but of all who traverse the great
waters. It is difficult to see how a ship can be condemned
for doing that which by the law8 of its origin, or ownership,
it was required to do, or how, on'the other hand, it can
secure an advantage by violation of those laws, unless it is
beyond their domain when upon the high seas. But our
navigation laws were intended to secure the safety of life
and property, as well as the convenience of commerce.
They are not in terms confined to the regulation of shipping
in our own waters. They attempt to govern a business that
is conducted on every sea. If they do not reach the conduct of mariners in its relation to the ships and people of
other nations, they are at-least designed for the security of
the lives and property of our own people. For that purpose
they are as useful and as necessary on the ocean as they are
upon inland waters. How, then, can our courts ignore them
in any case? Why should it ever be held that what is
a.wrong when done to an American citizen, is right if the
injured party be an Englishman?
But we need not affirm that the Berkshire was under obligation to show colored lights, or to refrain from showing a
white light, merely because of an act of Congress, nor need
we affirm that the Scotia can protect herself by setting up
the ship's violation of that act. Nor is it necessary to our
conclusions that the British rules in regard to lights are the
same as ours, though that is an important consideration.
We are not unmindful that the English courts of admiralty
have ruled that A foreigner cannot set up against a British
vessel, with which his ship has collided, that the British
vessel violated the British mercantile marine act, on the

Tim SCOTIA.

.[Sup.

(It.

Opinion of the court.

high seas, for the reason, as given, that the foreigner was
not bound by it, inasmuch as it is beyond the power of Parliarent to make rules applicable to foreign Nessels outside
of British waters. This decision was nade in 1856, in the
case of The Zollverei.* A similar rule was asserted also
in The Dumfyies,t decided(l the same year; in The Saxonia,t
decided in the High Court of Admiralty in 1858, and by the
Privy Councit in 1862. The same doctrine was laid down
in 1858, in the case of Cope v. Doherly,ยง and in The Chancelor,I decided in 1861. All these decisions were made before
the passage of the Merchant Shipping Amendment Act,
which took eftlect oi the 1st day of June, 1863. By that
act the same rules in regard to lights and movements of
steamers and sailing vessels on the high seas were adopted
as those which w'ere prescribed by the act of Congress of
1864, and by the same act it was provided that the government of any fbreign state might assent to the regulations,
and consent to their application to the ships of such state,
and that thereupon the Queen, by order in council, might
direct that such regulations should apply to ships of such
foreign state when within or without British jurisdiction.
The act further provided that whenever an order in council
should be issued applying any regulation made under it to
the ships of any foreign country, such ships should in all
cases arising in British courts be deemed to be subject to
such regulations, and tr the purpose thereof be treated as
British ships. Historically, we know that befbre the close
of the year 1864, nearly all the commercial nations of the
world had adopted the same regulations respecting lights,
and that they were recognized as having adopted them.
These nations were the following: Austria, the Argentine
Republic, Belgium, Brazil, Bremen, Chili, Denmark, Ecuador, France, Great Britain, Greece, Hamburg, Hanover, Hawaii, Hayti, Italy, Lubeck, Mecklenburg-Schwerin, Morocco.
1 1 Lushington, 416.
t Ib. 63.
1 Swabey, 96.
4 Kay & Johnson, 367; 2 Do Gex & Jones, 626.
II 4 Law Times, 627.

Dec. 1871.]

THE SCoTIA.

187

Opinion of the court.

Netherlands, N rway, Oldenburg, Peru, Portugal, Prussia,
Roman States, Russia, Schleswig, Spain, Sweden, Turkey,
United States, and Uruguay-almost every commercial nation in existence.* Had this libel then been filed in a British court, the Berlshire must have been found solely in
fault, because her white light and her neglect to exhibit
colored lights signalled to the Scotia that she was a steamer,
and directed the Scotia to do exactly what she did.
It must be conceded, however, that the rights and merits
of a ease may be governed by a different law from that
which controls a court in which a renmedy may be sought.
The question still remains, what was the law of the place
where the collision occurred, and at the time when it occurred. Conceding that it was not the law of the United
States, nor that of Great Britain, nor the concurrent regulations of the two governments, but that it was the law of the
sea, was it the ancient maritime law, that which existed before the commercial nations of the world adopted the regulations of 1863 and 1864, or the law changed after those
regulations were adopted? Undoubtedly, no single nation
can change the law of the sea. That law is of universal obligation, and no statute of one or two nations can create obligations for the world. Like all the laws of nations, it rsts
upon the commlon consent of civilized coniiiumiities. It is
of force, n) t because it was prescrilbed by any superior
power, but because it has been generally accepted as a rule
of conduct. Whatever may have been its origin, whether
in the usages of navigation or in the ordinances of naritime
states, or in both, it has become the law of the sea only by
the concurrent sanction of those nations who may be said to
constitute the commercial world. Many of the usages which
prevail, and which have the force of law, doubtless originared in the positive prescriptions of some single state, which
were at first of limited effect, but which when generally accepted became of universal obligation. The Rhodian law is
supposed to have been the earliest system of marine rules.
See Holt's Rule of the Road, page 2.

THE SCOTIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was a code for Rhodians only, but it soon became of general authority because accepted and assented to as a wise
and desirable system by other maritime nations. The same
may be said of the Amalphitan table, of the ordinances of
the HJanseatic League, and of parts of the marine ordinances
of Louis XIV. They all became the law of the sea, not on
account of their origin, but by reason of their acceptance
as such. And it is evident that unless general assent is efficacious to give sanction to international law, there never can
be that growtQl and developnient of maritime rules which
the constant changes in the instruments and necessities of
navigation require. Changes in nautical rules have taken
1ow have they been accomplished,,,if not by the
place.
concurrent assent, express or understood, of maritime nations? When, therefore, we find such rules of navigation
as are mentioned in the British orders in council ofJanuary
9th, 1863, and in 'our act of Congress of 1864, accepted as
obligatory rules by more than thirty'of the principal commercial states of the world, including almost all which have
any shipping on the Atlantic Ocean, we are constrained to
regard them as in part at least, and so far as relates to these
vessels, the laws of the sea, and as having been the law at
the time when the collision of which the libellants complain
took place.
This is not giving to the statutes of any nation extraterritorial effect. It is not treating them as general maritime laws, but it is recognition of the historical fact that
by common consent of mankind, these rules have been acquiesee in as of general obligation. Of that fact we think
we may take judicial notice. Foreign municipal laws must
indeed be proved as facts, but it is not so with the law of
nations.
The consequences of this ruling are decisive of the case
before us. The violation of maritime law by the J]erkshire
in carrying a white light (to say nothing of her neglect to
carry colored lights), and her carrying it on deck instead of
at her masthead, were false representations to the Scotia.
They proclaimed that the Berkshire was a steamer, and

Dec. 1871.]

ThE JAVA.
Statement of the case.

such she was manifestly taken to be. The mevenents of
the Scotia were therefore entirely proper, and she was without fault.
DECREE AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE JAVA.
1. Though a steamship pursuing, in a crowded harbor, for her own greater
convenience in getting into dock in a particular state of the harbor,
a channel not entirely the ordinary one for vessels of her size, be
bound to more than ordinary precaution, yet if she has a right to
use that channel and do take such more than ordinary precaution, she
is -not responsible for accidents to other vessels that, with it all, were
inevitable.
2. Hence, where such a steamship pursuing in such a case such a channel,
with,tie utmost care, had occasion to cross at an acute angle the stern
of a large school-ship that stood high out of water (so obstructing view),
and thus struck and injured a small schooner that drifting along on the
other side of the sehool-ship, emerged suddenly at its stern-the steamship not having before seen the schooner, nor the schooner the stesmship-held that the steamship was not responsible; the more especially
as the schooner which was going out of port had just cast away her tug,
was drifting along with the tide, and having all her hands engaged in
hoisting sail, had no sails set so as to make her specially visible, nor
any lookout to see ahead.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts.
On the 7th of November, 1866, the Cunard steamer Java,
a screw-steamship of large size, drawing nineteen feet
water, and about 360 feet long (more than usual length), entered Boston harbor (a diagram of part of which is on a
page following), about noon, in fine, clear weather, the tide
being about one hour's ebb, and the wind blowing a three
or four knot breeze from the west. Her berth and point of
destination was a wharf at East Boston, about 2000 feet east
of the Boston Commercial Wharves. Her proper course in
coming up from what is called the Upper Middle until she
arrived within about a mile of the Commercial Wharves, and

