Dec. 1871.]

DELMAS V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

661

Syllabus.

these debts were most of them, like the present one, liens
on the property of that company, and know-n to be so by all
who united in the transaction. And, finally, that neither
the stockholders of the La Crosse and Minnesota Company,
nor of the new corporation, have ever parted with or paid
any money or other thing of' value for the Key City, otherwise than by this consolidation of the companies into one;
and it is not apparent, nor even a reasonable presumption,
that if the new company has to pay the libellant's debt in
this case they will be the losers, but it is nearly certain the
loss will fall where it should, on the stockholders coming in
through the Northwestern Company.
We do not see, under these circumstances, how the claimants can avail themselves of the rule for the protection of
purchasers without notice.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to enter a decree for
libellant for the amount due him for his wheat lost by the
Key City,
WITH INTEREST BY WAY Or DAMAGES.

DELMAS V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

t. On a writ of error to a State court, this court cannot revise a decision
founded on the ground that a contract is void on the general principles
of public policy or morality, when that is the only ground on which the
contract is held to be void.
2. But if the decision of a State court is based upon a constitutional or legislative enactment, passed after the contract was made, this court has
jurisdiction to inquire whether such legislation does not impair the obligation of the contract, and thereby violate the Federal Constitution.
8. In the prosecution of that inquiry, this court must decide for itself,
whether any valid contract existed where the legislation complained of
was had, and in making up its judgment on that question is not concluded by the decisions of the State court.
i. This court is of opin;on that the notes of the Confederate States, In ordinary use as money during the rebellion, might constitute a valid consideration for a contract ; and that a provision in the constitution of a

DELMAS V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
State, subsequently adopted, declaring such contracts void, was an impairing of the obligation of such contract within the meaning of the
Feddral Constitution.
5, A judgment of a State court, holding such a contract void, expressly based
on the constitutional provision and not on general ground of public
policy, must be reversed in this court.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Louisiana; the case being
this:
J. Menard, of New Orleans, gave to one Delmas an obligation, the consideration of which (as was said) was Confederate money. On this obligation Delmas obtained a judgment. Subsequent to the date of the obligation given, as
above said, the State of Louisiana adopted a new constitution of governm6nt, the 127th article of which thus ordained:

"All agreements, the consideration of which was Confederate
money, notes or bonds, are null and void; and shall not be enforced by the courts of this State."
So far as to Delmas and the debt to him.
The same Menard, above mentioned, gave also, May 28th,
1857, to the Merchafts' Insurance Company, a note payable
at one year, and secured by mortgage. On the 16th March,
1866, the note was thus indorsed:
"The payment of this note is without novation extended to
1st of December, 1866.
"J.

M1ENARD."

The mortgage also was reinseribed; but to neither the
extension of the note nor to the reinscription of the mortgage was there any stamp affixed.
The Stamp Act of June 30th, 1864,* it is here perhaps
necessary to remind the reader, specifies in a schedule a
great number of instruments of' writing (not including, however, either the extension of the time of payment of a prom.
issory note, or the "reinseription" of a mortgage) on which
13 Stat. at Large, 298.

Dec. 1871.]

DELMAS V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Statement of the case.

stamps must be affixed, and prescribes the amount of the
stamp; and says, also:
"Agreements or contracts other than those specified in this
sehedule, 5 cents."
In this state of things, one Henderson -having in his
hands a sum of money belonging to Menard, on which both
Delmas and the insurance company set up respectively liens
under the judgment and mortgage above mentioned-filed
a bill in one of the State courts of Louisiana, in the nature
of an equitable bill of interpleader, to have it determined by
the court to which of the claimants upon it the money
should rightfully be paid. Coming in to interplead, the insurance company, on the one hand, impeached the judgment of Delmas because it was based upon a contract the
consideration of which was Confederate money; and Delmas, on the other, impeached the mortgage of the insurance
company because neither the extension of the note nor the
reinscription of the mortgage had a stamp affixed to it.
The court where Henderson filed his bill decided both
matters in favor of the insurance company; and the Supreme Court of Louisiana, where the matter went on appeal,
did the same.
As respected the matter of the consideration of Delmas's
note, it said (assigning no other reason):
"His judgment was based on a contract or agreement the
consideration of which was Confederate money. To render the
decree asked for would be to enforce a prohibited agreement. (Article
127 Constitution.)"
In thus stating the reasons of its judgment, the Supreme
Court of Louisiana followed the Code of Practice of the
State, which requires it to state those reasons by citing as
exactly as possible the law on which it founds its opinions.*
As respected the stamps, it decided that the extension of
time on the note was not such an agreement as required
Code, article 909.

DELMAS V. TNSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ui.

Argument for the defendant in error.

stamps; nor the reinscription of the mortgage either. From
this decision Delmas brought the case here, as within the
25th section of the Judiciary Act,* alleging that the validity
of the article 127 of the Constitution of Louisiana had been
drawn in question as impairing the provision of the Federal
Constitution forbidding any State to pass a law violatinog the
obligation of contracts, and that the Supreme Court had decided in favor of its validity, and also because the construetion of an act of Congress about stamps had been drawn in
question, and that the court below had decided that it was
inapplicable.
Mr. T. J. Durant, for the plaintiff in error:
The renewal of the note is clearly a new agreement, and
comes under the head of " Agreements other than those
specified in this schedule."
The same maybe said of the reinscription of the mortgage. A mortgage to afbect third persons must be publicly
inscribed on records kept for that purpose.t This preserves
the mortgage during ten years. The effect ceases, even
against the contracting parties, if the inscriptions have not
been renewed before the expirations of their time, in the
Nothing could
manner in which they were first made.
of the Stamp
meaning
come more completely within the
Act than such a reinscription ; it is a reneewal of the mortgage, and that is the case provided for il Schedule B.
Mr. A. G. Riddle, for the defendant in error:
The extension of the note did not require to be in writing
at all, and neither the extension nor reinscription required

a stamp.
On the other matter this court has no jurisdiction. In
Bethel v. Demnaret,ยง a writ taken under an assumption that
the case was within the 25th section, seems to settle the
case. The syllabus there is:
See the sectiows, supra, 5, 6.
1lb. art 3383.

t See Civil Code of Loiisiana, art. 8314.
10 Wallace, 587.

Dec. 1871.]

PELMAS V. INSURANCE COMPANY.
Opinion of the court.

"The decision of a State court which simply held that promissory notes given for the loan of ' Confederate currency,' together with a mortgage to secure the notes, were nullities on
the ground that the consideration was illegal according to the
law of the State at the time the contract was entered into, is
not a decision repugnant to the Constitution."
The writ in that case was accordingly dismissed, as ' not
within the 25th section. So we ask that this one may be.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana would
have been the same if the article 127 had not been referred
to.*

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error relies upon two propositions ruled
against him by the Supreme Court of Louisiana as bringing
the case within the revisory power of this court.
1. The first of these is that the court below decided that
a judgment in his favor, which was otherwise conceded to
be a valid prior lien, was void because the consideration of
the contract on which the judgment was rendered wasConfederate money.
2. That the note under which the insurance company
claimed had been extended as to time of payment, and the
mortgage given to secure it reinscribed, without having the
stamps affixed which such agreements required.
1. In regard to the first of these propositions this court
has decided, in the case of T'oringlon v. Srith,t that a contract was not void because payable in Confederate money;
and notwithstanding the apparent division of opinion on
this question in the case of Hanauer v. Woodrvft. we are of
opinion that on the general principle announced in Twrzngton v. Smith the notes of the Confederacy actually circulating
as money at the time a contract was made may constitute a
valid consideration for such contract.
The proposition involved in this conclusion, however, does
*

Palmer v. Marston, supra, 10; Sevier v. Haskell, supra, 13.

t 8 Wallace, 1.

1 10 Id. 482.

DELMAS V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

not of itself raise one of those Federal questions which belong to this court to settle conclusively for all other courts.
When a decision on that point, whether holding such contract valid or void, is made upon the general principles by
which courts determine whether a consideration is good or
bad on principles of public policy, the decision is one we are
not authorized to review. Like in many other questions of
the same character, the Federal courts and the State courts,
each within their own spheres, deciding on their own judgment, are not amenable to each other.
Accordingly, in several cases coming here on writ of error
to the State courts where the same question of the sufficiency
of Confederate money and the sale of slaves as a consideration for a contract was the error complained of, we have dismissed tie writ because it appeared that the State court had
rested its decision on this ground of public policy, tested by
which the contract was void when made.*
In Bethel V. Dernaret, the first of these cases, the opinion
of the Supreme Court of the State was expressly based on
the general doctrine and the previous decisions of that court,
and not on the constitutional provision. In the next case,
The Bank of West Tennessee v. The Gitizes' Bank of Louisiana,
that court speaks both of the constitutional provision and
the adjudications of that court made prior to the adoption
of the article 127 of the Constitution. And as it was ap,parent from the record that the judgment of the court of
original jurisdiction was rendered before that article was
adopted, we could not entertain juiisdictiou when the decision in that particular point was placed on a ground which
existed as a fact and was beyond our control and was sufficient to support- the judgment, because another reason was
given which, if it had been the only one, we could review
and might reverse.
In the case before us that court say in express language
that they hold the judgment of the plaintiff in error void
Bethel v. Demaret, 10 Wallace, 537; Bank of West Tennessee v. The
Citizens' Bank, supra, 9; Palmer v. Marston, supra, 10; Sevier v. Haskell,
supra, 12; Jacoway v. Denton, not report/d.

Dec. 1871.]

I)ELMAS V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

667

Opinion of the court.

because the 127th section of the State constitution declares
that it shall be so held. That article reads as follows : "All
agreements, the consideration of which was Confederate
money, notes, or bonds, are null and void, and shall not be
enforced by the courts of this State." This provision was
made a part of the constitution of Louisiana after the contract now in dispute was made, and if the contract was valid
then, this provision clearly not only impairs but absolutely
destroys its obligation within the meaning of the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of the United
States.
It has long been settled that under the act of Congress of
1824, and by reason of the peculiarity of the practice in the
courts of that State, the opinions delivered by the appellate
court of Louisiana are treated by us as part of the record,
and are looked into to learn what they decided when their
judgments are brought here by writs of error.* So long as
they in those opinions placed the invalidity of this class of
contracts on the ground of a public policy existing at the
time the contract was made, or so long as they left us to infer
that such was the ground, having once before so decided,
the decision presented no question over which we had any
revisory power. But when, going a step further, they expressly rest the decision of the same question on the constitutional provision we have quoted, and on no other ground,
the question necessarily arises, is that provision in conflict
with the Constitution of the United States? And the answer to this question depends solely on the validity of the
contract when made; for, if valid then, the Federal Constitution protects it from all subsequent acts of State legislation, whether in the form of constitutional or ordinary legislative enactments.t
It may be said that since we know that the Supreme
Court of Louisiana has in other cases held this class of contracts void in their inception, for the very reasons for which
Cousin v. Blanc's Ex., 19 Howard, 207; Almonester v. Kenton, 9 Id. 9,
" Hart v. White, 13 Wallace, 650.

DELMAS V.

INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.,

the constitution annuls them, we are bound to follow the
State courts in that decision. But, as we have already said,
this is not the class of questions in which we are bound to
follow the State courts. It is not based on a statute of the
State, or on a construction of such a statute, nor on any
rule of law affecting title to lands, nor any principle which
hag become a settled rule of property, but on those principles of public policy designed for the protection of the
State or the public, of which we must judge for ourselves,
as they do when the question is fairly presented.
Besides, this court has always jealously asserted the right,
when the question before it was the impairing of the obligation of a contract by State legislation, to ascertain for itself
whether there was a contract to be impaired. If it were not
so, the constitutional provision could always be evaded by
the State courts giving such construction to the contract, or
such decisions concerning its validity, as to render the power
of this court of no avail in upholding it against unconstitutional State legislation.*
These views are in precise conformity to what has been
held by this court in the analogous subject of slaves as a
consideration of contracts made before the abolition of
slavery. The case of Pamer v. Marston, decided at this term,
was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana, on
the ground that that court had held such a contract void.
And it was urged that it was so held by that court under
section 128 of the Louisiana constitution, which declared
contracts for slaves void, in. the same terms that section 127
declared contracts for Confederate money void; but this
court dismissed the writ of error for want ofjurisdiction, because the Supreme Court of Louisiana had said in its opinion
that it did not place the decision on the constitutional provision, but on the ground that the same principle had been
promulgat'ed and acted on in that court before the constitutional provision was adopted.
* Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wallace, 145; Jefferson Branch
Bank v. Skelley, I Black, 456.

Dee. 1871.]

DLMAS

.

INSURANCE COMPANY.

669

Opinion of the court.

Yet, in the case of Hart v. White,* in which the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia held such a contract void by
reason of a provision in the constitution of that State, adopted
after the contract was made, this court entertained jurisdiction and reversed the judgment. This was done on theground taken in the present case, namely, that the contract
being in our judgment valid when made, any constitutional
provision which made it void was in violation of the Federal
Constitution on the subject of impairing the obligation of
contracts; and any judgment of a State court resting on,
such enactment of a State constitution, after the date ofthe
contract, must be reversed in this court on error.
We are of opinion, for these reasons, that there was error
in the Supreme Court of Louisiana in deciding that the
judgment of Delnmas was void by reason of the constitutional provision of that State concerning contracts for which
Confederate notes were the consideration.
As the case must be reversed for this reason, we might
pass without examination the question raised in regard to
the necessity of stamps on the extension of time for the payment of the note, and on the reinseription of the mortgage;
but as that may arise again in the further progress of the
case, we will dispose of it now. As regards the latter,
which is the mere act of the party who holds the mortgage,
we are at a loss to perceive any ground on which this act
of reinscription-the same as recording a deed the second
time--can be held to be an agreement requiring a stamp.
The assent of the mortgagor is not necessary, nor was it
asked or given. Nor do we believe it was the purpose of
the Stamp Act to hold a mere extension of' the time of payment, indorsed on the note, without any consideration for
such extension, or change in any other term or condition of
the contract, to be an agreement :equiring a stamp.
In the case of Puqh v. Me crmick,t it was held that the indorsement of a note by which the bill passed to the indorsee,
13 Wallace, 646.

t Supra, 861.

670

PROPELLER

COMPANY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

did not require a stamp, and also that a writing on the back
of the note by the indorser waiving demand, protest, and
notice, and agreeing to'be liable without them, was good
without a stamp. We think this ample authority for holding that a gratuitous extension of time did not require a
stamp, as both the writings relied on it that case have more
of the elements of an agreement than-the one before us. In
the matter of the stamp, we think the court committed no
error.
But for the error first considered the judgment is REVERSED, and the case remanded for further proceedings,
IN

PROPELLER

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

COMPANY V.

UNITED STATES.

A vessel was let by its owners to the United States for an indefinite period,
not less than thirty days, and the government undertook to pay $150
for each day that she might be employed under the contract, and to
bear the war risk. In addition to this the value of the vessel was fixed
at $40,000, and it was agreed that should she be retained in the service
of the United States until the money paid and due on account of the
charter should be equal to such value, she should become the property
of the United States without further payment, except of such sum as
might then be due on account of her hire under the charter. It was
further agreed that if at any time during the continuance of the charter
the United States should elect to purchase her, they might take her at
$40,000, in which ease all. money paid and due on account of the charter
should be applied on account of the purchase. theld that this was not a
mere affreightment; that transmission of the ownership of the vessel to
the United States was also contemplated ; that this transmission was to
be at the option of the United States ; that in no event were the owners
to have more than $40,000 for her, and that tlis sum might be paid in
full by the per diem hire, in \vhich case the vessel was to become the
property of the government so soon as the hire should equal in amount
the price named or at such earlier time as the United States might elect
to take her at that price. The vessel having accordingly been lost by a
war risk, after $11,397.64 had been paid on account of her hire, the

