504 PHMENIX INSURANCE COMPANY

V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. CL

Statement of the case.

Diametrically opposite views were entertained by the pre
siding justice in the Circuit Court, and he accordingly in
structed the jury that neither the distillers nor their sureties
were liable to the plaintiffs under the first bond. (2.) That
the reimbursement to the plaintiffs by the distillers of the
salaries of storekeepers was not one of the duties of the
distillers for which the second bond was given.* (3.) That
the plaintiffs could not recover the amount paid to the storekeepers for services performed by them on Sundays, as the
law did not contemplate their employment on that day.
Under those instructions the jury returned their verdict
for the defendants, and the plaintiffs excepted and removed
the cause in this court. Having determined that the instructions were erroneous, it only remains to remark that the
judgment must be
REVEsRsE),

and the cause remanded with directions to

issue a

NEW VENIRE.

PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

HAMILTON.

1. Insurance may be effected in the name of a nominal partnership where
the business is carried on by and for the use of one of the partners;

especially when the property insured (grain) is held by the parties insured on commission only, and in the policy is described "as held by
them in trust or on commission, or sold and not delivered
2. In case of an insurance thus effected, where no representations are made
with regard to the persons who compose the firm, there is no misrepresentation on that subject which avoids the policy.

3. And where the firm has no actual care or (xstody of the property insured
(grain), but so far as regards its preservation from fire, it is entirely
in the control of the other parties, and is so understood to be by the
company making the insprance; the omission to inform the insurance

company of an agreement of dissolution previously made cannot be considered a concealment which will avoid the policy.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
Hamilton and Cook were partners in the grain commis.
* White v. Fox, 22 Maine, 341; State v. Bradsh-w, 10 Iredell, 232.

Dec. 1871.]

PHENIX INSURANCE COMPANY V. HAMILTON.

505

Statement of the case.

sion business, at Toledo, Ohio, and kept their consignments
of grain in store in an elevator at that place belonging to
the Michigan Southern Railroad Company, whose servants
had the entire charge and care of it. Hamilton retired from
the firm in July, 1867, but no notice of the dissolution was
given, and by common agreement Cook 'was allowed to
carry on the business in the partnership name until the'end
of the year. During this term insurance to the amount of
$10,000 was effected with the Phoenix Insurance Company
of Brooklyn, through their agent, in the name of the firm,,
Hamilton & Cook, against loss or damage by fire on the
"grain in store, their own, or held by them in trust or on
commission, or sold and not delivered," this being the usual
method of taking insurance among commission merchants
in Toledo. A loss occurred on the 21st of December, whilst
the policy was running; and the insurance company declining to pay it, Hamilton & Cook sued them. The defence
set up was:
1st. Want of insurable interest in Hamilton ; and,
2d. Misrepresentation and concealment with regard to
the interest.
The plaintiffs, on the trial, waived any claim for grain belonging to themselves individually, and asked a verdict but
for the value of the grain which was received on commission ; asking to recover this amount for the use and benefit
of the owners.
At the request of the plaintiffs' counsel, the court charged
that if no representations were made with regard to the individuals who composed the firm of Hamilton & Cook, there
was no misrepresentation which could avoid the policy.; and
that if Iamilton & Cook had no actual care or custody of
the grain, but that so far as regarded its preservation from
fire, it was entirely in the control of the railroad company,
and so understood by the company's agent when the policy
was effected, the omission to infbrm the defendant of the
agreement of dissolution could not be considered a concealment which would avoid the policy. Verdict and judgment

506

PIRENIX INSURANCE COMPANY V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the insurers.

vent accordingly for the plaintiff,, and the case now came
here on exceptions to the charge of the court.
Mr. A. C. Bradley, for the insurance company, plaintiff in
error:
1. Cook, alone, at the date of the policy and of the fire,
held the grain in question in trust or on commission. He
alone was the bailee, and alone had an insurable interest.
Hamilton had no custody, was no bailee, and had no insurable interest. No action, therefore, can be maintained;
not a joint action, because the interest was sole, nor a sole
action, because the policy was joint.
It is true, indeed, that a nominal partner is sometimes regarded as a real one. But he is only so regarded adversely
and to subject him to the obligations of a partner. And
this is but right. When a partner retires from a firm, still
keeping his name. before the public, he can mean nothing
but to give to the firm a credit which it does not deservo.
Here, Hamilton, whose name doubtless made the firm attractive, withdraws; leaving his name in order that business
might be drawn to Cook. This was a deception. Such an
act may subject a person to the liabilities of a partner; but
surely should'not give him a partner's benefits and advantages.
2. The policy was void for fraud. Hamilton and Cook
had been partners under their joint names, and the firm
name continued to be used by each of them from the time
of the dissolution till the tirme of insurance, and afterwards.
Every such use of that name was a representation that both
persons still composed that firm. Such representation was
untrue and of a material matter. Had Cook been alone
held out to the world less insurance would have been
needed. It was obviously Hamilton's name which made the
firm attractive and brought business to it. Indeed, but for
the prestige which Hamilton's name gave the firm, it does
not appear that Cook would have had any business or
needed any insurance. Then, again, if Hamilton, in addi.
tion to the name, had felt the care and exercised the natual

Dec. 1871.] PIr(FNIX

INSURIANCE COMPANY V. HAMILTON.

507

Opinion of the court.

vigilanceof a partner, he might have prevented the destruc.
tion of the building. At all events, every untruth uttered
with an intent to deceive others for the benefit of the party
uttering it, or the benefit of his friends, is a fraud on all
parties deceived. Here the company's agent issued the
policy believing both Hamilton and Cook to be partners.
They so represented themselves; herein committing a fraud
on the company. That fraud vitiates the policy.
Mr. P. Phillips (a brief of Messrs. Wailes, Biell, and Gorill
being filed), contra.
Mr. Jastice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal question is whether insurance can be effected
in the name of a norninal partnership where the business is
carried on by and for the use of one of the partners.
Hamilton was a nominal partner, held out to the world as
a member of the firm by his own consent, and affected with
every liability of a partnor-to consignors, creditors, and all
persons dealing with the concern. The plaintiffs conten led
that this was a sufficient interest to support thA policy, at
least, in a commission business where insurance was effected
for the benefit of the real owners of the goods. It is objected that a nominal partner is only held such, idver sely,
for the purpose of subjecting him to liability as-a partner,
and not for the purpose of giving him the benefits and advantages of a partner. But whilst this is generally true, the
interest of a nominal partner in the liabilities of' the firm is
such as should entitle him, in the absence of any attempt to
defraud, to join with the other members of the firm in effecting insurance on the property of the concern. As Chief
Justice Jones remarked in De Forest v. Fulion Insuraiwe Co.,*
"It does not always require either the legal title or beneficial
interest in the property to entitle a party otherwise connected
,"ith it to effect a valid insurance upon it. A carrier may
insure goods he contracts to convey, yet he has neither the
* 1 Hall, 110.

508

PHGE NIX INSURANCE COMPANY V. HAMILTON.

[Sup. ,t,

Opinion of the court.

legal title nor the beneficial interest in them, but he is responsible for their loss."
But the case of a nominal partnership carried on for the
benefit of one or more members of the firm seems to be
still stronger. For it may be said that the legal interest
in the business is in the firm, whilst the beneficial interest
is in the member or members for whose use it is carried
on. In the case before us, as to all the world except
themselves, the legal interest of the business was in the
firm, of Hamilton & Cook, the beneficial interest in Cook
alone. And as it is well settled that a trustee or agent may
insure the property held in that capacity for the benefit of
all concerned, there seems to be no valid reason why persons constituting a nominal partnership should not be competent to effect insurance as well as transact the other business in the partnership name. In this case the intimate
connection of Hamilton with the business, and the fact that
as between him and the consignors of the grain insured, the
railroad company with whom it was stored, and all other
persons dealing with it, lie was actually a partner, and incurred all the responsibility and risk attaching to that relation, constituted, in our judgment, a sufficient basis of interest for effecting insurance in the name of the firm. The
doctrine, established by a number of cases, that nominal
partners are proper plaintiffs, as well as proper defendants,
in actions by and against the firm, lends support to this
view.*
The case before us is an. especially strong one, from the
fact that the policy was effected mainly for the benefit of the
owners of grain held by Hamilton & Cook on commission.
The action was prosecuted solely for their benefit. The
plaintifts, on the trial, expressly waived any claim for grain
belonging to themselves, individually, and asked a verdict
only for the value of the grain which was received on commission, claiming to recover this amount for the use and
* See Parsons on Partnership, 134; Story on Partnership1
Smith's Leading Cases, 1190.

11

241, 242; 1

Dec. 1871.] PHaENIx ISxURANCE COMPANY

V. HAMILTON.

509

Opinion of the court.

benefit of the owners. The liberality with which policies of
this character, issued to trustees and agents for the benefit
of parties really interested, are sustaified by the courts, is
stated and illustrated in the case of The Insurance Company
v. Chase,* decided by this court in December Term, 1866.
As looking in the same direction, we may refer to the cases
in New York which decide that a sale by a retiring partner
to his copartners of his interest in the firm, is niot a, breach
of the condition that the policy shall be void if the property
is conveyed without the consent of the insurance company. t
The other ground of defence was, that there was misrepresentation and concealment, as to the interest, which
vitiated the policy. It is laid down by this court in The
Columbian Ins. Co. v. Lawrence,t that an applicant for insurnce is bound to fair dealing with the underwriters, and, in
his representations, should omit nothing which it is material
for them to know; nothing which would probably influence
the mind of' the underwriter in forming or declining the
contract. This doctrine is repeated in several subsequent
cases, and is undoubtedly the well-established law. But its
application will depend upon the circimstances of each ease.
Generally speaking it is undoubtedly true that any misrepresentation with regard to the ownership of the property insured will suffice to vitiate the policy. But policies are constantly applied for and granted on general stocks of goods,
held in trust or on consignment for numerous and unknown
parties. In such cases it is not expected, nor would it be
possible, that the insurers should be informed as to the
ownershi p. They are content to insure for the benefit ot
whom it may concern. Of course, an omission to disclose
the ownership in such cases cannot be regarded as an
improper concealment. In some cases it is important to
the insurers to know who is interested in the property, in
order that they may form a judgment as to the probable
5 Wallace, 509.

t See Hoffman v.
cases there reviewed
1 2 Petcrs, 49.

Etna Insurance Company, 32 New York, 405, and

510

PH(NIXINSURANCE COMPANY v. HAMILTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

care which will be bestowed in its custody and preservation.
In other cases this knowledge may be a matter of little importance. In the ease before us the grain insured was in
the sole custody and care of the railroad company, and the
insurers were little concerned, as, in fact, their agent made
no inquiry, who were the owners or interested therein; and
no representation was made on the subject, farther than to
make the application in the name of Hamilton & Cook, and
to ask for a general insurance on the grain in the elevator,
whether their own, or held by them in trust, or on commission,. &c. Under the circumstances of the case we do not
see that anything material for the insurers to know, or that
would have had a bearing on taking the risk or fixing the
,premium, was concealed or withheld. On this subject the
court,,at the request or the plaintiffs' counsel, charged the
jury that if no representations were made with regard to
the individuals who composed the firm of Hamilton & Cook,
there was no misrepresentation which could avoid the policy,
and that if Hamilton & Cook had no actual care or custody
of the grain, but that so far as regards its preservation from
fire, it was entirely in the control of the railroad company,
and so understood by the defendant's agent when the policy
was- effected, the omission to notify the defendant of the
agreement of dissolution could not be considered a conceal.
ment which would avoid the policy. Under the circum.
stances of the case, we do not think there was any error in
this charge.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

