Dec. 1871.]

1W

THE MERRIMAC.
Statement of the case.

the possibility .of a small vessel lying behind the school-ship.
The answer is, that she took every reasonable precaution
which the circumstances required. She proceeded very
slowly, only two knots an hour; she had lookouts posted in
every proper place; as soon as the schooner was seen, she
took every means in her power to stop and back and avoid
the collision. How could she anticipate the possibility of a
vessel lying behind the school-ship, without sails hoisted,
incapable of being seen in a bright, clear day, drifting along
helplessly with the tide, ready to drop under the Java at her
approach ? Is it not applying too severe a rule to the Java,
to require her to anticipate all this, and to require the
schooner to anticipate nothing?
It seems to us that if this was not an inevitable accident,
so far as the Java was concerned, it would be very difficult
to imagine a case of inevitable accident not caused by external force, as of winds and waves.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
tions to

REVERSED,

with direc-

DISMISS THE LIBEL.

THE MERRIMAC.
1. The fact that a steamship is in charge and under the control of a pilot
taken on board conformably to the laws of the State, is not a defence to
a proceeding in rem against her for a tortious collision ; the laws of the

State providing only that if a ship coming into her waters, refuse to
receive on board and pay a pilot, the master shall pay the refused pilot
half pilotage, and no penalty for the refusal being prescribed.
China '(7 Wallace, 58) affirmed.

The

2. A steamship of 2000 tons having a tag, each of 500 tons, on each side.
condemned as guilty of a rash act for sailing in a place from 70 to 7M
feet wide, which was little or no more than the width of the ship and
tugs abreast, between a buoy which indicated an entire obstruction of
navigation, and a ship aground with a steamtug on each side.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana, in a case of collision condemning the Merrimac for
damages done to the Gladiator.

TuHE

MERRIMAC.Z

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr. J. I-iubley Ashton, for the appellants; Mr. Conway Robinson, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the facts, and delivered
the opinion of the court.
Vessels engaged in commerce are liable for damage occasioned by collision by reason of the negligence, want of care,
or skill on) the part of those intrusted with their navigation,
or on account of the complicity, direct or indirect, of their
owners. Owners appoint the master and employ the crew,
and consequently the owners are held responsible for the
conduct of the master and crew in the management of the
vessel.
Damages were claimed in the libel in this case, which was
filed in the District Court by the owners of the steamtug
Gladiator, to recover compensation for injuries the tugboat
received on the eleventh of January, 1867, by a collision
which occurred on that day in the Mississippi River at the
Southwest Pass, between the Gladiator and the steamship
Merrimac, of the burden of two thousand tons, in tow of
two tugboats, to wit, the Calhoun, of five hundred tons,
lashed to her starboard side, and the Harry Wright, of the
same tonnage, lashed to her port side. They instituted the
suit in rem against the, steamship and the two tugs which had
her in tow, and they charged in the libel that the damage to
the Gladiator was done by t'he three steamers 'made respondents in the libel. Service was made by seizing the three
respondent steamers, and the respective owners of the same
appeared and filed separate answers. By leave of court a
bond for value was given in each case, and each of the responden t steamers was released when the bond for value was
filed. Testimony was taken on both sides and the parties
went to hearing, and the District Court entered a decree
dismissing the libel, and the libellants appealed to the Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard, and the Circuit Court affirmed so much of the decree as dismissed the
libel as to tl~e two steamtugs, but reversed the decree as to

Mee. 1871.1

THE MERRIMAC.
Statement of the case in the bpinion.

the steamship, and pronounced for damages as against her
in favor of the libellants.
Courts, under such circumstances, may estimate the damages without a reference, or they may send the cause to a
commissioner for that purpose, in the exercise of their liscretion.* Pursuant to that rule the Circuit Court estimsted
the damages without a reference, and found the amount to
be four thousand six hundred and ninety-seven dollars and
forty cents, with five per cent: interest from the time the
libel was filed in the District Court. Whereupon the owners
of the steamship appealed t6 this court, and the only question presented is whether the decree of the Circuit Court'
awarding damages to the libelhants against the steamship is
correct, as none of the other parties have appealed.t
By the pleadings and evidence it appears that the steamtug of the libellants was made fhst to the larboard side of
the ship Celuta, bound to the port of New Orleans, and
which, in endeavoring to pass up the river, had grounded
some twelve hours before on the bar of the Southwest Pass.
Her master had employed the Gladiator and the stearntug
Switzerland, which was lashed to the starboard side of the
Celuta, to assist the crew of the ship in getting her over the
bar, and at the time of the collision these three vessels,
lashed together in the manner described, were lying on the
bar, the port side of the Gladiator being at the distance of
seventy to seventy-five feet from a certain buoy indicating
the place on the bar where was a certain " wreck" which
entirely obstructed navigation. Under these circumstances
the Gladiator was unable to -move, as she was lashed to the
ship Celuta and the ship was aground on the bar, and it was
while the Celuta and her two steanitugs wer6 in that situation that the steamship Merrimac and the two steamtugs
which had in her tow, also bound to New Orleans, came up
and attempted to pass between the Gladiator and the buoy
which indicated the location of the wreck, and the pleadings
and evidence show that the stearntug Calhoun was lashed to
* Silsby et al. v. Foote, 20 Howard, 386.

t The Bagaley, 5 Wallace, 412; The Quickstep, 9 Id. 665.

202

TiE MERRIMAC.

[Sap. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the port side of the steamship, and having a consid 'rable list
to port her starboard guard was elevated and passed over the
rail of the Gladiator, striking the latter vessel with great
violence, raking her from stem to stern, and carrying away
all her upper works. By the collision the cabin, cook-house,
pilot-house, and enigine-room of' the Gladiator were entirely
smashed and carried from the port side over to the starboard
side of the steamtug. Her boiler was knocked out of place,
her steam-drum broken to pieces, her lever and exhaust-pipe
broken, and much other damage was done to the engine and
other parts of the steamtug, as more fully set forth in the
record.
Two defences were set up by the owners of the steamship
(1.) That the steamship and the two steanitugs which had
her in tow were in the charge and under the control of a
branch pilot, taken on board conformably to the requirements of the law of the State, and they allege that the owners of the vessels, while they were under the control and
management of such a pilot, are not in any way responsible
for their navigation. (2.) Tha t there was sufficient space to
allow the steamship and her two tugs to pass up between
the wreck and the Gladiator, and that they came up in a
skilful and proper manner; that as they were passing the
Gladiator and touched shoal water the Calhoun careened
two points, which made it impossible to prevent a collision,
which was an event wholly unforeseen and which could not
have been anticipated by the most skilful seamanship.
Much discussion of the first defence, since the decision in
the ease of The Ohina,* is entirely unnecessary, as the whole
subject was there very carefully considered. By the law of
the State it is provided that if the master of any ship or vessel coming to the port of New Orleans shall refuse to receive
on board and employ a pilot, the master or owner of such
ship or vessel shall pay to such pilot who shall have offered
to go on board and take charge of the vessel half-pilotage.t
*7

Wallace, 58.

cf
Revised Statutes of Louisiana, 1856 pp. 403, 404.

Dec. 1871.]

THE MERRIMAC.
Opinion of the court.

State pilot laws which compel the owners of vessels to pay
half-pilotage in cases where the pilot offers his services and
they are refused, where the law is not enforced by any penalty, are not regarded as compulsory, and therefore the fact
that the vessel was in charge of a pilot under such a law at
the time of the collision is no defence to a libel for damages,
if it appears that the collision was occasioned by- negligence
or unskilful navigation.* Port regulations are supposed to
be known to the shipowner before he sends his vessel on the
voyage, and the general rule is that in sending her to any
particular port he elec.ts to submit to the lawful regulations
established at that port, and that the vessel, in case she unlawfully collides with another vessel engaged in lawful commerce, shall be responsible.t Where the law is not eniforced
by any penalty it is not regarded as compulsory, and if not
compulsory the defence that the ship was in charge of a pilot
is not a valid defence, which is all that need be said upon
the subjoct.:
2. Other defences failing, it is quite common to set up the
defence of inevitable accident. Most collisions are inevitable
at the moment they occur, but the primary rule is that precautions must be seasonable, as all experience shows that in
order to be effectual they must be seasonable, and if they are
not so, and a collision ensues ini consequence of the delay, it is
no valid defenee to say that nothing could be done at the moment to prevent the two vessels from coming together. Inability to prevent a collision usually exists at the time it occurs, but it is generally an easy matter to trace the cause of
the disaster to some negligent or unskilful act, or to some antecedent omission of duty on the part of one or the other or
both of the colliding vessels.ยง Few cases arise where there is
less difficulty in answering such a defence or in pointing to
the antecedent error than in the ease under consideration, as
it is quite clear to any one acquainted with the rules of navi-"The Marcellus, 1 Clifford, 490.

Martin v. Hilton, 9 Metcalf, 371
The Governor, I Clifford, 97.

J The Carolus, 2 Curtis, 69.
Hunt v. Carlisle, 1 Gray, 257.

THE MABEY AND COOPER.

[Sup. M

Syllabus.

gation that it was a rash act for the steamship with her two
tugs, one on her larboard side and the other on her port
side, to attempt to pass between the Gladiator and the
wreck, even if the space between those objects was somewhat wider than the three steamers abreast, which, to say
the least of the proposition, is very doubtful.
Beyond doubt it was the duty of the steamship to keep
out of the way, both because she was astern and because the
Celuta to which the Gladiator was lashed was aground, and
it is no answer to say that it was possible to pass, and that
the attempt would have been successful if the Calhoun,
when she reached shoal water abreast of the G!adiatoi', had
not careened, as alleged in the answer. Under the circumstances it must be assumed that those' in charge of the
steamship knew that it was their, duty to keep out of ,the
way, and if they did not know that the water shoaled where
the Celuta was grounded, it only furnished additional evidence to support the conclusion that the attempt to pass between the Gladiator and the wreck was a rash act and that
the owners of the steamship are responsible for the consequences. Such being our conclusion, it is unnecessary to
examine the other questions discussed at the argument.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE

MABVY AND COOP9R.

1. Although the general rule is that a party who does not appeal cannot be
heard in opposition to the decree, still where it appeared-the suit below
being a libel for collision against a tug and her tow-that an appeal
from the District Court to the Circuit Court had been taken from the
entire decree by the owners of the tow who had ordered the tug, and who
had undertaken her defence as well as their own, and thus represented
the entire interest of the losiig party in the suit, an appeal by the tug
from the Circuit Court to this court was entertained here, though the
court observes that doubt might perhaps exist as to the regularity of the
proceeding

