452

NIOOLSON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nor the payment of any taxes assessed upon the land. On
the contrary, they proved nothing except themnere lapse of
time, unaccompanied by evidence of possession, or of improvements, or the payment of taxes, or any other circumstance, as a ground of presumption to warrant the jury in
finding that the board of property ever granted a new warrant of survey or made any order of a character to give
legality to the title set up in their behalf, which is all that
need be remarked to show that there is no error in the
record. Unquestionably lost records maybe proved by secondary evidence, but their former existence and loss must
first be established by competent proof, and it is clear that
evidence merely showing that they do not exist is not sufficient to establish either of those requirements.
JUD)GMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG having been of counsel for one of
the parties did not sit.

iNICOLSON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.
An assignment of a reissued patent, reciting the date and number of the reissue, and that the original patent had been "given for the term of fourteen years ;" reciting that the assignee had agreed to purchase all the
right, title, and interest which the patentee had "in the said inventzen
as secured by the said letters-patent ;" and transferring to the assignee
all the right, title, and interest which the patentee has "1in the said invention and letters-patent;" "the same to be held and enjoyed by the said party
for the use and behoof of him and his legal representatives to the full end of
the term for which the said letters-patent are or may be granted, as fully and
effectively as the same would have been held and enjoyed by the assignor had
theassignment never been 9nade," will transfer an extension and renewal of
the patent made under the acts of July 4th, 1836, and of May 27th, 1848;
and this though the patent be reissued subsequently to the assignment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;
the case being thus:
On the 8th of August, 1854, Samuel Nicolson obtained

Dec. 1871.]

Nio0LSON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.

453

Statement of the case.

letters-patent for an improvement on wooden pavements.
On the 1st of December, 1863, he obtained a reissue. He
then, December 1st, 1864, made an assignment to Jonathan
Taylor thus:
"Whereas I, Samuel Nicolson, invented a certain new and
useful improvement in wooden pavements, of which letterspatent of the United States of America (numbered 1583 of reissued patents, and bearing date the 1st of December, 1863) have
been granted to me, giving to me and my legal representatives
the exclusive right of making, using, and vending the said invention throughout the said United States; the original patent
being dated August 8th, 1854, and given for the term of fourteen
years.
"And whereas Jonathan Taylor has agreed to purchase from
me all the right, title, and interest which I have in and to the
said invention for and in the city of San Francisco, as secured
by the said letters-patent, and has paid to me the sum of one
dollar, the receipt whereof is hdreby acknowledged.
"Now, therefore, this indenture witnesseth, that for and in
consideration of the said sum to me paid, I have assigned, sold,
and set over, and do hereby assign, sell, and set over, unto the
said Taylor, all the right, title, and interest which I have in the
said invention and letters-patent for and in the said city of San
Francisco, but in no other place.
"The same to be held and enjoyed by the said Taylor for the
use and behoof of him and his legal representatives to the full
end of the term for which the said letters-patentare or may be granted,
as fully and effectively as the same would have been held and enjoyed by me had this assignment never been made."
Afterwards, August 20th, 1867, Nicolson obtained another
reissue of the same letters-patent on an amended specification; and he having died in January, 1868, intestate, the
Commissioner of Patents, on the application of his administrator, on the 7th of July, 1868, renewed and extended the
letters-patent for seven years from the 8th of August, 1868,
under the well-known 18th section of the act of July 4th,
1836, and the act of Congress of May 27th, 1848.
The right (whatever it was), which was vested in Taylor
under the assignmnent, being subsequently transferred to the

454

NicoLSoN PAVEME T COMPANY V. JENKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Nicolson Pavement Company, and that company having
laid a large extent of the patented pavement in San Francisco, after the expiration of the original patent, one Jenkins,
who had obtained from the admihistratorof Nicolson whatever right was vested in him under the renewal and extension
of 1868, sued the company.
The question, of course, was whether the assignment from
Nicolson to Taylor of December 1st, 1864, vested any estate,
right, title, or interest in the assignee, in or to the extended
or renewed term, which was acquired by Nicolson's administrator under the act of Congress, subsequent to the date
of the assignment.
The court below thought that it did not, and gave judgment against the company. From that judgment the company brought the case here.
Mr. l. T. Crittenden, for the plainfiff in error:
The Commissioner of Patents having been authorized by
statute to grant extensions for seven years, the original
letters-patent then became virtually a patent for twenty-one
years. No one can in view of well-known decisions of this
court deny that the inchoate right of the inventor to the exelusive privileges under an extension of letters-patent is the
subject of a sale, and certainly the words of this assignment
in'the concluding part of it are applicable only to a design
to convey both a present and fiture interest.
Mr. H. H. Carpenter (a brief of Mr. . A1. Sharpstein being
filed), contra:
The recitals in the assignment show that the original
patent had been issued for the term of fourteen years, and
that before the expiration of the term there had been a reissue of the patent; that Taylor had agreed to purchase a
certain interest in said invention, "as secured by said letterspatent" (the letters-patent recited); that in consideration of
the premises he assigned, sold, and set over to said Taylor
his interest "in the said invention and letters-patent," the
letters-patent thereinbefore mentioned. Thus far there is

Dec. 1871.] NICOLSON

PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.

455

Argument for the defendant in error.

no allusion to any term or letters-patent other than the
original term of fourteen years, and the letters-patent origi.
nally
issued,,and the reissued letters recited.
These
form the entire subject-matter of
the contract.
There can be no dopbt as to the intention of the parties,
unless certain words in the habendum clause, contrary to the
ordinary rules of construction, can be construed as extending the contract to a subject-matter not before embraced, or
referred to, in the recitals or granting portions of the deed.
As we have seen, the habendum clause is, "the same to be
held and enjoyed . . . . to the full end of the lerm for which
the said letters-patent are or may be granted." The words
"may be granted" are the only ones in the whole instrument that can be thought to point to an extension that might
subsequently be acquired. But they must be read in connection with, and in subordination to, the rest of the instrument, and this very clause refers to " the term for which the
said letters-patent," &c. A single term is referred to, and the
said letters-patent. The reference is in terms to the term
and the letters-patent already mentioned. The phrase "may
be granted," seems to be an expression loosely used, and
without aiiy definite meaning in the connection in which it
is found, unless it refers to other reissues of patents covering the remainder of said term. There had already been
one reissue, and the facts shoiv that a second reissue was had
for the remainder of the term, after this assignment, doubtless to cover some defect. These reissues are authorized by
the act of Congress, and often occur. in a certain sense,
when the patents thus originally issued are surrendered and
others issued in their place, the whole may be regarded as
the same letters-patent. They cover the same term. The
reissued patent covers no improvement or extension, but
is intended to rectify some error, or remedy some defect,
and accomplish the identical object intended to be accomplished by the letters originally issued. In this sense they
are substantially the same letters-patent. In this view the
words "may be granted" may have some significance as
used in this instrument, iand they are satisfied by applying

456

NICOLON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

them to any further letters-patent that might be issued for
the same term and to accomplijh the same objects intended
by those already issued. And in this instance there was a
subsequent reissue for the remainder of the term, to which
they might in fact apply. But upon a view of the whole
instrument, to construe them as referring to a new term, and
letters-patent not yet in esse, would be doing violence to the
language.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
An assignment of an interest in an invention secured by
letters-patent, is a contract, and like all other contracts is to
be construed so as to carry out the intention of the parties
to it. It is well settled that the title of an inventor to obtain
aii extension may be the subject of a contract of sale, and
the inquiry is whether the instrument of sale employed in
this case, did secure to the purchaser an interest'not merely
in the original letters-patent, but in any subsequent extension of them. It recites the invention and the ngreement
of Taylor to purchase the right to use it inthe city of San
Francisco, and then conveys to him all the title and interest
which Nicolson had in the invention, and letters-patent for and
in the said city; to be enjoyed by Taylor and his legal representatives to the full end of the term for which the said
letters-patent are, or may be granted. There is no artificial
rule in construing a contract, and effect, if possible, is to be
given to every part of it, in order to ascertain the meaning
of the parties to it. Taking this whole deed together, it is
quite clear that it was intended to secure to Taylor and his
assigns the right to use the invention in San Francisco, as
long as Kicolson and his representatives had the right to
use it anywhere else. Manifestly something more was intended to be assigned than the interest then secured by
l~tters-patent. The words "to the full end of the term for
which the said letters-patent are or may be granted" necessarily import an intention to convey both a present and a
future interest, and it would be a narrow rule of construction to say that they were designed to apply to a reissue

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. BALLARD.

Statement of the case.

merely, when the invention itself by the very wor's of the
assignment is transferred. "It was easy to have restricted
the right to use the invention to the end of the term of the
original letters and reissues, but this was not done; and in
view of the right of' the inventor in certain contingencies to
a renewal,-which must have been well known to both buyer
and seller of this kind of property,-we are led to the conelusion that both parties contracted with reference -to it.
The case of The RailroadCompany v. Trimble* is not different
in principle from this, although in that case-the language
used is somewhat broader.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

UNITED STATES V.

BALLARD ET AL.

1. Under the act of June 17th, 1864, " To regulate the foreign and coasting
trade in the northern, northeastern, and northwestern part of the.
United States," &c., the collectors mentioned in it are entitled to retain
for their own use moneys received by them from the owners of steamers
and from engineers and pilots, by virtue of the 31st section of the act
- of August 80th, 1852.
2. Where a demurrer to a special plea which is a complete avoidance of the
whole cause of action is overruled and the plaintiff does not reply, but
suffers judgment to be entered against him on the plea, the court may
properly enter judgment on the whole case, though another plea (a general issue) had been (against the rules of good pleading) filed, on which
issue was taken ; provided the issue thus raised on the last plea have by
the judgment on the demurrer been in fact disposed of and so rendered
immaterial.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
A statute of August 30th, 1852,t requiring annual licenses
for steamboats, after preliminary inspections, examinations,
and certificates, enacts by the 31st section:
"That before issuing the annual license to any such steamer,
* 10 Wallace, 367.

f[ 10 Stat. at Large, 73.

