Dec. 1871.]

I-URLEY V.

STREET.

Statement of the case and arguments.

HURLEY V. STREET.
In this case the court dismissing, as involving no Federal question, an appeal
from the Supreme Court of a State taken on a false assumption, that the
case fell within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, call the
attention of the bar of the court generally to the fact that much expense
would be saved to suitors, if ileforo they advised them to appeal from
decisions of the highest State courts to this one, they would see that the
case was one of which this court had cognizance on appeal.
MOTION, by Mr. G. G. Wright, to dismiss a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of Iowa.
Hurley sued Street to recover a lot of ground at Council
Bluff. The defendant set up that the plaintiff had no title
himself, and then relied on a tax sale, statute of limitation,
and various other defences. The plaintiff demurred to four
of these defences; assigning among other grounds of de.
murrer that " the law authorizing the tax sale was unconstitutional and void." The court overruled the demurrer,
and the parties went to trial. On the trial much evidence
was given about the character of the tax sale, the notice
given, &c., tender of redemption-money, and other matters
relating to the regularity of what had been done at the sale,
but nothing of a different kind.
The court found for the defendant, and the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State. The same sort
of questions were there raised, and the same passed on; the
Supreme Court finally affirming the decree. From that decree the case was brought here under an assumption that it
came within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted
supra, pp. 5, 6.

Mr. G. G. Wright and Mr. Lander, in support of the motion
to dismiss, argued that it did not appear that any Federal
question within the 25th section had been passed on ; and
that the decision 'was plainly made on other grounds not the
subject of review here.
Mr. Moor, contra, reading a public act of the legislature

86

HURLEY V.

STREET.

[Sup.

.

Opinion of the court.

of Iowa, under which the sale was alleged to have been
made, and'which made the tax deed conclusive evidence of
certain things, tending to give regularity to sales under it,
argued that the act was in the face of the fifth amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that
no person shall "be deprived of property except by due process of law." He then argued that the plaintiff did raise the
point of unconstitutionality under one of his grounds of denmurrer, and that the court could not have decided against
him without deciding that the act was constitutional.
Reply: The plaintiff did not stand on his demurrer, but
went to trial. It does not even appear that the plaintiff
showed a prima facie title in himself. If so, certainly the
question of the constitutionality of the tax sale could not
have arisen. But assuming that he did, it does not appear
that the decision turned on that question. In addition, the
allegation of unconstitutionality is too general. It applies
presumably in the first instance to the State constitution.
But if it applied to the restriction in the fifth amendment
of the Federal Constitution, that restriction is not one on
the States, but only on the United States.*
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
To give jurisdiction to this court upon error to.the highest
court of the State in which a judgment or decree has been
rendered, it is necessary to show that some question under
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act was made and decided,
of which this court has cognizance by writ of error on appeal.
This has been frequently ruled.t
It does not appear from the record that any such question
was either made or decided.
Much expense to suitors would he spared if counsel would
attend to the principle above stated, and as we have said,
frequently laid down, before advising their clients to resort
*Pumpelly v. Green Bay Company, 18 Wallace, 166.
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 868; Armstrong v. Treasurer, 16 Id. 281;
Phillips's Practice, 108.

Dec. 1871.]

TRADERS'

BANK V.

87

CAMPBELL.

Statement of the case.

to the appellate jurisdiction of this court from the decisions
of the State courts. The writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

TRADERS'

BANK V. CAMPBELL.

1. Suit in chancery by an assignee in bankruptcy to recover the proceeds of
goods sold under judgment in a State court against the bankrupt taken
by confession when both parties knew of the insolvency.
Such a judgment, though taken before the first day of June, 1867, is
an unlawful preference under the 35th section of that act, if taken after
the enactment of the bankrupt law.
2. The proceeds of the sale of the bankrupt's goods being in the hands of
one sued as a defendant, another person who had a like judgment and
execution levied on the same goods is not a necessary party to this suit,
being without the jurisdiction. The rule laid down as to necessary
parties in chancery.
3. The proceeds of the sale being in the hands of the bank, though it had
given the sheriff a certificate of deposit, the assignee was not obliged
to move against the sheriff in the State court to pay over the money to
him, but had his option to sue the banik which had directed the levy and
sale and hold the proceeds itt its vaults.
4. The defendant having money received as collections for the bankrupt delivered it to the sheriff, who levied the defendant's execution on it and
applied it in satisfaction of the same. This is a fraudulent preference,
or taking by process under the act, and does not raise the question
whether if the defendant had retained the money it could be set off in
this suit against the bankrupt's debt to the defendant.
5. So taking a check from the bankrupt and crediting the amount of the
check then on deposit, on the ban krupt's note the day beire taking
judgment, was a payment by way of preference and therefore void, and
does not raise the question of set-off.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District

of Illinois.
The bankrupt act of the United States enacts by its 35th
section that if any person being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before the filing of
a petition by or against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor having a claim against him procures his
property to be seized or makes any payment, transfer, &c.,
thereof, directly or indirectly, the person receiving such pay-

