Dec. 1871.] BANK OF

BETHEL V.

PAIIQUIOQUE BANK.

383

Statement of the case.

of loss, and their statements when testifying at the trial that
the former were false, so as to justify the court in assuming
it, and directing verdicts for the defendants. It may have
been the testimony last given that was not true, or the statements made in the proofs of loss may have been honestly
made, though subsequently discovered to, be mistaken. It
is only fraudulent false swearing in furnishing the preliminary proofs, or in the examinations which the insurers have
a right to require, that avoids, the policies, and it was for
the jury to determinc whether that swearing was false and
fraudulent.
The remaining two assignments of error are not pressed,
and it is properly conceded .that the court could not lay
down as a rule of law the mode of computation designated
in the prayers for instruction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.
1. A National anljing association may be sued in any state, county, or municipal court in the county or city where such azsociation is located,
having jurisdiction in similar cases.
2. Such an nssociatiofl does not lose its corporate existence by mere default
in paying its circulAting notes, and upon the mere appointment of a receiver.
3. Such an association may be sued though a receiver have been appointed,
and is administering its concerns.
4. The decision of the receiver upon the validity of a claim presented to
him for a dividend is not final'; the creditor may proceed afterwards, to
have the validity of the laim judicially adjudicated in a suit in a
proper State court, against the bank.

Ix error to the Supreme Court of Connecticut; the ease
being thus c
On the 3d bf Jime, 1864, Congress Oassed'its well-known
"act to provid a Na tional currency, secured by a pledge
of United States bonds;"* un'der which act numerous new
* 13 Stat. at Large, 99.,

384

BANK OF BrTHL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. CtL

Statement of the case.

banks were organized, and numerous State ones, availing
themselves of power given by the act, were converted into
National ones, and like those first created by the act planed
under the control of the laws and officers of the United

States, including specially a Comptroller of the Currency,
under whose directions a limited amount of notes were to be
given to the banks; these notes being the only ones that the
banks could issue,
The act, after providing for the mode in which the new
banks were to be organized under articles of association,
enacts:
SECTION 8. That every association formed pursuant to its provisions shall "be a body corporate," and "have succession by the
name designated in its organization certificate for a period of
twenty years from its organization, unless sooner dissolved.
(1st.) According to the provisions of its articles of association, Oa,
(2d.) By the act of its shareholders,,owning two-thirds of its
stock, oR,
(3d.) Unless the franchise shall be forfeited by a violation of this
act."
" By such name," continues thesection, "it may sue and
be sued, complain and defend as fully as natural persons."
The 32d section, after enacting that all the banks in certain cities of the United States shall redeem their circulating
notes at par in New York, provides:
"That nothing in this section shall relieve any association
from its liability to redeem its circulating notes at its own
counter, at par, .in lawful money on demand."
The 46th section enacts:
"That if any such association shall, at any time, fail to redeem
in the lawful money of the United States any of its circulating
notes when payment thereof shall be lawfully demanded . . .
the holder may cause the same to be protested, in one package,
by a notary public, . . . and such notary public on making such
protest or upon receiving such admission shall fbrthwith forward such admission, or notice of protest, to the Comptroller

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEL V.

PAHIQUiOQUE BANK.

385

Statement of the case. '

of the Currency.

And after such defaulc,

....

it shall not be

lawful for the association suffering the same to pay out any of
its Dotes, discount any of its notes, or otherwise prosecute the
business of hanking, except to receive and safely keep money
belonging to it, and to deliver special deposits."
The 50th section enacts:
"That on becoming satisfied, as specified in this act, that any
association has refused to pay its circulating notes as therein
mentioned and is in default, the Comptroller of the Currenc.
may forthwith appoii a receiver ... who ... shall take posses.
sion of the books, records, and assets of every description of
such association, collect tll debts, dues, and claims belonging to
such association, and upon the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction may sell or compound all bad or doubtful debts, and
on a like order sell all the real and personal property of such
association, on such terms as the court shall direct .... And
such receiver shall pay over all money so made to the Treasurer
of the United States, subject to the order of the comptroller ...
And *from time, to time the comptroller, after full provision
shall have been first made for refunding, &c., . . . shall make a
ratable dividend of the money so paid over to him on all such
claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction, or adjudi.
cated in a court of competent jurisdiction."
A proviso to this section says, however,
"That if such association against which proceedings Lave
been so instituted on account of any alleged refusal to redeem its
circulating notes as aforesaid, shall deny having failed to do so,
such association may . ..apply to the nearest circuit or district
or territorial court of the United States to enjoin further proceedings in the premises, and such court ... after the decision
of the court or the finding of a jury that such association has
not refused to redeem its circulating notes ... shall make an
order enjoining the comptroller or any receiver from all further
proceedings on account of such alleged refusal."
The 45th section enacts :
"That all associations under this act when designated for that
purpose by the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be depositories
of the public money (except receipts from customs), under such
VOL. XIV

25

386

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

regulations as may be prescribed by the secretary; and they
may also be employed as financial agents of the government;
and they shall perform all such reasonable duties as depositories
of the public moneys and financial agents of the government as
shall be required of them."
The 52d section enacts:
" That all transfer of the notes, bonds, bills of exchange, and
other evidences of debt owing to any association, or of any deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages, sureties on
real estate, or of judgments or decrees in its favor; all deposits
of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its use, or for the
use of any of its shareholders or creditors; and all payments of
Tmoney for either, made after the commission of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, with a view to prevent the
application of its assets in the manner prescribed by this act, or
with a view to the preference of one creditor to another, except
in payment of its circulating notes, shall be utterly null and
void."
The 53d section enacts:
"That if the directors of any association shall knowingly vioiate or knowingly permit any of the officers, agents, or servants
of the association to violate any of the provisions of this act,
all the rights, privileges, and franchises of the association derived from this act shall be thereby forfeited. Such violation

shall, however, be determined and adjudged by a proper circuit,
district, or territorial court of the United States, in a suit brought
for that purpose by the Comptroller of the Currency, in his own
name, before the association shall be dissolved."
The 57th section (and this is an important one to be noted
in the case) enacts:
"That suits, actiQns, and proceedings against any association,
under this act, may be had in any circuit, district, or territorial court of the United States, held within the district in which
such association may be established; or in any state, county, or

municipal court in the county or city in which said association is
located; having jurisdiction in similar cases. Provided, however,
that all proceedings to enjoin the comptroller under this act
shall be had in a circuit, district, or territorial court of the

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEL V. P AIIQUiOQUE BANK.

387

Statement of the case.

United States, held in the district in which the association is
located."
In this state of statutory law about National banks, the
First National Bank of Bethel, in Connecticut, on the 21st
of February, 1868, failed to redeem some of its circulating
notes. They were protested, and on the 26th of February
a receiver was appointed under the above-quoted 50th section of the Currency Act, who immediately entered on the
duties of his office.
The National Pahquioque Bank of Danbury, Fairfield
County, in the same State, asserted that it was a creditor
of the Bethel Bank, and presented its claim to the receiver.
The receiver, however, disallowed it.
The Pahquioque Bank thereupon, on the 30th of May,
1868, brought assumpsit in the Superior Court of Fairfield
County, a court of Connecticut having jurisdiction in similar
cases, against the Bethel Bank. The Bank of Bethel defended itself against the claim on these, in substance, among
other grounds:
1. That the courts of the United States alone had juris.
diction after the appointment and acceptance of the receiver.
2. That prior to the suit brought the Bank of Bethel had
forfeited its charter by a violation of the Currency Act, in
not paying its notes, and could not be sued anywhere.
3. That it could not be sued because it, was, at the time,
under the control and in possession of a duly appointed receiver, "incapable of self-defence, and entitled to the legal
protection and guardianship thrown about it by the law."
4. That the decision of the receiver on the presentation
of the claim was conclusive on the parties to the suit as an
adjudication, unless set aside by the Comptroller of the Currency, or by some court of the United States having jurisdietion.
But the court gave judgment for the Pahquioque-Bank
f)r the full amount of its claim. The Bethel Bank then
took the case on error before the Supreme Court of the
State, where the judgment of the Superior Court of Fair-

388

BANK OF BEIHEL V. PAnQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the Bethel Bank.

field County was affirmed. To review this final judgment
of the Supreme Court this writ of error was brought.
Messrs. C B. Goodrich, Roqer Arerill, and L. D. Brewsler,
for the Bank of Bethel, plainiff in error:
1. The National banks, under the act of 3d June, 1864,
have been established as instruments by which the government may perform some of its trusts. They are controlled
by the Treasury department. They are allowed to receive
from the Comptroller of the Currency notes which they may
circulate as money. They cannot issue any instrument for
circulation or use as money, or as , substitute for money,
except the notes intrusted to Ihem by the comlptroller.

Their existence, as bodies corporate, can be sustained under
the Constitution, only, because they may be employed by
the government in the execution of its functions. The act
imposes upon the Comptroller of the Currency certain duties
of a public character, to perfbrm which lie is clothed with
certain powers. The legality and propriety of the supervision and control which is exercised by the Comptroller of
the Currency of the United States over National banking
associations, and the effect of his acts in relation thereto,
are to be determined; exclusively, by the laws of' the United
States; the construction of which is ultimately to be given
by the courts of the United States. The suit brought in
the Superior Court of Fairfield County, a State court of Connecticut, was thus brought in a court without jurisdiction.
2. An association under the act is to have succession (that
is to say, corporate existence) for the period of twenty years
from its organization, unless the franchise (which consists in a
right of banking) shall be forJiled by a violation of the act.
NTow the Bank of Bethel committed a violation of the act, a
" default," as the act itself calls it, on the 21st of February,
1868, at which time it failed to redeem some of its circulating
notes; which failure was duly ascertained by the Comiptroller of the Currency, who, on the 26th of February, acted
thereupon, by the appointment of a receiver. This actiop
of the comptroller was not enjoined by any District, Circuit,

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAIIQUIOQUE BANK.

389

Argument for the Bethel Bank.

or Territorial Court of the United States; the only courts
competent to enjoin or act in thq matter. The result is that
the power of succession (corporate capacity) ceased to exist
prior to the 30th May, 1868, on which day the Pahquioque
Bank instituted their suit. The association was dissolved;
the receiver was clothed with power to reduce the assets to
money, by suit in his own name; was directed to pay the
money to the Treasurer of the United States, subject to the
order of the Comptroller of the Currency, for the use of
those entitled as creditors, giving priority of payment to the
United States; the remainder or surplus of the proceeds,
after the payment of debts, to be paid by the comptroller
to the shareholders of the association or their legal representatives, in proportion to the stock by them respectively
held, and not to the association in its corporate capacity.
3. On the 30th May, 1868, on which day the Pahquioque
Bank coninenced its suit, the Bank of Bethel had no authority to pay, was prohibited from paying, any creditor; it
had no means within its control with which to pay. If the
bank had authority, after notice by the comptroller, to pay
a creditor, it might by such payment defeat the provision
of the act which gives to the United States, from the assets
of the association, priority of payment for any deficiency in

the redemption of its circulating notes after applying the
bonds deposited for their redemption. It results, from the
'ant of authority to pay a creditor, at the time the suit by
the Pahquioque Bank was instituted, that no suit at law, in
any court, State or National, could be instituted against the
Bank of Bethel.* If one creditor, after the appointment of
a receiver, may institute a suit in a court of law, every creditor can, and by such course of proceeding disregard the
winding up under the direction of the comptroller.

4. After an association has been placed in the hands'of a
receiver, the statute prescribes the mode of winding up, which
includes an ascertainment of the creditors, and the amount
severally due to them. This mode of proof excludes all
* Atlas Bank v. Nahant Bank, 28 Pickering, 480; 1lubbard v. Hamilton
Bank, 7 Metcalf 340.

390

BANK OE BETHEL V. PAHQU'IOQUE BANK.

[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the Pahquioque Bank.

others. This cannot be doubted, except by holding that the
act conferring authority upon the Comptroller of the Currency to appoint a receiver, to receive proof of claims, lo
wind up the affairs of the corporation, is unconstitutional.
Messrs. W. F. Taylor and 0. S. Seymour, contra:
1. The whole argument against the jurisdiction of State
courts is answered by the 57th section of the act which in
casesk like that where the Pahquioque Bank sued, gives the
jurisdiction in express words to "any state, county, or municipal court in the county or city in which said association
is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases."
2. The association does not become extinct, ipso faclo, by
the appointment of a receiver. The 50th section speaks of it
as existing. The powers of the receiver may be superseded,
if the bank shows that it did not fail to redeem its notes.
Default in paying notes only curtails its privileges. But
even if it were a cause for forfeiture, still by the undoubted
rules of the common law and by the express provisions of
the 59th section of the act, a judgment of forfeiture by a
judicial tribunal is necessary, and the corporate existence
continues till such judgment is had. Questions of forfeiture
cannot be tried in a collateral way. The only evidence
which the law admits is the copy of the judgment of forfeiture, by a competent tribunal, in a proceeding instituted
directly for the purpose of an adjudication of forfeiture.
3. A judgment by a State or other court, for a sum of
money (such a judgment was given in the courts below), does
not take things out of the receiver's hands. It does not interfere with any duties which the Currency Act imposes on
him. It merely ascertains the justice of a claim and fixes
it amount. Payment of the claim can be made only in
subordination to the Currency Act. No number of judgments would prevent "the winding up under the direction
of the comptroller." The only result is that the claim being
"adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction" the
creditor under it comes in for a dividend.
Then is the disallowance by the receiver of the claim pre-

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAAHQUIOQUE BANK.

391

Opinion of the court.

sented to him before the judicial adjudication, a decisive
adjudication of that claim'? Certainly not. The comptroller and receiver are not judges of the United States.
They cannot hold a court, summon a jury, compel the appearance of witnesses, or swear witnesses if they should
appear. Every citizen of the republic may of common
right appeal to a judicial tribunal for the adjudication of his
rights. Tie right of trial by jury is secured by the Constitution to controversies of the character of that between these
two banks, and the right of trial by jury implies that the
controversy may be brought before a court that has power
to summon ajury. There is in the act no provision for the
establishment of a special tribunal to adjudicate claims
against the insolvent bank. The failure to make any, leaves
their adjudication to the courts in the ordinary course and
manner of settling disputed claims. This would be the
necessary inference from mere silence, and is confirmed and
established by the provision in the 50th' section, that the
comptroller is to make a ratable dividend "on all such
claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction or awjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction."
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Associations for banking, formed pursuant to the act to
provide a National currency, 'and duly authorized by the
Comptroller of the Currency to commence the business of
banking, become bodies corporate and have a succession for
the period of twenty years from their organization, unless
sooner dissolved according to the provisions of their articles
of association, or by the act of the shareholders owning twothirds of the stock, or unless the franchise shall be forfeited by
a violation of the act under which tha association was formed.
Such an association is allowed to select, subject to certain
conditions and the approval of th'e Comptroller of the Currency, another such association at which it will redeem its circulating notes at par, but the provision is that nothing in that
Eection shall relieve any such association from its liability to
redeem its notes in circulation at its own counter-, at par, in

392

BANK OF BETHEL V'. PAIIQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lawful money, on demand; and in case of faiiure so to do,
the holder may cause the same to be protested in one package by a notary public, unless the president or cashier of
the association which issued the notos, or the president or
cashier of the association designated as the place for redeeming the same, will waive demand and notice of protest and
execute an admission in writing stating the amount demanded and the fact of non-payment, and it is made the
duty of the notary forthwith to forward the admission or
notice of protest, as the case may be, to the Comptroller of
the Currency for his information and action in the premises.
Notes to a large amount, issued by the corporation defendants for circulation, were held by the corporation plaintiffs,
and the plaintiffs presented the same to the defendants for
redemption, and the defendants failing to redeem the same,
the plaintiffs offered the notes for protest, but the defendants
having waived demand and notice of protest, and having
tendered an admission in writing stating the amount demanded and the tiict of non-payment, the plaintiffs accepted
the written admission, and the notary forwarded the Aame
to the Comptroller of the Currency as required under such
circumstances. Pursuant to the requirement of law the
Comptroller of the Currency appointed a special agent to
ascertain whether the acts set forth in the protest were true,
and the agent so appointed having reported that the defendants had failed to redeem in lawful money their circulating
notes when payment thereof was duly and lawfully demanded, he,,the Comptroller of the Currency, appointed a
receiver of the delinquent association, with all the powers,
duties, and responsibilities given to or imposed upon such
an appointee in such ease made and provid(ed(, and the record
shows that the. receiver entered upon the duties of his office
and took possession of nll the books, records, and assets,
real and personal, of the associationj and that he has ever
since had the exclusive possession of the same, to be disposed of according to law. Before the commencement of
the suit the Comptroller of the Currency caused notice to be
published requiring all claimants to present and make pr of

Dec. 1871.]

BANK Op BETHEL

V.

PAAHQUTOQUE BANK.

393

Opinion of the court.

of their claims against the delinquent association, and the
record also shows that the plaintiffs presented the claim in
controversy to the receiver for allowance, and that the receiver having disallowed the same, the plaintifl, inst ituted the
present suit in the State court to recover the amount. Appropriate proceedings followed, as in an action of "ssumpsit,
and the parties having been heard the subordimte court
where the suit was brought made a finding of flicts, but reserved the question whether the case ought to be dismissed
for want of jurisdiction, and if not, what judgrnent ought to
be rendered in the case, and all questions of laIw arising
upon the facts found, tor the opinion and advice of the Suprerne Court of Errors. Proper measures were adopted to
obtain the opinion and advice of the appellate tribunal, and
they were duly received, and thereupon the subordinate
court rendered judgrment in favor of the plaintifls foir the
whole amount claimed'in the declaration. Proceedings in
the nature of a writ of error were instituted by the (letendants, by which the cause was removed into the Supreme
Court of Errors, where the parties were again heard and the
decision of the Court of Errors was that the j udgment should
be in all things affirmed. Final judgment having been rendered in the State court, the defendants sued out a writ of
error under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary. Act
and removed the cause into this court.
Four only of the errors assigned will be examined, as the
others, in the view of the case taken by the court, either involve substantially the same considerations or present questions not re-examinable in this court under a writ of error
to a State court. Briefly stated the errors assigned to be
exanine(] are as fblrows:
(1.) That the State court had no jurisdiction oh' the case
or of the parties at the time the suit was commenced.
(2.) That the defendant association prior to the institution
of the suit had forfeited its franchise by a violation of the

act under which it was tbrmed and had been dissolved by
the action of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(3.) That the defendant association could not be impleaded

394

BANK OF BETIIEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

at the time the action was commenced, as prior to that time
the association was prohibited by the act of Congress from
paying or satisfying any of its creditors.
(4.) That the decision of the receiver disallowing the claim
of the plaintiffs was final and was not subject to review in
the State court.
Support to the first proposition is supposed to be derived
fromi the conceded fact that such associations are created by
an act of Congress and that they are instruments of the National government in-trusted with the power of carrying on
the business of banking and of employing and circulating
treasury notes as a National currency, subject to the supervision and direction of the Comptroller of the Currency and
of the Secretary of the Treasury. Banking associations, it
is said, were established as instruments by which the government may perform the trust of furnishing and regulating
the National paper currency, and the argument is that inasmuch as they are instruments of the government to carry
into effect a National purpose they cannot be impleaded in a
State court. Confirmation of that view is also attempted to
be drawn front the fact that such associations are controlled
by the Treasury D.epartment, that all the notes which they
circulate as money are received from the Comptroller of the
Currency, and that they cannot issue any instrument for circulation or use as money except the notes intrusted to them
by the Comptroller of the Currency, as authorized by the
act of Congress.
Beyond all doubt such associations are created by an act
of Congress and for the purposes assumed by the defendants,
but the conclusion attempted to be drawn from those facts
cannot be sustained, as express provision is made by the
fif'ty-seventh section of the act that suits, actions, and proceedings against any such association may be had "in any
state, county, or municipal court in the county or city in
which said association is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases." Commenced as the action was in the proper
court of the State where the association is located and in a
court having jurisdiction in similar cases, which is not de.

Dec. 1871.]

BANK' OF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

395

Opinion of the court.

nied, it is quite clear that the objection to the jurisdiction
of the court founded upon the character of the association as
an instrument of the National government, must be overruled. Jurisdiction in such suits is unquestionably vested
in arty circuit, district, or territorial court of the United
States held within the district in which such association may
be established, but the decisive answer to the objection of
the defendants is that the same section of the act of Congress gives authority to creditors to prosecute such controversies in " any state, county, or municipal court in which
said association is located" in all cases where it appears that
such courts have jurisdiction under the State laws in similar
controversies. Proceedings to enjoin the Comptroller of the
Currency under that act must, it is true, be instituted and
prosecuted in a circuit, district, or territorial court of the
United States, but 'the act allows creditors to sue in the
proper State courts in all suits, actions, and proceedings
against the association, as specifically provided in the fiftyseventh section of the act. Authorities to support. the
proposition are not necessary, as it rests upon an express
provision in the act of Congress.*
II,Associations of the kind have a succession for the
period of twenty years from their organization, unless sooner
dissolved in some one of the modes pointed out in the act
under which such associations are formed, and throughout
that peiriod, unless sooner dissolved, they may make contracts in the name designated in their organization-certificate and may sue and be sued or comp!ain and( defend in
any court of law or equity as fully as natural persons. Such
corporate franchises cease to exist when the term for which
they were granted expires, and the association may at any
time go into liquidation and be closed by the vote of its
shareholders owning two-thirds of the stock, but it is not
necessary to remark upon those topics, as it is not pretended
that the defendant association has ceased to exist or been
dissolved in either of those modes. All such associations
* 18 Stat. at Large, 116.

396

BANK OF BETIEL V. PAHIQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

are bound to redeem their circulating notes either at their
own counter or at such other similar association as they are
allowed to select for that purpose, and the provision is that
if any association shall fijl either to make the selection or to
redeem its notes as .requirel, the Comptroller of the Currency may, upon receiving satisfactory evidence thereof, appoint a receiver, in the manner provided in the act, to wind
up its affhirs. Holders of' the circulating notes of such an
association may demand payment thereof at the office of
such association or at its place of redemption designated as
aforesaid, and if the association fail to redeem the same in
lawful money they may cause the same to be protested, as
before explained, and the notary on making such protest or
upon receiving such admission, shall forthwith forward the
same to the Comptroller of the Currency for his information
and action in the premises. Being informed of the defhult
of the association in that mode, it is made the duty of the
comptroller to make anl examination into the facts, and if
satisfied that the default has been committed, to give notice
to the association ; and the same section provides that from
that time it shail not be lawful for the association suffering
the default to pay out any of its notes, discount any notes or
bills, or otherwise prosecute the business of banking, except
to receive and safely keep money belonging to it and to deliver special deposits. On receiving such notice the Comptroller of the Currency, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, may appoint a special agent to examine
into the facts of the case, and if satisfied from the protest or
the report of the special agent that the charge of default as
made is true, he shall, within thirty days, declare the bonds
and securities pledged by the association forfeited and give
notice to the holders of the circulating notes to present the
same for payment at the treasury, and the provision is that
in that event lie may in his discretion cause an amount of,
the bonds pledged, equal at current rates to the amount paid
to redeem the outstanding notes of the association, or lie
may cause such an amount of the bonds pledged as may be
necessary to redeem the outstanding notes, to be sold at

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEl, V. PAH1IOQUE BANK.

397

Opinion of the court.

public auction ; or, if he shall be of the opinion that the public interest will be best promoted thereby, he may sell at private sale any of the bonds so pledged and receive therefor
either money or the circulating notes of such failing association. Power is also conferred upon the Comptroller of the
Currency in such a case forthwith to appoint a receiver to
take possession of the books, records, and assets of every
description of the association and to collect all debts due
and claims belonlging to it,and upon the order of a court of

reeord of competent jurisdiction lie may sell or compound
all bid or doubtful debts and may sell all the real and persoiial property of the association on such terms as the court
shall direct, and may, if necessary to pay the debts of the
association, enitfrce the intdividual liability of the stockholders, as enacted by the twelfth section of the act. All moneys
so made by the receiver lie is to pay over to the Treasurer
of the United States, sub ject to the order of the Comptroller
of the Currency, and be is also to make report to that officer
of all his'acts and proceeditigs. Receivers may also be appointed for other causes than those already mentioned; as,
for example, in case the money reserve which the association
is required to have on hand shall fall below the prescribed
amount, and when notified to make it good the association
shall fail for thirty days to comply with the reqnirernent, or
shall fail for thirty days to increase the capital stock of the
association to the minimum amount requir~d, where the
same has been reduced below that amount by the delinquency of the shareholdors and consequent sale and reduction of the stock; or, in case any such association which is
required to keep undiminished the twenty per centum surplus mentioned in the twelfth section of the act, shall fail to
keep it good, in which event the provision is that the Comptroller of the Currency may compel said banking association
to close its business and wind up its affitirs, as provided in
the act under which it was organized. Whenever a receiver
is appointed the comptroller is required to give notice of the
fact, requesting all persons having claims against the association to present the same and to make legal proof thereof.

398

BANK

tF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Provision is first to be made by the comptroller for refunding to the United States any such deficiency in redeeming
the notes of the association as is mentioned in the act, and
having refunded that amount the comptroller is required in
the next place to make a ratable dividend of the money paid
over to him by the receiver on all such claims as may have
been proved to his satisfaction or adjudicated in a court of compelent jurisdition. Claims proved to the satisfaction of the
comptroller are to be included in the list, and he is also to
include in the list all claims adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction, which shows conclusively that claims
disallowed by the comptroller may be prosecuted in a court
havingjurisdiction in such cases.* Where the whole assets
are riot collected and distributed in the first dividend, further
dividends on claims proved and adjudicated may be made
as the proceeds of the assets are collected and paid to the
treasurer, and the remainder, if any, shall be paid to the
shareholders.
None of these pi'oceedings, however, support the theory
that the association ceased to exist when the receiver was
appointed, nor at any time before fhe assets of the associa..
tion are fully administered and the balance, if any, is paid
to the owners of the stock or their legal represetitatives.
Delinquent associations whose notes have been protested,
and whose officers have been notified by the comptroller
that proceedings for liquidation under the act have been instituted, cannot lawfully pay out any of their notes, or discount any notes or bills, or otherwise prosecute the business
of banking, except to receive and safely keep m6ney belonging to the association, and to deliver special deposits,
which of itself refutes the theory that the association at that
stage of the proceedings has ceased to exist. 'Evidence'to
refute that theory is also found in the proviso to the fiftieth
section of the act, which empowers the association, if they
deny having failed to redeem their circulating notes, to
apply, within ten days after being so notified by the compKennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wallace, 506.

Dec. 1871.]

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.

39

Opinion of the court.

troller that such proceedings have been commenced, to the
nearest circuit, or district, or territorial court of the United
States to enjoin further proceedings in the premises, and
those courts are invested with full jurisdiction to hear and
determine the matters put in issue by such an application.
Such associations are authorized to elect or appoint directors, and the directors are empowered to exercise all
such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the
business of banking. They may'make by-laws, discount
and negotiate promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, or
other evidences of debt; receive deposits, buy and sell exchange, coin, and bullion; loan money on personal security
and obtain, issue, and circulate notes, according to the provisions of the act to provide a National currency. Throughout they are. enjoined to conform to the regulations of that
act, and the provision is that if they knowingly violate any
of its provisions or knowingly permit them to be violated,
all the rights, privileges, and franchises of the association
derived from the act shall be thereby forfeited; but the
further provision is that such violation, before the association shall be declared dissolved, shall be determined and
adjudged by a proper circuit, district, or territorial court
of the United States, which shows conclusively that the act
of the comptroller in appointing a receiver does not work a
complete dissolution of the association, as is supposed by
the defendants.*
IIl. Express power to sue and be sued, complain and defend, in any court of law and equity, is conferred on such
associations by the eighth section of the act providing for
their organization, and it seems quite clear that the association is a proper party to be sued in all matters in which the
corporation is interested, unless the association is disqualified for that 'purpose by virtue of the appointment of a rece'ver or by his subsequent action as such under his appoint
ment. Neither power to sue nor to be sued in such cases is
Frost v. Coal Company, 24 Howard, 283; Angel & Ames on Corporations, 9th ed. 777; Abbott's Digest, title " Corporation," 338; Grant on Corporations, 295.

400

B INK OF BETIHEL

V.

PA'HIQUIOQUE BANK.

[Sup, CT.

Opinion of the court.

anywhere in terms conferred upon the receiver, nor upon
the Comptroller of the Currency in any case except when
he institutes a suit to forfeit, the rights, privileges, and franchises of the association, and in that case the provision is
express that the suit shall be in his own name.* Beyond
doubt the appointment of a receiver supersedes the power
of the directors to exercise the incidental po-wers necessary
to carry on the business of banking, as the receiver is required to take possession of the books, records, and assets
of every description of the associatipn, and from that moment the association is forbidden to pay out any of its notes,
discount any notes or bills, or otherwise prosecute the business of banking, but the corporate franchise of the associafion is not dissolved, and the association, as a legal entity,
continues to exist, as is shown to a demonstration by the
fact that it is required safely to keep the money on hand belonging to it, and may deliver special deposits ia its keeping
to the rightful owners.
Much aid cannot be derived from authorities in the exami.
nation of this proposition, as ti question turns chiefly if
not entirely upon the construction of the act of Congress,
and suffice it to say that we are all of the opinion that the
act contains nothing in its subsequent provisions inconisistent

with the theory of the plaintiffs, that the association may
sue and be sued, complain and defend, in all cases where it
may be necessary that the corporate name of the association
shall be used for that purpose in closing its business and
winding up its affairs under the provisions of the act which
authorized its formation.
Suits and proceedings under the act, in which the United
States or their officers or agents ai'e parties, whether commenced before or after the appointment of a receiver, are
to be conducted by the district attorney under the direction
of the solicitor of the treasury, and no doubt is entertained
that the directors, from the time a receiver is appointed,
cease to have any power in respect to such matters, and that
* Case v. Terrell, 11 Wallace. 201.

Dec. 1871.]

BANK

oF BETHEL

V. PAHQIOQUE BANK.

401

Opinion of the court.

the control and supervision of the same are vested in the
proper officers of the United States. Claims presented by
creditors may be proved before the comptroller or may be
established by a suit against the association in any court of
competent jurisdiction.* Creditors, say the court in that
case, must seek.their remedy through the comptroller, in
the mode prescribed in the act of Congress, and cannot proceed directly in their own names against the stockholders
or debtors of the corporation. Suits may be brought by the
receiver, both at law or in equity, and the express decision
there is that he may sue in his own name or in the name
of the association for his use, and no reason is perceived
to doubt the correctness of the rule adopted in that case,
though the act of Congress does not in terms give him au.
thority to sue in his own name.t
IV. Enough. has already been remarked to show that the
fourth proposition of the defendants cannot be sustained, as
the act of Congress provides that the receiver, in making
the basis for a dividend, shall include in the list not only
claims proved before him to his satisfilction, but claims also
adjudicated in a court of competent jurisdiction.
Attempt is made to show that the adjudicated claims there
referred to are only such as had been adjudicated before the
receiver was appointed, but the court is of the opinion that
such a conistruction is not warranited either by the laniguage
employed, or the subject-matter to which it relates, or the
purpose to be accomplished, or by the analogies of the law
or the usual rules of interpretation which courts apply in ascertaining the meaning of a legislative provision of a remedial character. Tested by any one or all of these criterions
the court is of the opinion that the construction assumed
by the defendants- is quite too narrow to carry into effect the
intention which the framers of the provision had in view at
the time it was adopted. Claims presented by creditors
may be proved before the recei.ver, or they may be put in
suit in any court of competent jurisdiction, as a means of
Kennedy v. Wilson, 8 Wallace, 606.

f
VOL. XIV.

Booth v. Clark, 17 Howard, 822.
26

402

O'DowD v. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

establishing their validity and to determine the amount owed
by the association, but the judgment when recovered will
not give the. creditor any lien on the property of the delinquent association, nor secure to the judgment creditor any
preference over other creditors whose claims are proven before the receiver. All alike must await the action of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and be conten't with a just and
legal distribution of the proceeds of the assets collected by
the receiver and liquidated by the comptroller according to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided.
Nothing further need be remarked in respect to the other
errors assigned, as it is clear that the conclusions announced
dispose of all the questions in the case which are examinable
under a writ of error to a State court.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

O'DoWD V. RUSSELL.

1. A notice by one of three defendants to his co-defendants of his intention
to prosecute a writ of error, and a refusal by them to co-operate, is
equivalent to the old proceeding of summons and severance, and the
one defendant can take his writ accordingly.

2. A judgment in a court of last resort, that a judgment against A. (who
had been sued for not faithfully discharging the duties of a vendue-master of a city and been held discharged under the Bankrupt Act) be reversed, is a final judgment within the meaning of the Judiciary Act;
as is also a judgment in a court of last resort that a judgment in an
inferior court, holding B. and C. (the sureties of A. on his bond as
vendue-master) liable, be affirmed.
8. When the record does not show that acopy of the writ was lodged
within ten days in the clerk's office, nor that the bond was approved
and filed within the same term, the writ cannot be made to operate as
a supersedcas.

ON motion to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia.
Walker, Jones, and O'Dowd were sued in the Superior
by
Court of Richmond County, Georgia, upon a bond given

