Dec. 1871.]

FOULKE V.

ZIMMERMAN°

Statement of the case in the opinion.

FOULKE V. ZIMMERMAN.

1. A probate in Louisiana of the will of a person who ,died domiciled in
New York is valid until set aside in the Louisiana court, though th
order of the surrogate in New York has been reversed in the Supreme
Court of that State, on which the Louisiana probate was founded.
2. A purchaser from the devisee of such will of real estate in Louisiana,
while the order of the Louisiana court establishing the will remains in
force, is an innocent purchaser, and is not affected by a subsequent orde.,
setting aside the will, to which le is not a party.
8. Such an order, founded on a verdict and judgment in 'New York declar
ing the'will void, obtained by collusion between the devisee under the
will and the heirs-at-law, cannot affect the purchaser from the devisee.
made in good faith before such verdict and judgment.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.
These were two suits its the court below, in the nature of
actions of ejectment to recover certain lots in New Orleans,
and also rents and profits. That court gave judgment in
both cases for the defendants, and to these judgments the
present writs of error were taken.
The case was submitted on briefs, by Mr. W. W. iandlin,
ERROR

for the plaintiff in error, and Mr. E. C. Billing, , contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER stated the case 'and delivered the
opinion of, the court.
The plaintiffs claim, as heirs-at-law of Elizabeth Clew, who
died in New York in the year 1859, and there seems to be
no question that they are her next of kin, or purchasers from
them, and that she died seized of the property.
The defendants claim as purchasers from John F. Clew,
husband of said Elizabeth, under a will of said Elizabeth,
probated in the proper court of New Orleans in January,
1861, which will declared him to be her sole heir and universal legatee.
This will was admitted to probate in Louisiana on the
strength of an order of the surrogate of New York admitting
it there, as her last will and testameht, and the record of the
Surrogate Court of' New York, on which the will was proVOL. XIV.

8

FOULKE V. ZIMMERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

bated in New Orleans, showed that an appeal had been
taken from the order establishing the will. This appeal was
prosecuted to success, so that in February, 1861, very soon
after the probate in New Orleans, the Supreme Court of
New York reversed the order of the surrogate and made up
certain issues of fact to be tried by a jury. The case in New
York seems to have remained in this condition 'until November, 1866, when the trial was had and verdict and judgment rendered that the supposed will had been revoked and
that Elizabeth Clew. died intestate.
In the meantime John F. Clew had administered upon the
estate in Louisiana, and in August, 1864, filed his final account, and on the 29th March, 1866, received from the Probate Court an order of final discharge, placing him in possession of the property as universal legatee of Elizabeth
Clew. On that day5 and on the 11th day ol'April, 1866, just
after this order, John F. Clew sold at public auetion the lots
now claimed, by two separate sales, to Phelps and to Laymond, under whom defendants claim, and the deeds were
duly recorded in the proper office, one on the 11th and the
other on the 13th day of April. All this was before the verdict and judgment declaring the will void in New York.
It also appears that in the year 1864,.three years after the
issues of fact had been ordered by the Supreme Court of
New York, and two years before those issues were tried, the
plaintiffs, or the heirs of Elizabeth Clow, under whom they
claim, made a compromise with John F. Clew, and for the
consideration of $30,000 he made them a quit-claim deed of
all his interest in the estate of Elizabeth Clew, of which
compromise and de'ed the New Orleans purehasers had no
notice, and which was not recorded in Louisiata until after
their purchase and after their deeds had been recorded.
Nor does it appear that they were parties or had notice of
the proceedings in New York by which the will of Mrs.
Clew was held void.
''hese facts are all found by the court as the foundation
of its judgment, with others which we do not deem material.
For instance, it is found that proceedings were taken by the

Dec. 1871.]

FOULKE V. ZIMMERMAN.

115

Opinion of the court.

heirs to have the probate of Elizabeth Clew's will in New
Orleans set aside, but as this was after the purchase under
which the defendants claim, and without notice to them,
we think they cannot be bound by it.
Nor do we think that the collusive trial in New York between John F. Clew and the heirs of Mrs. Clew can have
any effect on the rights of the defendants derived under the
probate of the will in New Orleans.
The facts found by the court show beyond doubt that this
trial was had two Years after Clew had sold out the subject
of litigation to the other parties to the suit, and eight months
after the defendants had, in ignorance of this sale, bought of
-him, as the rightful owner, so, established by the New Orleans court. There can be but little doubt that Clew defrauded both parties, and that the defendants were innocent
purchasers 'from him, and that plaintiff might have protected both themselves and the defendants by recording their
quit-claim deed, which they had withheld from record for
two years, and that their failure to do this enabled him to
commit the fraud. Finding that they had thus lost the lots
in controversy, so far as any claim through that deed was
concerned, they revive the suit in New York which had
slumbered for five years on the issues ordered for a jury,
and now having both sides of the litigation in their own
hands they procure a verdict setting aside the will, to enable
them to claim the land as heirs of Elizabeth Clew, instead
of purchasers under John F. Clew.
We think that this cannot prevail, though supported by
an ex parle proceeding in the New Orleans court by which
the former orders probating Mrs. Clew's will and recognizing John F. Clew as sole heir and legatee were set aside.
The defetidants were innocent purchasers without notice of
anything wrong, being justified by the judgment of the Probate Court in the assumption that they purchased the legai
title; and if, by'makitg them parties to a proper proceeding, this probate and sale could, under any circumstances,
be set aside, we arc of opinion' that the proceedings in New

Tim BRIDGEPORT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

York, on which the Louisiana court revoked its former action, were collusive and fraudulent as against the defendants,
who, under-the facts found by the court, are entitled to be

protected in their possession.
As this was the conclusion of the Circuit Court, its judgment is
AFFIRMED IN BOTH CASES.

THE BRIDGEPORT.
1. A steamer navigating the East River, opposite Corlaer's Hook, Now
York, by night, condemned in a collision case for injury done by her to
a ship lying in a recess in the Hook, two hundred feet and more outside of the open channel, and three hundred or four hundred feet from
the ordinary track of steamers; it being held to be no excuse for the
collision that the steamer was rounding the Hook and going into her
dock about three-quarters of a mile below ; that her officers could not
see in consequence, of a fog which suddenly rolled up, and that they
supposed they were far enough off the shore and far enough advanced
to change their course for rounding the Hook.
2. Where a boat is fastened to the shore, and out of the proper path of vessels navigating a port, she is not bound, in the absence of harbor regalations requiring it, to keep a light on deck.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of

New York.
On a September night of 1865, the ship Margaret Evans,
having a night watchman on board, but no light on deck,
lay at a wharf at Corlaer's Hook, on the East River side of
New York. She was not lying at the front of -the wharf in
the open stream, but at the end or'return thereof, in a rectangular recess, as if she were inside of a pier, the wharf
projecting some thirty or forty feet beyond her into -the

river, and a large sloop of war lying outside of that.

She

was thus more than two hundred feet outside of the open
channel, and three hundred or four hundred feet from the

ordinary track of steamers passing along the East River in
their usual course.

