Dec. 1871.]

THE

579

DELAWARE.

Statement of the case.

THE

IELAWARE.

1. A "clean" bill of lading, that is to say a bill of lading which is silent
as to the place of stowage, imports a contract that the goods are to be
stowed under deck.
2. This being so, parol evidence of an agreement that they were to be
stowed on deck is inadmissible,

frorn the Circuit Court for the District of California; the case being thus:
The Oregon Iron Company, on the 8th of May, 1868,
shipped on board the bark Delaware, then at Portland,
Oregon, 76 tons of pig-iron, to be carried to San Francisco,
at a freight of $4.50 a ton. The bill of lading was in these
words:
APPEAL

" Shipped, in good order and condition, by Oregon Iron Company, on board the good bark Delaware, Shillaber, master, now
lying in the port of Portland, and bound to San Francisco, to
say seventy-five tons pig iron, more or less (contents, quality,
and weight unknown), being marked as in the margin, and are
to be delivered in like good order and condition at the afbrsaid
port of San Francisco, at ship's tackles (the dangers of' the seas,
or assigns, he or they
fire, and collision excepted) unto -,
paying freight for the said goods in United States gold coin
(before delivery, if required), as per margin, with 5 per cent.
primage and average accustomed.
" In witness whereof the master or agent of said vessel hath
affirmed to three bills of lading, all of' this tenor and date; one
of which being accomplished, the others to stand void. Vessel
not accountable for breakage, leakage, or rust.
"C. E. SHILLABER,
I IFor

the captain.

"PORTLAND, May 8th, 1868."

The iron was not delivered at San Francisco; and on a libel
filed by the Iron Company, the defence set up was that by a
verbal agreement made between the Iron Company anid the
master of the ship before the shipment or the signing of the
bill of lading, the iron was stowed on deck, and that the

TuE DELAWARE.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

whole of it, with the exception of 6 tons and 90 lbs., had
been jettisoned in a storm.
On the trial, the owners of the vessel offered proof of this
parol agreement. The libellants objected, and the court excluded the evidence on the ground that parol proof was inadmissible to vary the bill of lading; and decreed in favor
of the libellants for the iron that was thrown overboard. On
appeal the case was disposed of in the same way in the
Circuit Court. It was now here; the question being, as in
the two courts below, whether in a suit upon a bill of lading
like the one here, for non-delivery of goods stowed on deck,
and jettisoned at sea, it is competent, in the absence of a
custom to stow such goods on deck, to prove by parol a
verbal agreement for such a stowage.
The District Court, in its opinion, among other things,
said as follows:
" It is not disputed that the ordinary bill of lading imports
that the goods are to be safely stowed under deck.

It must also be

admitted that, if they are stowed on deck with the consent of
the shipper, or in accordance with a well-established and generally recognized usage, either of the particular trade or in respect of a particular kind of goods, the ship will not be liable.
The point presented is, whether the consent of' the shipper can
,be proved by parol.
"The case of Creery v. Holly,* is directly in point. In that
case Mr. Justice Nelson says:
1,1It is true that in this case nothing is said in the bill of lading as to the
manner of stowing the goods, whether on deck or under deck; but the case
concedes that the legal import of the contract, as well as the understanding
and usage of merchants, impose upon the master the duty of putting them
under deck, unless otherwise stipulated; and if such is the judgment of the
law upon the face of the instrument, parol evidence is as inadmissible to
alter it as if the duty was stated in express terms. It was part of the contract. It seems to me it would be extremely dangerous, and subject to the
full force of every objection that excludes the admission of this species of
evidence, to permit any stipulation, express or implied, in these instruments,
to be thus varied. .... If the implied obligation of the master in this case,
* 14 Wenlell, 26.

Dec. 1871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Statement of the case.

arising out of the conceded construction of the bill of lading, may be varied
by parol evidence, I do not see how any other stipulation included in it
could be sustained upon an offer to impeach it in the same way.' "1

"In Niles v. Culver,* the same principle was applied to a
memorandum, which imported a contract.
"In White v. Van Kirk,t parol proof offered by a shipper of
goods to show that the master agreed to take a particular route
was held to be inadmissible.
"In The Waldo,T the language of Mr. Justice Ware is'nearly
identical with that of Mr. Justice Nelson, above quoted:
"

' It is true that the bill of lading does not say in express te-rms that the

goods shall be stowed under deck, but this is a, condition tacitly annexed to
the contract by operation of law; and it is equally binding on the master,
and the shipper is equally entitled to its benefit, although it was stated in
express terms. The parol evidence, then, is offered to control the legal
operation of the bill of lading, and it is as inadmissible as though it were to
contradict its words.' '"

"In Garrison v. The Memphis Insurance Company,§ it was held
that, where the bill of lading mentioned that the carrier was
not to be responsible for injuries caused by the 'perils of the
river,' parol evidence was inadmissible to show that by usage
'fire ' was included among those perils.
"Where a promissory note mentions no time of payment, the
law adjudges it to be due immediately, and parol evidence is
rot admissible to show a different time of payment agreed upon
by the parties at the time it was executed."I
These and other cases were relied on by the court, and in
addition to them Barber v. Brace, in the Supreme Court of
Connecticut, was cited by counsel, to show that "a parol
agreement anterior to a written contract is inadmissible."
The question, as the reader familiar with the decisions on
the subject will see, is one upon which opinions not consistent with some of those thus above quoted have been
8 Barbour, 205.

t 25 Id. 17.

1 Davies, 61.

19 Howard, 812.

Niles v. Culver, 8 Barbour, 209; Thompson v. Ketchum, 8 Johnson, 109;

Hunt v. Adams, 7 Massachusetts, 518; S. C., 6 Id. 519; Pattison v. Hull, 9
Cowen, 747.

3 Connecticut, 9.

Ct.

[Sup

THIE DELAWARE.

582

Argument for the ship-owners.

given in certain courts. In this court the question had
never been specifically passed upon. On that account and
for the importance of the question, the argument against
the view in the courts below, is presented with more than
ordinary fulness.
Mr. E. Casserly, for the plaintiff in error:
I. The objection to the parol proof is put on a rule of evideuce. What is the rule of evidence? Does it apply in
this case?
1. The rule is exactly stated by our leading text writer,*
who holds it with all due strictness:
"Parol contemporaneous evidence is inadmissible to contradict or vary the terms of a valid written instrument."
Mr. Starkiet states the rule substantially the same way.
And he adds, as " a general rule,"
" Oral and extrinsic evidence is admissible to rebut a pre.
sumption of law or equity. Here it is not offered as a substitute for the written evidence, but to remove an impediment,
which would otherwise have obstructed or altered its operation."
The writer,t who, more than any other, has discussed
thoroughly the whole subject, states the rule explicitly:
" The true meaning of the rule is, that such evidence shall
never be received to show that the intention of the parties was
directly opposite to that which their language expresses, or
substantially different from any meaning the words they have
used upon any construction will admit or convey."
Barrett v. Insurance Company,§ is almost in the same language as that last above quoted.
In Parks v. Gen. Int. Co.,Ij it is held that a condition or
Greenleaf.

On Evidence, vol. 1,

1 275,

and see note 8.

t

On Evidence, by Sharswood, *648, *713.
I Duer. On Insurance, vol. 1, 176, 1 27; and see lb. 276,

668-71, 1 17, 18.
7 Cushing, 175.

1 70;

2 Id.

1 5 Pickering, 37-38.

Dec. 1871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Argument for the ship-owners.

implied undertaking, not expressed in the terms of the
policy, may be superseded by a previous verbal or written
statement.
In Susquehanna Company v. Evans,* Judge Washington
states the rule to be:
'The reasons which forbid the admission of parol evidence to
alter or explain written agreements do not apply to those contracts implied by operation of' law."
In B)rent's Executors v. Bank,t parol proof was admitted
of' an agreement that payment of a promissory note should
be demanded at a particular bank, and not personally of the
maker; the note being silent on the subject. Marshall, C.J.,
.says:
"This is not an attempt to vary a written instrument. The
place of demand is not expressed on the face of the note, and
the necessity of' a demand on the person when the parties are
silent is a mere inference of' law, which is drawn only when
they are silent. A parol agreement puts an end to this inferas it goes,
ence. . .. This does not alter the instrument, so fihr
but supplies extrinsic circumstances which the parties are at
liberty to supply."
2. Does the rule apply to this case ? How did the proposed parol evidence " contradict or vary the terms of the
written instrument "-in this case, the bill of lading? By
its " terms" the bill makes no provision whatever for stowage of the iron shipped, still less for stowage of it in any
particular place. Clearly, then, parol proof of an agreement
for a deck stowage cannot be said to "contradict or vary
the terms" of the bill. Suppose we read the bill as though
it contained the agreement which we offered to prove"said iron to be carried on deck." In what respect does
this provision "' contradict or vary the terms of the written
contract?" Since it does not, but is obviously in accord
with them, how can parol proof of it be said to do so?
4 Washinton's Circuit Court, 481.
1 Peters, 89, 92; see also Rol en v. Hanson, 11 Cushing, 44, 46' WeAton v. Chamburlin, 7 Id. 404, and cases cited, 40G.

TuE DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the ship-owners.

provides nothing as to the
the parties to make
and
as
ite
law
allows
place of stowage,
what contracts they choose as to that particular subject, and
in what manner they choose, by writing or by words, it is
incorrect to say that parol proof of a contract, or consent by
the shipper to stow on deck, is within any rule against parol
proof, either as " contradicting or varying" "the terms" of
the writing, or as substituting parol when the law demands
a writing. *
8 As the bill, by its "terms,"

II. This argument cannot be answered. It is, therefore,
sought to be eluded. It is said that though by its terms the
common or clean bill of lading is silent as to the stowage,
yet that it "imports that the goods are to be safely stowed
under deck ;" that this is " a condition tacitly annexed to the
contract by operation of law ;" and that this implied contract
is so conclusive, that the law will not admit parol evidence
to show that the parties contracted for a stowage on deck.
1. Is it in any sense correct to say, that the common bill of
lading " irnports a stowage safely under deck," or that such
is "the condition tacitly annexed to the contract by operation of law?" We think not. On the contrary, we submit
that what the instrument " imports" or " implies" is not a
stowage either in any particular place, or in any particular manner; but simply a stowage as to place and manner,
such as is authorized by the custom or usage of trade,
whether in respect to the particular goods in the bill of lading, or to the particular voyage which the ship is to make.
2. The law of common carriers of goods had its rise in "t ie
custom of the realm." In suit against a carrier, the ancient
practice was to set out and prove the general custom, until
the custom became in time so well settled, that the courts
took judicial notice of it, which is itself a substitute for proof,
if not a mode of proof, and is at times the result of actual
* Vernard v. Hudson, 3 Sumner, 406, 407; Lowry v. Russell, 8 Pickering,
860, 362; Sayward v. Stevens, 3 Gray, 97, 102; Barrett v. Ins. Co., 7 Cushing, 175; Ex'rs of Brent v. Bank, 1 Peters, 92; also the other cases cited
supra.

Dec. 1871.]

Tim

DELAWARB.

Argument for the ship-owners.

inquiry into proofs.* The same law to-day rests mainly
in the custom of trade; perhaps, in all respects, except
where either some rule or policy of the law, or some valid
agreement between the parties, fbrbids.t In the absence
of such rule, policy, or agreement, a common carrier is
obliged only to carry such goods, in such parcels, and with
such stowage, in such conveyance, by such route, at such
charges, with such dispatch, and such delivery, as are customary in his line of business. And, in practice, almost
universally the law and the parties wisely agree in leaving
to the custom all these important subjects, except perhaps
the charges.
3. Like the other two great instruments of commercethe charter-party and the policy of marine insurance-the
bill of lading in its "terms" is not a complete contract. It is
a brief writing in which only the heads of the contract are
expressed; the receipt of the goods on board; the places
whence and where they are to be carried; the person to
whom they are to be delivered in like good order, &c.; and
at what freilght. In a bill of lading as in the others-and,
indeed, even more so-the parties are silent as to the mode
and manner inwhich the heads of the contract are to be
performed. These they leave to the custom of the trade.
It is a presumption of law that they have made their contract as to the mode and manner, on this basis.
4. This is more true of the subject of stowage than it is
perhaps of any other matter under the bill of lading.
Let us refer first to some of the other instances.
a. The express contract, to carry to the place of destination, means, by construction of law, with all reasonable dispatch. Yet, it is held that this contract is controlled by
proofof a custom on the Ohio, to allow boats a delay of a
month or more, while waiting the rise of water.t
b. So, upon the question, as to when the carrier's respon1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

6, 6a, Rcdfield's edition.

210-219; 2 Redfield on Railways, 131-135, 183.
t Redfield on Carriers,
: Broadwell v. Butler, 6 McLean, 296; Accord. Tbe Convoy's Wheat,
3 Wallace, 230.

TnE DELAWARE.

[Stip. (Jt,

Argument for the ship-owners.

sibility for the goods terminates. The express contract of
the bill of lading to deliver to A. is controlled by the usage.*
c. The whole question of delivery, time, mode, place, is a
question of the custom of business.t As where the point
was as to the duty of the ferryman to carry goods up a
slip.1
d. The express contract in the bill of lading here is for a
voyage from Portland to San Francisco. This calls for a
direct voyage, without deviation; yet it may be controlled
by proof of a usage to make the deviation complained of,§
or of the shipper's knowledge of the intent to make it.f
5. The power of usage over the subject of stowage as to
which the common bill of lading is silent, is still greater.
Indeed stowage is completely the creature of usage. Hence
it is, doubtless, that the common bill of lading is silent as to
it. Under such a bill, whatever usage authorizes, as to
either the place or manner of stowage, whether as respects
the particular goods to be carried, or other goods in the
same ship, or the particular voyage or class of ships in which
they are to be carried, may lawfully be done by the carrier.
It may be -done, though some other place or manner of
stowage might be safer for the particular goods themselves
or for other goods in the same vessel.
Not only does usage control, but what is the usage varies
with the circumstances. In one class of cases the usage
turns upon the nature of the goods to be carried ; in another
class upon the nature of the voyage on which they are to be
carried.
a. Thus, in all trades, where the nature of the goods is
such that they are dangerous to the ship or cargo-as corrosive or inflammable oils and other liquids-the usage is,
that they may be carried on deck, where in case of accident
*

2 Redfield on Railways, 60, 65,

175.

1 Smith's Leading Cases, *319.
llb *304.
Lowry v. Russell, 8 Pickering, 360, 362.
fThe Mary Hawes, cited in 1 Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty, 191,
note I ; and see as to the power of custom of trade, Halsey v. Brown, 3
Day, 346, approved in Renner v. Bank, 9 Wheaton, 582.

Dec. 1871.1

THE DELAWARE.
Argument for the ship-owners.

they can do the least harm and may be most readily cast
overboard.*
b. In like manner live stock are carried on deck, for the
sake of their health, and perhaps of convenience of handling them.t
c. A usage to carry lumber on deck, between Quebec and
London, was sustained on demurrer in Gould, v. Olicer..:
d. The usage to carry deck loads is more favored in the
case of a steamer plying coastwise than in that of a sailing
vessel.§
e. And it is affected by the peculiar build of the vessel, as
in the case of propellers with two decks on our great lakes.I1
f. In this court the doctrine is established, that what
goods shalt be carried in the same ship, and how and where
they shall be stowed in reference to each other, is controlled
by usage, rather than by the greater or less safety of' the
goods. Tle principle of this doctrine is conclusive in our
favor.
6. Hence, it is not correct to say that a clean hilt " imports that tile goods are to be stowed safely unider deck;"
or that it is the "condition tacitly annexed to the contract
by operation of law;" or " a rule of law "-that they shall
be so stowed. These phrases, which all come to the same
thing, are but half traths. They state the effect, not the
cause. If they are correct at all, it is because the usage calls
for such a stowage under deck. The "import," or the
"tacit condition," or "the rule of law" comes back after all
to the usage.
Either this is the true view, or else you cannot give any
De Costa v. Edmunds, 4 Campbell, 141, 142.
t

Brown v. Cornwell, 1 Root, 60; Milward v. Hibbert, 3 Adolphus & Ellis,
N. S. -120, 131 to 137-8.
4 Bingliam's Now Cases, *184, *140, -*143.

Harris v. Moody, 4 Bosworth, 210, 218-219, 221; Affirmed, 80 Ne
York, 266, 273, 274.
II Gillett v. Ellis, 11 Illinois, 579, 581.
Rich v. Lambert, 12 Howard, 356, 357; Clark v. Barnwel, Ib. 281, 282;
Baxter v. Leland, I Blatchford, Circuit Court, 526, 627. See note of Ameri.
can editor, 5 C. B., N. S. *164, and cases cited.

588

THE DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the sbip-owners.

well-founded reason why under the same form of words, in
the "clean" bill of lading, the carrier's liability differs so
greatly, so that in one case he is liable if he carries on deck;
in another he is not; while in a third case he is liable unless
he does carry oil deck.
On this point of the presumption more will be said presently.
The following proposition, then, which is the sum of the
preceding authorities, we submit as the true statement of
the law:
FIRST POINT. The common bill of lading, such as that in this
case, being silent on the subject of stowage, neither imports nor implies angy particularplace of stowage of goods. What it imports
or implies is simply such a place of stowage as is according to the
usage of the trade in regard to such goods on such a voyage.
IIl. Next we say, as a
SECOND POINT. The reason of this rule is, that there being a
usage of the trade, that on such a voyage, such goods shall be
stowed under deck, it is a presumption of law, in the absence of
express words to the contrary, that the parties have contracted for
a place of stowage according to the usage.
1. That the effect of a " clean" bill of lading is simply to
raise such a presumption is clear upon principle and on authority.
In trade or commerce the general usage is constantly admitted to expound the contracts of parties, as well where
the contract is silent as where the language in which it
speaks has by usage a technical meaning. This is because
of the presumption arising upon the general usage, that the
parties have intended to contract in accordance with the
usage.*
As applied to stowage. In Vernard v. Jludson,t it is held that
the presumption that goods shipped under the common bill
* Starkie on Evidence, by Sharswood, *75-6, *710; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 292; Best, Presumptions, *132; I Duer on Insurance, lecture 2, pt.
2, p. 254; Ib. 265, 59; 1 Arnould on Insurance, 278 (London, 18661.
j" 3 Sumner, 406-7.

Thi :DELAWARE,.

Dec. 1871.]

Argument for the ship-owners.

of lading are to be put under deck, is a presumption arising
from the ordinary course of business.
So in The Waldo :*
" The bill of lading is what is called a clean bill; that is, it is
silent as to the mode of stowing the goods. . . . The usual and
only safe mode of carrying goods is under deck; and, when the
contract is entered into, it is presumed to be the intention of
the parties that the goods shall be stowed and carried in the
usual way, unless there is an agreement to the contrary."
To the same effect is The Paragon,t The Rebecca,T The

Peytona.§
TIiiRD POINT. The presumplion of law that under such a 'bill
of lading the parties have contracted on the basis of the usage,
and for a stowage under deck in accordance with the usage, is but
a primd facie presumption, and may be rebutted by parol proof
of an agreement for a stowage on deck.

1. The presumption mentioned is one arising upon an
extrinsic fact; i. e., upon the usage of trade. Whether the
usage is such as to require extrinsic proof, or is so generalas in this case-as to dispense with such proof and to rest in
judicial notice, is not material. In either case the presumption may be rebutted by parol proof.
2. In close connection with the rule, as to the presumption
arising upon the usage of trade, is found this other rule,
that " oral and extrinsic evidence is admissible to rebut a
presumption of law or equity."11 Mr. Duer justly relies
on this rule in support of his views in favor of the admission of parol evidence to rebut a presumption arising upon
a usage.1
Lord Mansfield, speaking of rebutting by parol evidence
a presumption of law, in Brady v. Cabitt,*" declared:
" Daveis, 161, 166-167.

t Ware, 322.

lb. 209, 210.

11 1 Starkie on Evidence, *713. ,
2 Curtis, 21.
2 Duer on Insurance, 669, and note a; and see the cases cited, Starkie,
296 and note 1.
713-716, in illustiation; also 1 Greenleaf,
** Douglas, 31.

THE DELAWARE.

'[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the ship-owners.
"I am clear that this presumption, like all others, may be rebutted by every sort of evidence."
8. In Vernard v. Hudson, already quoted supra, 588, the
distinct question arose and was decided. The libel was for
freight due on a common bill of lading for goods shipped.
The defence was that they were stowed on deck and damage
thereby caused. The ship offered parol proof of a contract
fbr stowage on deck, and one question was, whether such
proof was admissible within the rule against parol evidence.
Judge Story says (406, 407):
"I take it to be very clear, that where goods are shipped
under the common bill of lading, it is presumed that they are
shipped to be put under deck, as the ordinary mode of stowing
cargo. This presumption may be rebutted by showing a positive agreement between the parties that the goods are to be
carried on deck; or it may be deduced from other circumstances,
such, for example, as the goods paying the deck freight only.
The admission of proof to this effect is perfectly consistent with
the rules of law; for it neither contradicts nor varies anything
contained in the bill of lading, but it simply rebuts a presumption arising from the ordinary course of business. Theonus'
probandi is, therefore, on the libellant to establish such an
agreement."
In Sayward v. Stevens,* the bill of lading provided for a
deck stowage of part of the plaifitiff's goods. Other goods
of his were, however, stowed on deck. The whole deck
load was jettisoned on the voyage. The court says it was

obliged"To determine whether the contract rests solely in the bill
of lading or whether it can be varied or explained by parol
proof of the acts and conduct of the parties," &c.
The effect of a clean bill of lading is discussed, and though
the court has " no occasion to determine" whether or not
the obligation under such a bill to stow under deck "is a
* 8 Gray, 97.

Dec. 1871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Argument for the ship-owners.

mere presumption, arising from the usual mode of conveying merchandise in vessels and liable to oe rebutted by
proof of a parol contract," &c., it intimates a strong opinion
on the rule of evidence. It says:
"As bills of lading do not usually contain any express stipulation concerning the place or mode-of stowing the cargo-these
being left to the care and discretion of the master of a vessel
-the admission of such evidence would not seem to be a violation of the salutary rule, that written contracts cannot be varied
or controlled by parol proof."
The decision, which was unanimous, was by Shaw, Dewey,
and Metcal f, JJ.
This case well illustrates when parol proof varies or contradicts the terms of the bill of lading and is therefore inadmissible. The express provision for a deck stowage of a
part of the goods excluded parol proof of a consent to such
a stowage of any other part.
To this effect, merely, is Garrison v. Memphis Insurance
Co., cited against us by the District judge, though there the
parol proof was admitted but held insufficient.
4. By the express contract in the common bill of lading,
for a voyage from A. to B., the presumption is of an agreement for a direct voyage. This is a very important presumption, at least as much so to the interests of commerce
as the presumption of a stowage under deck. But, being
like that, a presumption arising out of the usage of business,
it may be rebutted by parol proof of the shipper's personal
knowledge that the master intended to deviate.* The point
was made against the proof; but it was not sustained. The
court says:
" There is nothing in the evidence contradicting the express
terms of the bill of lading," &e.

In the Mary lawes;t decided by Lowell, J., in the District
Court for Massachusetts, it was held, that proof of a usage

t

Lowry v. Russell, 8 Pickering, 360, 362.
Cited in 1st Parsons on Shipping and Admiralty, 191, note 1.

THE DELAWARE.

[Sup. C%.

Argument for the ship-owners.

to make the deviation, or of the shipper's knowledge of the
intent to make it, was admissible,
5. By agreement the merchant may have charge of the
stowage of his own goods.* This is not unusual where the
goods require special care in the handling and stowage. If
the merchant should sue the ship for the loss of his goods
stowed by himself on deck, as in a deck-house, is it possible
that the form of a clean bill of lading would suffice, to shut
out the parol proof that the stowage was by the merchant
himself?
6. So, the rule is that under the common bill of lading the
title to the goods is in the consignee. This, too, is a presumption arising out of the usual course of business, and
may be rebutted by parol proof.t On the same principle
the warranty of title implied in a sale of chattels in the
vendor's possession may be rebutted by parol, whether the
contract of sale is oral or written.:
7. The rule that paI'ol proof is admitted to rQbut presumptions arising from the usage or ordinary course of business,
where the written contract is silent, prevails in analogous
eases in the law of marine insurance, under the policy, and
for the same reasons'as under the bill of lading.
a. Take the case of deviation. From the fact of insurance,
it is presumed that the parties agreed for an. adventure, to
be pursued in the usual manner; in other words, for a direct
voyage, without voluntarily changing the risks. This, too,
being a presumption arising upon the usage of trade, may
be rebutted by parol proof of representations.§
b. Take from the same law of insurance, a still stronger
illustration. It is now settled law in this country that even
the warranty implied in every marine policy, that the vessel
insured is seaworthy, as the fundamental fact of the conAbbott on Shipping, 287.
- The Sally Magee, 8 Wallace, 457.
Hilliard on Sales, 391 (edition of 1869) ; Miller v. Van Tassel, 24 Cali8
fornia, 465. Accord. Story, Sales,
67a (1871); McCoy v. Artcher, 3
Barbour, 331.
1 Phillips on Insurance, 586,
1040, 1041; and see Urquhart v. Barnard, I Taunton, 450. Also supra; Lowry v. Russell; The Mary Hawes.

Dec. 1870.

TnE

D)ELAWARE.

Argument for the ship-owners.

tract, may be superseded by parol proof of previous verbal
"representations" of the assured party.* The principle of
the rule is, says Mr. Duer', that the warranty of seaworthiness is not implied from any terms of the policy, but rests
on the presumptiou that the seaworthiness of the vessel is
understood by the parties to be the basis of their contract.
Adopting this view of his, it is clear enough that, when this
presumption is repelled, by parol proof of representations
to the contrary, such representations become a part of the.
contract, as they do by the American law, and complete];.
displace the presumption of a warranty.
8. Now, since in regard to the policy and the charter-party,
parol proof is admitted to rebut by extrinsic facts, the pre.
sumption arising upon the usual course of business--or the,
"inference of law," in the words of C. J. Marshall-with
respect to matters of which the writing is silent, why should
iot the same rule of evidence apply to the bill of ladhig?
Since these three great instruments work together in one
design for the interests of commerce, to speed or to guard
them on every sea, why should they not rest before the law
upon the same or similar general principles fbr their interpretation ?
IV. In some of the most noted cases in respect to goods
carried on deck under a clean bill of lading, parol proof of
the merchant's agreement that his goods might he so carried,
or of circumstances from which it might be inferred, was admitted without objection from eminent counsel. A few will
be cited.
In Lawrence v. Minturn,t in this court, there was a written
memorandum fbr a deck stowage, but it was of course merged
in the bill of lading executed a month afterwards.
In Gould v. Oliver,: the suit was on a charter-party, for
lumber stowed on deck, and jettisoned during the voyage.
* 2 Duer, 671, 672, 673, and notes; 1 Phillips on Insurance, 334, 415, edition of 1853; MAaude & Pollock on Merchant Shipping, 893, and seoo note d,
adopting Mr. Doer's view; 1 Arnould on Insurance, *498-9, 499, Ameriean
edition, 1850; 2 Kent, *284, note d.
t 17 Howard, 106.
1 2 Manning & Granger, 208, 214, 216, 219, 235.
VOL. XIV.

88

THE DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the ship-owners.

The defendant sought to show by parol, a consent, by know]edge and approval of the plaintiffs' superintendent, to the
stowage. No objection was made by the counsel fir the
plaintiffs, Sir Thomas Wilde and Mr. (now Baron) Wightman. The proof held insufficient only for want of authority
in the stiperintcndeut.
In The Rebecca, already cited, parol proof of consent to
stoW on deck, under common bill of lading, received and
considered by the court.
And The Waldo is to the like effect.
In Sprout v. Donnell,* proof was admitted that the merchant knew of the deck stowage, and made no objection.
V. As to the cases cited against the admissibility of the
parol proof,t it must suffice to notice those hearing with
some directness on the point.
Creery v. Holly was not a suit between the parties to a
bill of lading. It was a suit by vendor against vendee for
the value of a quantity of iron shipped from New York to
Baltimore by the former to the latter, upon orders from
him. Though there was a clean bill of lading, the iron was
stowed on deck, and in stress of weather cast overboard.
The defendant offered to show that the plaintiff (the vendor)
had agreed orally fhat the goods might.be shipped on deck.
This was objected to, as being within the rule against parol
evidence, but admitted. For aught that appears, the defendant was neither .a party nor privy to the bill of lading,
and his parol evidence was admissible to show 'hat amounted
to non-delivery of the goods sold through the' fault of the
vendor. The case is one of doubtful impression.
Barber v. Brace is still more unsatisfactory as an authority.
Parol proof of an agreement to stow the goods on deck,
when first offered on the trial below, was excluded. It was
afterwards admitted, to contradict the plaintiff's witnesses,
and was limited to that by the judge, who, however, charged
the jury to find for the defendant (the carrier), if there was
26 Maine, 187.
j Cited by the District Court, or by counsel, see supra, pp 680-81.

Dec. 1.871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Argument for the ship-owners.

an agreement to stow on deck. A verdict for the defendant

was sustained.
The Waldo was a case of deck stowage, under the common
bill of lading, and of an attempt to prove by parol an agreement for such a stowage. The decision is in terms against
the admission of the parol proof. Yet the eminent judge,
as if not wholly satisfied with his decision excluding the
parol proof; goes fully into it in another aspect of the case,
and holds it insufficient to prove the agreement so to stow.
While v. Van Kirk was the case of a bill of lading for a
voyage from Albany to Baltimore. The question was which
of two routes-an inside or an outside route-neither of
which was specified, should have been taken. The master
took the outside route and lost the goods. The merchant
offered parol proof of an agreement with the master for the
inside or safer route. It was rejected by the court, which at
the same time, however, as if not quite sure of its law, held
the agreement not proved. As an authority, this case is
worse than doubtful.
The same general criticism applies to Niles v. Calver. The
writing there was the carrier's receipt for " 245 barrels of
apples, to forward to New York, at 44 cents per barrel; adThe court held this to be
vanced $10, and cartage $4.81."
not a receipt, but a contract, incapable of being varied by
parol proof, &c. It doubts a case which holds that the admission in the bill of lading that the goods shipped are in
good order is not conclusive. It excluded all parol evidence
of an agreement as to man.y matters on which the receipt
was silent, the time of forwarding, the particular boat, and
that there was to be no transshipment.
Most of the other cases cited against us are cases on prom-,
issory notes. Of these it suffices to say that the peculiar
negotiable character bf such instruments makes them so unlike the common bill of lading as to deprive such cases of
much application here.

Mr. C. E. Whilehead (a brief of Mr. J.
contra.

. Ward being filed),'

THE

DELAWARE.,

[Sup .

Ct,

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Ship-owners, as carriers of merchandise, contract for the
safe custody, due transport and right delivery of the goods;
and the shipper, consignee, or owner of the cargo contracts
to pay the freight and charges; and by the maritime law, as
expounded by the decisions of this court, the obligations of
the ship-owner and the shipper are reciprocal, and it is
equally well settled that the maritime law creates reciprocal
liens for the enforcement of those obligations, unless the
lien is waived by some express stipulation, or is displaced
by some inconsistent and irreconcilable provision in the
charter-party or bill of lading.* Shippers should in all cases
require a bill of lading, which is to be signed by the master,
whether the contract of affreightment is by charter-party or
without any such customary written instrument. Where
the goods of a consignment are not all sent on board at the
same time, it is usual for the master, mate, or other person
in charge of the deek, and acting for the carrier, to give a
receipt for the parcels as they are received, and when the
whole consignment is delivered, the master, upon those receipjts being given up, will sign two or three, or, if requested,
even four bills of lading in the usual form, one being for the
ship and the others for the shipper. More than one is required by the shipper, as lie usually sends one by mail to
the consignee or vendee, and if four are signed he sends one
to his agent or factor, and he should always retain one for
his own use. Such an instrument acknowledges the bailment of the goods, and is evidence of a contract for the safe
custody, duo transport, and right delivery of the same, upon
the terms, as to freight, therein described, the extent of the
obligation being specified in the instrument. Where no exceptions are made in the bill of lading, and in the absence
of any legislative provisions prescribing a different rule, the
carrier is bound to keep and transport the goods safely, and
to make right delivery of the same at the port of destination,
* The Eddy, ". Wallace, 494; The Bird of Paradise, 5 Id. 555; Bags of
Linseed, 1 Black, 112.

Dec. 1871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the court.

unless he can prove that the loss happened from the act of
God or the public enemy, or by the act of the shipper or
owner of the goods. Stipulations in the nature of exceptions
may be made limiting the extent of the obligation of the
carrier, and in that event the bill of lading is evidence of
the ordiiary contract of affreightment, subject, of course, to
the exceptions specified in the instrument; and in view of
that fact the better description of the obligation of such a
carrier is that, in the absence of any Congressional legislation upon the subject, he is in the nature of an insurer, and
liable in all events and for every loss or damage, however
occasioned, unless it happened by the act of God or the
public enemy, or by some other cause or accident, without
any fault or negligence on the part of the carrier, and expressly excepted in the bill of lading.*
Seventy-five tons of pig-iron were shipped by the libellants, on the eighth of May, 1868, on board the bark Delaware, then lying in the port of Portland, Oregon, 'to be
transported from that port to the port of San Francisco, for
the freight of four dollars and fifty cents per ton, to be delivered to the shippers or their assigns at the port of destination, they paying freight as therein stipulated, before delivery if required, with five per cent. primage and average
iccustomed. Dangers of the seas, fire, and collision were
sixcepted in the bill of lading, and the statement at the close
of the instrument was, "vessel not accountable fbr breakage,
eakage, or rust."
Process was served and the claimant appeared and filed
an answer, in which be admits the shipment of the iron and
the execution of the bill of lading exhibited in the record.
Sufficient also appears in the record to show that the voyage
was perfbrmed and that but a small portion of the iron
shipped, to wit, some thirteen or fourteen thousand pounds,
was ever delivered to the consignees, and that all the residue of the shipment was thrown overboard as a jettison
* The Cordes, 21 Howard, 23; Clark v. Branwell, 12 Id. 272 ; Elliott v.
Rossell, 10 Johnson,

'1.

THE DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

during the voyage, which became necessary by a peril of the
sea, for the safety of the other associated interests and for
the preservation of the lives of those on board. Sacrificed
as all that portion of the shipment was as a jettison in consequence of a peril of the sea, excepted in the bill of lading,
the claimant insists that the libellants have no claim against
the ship, and that the libellants as 'the shippers of the iron
must bear their own loss.
Evidence was exhibited by the claimant sufficient to show
that the allegations of the answer that the iron, not delivered,
was sacrificed during the voyage as a jettison in consequence
of a peril of the sea are true, but the libellants allege that
the iron was improperly stowed upon the deck of the vessel,
and that the necessity of sacrificing it as a jettison arose
solely from that fact, and that no such necessity would have
arisen if it had been properly stowed under deck, as it
should have been by the terms or the contract specified in
the bill of lading. That the iron not delivered was stowed
on deck is admitted, and it is also conceded that where
goods are stowed in that way without the consent of the
shipper the carrier is liable in all events if the goods are not
delivered, unless hecan show that the goods were of that
description, which, by the usage of the particular trade, are
properly stowed in that way, or that the delivery was prevented by the act of God or the public enemy, or by some
other cause or accident, without any fhult or negligence on
the part of the carrier and expressly excepted in the bill of
lading.
Goods, though lost by perils of the sea, if they were
stowed on deck without the consent of the shipper, are not
regarded as goods lost by the act of God within the meaning of the maritime law, nor are such losses regarded as
losses by perils of the sea which will excuse the carriel from
delivering the goods shipped to the consignee unless it appears that the manner in which the goods were stowed is
sanctioned by commercial usage, or unless it affirmatively
appears that the manner of stowage did not, in any degree,
contribute to the disaster; that the loss happened without

Dec. 1871.]

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the court.

any fault or negligence on the part of' the carrier, and that
it could not have been prevented by human skill and prudence, even if the goods had been stowed undei deck, as required by the general rules of the maritime law.*
Enough appears in the record to show that all the iron
not delivered to the consignees was stowed on deck, and
there is no proof in the case to show that the usage of the
trade sanctioned such a stowage in this case, or that the
manner in which it was stowed did not contribute both to
the disaster and to the loss of the goods.t
None of these principles are controverted by the claimant,
but he insists that the iron not delivered was stowed on deck
by the consent of the shippers and in pursuance of au oral
agreement between the carrier and the shippers consummated before the iron was sent on board, and before the bill
of lading was executed by the master. Pursuant to that
theory testimony was offbred in the District Court showing
that certain conversations took place between the consignee
of the bai'k and the agent of the shippers tending to prove
that the shippers consented that the iron in question should
be stowed on the deck of the vessel. Whether any express
exception to the admissibility of the evidence was taken or
not does not distinctly appear, but it does appear that the
question whether the evidence was or not admissible was the
principal question examined by the District Court, and the
one upon which the decision in the case chiefly turned. Apparently it was also the main point examined in the Circuit
Court, and it is certain that it has been treated by both sides
in this court as the principal issue involved in the record,
and in view of all the circumstances the court here decides
that it must be considered that the question as to the admissibility of the evidence is now open for revision, as the decree for the libellant was equivalent to a ruling rejectinig the
evidence offered in defence or to a ruling granting a motion
to strike it out after it had been admitted, which is a course
Lawren, et al v. Minturn, 17 Howard, 114; The Peytona, 2 Curtis, 23.
J 4ould v. )liver, 4 Bingham's Now Cases, 142; Story on Bailment, 531.

Tim 'DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court,

often pursued by courts in cases where the question deserves
examination. What the claimant offered to prove was that
the iron was stowed on deck with the consent of the shippers,
but the libellants objected to the evidence as repugIat to
the contract set forth in the bill of lading, and the decree
was for the libellants, which was equivalent to a decision
that the evidence offered was incompetent. Dissatisfied with
that decree the respondent appealed to the Circuit Court,
where the decree of the District Court was affirmed, and the
same party appealed from that decree and removed the
cause into this court for re-examination.
Even without any farther explanation it is obvious that
the only question of any importanice in the case is whether
the evidence offered to show that the iron in question was
stowed-on deck with the consent of the shippers was or was
not properly rejected, as it is clear if it was, that the decree.
must be affirmed; and it is equally clear, if it should have
been admitted, that the decree must be reversed.*
Different definitions of the commercial instrument, called
the bill of lading, have been given by different courts and
jurists, but the correct one appears to be that it is a written
acknowledgment, signed by the master, that he has received
the goods therein described from the shipper, to be transported on the terms therein expressed, to the described place
of destination, and there to be delivered to the consignee or
parties therein designated. t Regularly the goods ought to
be on board before the bill of lading is signed, but if the bill
of lading, through inadvertence or otherwise, is signed before the goods are actually shipped, as it they are received
on the wharf or sent to the warehouse of the carrier, or are
delivered into the custody of the master or other agent of
the owner or charterer of the vessel and are afterwards
placed on board, as and for the goods embraced in the bill
Angell on Carriers,

212; Redfield on Carriers,

11

247 to 269; The St.

Cloud, Brown.& Lushington Adm. 4.

t Abbott on Shipping, 7th Am ed. 323; O'Brien v. Gilchrist 34 Maine,

658; 1 Parsorq on Shipping, 186; Machlaehlan on Shipping, 838; Emerigon

on Ins. 251.

Dec. 1871.]

THE

DELAWARE.

601

Opinion of the court.

of lading, it is clear that the bill of lading will operate on
those goods as between the shipper and the carrier by way
of relation and estoppel, and that the rights and obligations
of all concerned are the same as if the goods had been
actually shipped before the bill of lading had'been signed.*
Such an instrument is twofold in its character; that is, it is
a receipt as to the quantity and description of the goods
shipped, and a contract to transport and deliver the goods
to the consignee or other person therein designated, and
upon the terms specified in the same instrument.t Beyond
all doubt a bill of lading, in the usual form, is a receipt for
the quantity of goods shipped and a promise to transport
and deliver the same as therein stipulated.1 Receipts.may
be either a mere acknowledgment of payment or delivery,
or they may also contain a contract to do something in relation to the thing delivered. In the former ease, and so far
as the receipt goes only to acknowledge payment or delivery,
it, the receipt, is merely primilfacie evidence of the fact, and
not conclusive, and therefore the fact which it recites may
be contradicted by oral testimony, but in so far as it is
evidence of a contract between the parties it stands on the
footing of all other contracts in writing, and cannot be contradicted or varied by parol evidence.§ Text writers mention the bill of lading as an example of an inAtrument which
partakes of a twofold character, and such commentators
agree that the instrument may, as between the carrier and
the shipper, be, contradicted and explained in its recital that
the goods were in good order and well conditioned, by
showing that their internal state and condition was bad or
not such as is represented in the instrument, and in like
manner in respect to any other fact which it erroneously
* Rowley v. Bigelow, 12 Pickering, 307; The Eddy, 5 Wallace, 495.

t

Macblachlan on Shipping, 838-9; Smith's Mercantile Law, 6th ed. 308.
$ Bates v. Todd, 1 Moody & Robinson, 106; Berkley v. Watling,'7 Adolphus & Ellis, 29; Wayland v. Mosely, 5 Alabaina, 430; Brown v. Byrne, 8
Ellis & Blackburne, 714; Blaikie v. Stembridge, 6 C. B., N. S. 907.
I Greenleaf on Evidence, 12th ed
3805; Bradley v. Dunipace, 1 Hurl.
stone & Colt, 525.

THE bELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

recites, but in all other respects it is to be treated like other
written contracts.*
Bills of lading when signed by the master, duly executed
in the usual course of business, bind the owners of the ves'sel
if the goods were laden on -board or were actually delivered
into the custody of the master, but it is well-settled law that
the owners are not liable, if the party to whom the bill of
lading was given had no goods, or tile goods described in
the bill of lading were never.put on board or delivered into
the custody of the carrier or his agent.t Proof of fraud is
certainly a good defence to an action claiming damages for
the non-delivery of the goods, but it is settled law in this
court that a clean bill of lading imports that the goods are
to be safely and properly stowed under deck, and that it is
the duty of the master to see that the cargo is so stowed and
arranged that the different goods may not be injured by
each other or by the motion or leakage of' the-vessel, unless
by agreement that service is to be performed by the shipper.t
Express contracts may be hiiade in writing which will define
the obligations and duties of the parties, but where those
obligations and duties are evidenced by a clean bill of lading, that is, if the bill of lading is silent as to the mode of
stowing the goods, and it contains no exceptions as to the
liability of the master, except the usual one of the dangers
of the sea, the law provides that the goods are to be carried
under deck, unless it be shown that the usage of the particular trade takes the case out of the general rule applied in
such controversies.§ Evidence of usage is *admissible in
Hastings v. Pepper, 11 Pickering, 42; Clark v. Barnwell et al., 12 Howard, 272; Ellis v. Willard, 5 Selden, 529; May v. Babcock, 4 Ohio, 346;
Adams v. Packet Co., 5 C. B., N. S. 492; Sack v. Ford, 13 C. B., N. S. 100.
t The Schooner Freeman, 18 Howard, 187; Maude & Pollock on Ship-

ping, 233; Grant v. Norway, 10 C. B. 665; Zipsy v. Hill, Foster & Finelly,
573; Meyer v. Dresser, 16 C. B., N. S. 657.
I The Cordes, 21 Howard, 23; Sandeman v. Scurr, Law Reports, 2 Q. B.

98; Swainston v. Garrick, 2 Law Journal, iN S. Exchequer, 355; African
Co. v. Lamzed, Law Reports, 1 C. P. 229; Alston v. Hering, 11 Exchequer,
822.

, j Abbott on Shipping (,7th Am. ed.), 345; Smith v. Wright, 1 Cain, 4;

Dec. 1871.]

THIE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the court.

mercantile contracts to prove that the words in which the
contract is expressed, in the particular trade to which the
contra~ct refers, are used in a particular sense and different
from the sense which they ordinarily import; and it is also
admissible in certain cases, for the purpose of annexing incidents to the contract in matters upon which the contract
is silent, but it is never admitted to make a contract or to
add a new element to the terms of a contract previously
made by the parties. Such evidence may be introduced to
explain what is ambiguous, but it is never admissible to
vary or contradict what is plain. Evidence of the kind may
be admitted for the purpose of defining what is uncertain,
but it is never properly admitted to alter a general rule of
law, nor to make the legal rights or liabilities of the parties
other or different from what they are by the common law.*
Cases may arise where such evidence may be admissible
and material, but as none ouch was offered in this case it is
not necessary to pursue that inquiry. Exceptions also exist
to the rule that parol evidence is not admissible to vary or
contradict the terms of a written instrument where it appears that the instrument was not within the statute of
frauds nor under seal, as where the evidence offered tends
to prove a subsequent agreement upon a new consideration.
Subsequent oral agreements in respect to a prior written
agreement, not falling within the statute of frauds, may have
the effect to enlarge the time of performance, or:lmay vary
any other of its terms, or, if founded upon a new consideration, may waive and discharge it altogether.t Verbal agretments, however, between the parties to a written contract,
made before or at the time of the execution of the contract,
are in general inadmissible to contradict or vary its terms
Gould v. Oliver, 2 Manni'ng & Granger, 208; Waring v. Morse, 7 Alabama,
343; Falkner v. Earle, 3 Best & Smith, 863.
* Oelricks v. Ford, 28 Howard, 63; Barnard v. Kellogg et al., 10 Wallace,
883; Simmons v. Law, 8 Keyes, 219; Spartali ?. Buneeke, 10 0. B. 222.
t Emerson v. Slater, 22 Howard, 41; Gross v. Nugent, 5 Barnewall &
Adolphus, 65; Nelson v. Boynton, 8 Metcalf, 402; 1 Greenlasf on Evidence,
808; Harvey v. Grabham, 5 Adolphus & Ellis, 61.

604

THE DELAWARE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

or to affect its construction, as all such verbal agreements
are considered as merged in the written contract.*
Apply that rule to the case before the court and it is clear
that the ruling of the court below was correct, as all the
evidenice offered consisted of conversations between the
shippers and the master before or at the time the bill of
lading was executed. Unless the bill of lading contains a
special stipulation to that effect the master is not authorized
to stow*the goods sent on board as cargo on deck, as when
he signs the bill of lading, if in common form, he contracts to convey the merchandise safely, in the usual mode
of conveyance, which, in the absence of proof of a contrary
usage in the particular trade, requires tht the goods shall
be safely stowed under deck; and when the master departs
from that rule and stows them on deck, he cannot exempt
either himself or the vessel from liability, in case of loss, by
virtue of the exception, of dangers of the seas, unless the
dangers were such as would have occasioned the loss even
if the goods had been stowed as required by the contract of
affi'eightment.t Contracts of the master, within the scope
of his authority as such, bind the vessel and give the creditor a lien upon it for his security, except for repairs and
supplies purchased in the home port, and the master is responsible for the safe stowage of the cargo under deck, and
if he fails to fulfil that duty he is responsible for the safety
of the goods, and if they are sacrificed for the common safety
the goods stowed under deck do not contribute to the loss.t
Ship-owners in a contract by a bill of lading for the transportation of merchandise take upon themselves the responsibilities of common carriers, and the master, as the agent
of such owners, is bound to have the cargo safely secured
under deck, unless he is authorized to carry the goods on
" Ruse v. Ins. Co., 23 N. Y. 619; Wheelton v. Hardisty, 8 Ellis & Blackburn, 296; 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 758; Angell on Carriers, 4th ed.,
- The Rebecca, Ware, 210; Dodge v.

229.

B3artol, 5 Grecnleaf, 286; Wal-

cott v. Ins. Co., 4 Pickering, 429; Copper Co. v. Ins. Co., 22 Id. 108;
Adams v. Ins. Co., Ib. 163.
T The Paragon, Ware, 329, 331; 2 Phillips on Insurance,
v Insurance C( , 7 Pickering, 259.

704; Brooks

Dec. 1871.]

TiE' DELAWARE.

605

Opinion of the court.

deck by the usage of the particular trade or by the consent of
the shipper, and if he would rely upon the latter he iTiust take
care to require that the consent shall be expressed in a form
to be available as evidence under the general rules of law.*
Where goods are stowed under deck the carrier is bound
to prove the casualty or vis major which occasioned the loss
or deterioration of the property which he undertook to transport and deliver in good condition to the consignee, and if
he fails to do so the shipper or consignee, as a general rule,
is entitled to his remedy for the non-delivery of the goods.
No such consequences, however, follow if the goods were
stowed on deck by the consent of the shipper, as in that event
neither the master nor the owner is liable for any damage
done to the goods by the perils of the sea or from the necessary exposure of the property, but the burden to prove such
consent is upon the carrier, and he must take care that he
has competent evidence to prove the fict.t Parol evidence,
said Mr. Justice Nelson, in the ease of Creery v. Holly,.j is
inadmissible to vary the terms or legal import of a bill of
lading free of ambiguity, and it was accordingly held in that
case that a clean bill of lading imports that the goods are
stowed under deck, and that parol evidence that the vendor
agreed that the goods should be stowed on deck could not
legally be received even in an action by the vendor against
the purchaser for the price of the goods which were lost in
consequence of the stowage of the goods in that manner by
the carrier. Even where it appeared 'that the shipper, or
his agent who delivered the goods to the carrier, repeatedly
saw them as they were stowed in that way and made no objection to their being so stowed, the Supreme Court of
Maine held that the evidence of those facts was not admissible to vary the legal import of the contract of shipment;
that the bill of lading being what is called a clean bill of
lading, it bound the owners of the vessel to carry the goods
" The Waldo, Davies, 162; Blackett v. Exchange Co , 2 Crompton &
Jervis, 250; 1 Arnould on Insurance, 69; Lenox v. Insurance Co., 3 Johnson's Cases, 178.
1 14 Wq adell, 28,
t Shackleford v. Wilcox, 9 Louisiana, 38.

606

[Sup. Ct.

THE DELAWARE.
Opinion of the court.

under &eck, but the court admitted that where there is a
well-known usage in reference to a particular trade to carry
the goods as convenience may require, either upon or under
deck, the bill of lading may import no more than that the
cargo shall be carried in the usual mauner.* Testimony to
prove a verbal agreement that the goods might be stowed
on deck was offered by the defence in the case of Barber v.
Brace,t but the court rejected the testimony, holding that
the whole conversation, both before and at the time the
writing was given, was merged in the written instrument,
which undoubtedly is the correct rule upon the subject.
Written instruments cannot be contradicted or varied by
evidence of oral conversations between the parties which
took place before or at the time the written instrument was
executed; but in the case of a bill of lading or a charterparty, evidence of usage in a particular trade is admissible
to show that certain goods in that trade may be stowed on
deck, as was distinctly decided in thmit case.t But evidence
of usage cannot be admitted to control or vary the positive
stipulations of a bill of lading, or to substitute for the express terms of the instrument an implied agreement or usage
that the carrier shall not be bound to keep, transport, and
deliver the goods in good order and condition.§
Remarks, it must be admitted, are found in the opinion
of' the court, in the case of Vernard v. Hudson,I and also in
the case of Sayward v. Stevens, which favor the views of the
appellant, but the weight of authority and all the analogies
of the rules of evidence support the conclusion of the court
below, and thecourt here adopts that conclusion as the correct rule of law, subject to the qualifications herein expressed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Sproat v. Donnell, 26 Maine, 187; 2 Taylor, on Evidence,
1062, 1067;
Hope v. State Bank, 4 Louisiana, 212; 1 Arnould on Insurande, 70; Lapham
v. Insurance Co., 24 Pickering, 1.

- 3 Connecticut, 14.
I Barber v. Brace, 3 Pickering, 13; 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th Amenvan edition, 837.
The Reeside, 2 Sumner, 670; 1 Duer on Insurance, 17.
2 Sumner, 40'

8 Gray, 101.

