Dec. 1871.]

TURNER V. SMITH.

Statement of the case.

tion between brevet rank and regular rank, to which we
have referred, and regarded the latter as above the former.
The practice of the Department of War, as we understand,
and of the accounting officers, has been in accordance with
this view, and seems to us correct.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

TURNER V. SMITH.
1. Under the act of 6th February, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 640), "to amend
an act entitled 9 An Act for the Collection of Direct Taxes in Insurrec-

tionary Districts, &c., approved June 7th, 1862,' '' which said amendatory act was intended to be a substi'ule for the seventh section of the said
previous act of June 7th, 1862 (lb. 422), the connissioners of taxes,
"
though '' ailhorized" to bid off property to the U nited States at a sum
not exceeding two-thirds of its assessed value,' arc not bound so to bid it
up so as to make it bring in all cases that much.
2. Under these acts the tax commissioners are not bound to hunt up the real
owners. The tax laid is a direct tax on the land and on all the estates,
interests, and claims connected with or growing out of it.
3. A rent charge is accordingly cut off' and destroyed by a sale of the land.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Virginia; the case being
this:
Hannon being owner in fee simple and free from licn of
a house and lot in Alexaindria, granted out of it by an oltfashioned formal ground-rent deed, with clause of right of
re-entry, &c., in 1819, a rent charge of $224 to Moore, with
right of distress, re-entrv, &c. In 1821 Iannon died insolvent, and the rent not being paid, Moore "took possession
of the house again, though in what mode or whether with
any of the requisites of a common law re-entry did not
appear.
In 1825 being still in possession lie conveyed the rent
charge, describing it in form, to one Irwin, and Irwin in
1854 (onveyed it with ihe lot on wlich it was charged to R. M.
and J. M. Smith; Irwin and Smith, each respectively, being

TURNER V. SMITH.

[Sul). Ct.

Statement of the cas e.

in possession of the house and lot, after they became ownera
of the rent, as Moore had, himself, been after Hannon's
death ; and each paying the taxes assessed against the house
and lot while he held it.
In May, 1861, on the outbreak of the rebellion, Smith
abandoned his residence and went within the rebel lines.
On the 5th of August of that year,* Congress passed an
act laying a "direct tax of $20,000,000 annually upon the
United States," and apportioning the same in a manner
which it set forth, among the several States. The act provided particularly for assessing anid collecting of the tax,
directing that it'should be collected from persons at their
dwellings, in the first instance; and if not paid should be
obtained by distress and sale of personal property; and if
persons could not be found, and there was no personal property, then "by public sale of so much of the said property
as shall be necessary to satisfy the taxes due thereon, together with an addition 'of 20 per cent." The act then provided for giving a deed, but did not in any part declare what
should be the effect of the sale or deed, or that it should divest liens
of any kind.
The act authorized each State to assume, assess, collect,
and pay its quota of the tax; and the loyal States did do
this. In the rebel States nothing could be done.
On the 7th of June, 1862,t Congress passed\ another act,
entitled " An Act for the Collection of Direct Taxes in Insurrectionary Districts," &c. The act enacted:
"SECTION 1. That when, in any State,... by reason of insurrection or rebellion, the civil authority of the governmen of the
United States is obstructed so that the provisions of the act approved August 5th, 1861 [the act last above mentioned], cannot
be peaceably executed, the said direct taxes by the said act apportioned among the several States, &c., shall be apportioned
and charged in each, upon all the lands or lots of ground situate
therein respectively. .. as the said lands or lots of ground were
enumerated and valued under the last assessment and valuation
* 12 Stat. at Large, 294.

t 1b. 423.

Dec. 1871.]

TURNIER V. SMITIT.
Statement of the case.

thereof, made under the authority of said State . . previous to
the 1st day of January, IS61; and each and every parcel of the
said lands, according to the said valuation, is hereby declared to
be ...charged with the payment of so much of the whole tax laid
and apportioned by said act upon the State, &c., wherein the
same is respectively situate, as shall bear the same direct propor
Lion to the whole amount of' the direct tax apportioned to said
State, &c., as the value of said parcels of land shall respectively
bear to the whole valuation of the real estate in said State, according to the said assessment and valuation made under the
authority of' the same. And, in addition thereto, a penalty of
50 per cent. of said tax shall be charged thereon.
" SECTION 2. That on or befbre the 1st day of July next, the
President by his proclamation shall declare in what States and
parts of States said insurrection exists, and thereupon the said
several lots or parcels of land shall become charged respectively
with their respective portions of said direct tax, and the same,
together with the penalty, shall be a lien thereon without any
other or further proceeding whatever.
" SECTION 3. That it shall be lawful for the owngr or owners
of said lots or parcels of lands within sixty days after the tax
commissioners herein named shall have fixed the amount, to pay
the tax thus charged, &e.
"SECTION 4. That the title of,in, and to each and every piece
or parcel of land upon which said tax has not been paid as above
provided, shall thereupon become forfeited to the United States;'
and upon the sale hereinafter provided for, shall vest in the United
States or in the purchasers at such sale, in fee simple, free.and dis.
charged from all prior liens, incumbrances, right, title, and claim
whatsoever.
" SECTION 5. That the President of the United States, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint a board
of three tax commissioners, &c.
"SECTION 7. That the said board of commissioners shall be
required, in case the taxes charged on the said lots shnll not be
paid, . . . to cause the same to be advertised for sale; and at tho
time and place of sale to cause the same to be severally sold to
the highest bidder for a sum not less than the taxes, penalty,
and costs, and 10 per cent. per annum interest on said tax, pur.
suant to said notice; [and the said commissioners shall at said
sale strike off the sam6 severally to the United States, at that sum,

TURNER V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

unless some person shall bid the same or a larger sum,] who shall
upon paying the purchase-money .. be entitled to receive from
such commissioners their certificate of sale; which said certificate shall be received in all courts and places as primdfacie evidence of the regularity and validity of such sale, and of the
title of said purchaser under the same: Provided, that the owner
of said lots of ground, or anj loyal person of the United States
having any valid lien upon or interest in the same, may at any time
within sixty days after said sale appear before the said board of
tax commissioners . . . and ... upon paying the amount of said
tax and' penalty, with interest, &c:, together with the expenses
oji sale and subsequent proceedings, may redeem said lots of land
from said sale."
On the 6th of February, 1863,* Congress passed a short
"act to aniend " this act above so largely quoted, and entifled "An Act for the Collection of Direct Taxes in Insurrectionary Districts," &c. The new act says that the old act
shall be amended so as to read as follows in section 7:
"That the said board of commissioners shall be required, .
at the time and place of sale, to cause the same to be severally
sold to the highest bidder for a sum not less than the taxes,
penalty, and costs, and 10 per centun per annum interest on said
tax, pursuant to notice, [in all eases where the owner of said
lots or parcels of ground shall not, on or before the day of sale,
appear in person before the board of commissioners and pay the
amount of said tax, with 10 per centum interest thereon, with
costs of advertising the same, or request the same to be struck
off to a purchaser for a less sum than two-thirds of the assessed
value of said several lots or parcels of ground, the said coinmissioners shall be authorized, at said sale, to bid off the same for
the United States at a sum not exceeding two-thirds of the assessed
value thereof, unless some person shall bid a larger sum."]
The part in [ ] of the new section is a change, it will
be seen, upon the part of the old one (supra, pp. 555-6) in
similar [ ].
In a subsequent part of it, this substituted section 7,
makes, like the ol one, a right of redemption of the land
12 Stat. at Large, 640.

Dec. 1871.]

TURNER V. SMITIt.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sold (within sixty days), "to any loyal person of the United
States having any valid lien upon or interest in the same;"
with a provision for persons under disabilities, &c.
With these statutes on the statute-book, and the property
in Alexandria, mentioned at the beginning of this statement, being assessed on the land-book of Virginia, on the
1st of March, 1864, at $3500, the tax commissioners of the
United States (not themselves bidding at all) sold it, in professed pursuance of the acts of Congress, for $1750 (less than
two-thirds, $2333, of its assessed value) to one Turner, describing it as a house on Royal Street, between King and
Prince Streets at Alexandria, in the State of Virginia, "said
to have belonged to R. M. and J. M. Smith," and charged to
them on the land-book of the State aforesaid for the year
1860.
The rebellion being suppressed the Smiths-never having
oftered as " holders of a valid lien" or otherwise to redeembrought suit in proper form against Turner to recover certain arrears of the ground-rent. Turner claimed title to the
lot free or rent under the sale for taxes, made by authority
of the several acts of Congress, already mentioned, for imposing and collecting a direct tax. The decision of the court
where the suit was brought was against the title thus set up,
that is to say, it was in favor of the Smiths, and their rent,
and this decision being affirmed in the highest court of the
State,* the case was here for review.
Mr. F. L. Smith, for Turner, plaintif in error:
The length of time in which Moore and those who succeeded him were in possession, that is to say, the lapse of
time from 1821 (when Hannon died and Moore resumed
possession of his house) to 1864, when this sale was made,
is sufficient to raise a presumption of either a re-entry in
1821 with all the requisite forms of the common law, or of
a re-lease then or afterwards by iannon's heirs. After such
* 18 Grattan, 835.

TURNEa

V. SMITH.

[Sup., Ct

Argument for the defer lant in error.

a term as forty-two years, almost any presumption necessary
to sustain 'a party in possession will be made. By such a
re-entry or release, a merger*took place,* and there ceased
to be two separate estates in the one property. The house
and lot, free of ground-rent, thus became Smith's; and being
regularly sold to Turner, be was owner of it discharged of
all incumbrance.
This would all be so on principles of common law, but the
fourth section of the act of June 7th, 1862, gives a disincumbered estate to the purchaser, even if the owner of the fee
held it incumbered to its entire value. The estate may indeed be defeated by the holder of any valid lien, being a loyal
person, if he redeem in the mode specified in the acts. But
no such redemption is pretended. In any aspect, therefore,
the judgment should be reversed.
Mr. C. W. Wattles, contra:
1. The case showed only that the owner of the rent charge
took possession of the premises. A re-entry with commonlaw formalities cannot from this be inferred, nor a release
from the heirs of the owner of the ground. The only inference is an act of trespass by the owner of the rent and a violation by him of the rights of his tenant. And this inference
is made a certainty by Moore's conveyance Iof'the rent eo
nornine in 1825 to Irwin, as a thing then existing.
No time will run against a rent charge, so as to divest
title or extinguish it. The limitation applies only to the recovery of rentiin arrears by distress or action. The estate
itself remains fbr' all time unless merged or extinguished.
The principle is elementary. The case then is that1st. Of a title. to the land in Hannon's heirs, in fee simple
(subject to the rent), at the time of the tax sale; a corporeal
hereditament; and,
2d. Of a fee simple title to the rent charge in the Smiths;
an incorporeal hereditament.
Hence there were two separate and distinct estates; one
Chester v. Willes, 1 Ambler, 246.

Dec. 1871.]

TURNER V. SMITI.
Argument for the defendant in'error.

of them, the land, was sold for the tax; the other, the rent,
remained intact.
It would, indeed, be a forced construction t6 say that an
incorporeal hereditament is a lien, incumbrance upon, or a
right, title, or claim to land, in the sense contemplated by
the act, for t1le rent may have been held by a citizen most
devoted to the cause of the United States, and residing in a
State not in insurrection; who could have no notice of a
contemplated sale of his property, either directly or by the
terms of the act, as it does not provide for a tax upon such
species of property.
2. The land was sold for less than two-thirds of-its value.
This made the sale void. The act of 1863 requires the tax
commissioners to bid off the land to the United States " at
a sum not exceeding two-thirds of the assessed value."
They did no such thing. The assessed value was $3500.
Two-thirds of that sum is $2333.33. They sold it for $1750.
Literally construed, indeed, the language "authorized to bid
off" may be but permissive, and not mandatory. But it is a
general rule of construction that where power is conferred
by statute on public officers in language which, literally
construed, is but permissive, the lafiguage will be construed
as peremptory whenever the power is conferred for the benefit of the public or of individuals. And by no court has
this doctrine been declared more emphatically than by this.
Witness the case of Sutpervisors v. United Slates,* in whbich
words so little mandatory in form as the words " may, if
deemedadvisable," were construed as imposing a positive and
absolute duty; the court citing cases fi'om old reports like
Skinner and Salkeld ; ' leading cases on the subject," which
it declares " have been followed in numerous English and
American adjudications," to this day. In the present case
th e authority was conferred for the benefit of the government of the United States, representing the whole public;
lnd the government had a right to claimits exercise by the
commissioners as a duty imperative on them. Congress
4 Wallace, 435.

TURNER V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

could not, by the act of 1863, have intended to leave the
commissioners to say what lands should be bid off and what
not; any more than it could have so intended by the act of
1862, in which, certainly, it dil not so intend. It meant,
in all cases, to take the land for the United States if it
could be obtained on the terms specified in the act, and to
deny authority to the commissioners to sell it to any other
purchaser.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Two propositions are relied on to defeat the title under
the sale for taxes.
1. That the land was sold at the tax sale for less than twothirds of its assessed value.
2. That the plaintiffs below, in whose favor the judgment
was rendered, were the owners of a rent charge on the land,
which was not extinguished by the sale for the unpaid taxes.
1. The first of these propositions is founded on the amendment to the seventh section of the act of June 7th, 1862,
passed February 6th, 1863. The latter act undoubtedly was
intended to be a substitute for the seventh section of the
former, and to supersede it entirely. In a case of doubtful
construction it is, therefore, important to consider what
changes are made by the latter in regard to the matter now
in controversy. By the original section the commissioners
who were appointed for the collection of the tax were required, at the time and place of sale, to cause the lots and
lands to be severally sold to the highest bidder for a sum
not less than the tax, penalty, and costs, and 10 per centum
per annum interest on said tax, pursuant to notice, and to
strike off the same severally to the United States at that
sun, unless some person should bid the same or a larger
sum.
The amendment says that the commissioners shall be required, " at the time and place of sale, to cause the same to
be severally sold to the highest bidder for a sum not less
than the taxes, penalty, and costs, and 10 per centum per
annum inlterest on said tax, pursuant to notice; in all cases

Dec. 1871.]

TURNER V.

SMITH.

Opinion of the court.

where the owners of said lots or parcels of ground shall not,
on or before the day of sale, appear in person before the
board of commissioners and pay the amount of said tax,
with 10 per centurninterest thereon, with costs of advertising the same, or request the same to be struck off to a purchaser for less than two-thirds of the assessed value of said
several lots or parcels of ground, the said commissioners
shall be authorized, at said sale, to bid off the same to the
United States at a sum not exceeding two-thirds of the
assessed value thereof, unless some person shall bid a largei
sum."
The first act and the second are alike in the provision
that the land shall be sold to the highest bidder for a sum
not less than what is due on it for tax, interest, and cost.
This, in both cases, refers to bids by others than the United
States. In reference to bids made by the commissioners on
behalf of the United States, there is a change. The first
statute made it imperative that the commissioner should
strike off the land to the United States at the amount of the
tax, interest, and costs, unless others bid that or a larger
sum ; and it is a fair inference that the commissioners0were
not authorized tobid at all for the land, unless it be called
a bid to strike it off tothe government, when no one else
would take it, for the tax, interest, and costs.
The second statute makes a material change in this'part
of the law. When the owner does not pay, or request the
same to be struck off to a purchaser fbr a less'sum than twothirds of its value, the commissioners are authorized to bid
off the same to tthe United States at a sum not exceeding
two-thirds of such assessed value.
The intention in making this change seems to us to be to
remove the restriction by which the United States must
either take the land for the taxes, or let it go to whoever
would pay the taxes, or any greater sum, if he was the
highest bidder. After the amount due was offered the government was, by the first statute, no longer a competing
bidder, and the owner was at the mercy of private bidders.
Under the new statute the commissioner could become a
VOL XIV.

86

TURNER V. SMITup

[sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

competitor after the amount of the tax was bid, with two
limitations. First, he should not bid against a purchaser
whom the owner, by request, preferred. And, secondly, he
should not bid beyond two-thirds of the value.
Instead of being bound to bid that sum, he was authorized
to bid any sum not exceeding that, and could not bid that if
the purchaser requested that it might be struck off to a
friend for less than that sum. If the language had been
that lie was authorized to bid it off at two-thirds, it would
be a forced and unnatural construction of the section to
hold that the words were imperative. The language which
would express that idea would be that he was required to do
it, or that lie should not bid it off for a less sum. But here,
while he is authorized to bid, that bid may be for any sum
not exceeding two-thirds its value.
But the sale in this case comes within the first category.
The United States did not bid at all. A private person bid
a sum sufficient to pay the tax, interest, and cost, and the
commissioner let him have it, and we see nothing in the
statute which forbids it. Certainly we cannot infer because
the United States authorized the commissioner in a defined
contingency to bid off the'land for a sum not exceeding twothirds its value, that lie was therefore bound in all cases to
make it bring that much.
We think there was error in the Appellate Court of Virginia in holding the sale void because this was not donb.
2. In the act of August 5th, 1861, apportioning the tax
of $20,000,000 among the States, according to population,
provision -is made for its collection out of the lands within
those States, if not paid by the States. Under the provisions
of that act it might admit of some doubt whether the tax
was in its essence a tax on the land, and on all the various
estates into which the fee may have been divided, or was a
tax on the o.wner of the land, and levied on the interest of
the owner in it, and on no other subordinate or incorporeal
interest. But no tax was ever collected, or any land sold
under that act. The Stateswhich, in the war for the support of which this tax was levied, supported the General Gov

Dec. 1871.]

TURtNER V. SMITH.
Opinion of the court.

ernment, assumed and paid the portion allotted to each.
With regard to the States which were in insurrection, Congress passed a new law for the assessment and collection of
their portion, under which the sale in this case was made
That act, the statute of' 1862, to which we have already referred, directed the commissioners to whom the collection
of the tax was intrusted, to take the last assessment of the
value of the lands made in each State for State taxation as
the basis on which the tax charged to that State by the act
of 1861 should be apportioned among the several lots and
parcels within that State, and a penalty of fifty per cent.
was added in each case for non-payment. The President
was directed to declare by his proclamation what States or
parts of States were in insurrection, and "thereupon the
said several lots or parcels of land became charged respectively with their respective portions of said direct tax, and
the same, together with the penalty, became a lien thereon,
without any further proceedings whatever." Section three
gave a time in which this tax might be paid, and sectioi
four proceeds to say that " the title of, in, and to each and
every parcel of land upon which said tax has not been paid
as above lirovided, shall the'eupon become forfeited to the
United States, and upon the sale hereinafter provided for
shall vest in the United States, or in the purchaser at such
sale, in fee simple, free and discharged from all liens, incunbrances, right, title, and claim whatsoever."
There is nothing in the statute which requires the tax
commissioners to hunt up the owner, or to make the tax
out of personal property of his, or which may be found upon
the land. It is clearly a direct tax on the land, and on all
the estates, interests, and claims connected with or growing
out of the land. All this was forfeited to the United States
on non-payment of the taxes, and passed with the sale to
the purchaser, subject alone to the right of redemption,
which the law allowed. In that respect it was a defeasible
title, but in all other respects perfect, complete, and entire.
The language of the statute is explicit to this purport, and
the policy and necessity of the government, which could not

564

GIREGG V. MOSS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

look after the fugitive and hostile owners, required such a
tax, and such a mode of collecting it.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the sale being a valid
one the rent charge of the defendant in error was cut off
and destroyed by it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

proceedings

and the cause remanded for further

IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

GREGG V. Moss.
1. A judgment will not be reversed for the rejection of testimony, whether
it was in strict principle admissible or not, where the rejection worked
no harm to the party offering it.
2. Whether the evidence before a jury does or does not sustain the allegations in a case is a matter wholly within the province of the jury, and
if they find in one way, this court cannot review their finding.
8. A. lent to B. & C. a certaifn sum of money, whether for themselves or for
a firm of which ill parties were members, was a matter not clear. The
money was, however, in fact, put in the firm by B. & C. An agreemont was subsequently made, by ill the partners, reciting that some
had advanced money beyond their shares, and agreeing that each should
make a statement of what he had advanced, and that the accounts so
rendered and agreed upon should remain capital stock, and that partner's stock in the partnership. On the trial evidence being given, on
the one hand, tending to show that in a statement furnished by A. in
professed pursuance of the agreement, he had not included this money
lent to B. & C., and on the other that at the time of the agreement he
had agreed that he would put it in, an instruction was held to be correct
which told the jury, that if at the time of the agreement between the
partners, A. had assented to treat this money as an advance and to fund
it, B. & C. would not remain personally liable on the original loan, if
it had in truth been made to them personally; and that the fact that
A. did not include the amount in his statement of advances made was
Dot material, provided, as already said, that at the time of the agreement
be had in fact agreed to include it.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case, as assumed by the court from a bill of ex-

