DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1871.

UNITED STATES V. CRUSELL.
A judgment of the Court of 'Claims giving a loyal owner the proceeds of
cotton seized under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act,
affirmed; the case tending generally, though not in th most specific
manner, to show that the cotton had been sold and its proceeds paid
into the treasury ; and an opposite conclusion being irreconcilable with
the presumption that the military and fiscal officersof the United States,
had done their official duty.

fr'om the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
The "Abandoned and Captured'Property Act"* authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to appoint special agents
to receive and collect all abandoned or captured property in
any State or Territory in insurrection against the United
States, and authorized also the sending of such property to
any place of sale within the loyal States, and the sale of it at
auction to the highest bidder. " And the proceeds thereof,"
says the act, " shall be paid into the Treasury of the United
-States." "The treasurer," adds the act, "shall cause a book of
accounts to be kept showing from whom such property was received,
and the cost of transportation, and proceeds of the sale thereof."
The fourth section enacts:
"That all property coming into any of the tVnited States not
APPEAL

12 Stat. at Large, 820.
VOL. X1V.

(1)

UNITED STATES V.

CRUSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

declared in insurrection as aforesaid, from within any of the
States declared in insurrection, through or by any other person
than an agent duly appointed under the provisions of this act,
or un-der a lawful clearance by the proper officer of the Treasury,
Department, shall be confiscated to the use of the government
of the United States. And any agent or agents, person or per.
sons, by or through whom such property shall come within the
lines of the United States unlawfully as aforesaid, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof, shall be fined in
any sum not exceeding $1000, or imprisoned for any time not
exceeding one year, or both, at the discretion of the court."
The sixth section is as follows:
"It shall be the duty of every officer or private of the regular
or volunteer forces of the United States, or any officer, sailor, or
marine in the naval service of the United States upon the inland
waters of the United States, who may take or receive any such
abandoned property, from persons in such insurrectionary districts, or have it under his control, to turn the same over to an
agent appointed as aforesaid, who shalt give a receipt therefor;
and in case he shall refuse or neglect so to do, he shall be tried by a
court-martial,'andshall be dismissed from the service, or, if an officer, reduced to the ranks, or suffer such other punishment as said
court shall order with the approval of the President of the United
States."
The act also provides that any person asserting himself to
have been owner of any such abandoned property "may
prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof in the Court of
Claims, and on proof to the satisfaction of said court of his
ownership of said property, of his right to the proceed,
thereof, and that he has never given any aid or comfort to
the present rebellion, shall receive the residue of such proceeds, after the deduction of any purchase-money which may
have been paid, together with the expense of transportation
and sale of said property, and any other lawful expenses
attending.the disposition thereof."
Under this act one Crusell, a loval citizen of Georgia, presented his petition to the Court of Claims, claiming the net
proceeds of 73 bales (about 37,500 lbs.) of cotton which he

Dec. 1871.1

UNITED STATES

V.

CRUSELL,

StatemeAt of the case.

alleged belonged to him, and had been stored at Atlanta,
Georgia, where, on the capture of the place by General Sherman, in September, 1864, it had been seized by the United
States, turned over to an agent of the Treasury Department,
sold by him, and the net proceeds paid into the Treasury.
Owing to the fact, as was testified, that the quartermaster in
charge of captured and abandoned property had left Atlanta
before the claimant's cotton had been delivered at the depot
there, the claimant had not procured a receipt.
The findings of the court showed that a large amount of
cotton had been sold and the proceeds thereof paid into the
treasury. The question in the case was whether these 73
bales were in fact so included.
They were in the possession of the quartermaster in charge
of abandoned and captured property at Atlanta, in October,
1864. This quartermaster in that month shipped to the officer in charge of military railroad transportation, at Nashville, 130,605 pounds of cotton ; but whether the cotton of'
the claimant was included in the shipment was not shown.
It seemed, however, that the officer in charge turned over to
the treasury agent at Nashville 1382 bales and a large quantity of loose cotton, coming from Atlanta, Chattanooga, and
points beyond Chattanooga, in Georgia. The cotton received by this agent was forwarded to the supervising agent
at Cincinnati, and sold by him, and the proceeds paid into
the treasury.
It was shown that in the month of December, 1864, there
was a sale of cotton at Cincinnati, and sundry bales of cotton
marked with the claimant's mark were sold. Whether the
person conducting the sale was the supervising agent of the
Treasury Department did not appear.
The Court of Claims found on this case that
the 73 bales
of the petitioner had been sold and the proceeds paid into
the treasury, and the identity of the several lots of cotton
coming from Atlanta having been lost, the court gave the
claimant judgment for a pro rata amount of the proceeds of
all the cotton seized at that place.
From this decree the United States appealed.

UNITED STATES V.

CRUSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. H .Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General, for the appellants, contended that
the 73 bales were not sufficiently traced, and that there was
no sufficient identification of them; nor any sufficient evidence that the money had been paid into the treasury, and
that whether or not the Court of Olainis had done wrong to
give a pro tanto judgment.
Messrs. Hughes, Denvers, and Peck, contra:
One of two conclusions is inevitable, either that the army
and other officers did their duty, or that they committed an
offence for which they were liable to be degraded and otherwise punished. The first presumption is a natural one; the
last, not one to be made in the face of statutes denouncing
fines, penalties, confiscation, imprisonment, degradation, and
dismissals from service against every officer or person who
should attempt to move this property, except in the authorized manner. The government asks the court to believe that
the cotton did no1 take the only course which under the circumstances it was possible for it to take.
If the cotton was unidentified, the reason was that the
quartermaster was absent from Atlanta when it was delivered at the depot, and when it was shipped; and therefore
it went forward unidentified on the books of the treasury
agent, as did other bales. The pro rata judgment was a
right one, in view of the case.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Presuming that the officers of the government performed
their duty, there can be no doubt that the quartermaster at
Atlanta forwarded to the officer in charge of military railroad transportation the cotton of the claimant; and that this
officer turned over the cotton to the agent at Nashville, by
whom it was forwarded to Cincinnati and sold by the supervising agent there. The presumption in this case is strengthened by the fact that heavy statutory penalties would be incurred by neglect of duty. There is nothing in the case to
repel this presumption. If any evidence to this effect exists,

Dec. 1871.]

COCKROFT V.

VoOSE.

Statement of the case.

it must be contained in the books of the Treasury Department, and these are under the control of the defendant.
We think, therefore, that the conclusion of the Court of
Claims, that the proceeds of the 73 bales of cotton belonging
to the claimant were paid into the treasury, and that the
claimant was entitled to judgment, was right.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
SWAYNE and Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
In my opinion, the burden of proof in this case is on the
claimant to show that the money which he seeks to obtain
under the Captured and Abandoned Property Act has been
paid into the treasury. The court, in its opinion, throws
the burden of proof, on this point, on the United States, and
on that account I am constrained to dissent from the judgment in the case.

COCKROFT

V.

VOSE.

,he court reiterates the proposition that unless it can be seen from the record
that a State court decided the question relied on to give this court jurisdiction, the writ of error will be dismissed.

by Mr. E. C.Benedict, to dismiss a writ of error
to the Supreme Court of New York, taken under .the assumption that the case was within the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act; a section abundantly known to most lawyers practicing in this court, but which as it makes the basis
MOTION

of the judgment in this and several cases which follow, is

partially copied for the benefit of any who do not at all times
recall its phraseology.
"SEc. 25. And be it further enacted, That a final judgment or
decree in any suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a
State in which a decision in the suit could be had,

