Dec. 1871.]

EASLEY V. KELLOM.
Statement of the case.

but inasmuch as the subject was fully considered in the case
of The Baltimore, the court does not deem it necessary to
give it much additional consideration.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

EASLEY V. KELLOM

ET AL.

1. Where the Land Department of the government, dei~ying an unfounded
pre-emption claim in the government lands set up by a person indebted
to several persons, proceeds to sell the lands at public auction, as part
of the public lands, and the debtor and several of his creditors enter into
an agreement that the land shall not be.bid tip, but on the contrary shall
be struck off at as low a price as possible to one of the creditors, who
shall divide it among such creditors as will come into a agreement to
receive it in satisfaction of their debts, and the land is thus sold at an
under price, creditors who have'not come into the arrangement cannot
set the arrangement aside. The government alone car interpose.
2. A bill of review held to have been properly entertained on the after-discovery of a lost paper; and a former decree held, on thc new evidence,
to have beer, rightly reversed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska; the case being thus:
On the 25th of June' 1857, Harrison Johnson having, a
he supposed, the west half of a pre-ermption right of 160
acres within the limits of the city of Omaha, gave a mortgage or deed of ti'ust on it to secure the payment of his note
to Easley and Willingham. Some time afterwards, the city
of Omaha filed a caveat against Johnson's claim, and on the
29th of December, 1859, the commissioner of the land office
gave notice to the local register and receiver that Johnson's
certificate of location had been , ancelled. Thereupon the
property was advertised fbr sale as a part of the public lands.
Johnson being in debt to several other persons, including
one Kei om, it was proposed between him and some of these
creditors that the property should be bid off at as low a price
as possible, so that the creditors might receive satisfaction
for their claims, and that something might be left for him.

280

EASLEY v. KFLLOM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

An agreement was drawn up and signed by Johnson and
several of his creditors; but Easley and Willingham and
one or two others refused to come into it. They insisted
on their priority of lien. The sale took place in August,
1860. In pursuance of the agreement Johnson bid off the
southern half of the 160 acres at the minimum government
price in the name of his mother, and Kellom, on behalf of
the creditors, bid off the northern half; each part containing
forty acres of the land mortgaged. Keliom executed conveyances to the other creditors who, with himself, had signed
the agreement, so as to divide between them the eighty
acres purchased by him, in proportion to their claims against
Johnson ; and these creditors gave Johnson acquittances in
full. Johnson's mother was in possession of her portion
ever since the sale, he living on a part of it.
In 1866 Easley and Williugham filed their bilragainst Kellom, Johnson, his mother, and several creditors, to foreclose
their mortgage. They charged, first, that the cancellation of
Johnson's pre-emption right was procured by his complicity
and acquiescence, for the purpose of defrauding them out
of their mortgage debt, and paying the other creditors; and,
secondly, that when the public sale took place, it was agreed
between Johnson and the other creditors who participated
in the purchase, that Johnson was to have an interest in the
purchase proportionate to the claims of those creditors who
did not sign the agreement, so that he might afterwards
make settlements with them. All the answers denied these
charges; that of the mother alleged further that she was a
bond fide purchaser of the eighty acres purchased by her;
and those of the other defendants alleged that Kellom was
a similar purchaser of the eighty acres purchased by him.
They further insisted that the complainants' mortgage, or
trust deed, being rnade by Johnson before he obtained a
patent for the land, wvas void by the 12th and 13th sections
of the pre-emption act of September 4th, 1841.*
The case of Myers v. Croft, 13 Wallace, 291, had not been decided when
this last point of the defence was made.-REP.

Dee. 1871.]

EASLEY V. KELLOM.

281

Statement of the case.

Upon these pleadings the parties went into proof's. No
evidence, however, was adduced to show that the cancellation of Johnson's pre-emption certificate was improperly
obtained, and tihe case was therefore to be considered upon
the hypothesis that lie had no valid claim, and that" lie land
belomged to the government, and was properly sold as such
in 1860.
But on the .question with regard to the agreement made
between Johnson and his creditors, the preponderance of
the evidence seemed to establish the allegaotions of the bill.
Neither the original agreement between Johnson and the
creditors, though it had confessedly been in writing, nor
any copy of it, could be found; and the parol evidence,
taken after the lapse of seven years (notwithstanding the
stout assertions of Kellom and the creditors associated with
him to the contrary), went to show that Johnson had reserved an interest in such portion of the land as would have
belonged to the creditors that failed to come into the agi'eemert. Johnson himself testified this. The consequence
was, that a decree was entered for the complainants, against
Kellom and those who received portions of his purchase,
for one undivided half of the property in their possession
covered by the mortgage. The decree did not touch the
mother's half.
After the decree was entered a copy of the agreement
was accidentally discovered, and by it, it appeared that no
provision had been made for the benefit of any creditors
but those who signed it. The position which the defendants had taken in the case, and which, on the hearing, had
appeared to be a false one, was thus shown to have been
well founded. A bill of review was thereupon filed by the
defendants, and thq Circuit Court pronounced a decree in
their fhvor, reversing the former decree. From this decree
an appeal was taken to this court.
Mr. J. luglhes (a brief of Mr. Woolworlh beingfiled),for the
plaintiff in error; Mr. Lyman Trumbull, contra.

CITY OF LEXINGTON V.

BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY (having stated the case) delivered
th opinion of the court.
It seems difficult to find any ground for sustaining this
appeal. Conceding that the deed of trust held by the complainants would have been valid as against Johnson and his
assigns, had his pre-emption right been sustained; still, this
right was not sustained. tie had nothing that he could
mortgage or convey. The subsequent sale by the government agents conveyed a good title to the purchasers, clear
of the mortgage. The other ground on which the appellants relied, nalnely, that at the public sale Johnson had
made some reservations in his own favor, in his agreement
with the other creditors, for the purpose of enabling him to
settle with the appellants, is taken away by the discovery
of a copy of that agreement., It contains no such provision
whatever. On the contrary it is a mutual agrecrment made
for the sole benefit of those who executed it.
No question arises here, in reference to the eighty acre'
purchased by Johnson's mother. The original decree did
not embrace any portion of that, and no appeal from that
decree was taken by the complainants.
Some observations were made in reference to the provision of the agreement, looking to a combination to prevent competition in bidding at the government sale; but
that objection, if valid, could only be taken by the government itself'
To, conclude, the copy of the agreement which was discovered, and which laid the foundation for the bill of review,
is sufficiently proved; and its absence at the former trial is
DECREE AFFIRMED.
satisfactorily accounted fbr.

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
1. The restriction of the 2.th section of the Judiciary Act giving original
jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, but providing that thy shall not
" have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of tny promissory
note or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might

