Dec. 1871.]

TENNESSEE BANK V. BANK

OF

TLoUISIANA.

9

Statement of the case in the opinion.

mation from the opinion of that court, if we were at liberty
to consider it, for it is there held that the statute is invalid
for tlhe very reason given here by the plaintiff in error why
we should hold it invalid.
On the whole, we do not find, from anything in the record
of this case, that the question relied on here was decided
against the right claimed by plaintiff in error, and the writ
is, therefore,
DisMISSED.

BANK OF WEST TENNESSEE V. CITIZENS' BANK OF LOUISIANA.

Where a decision of the highest court of a State in a case is made on its settled
pre-existent rules of general jurisprudence, the case cannot be brought
here under the 25th section; notwithstanding the fact that the State
has subsequently made those rules one of the articles of its constitution, and the case be one where if the decision had been made on the
constitution alone, a writ of error under the said section might have lain.

by Mr. :Edward Janin (Mr. T. . Durant opposing)
fo' dismiss, for want of jurisdiction, a writ of error to the
Supreme Court ofthe State of Louisiana, taken under an
assumption that the case fell within the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act, quoted supra, pp. 5, 6.
MOTtON

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought th'e suit against the defendant in error in the Fifth District Court of New Orleans, to
recover the sum of $93,380, for moneys deposited by the
plaintiff with the defendant, and moneys collected by the
latter for the former. All the so-called moneys received by
the defendant were the notes of the rebel government. The
District Court, on the 27th of March, 1867, gave judgment
for the plaintiff. The case was thereupon taken by appeal to
the Supreme Court of the State. That court, on tbe 14th of
December, 1869, reversed the judgment of the court below,
and dismissed the case. In the opinion delivered it wts
said

PALMER V. MARSTON.

[Slip. Ot

Statement of the case in the opinion.

"Under the constitution of 1868 the courts of. this State can.
not entertain an action based upon transactions in Confederate
treasury notes. We think the evidence discloses that this case
is founded upon dealings in unlawfill currency, and the court
has often refused to lend its aid to transactions reprobated by
law."
The constitution of 1868 was not in existence when the
case was decided by the District Court.
The Supreme Court founded its judgment alike upon the
constitutional provision and prior adjudications. Those adjudications are numerous and conclusive upon the subject.*
The constitution only declared a settled pre-existing rule of
jurisprudence in that State. The result iii this case would
have been necessarily the same if the constitution had not
contained the provision in question. This brings the case
within the authority of -Bethel v. Demarel.t Upon such a
state of ficts this court cannot take jurisdiction under the
section of the Judiciary Act upon which the writ of error is
CASE DISMISSED.
founded.

PALMER V. IMARSTON.
The principle of the preceding case affirmed in the same sort of example.
MOTION by Mr. W. S. Holman (Mr. E. T. Merrick opposing)
to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Louisiana, taken on the assumption that the case fell
within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, quoted supra,
pp. 5, 6.

Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opin'-)n of the court.
Paimer sued Marston in the District Court of the parish
Hunley et al. v. Scott, 19 Lou. Ann. 161; King v. Huston, Ilubbel &
Co, lb. 288; McCracken v. Pool, lb. 359; Norton v. Dawson et al. 7 Ib. 464
t 10 Wallace, 637,

