ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

steamer in that case was held liable, though it was so dark
that the barge could not be seen till close to her, and though
at the time the steamer was seeking to avoid contact with
other vessels coming out of their docks. Where the question of fault in a collision lies between a vessel at anchor, or
at a wharf, out of the track of other vessels, and not derelict in duty, and a steamer navigating a channel of sufficient
width for her to move and stop at pleasure-there being no
unusual stress of weather or superior force to drive the
latter out of her course-it was held in the case just cited
that the fault, under almost. any circumstances, would be
held to be with the steamer. In this case we see no fault at
all in the Margaret Evans. She had a competent night
watchman on board, and was entitled to be considered as safe
from any collision from vessels navigating the East River.
DECREE AFFIRMED WITH INTEREST AND COSTS.

ARMSTRONG V.

MORRILL.

1. Judgment in ejectment, in favor of a single plaintiff, sustained, where
some counts in the declaration alleged a possession in himself alone, at
the time of the ouster, though other counts alleged the possession to
have been in him jointly with others; there having been no motion in
arrest of judgment or other objection made below to the judgment in
the form mentioned, which was one upon a verdict thus finding.
2. The mere makiTng of a deed to one as trustee does not vest the trustee
with title it he never in any form have accepted the trust; and to show
that the trustee did not accept it, a declaration, not under seal, but
signed by him, nine years after the deed, making known to all whom
the matter concerned, "that immediately on his receiving notice of the conveyance he did positively refuse to accept, or to act under the trust intended to
be created, and that lie had at no tine since accepted the trust or acted in any
wise as trustee in relation to it, " is pr6per evidence to show the fact, the
party being dead and his handwriting proved.
3. Under the act of Virginia, of June 2d, 1788, authorizing the governor to
isue grants with reservation of claims to lands incld'ed within surveys
then made, the reservation in patents granted under the act excludes
from the operation of the patent all lands held by prier claimants at the
date of the surVey, within the exterior boundary of the patent, whether
the title was only ,uchoate or had been perfected by grants.

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

121

Statement of the case.
4. Whor'

the lands of A. in the adverse possession of B. were forfeited to

the NLM6 of Virginia under its act of 27th February, 182A, declaring forfeitr,
e
oor non-payment of taxes, bub were allowed by a subsequent
and private act to be redeemed by the original owner, held that the ford
fCitur! to the State broke, in point of law, tHe continuity of the adverse
posse-sion, and that such adverse possession (though it might have been,
in fact, cot tinuous) having been, inlpw, thus broken, was neither restored
upon the redemption so as to be continuous in law, nor was it so affected
as that the persons holding adversely could tack the adver.e possession
prior to the forfeiture to the adverse possession subsequent to the reduml.tion and so make out a term of adverse possession which a statute
required in order to give title.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for West
Virginia; the case having been thus:
Lot M. Morrill brought ejectment, on the 15th of April,
1857, in the District Court for the Western Disirict of Virginia (now the court below), both having circuit co'tjurisdiction, against Armstrong and others, to recover 1500 acres
of,!and. In one count Morrill alleged that he was possessed
of it when the defendants wrongfully entered; in another,
that James Dundas and Benjamin Kugler were so possessed.
An amended declaration alleged, in its first count, the possession to have been jointly-in Morrill, Dundas, and Kugler;
and in its second, to have been in Morrill alone. It a new
countstill, the possession was alleged to have been in William M. Tilghman.
The plaintiff's title rested on a survey to Albert Gallatin,
dated June 12th, 1770, for a large tract (of whiich that in
controversy was said to be part), followed by a patent dated
February 10th, 1786, for the tract described, in fthe survey.
In 1794 Gallattiu conveyed to Robert Morris, of Philadelphia,
who, in 1795, made a deed of the trfiet to Tlhimas Willing,
John Nixon, and John Barclay, and the survivors and survivor ii fee, in trust for a land association, called the North
American Land Company. Messrs. Nixon and Barclay acceptcd the trust. Mr. Willing's action appeared before the
court no otherwise than by a paper which the plaintiffs
offered in evidence, thus:

"i, Thomas Willing, of the city of Philadelphia, do hereby

122

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. (C.

Statement of the case.

declare and make known unto all whom it doth or may concern,
that immediately on my receiving notice that Robert Morris had
conveyed certain estates of land to John Nixon, John Barclay,
and myself, in trust for the North American Land Company, I
did positively refuse to accept or to act under the trust so intended to be created, and that I have at no time since accepted
the said trust, or acted in any wise as trustee in relation thereto.
"Witness my hand, this 19th day of December, 1806.
"THOMAS

WILLING."

The death of Mr. Willing, who was president of the first
Bank of the United States, and otherwise, in his day, one of
the best known characters in Philadelphia, and the genuineness of his signature, were sworn to ex parte, by one of his
sons and by two other witnesses, and the signature was certified by the examiner of the, Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in 1844, to have been " proved" before him in due
form of law. The instrument had also, along with the affidavits and the examiner's certificate of probate, been admitted to record by the clerk of Cabell County, Virginia,
where apparently some of the lands lay.
The title being in this state, the legislature of Virginia, on
the 27th of February, 1835, passed an act, by whose second
section it was enacted that all lands not then in the actual.
possession or the owner, by himself or his tenant in possession, and which had not been entered for taxation on the
books of the commissioners of the revenue, on which the
taxes had not been paid, shall become "forfeited to the Commonwealth," after July 1st, 1836.
The 8(l section of the act ran thus.
"That all right, title, and interest which may hereafter be
vested in the Commonwealth by virtue of the provisions of' the
section of this act next preceding herein, shall be transferred
and vested in any and every person or persons (other than
those fbi whose lefrault the same have been forfeited and their
heirs or devisces), who are now in possession of said lands, or
any part or parcel of them, for so inuch thereofias they have
just title or claim to, legal or equitable, bond fide claim held or

derived under grants from the Commonwealth dated prior to

Dec. 1871.J

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.
Statement of the case.

April 1st, 1831, who shall have discharged all taxes duly assessed
and charged against her, him, or them upon such lands, and all
taxee that ought to have been assessed and charged thereon,
from the time when he, she, or they acquired his, her, or their
title thereto, whether legal or equitable."
Under this act, the land conveyed by Mr. Morris became
fbrfeited.
In 1844 the legislature passed " An act for the relief of
James Dundas and Benjamin Kugler," who had apparently
become large shareholders of ile North American Land
Company, and who by suidry conveyances were then vested
with whatever estate Nixon had been vested with by the
deed of 1795, of Mr. Morris to Messrs. Willino, Nixon, and
Barclay. By this act of 1844, Dundas and Kugler were authorized to redeem the lands forfeited under the alreadyquoted act of 1835; on which redemption by them the title
vested by the forfeiture was released by the terms of the act
to them for the benefit of the land company.
The act contained, however, in its second section, this
proviso :
"Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to deprive any persons having a legal or equitable title
to these lands, by virtue of a subsequent grant from the Corn.
monwealth, or otherwise, of his, her, or their right, title, or interest, but the rights of such claimants shall remain the same as if
this act had never been passed."
Dundas and Kugler having, in May, 1845, redeemed the
land, now put in evidence the certificate of the Auditor of
Public Accounts of Virginia, to show that the taxes had
been paid in pursuance of the act of 1844, and in 1845 the
heirs of Barclay, who had survived Nixon, conveyed all his
estate in the lands to Dundas and Kugler, as trustees of the
North American Land Company. These two conveyed to
Morrill, the plaintifL
So fur as to the plaintiff's title; as to which it will be observed that ifany title passed to Mr. Willing by the deed of.
Mr. Morris to him, Nixon, and Barclay, and had not passed

.ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. (3t.

Statement of the case.

from him by his disclaimer of 1806, then his estate, whatever it was, had not been conveyed to any one.
Now as to the defendant's title. Surveys having been
made in different parts of the State, subsequent to the
treaty of 1783, which included within their exterior 1)oundares smaller tracts of prior claimants, and these being reserved to such claimants in the certificates granted by the
surveyors, doubts arose as to the authority of the governor
to grant patents in such cases. The legislature of Virginia
accordingly passed, June 2d, 1788,* an act to authorize the
governor to issue them. This act made a recital and enactment thus:
" Whereas sundry surveys have been made in different parts
of the Commonwealth, which include in the general courses
thereof, sundry smaller tracts of prior claimants, and whicl in
the certificates granted by the surveyors of the respective counties, are reserved to- such clainants; and the governor or chief
magistrate is not authorized- by law to issue grants upon such
certificates of surveys."
And it enacted:
SECTION 1. " That it shall and may be lawful for the governor
to issue grants wih reservation of claims to lands included within
such surveys, anything in any law to the contrary notwithstanditig."

With this statute in force, one Samuel M. Hopkins obtained a survey and patent from the State of Virginia, dated
July 1st, 1796.
The survey'was for 200,000 acres, and gave boundaries
including a much larger area, closing with this statement, to
wit:
"An allowance of 227,460 acres is made in the calculation of
area of this plat for prior claims included within boundary
thereof'"
The patent followed the boundaries of the survey in its
grant of the 200,000 acres, and concluded as follows:
* Second Revised Code of Virginia, p. 434, ch. 68.

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V.

MORRIL,.

5tatement of the case.

"But it is always to, be understood that the survey upon
which this grant is founded includes 227,460 acres, exclusive of
the above quantity of 200,000 acres, all of which having a preference by law to the whA'rants and rights upon which this grant
is founded, liberty is reserved that the same shall be firnm and
valid, and may be carried into grant or grants; and tliis grant
shall be no bar in either law or equity to the eonfirmation of
the title or titles to the same as before mentioned and r eserved,
with its appurtenances; to have and to hold the said tract or
parcel of' land, with its appurtenances, to the said Samuel M.
Hopkins (except as before excepted) and his heirs forever."
This title of Hopkins became afterwards vested in one
Watson.
Evidence was given tending to show that the patent to
Hopkins embraced within its exterior boundaries the entire
tract claimed by the plaintiffs, and that the defenda(nts and
those under whom they claimed had paid the taxes and assessments thereoti, from the month of September, 1834, to
the year 1840.
In addition to this paper-title the defendants set up also
one founded on adverse possession. They had taken actual
bona fide possession of the land in 1827, and had kept possession up to November 1st, 1836, when the premises in controversy were forfeited to the State, and they continiued to
occupy them throughout the term that the title was vested
by the forfeiture in the State, and so also after May, 1845
(when by the redemption the tract was revested in its original owners), to the time when the suit was instituted, April
15th, 1857. Such possession before the forfeiture was, however, it will be observed, not for the term of fourteen years,
the time then required by law in Virginia to bar a recovery,
nor did such possession subsequent to the date of the reVwstiture, and before the bringing of this suit continue long
enough to bar a recovery. The term before the forfeiture
and the term after the revestiture tacked together constituted, however, an adverse possession of fourteen years, and
would maintain the defence.
The defendants below-who had objected to the reception

126

ARMSTRONG V., MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in evidence of what was called the disclaimer of Mr. Willing (the paper printed smpra, pp. 121-2), and had excepted
to its admission-maintained:
I. As related to -the construction of the patent to Hopkins.
1. That by its terms it cover d all lands lying within its exterior boundaries, except such as carne within the reservation contained therein; and' that the burden was on the
plaintiff to show-himself within the reservation, which be
had not done.
2. That only lands held by inchoate equitable title, not
carried into grant when Hopkins's entry and survey were
made, come within the reservation.
3. That lands lying within the exterior boundaries of the
Hopkins grant, which had been patented prior to Hopkins's
entry, survey, and grant, would, upon beconing forfeited to
the State of Virginia, by virtue of the act of 27th February,
1835, inure to and vest in those holding under the Hopkins
patent, provided such owner had complied with the other
conditions mentioned in said act.
II. As related to their second ground of defence, namely,
adverse possession, the defendants contended:
1. That the continuity of adverse possession as against-the
prior owners was not broken by the forfeiture and vesting
in the State, November 1st, 1836, and continuance till redeemed by Dundas and Kugler in 1845.
2. That if it was broken, it was restored upon the principle of remitter or relation upon the redemption by Dundas
aid Kugler. And if neither8. That it was competent for the defendants to tack the
adverse possession prior to the forfeiture to that subsequent
to the redemption, in order to make out the fourteen years
required by the statute to bar the action.
The defendants accordingly asked the court to charge:
"First. That the reservation in the patent to Hopkins, was
of lands the titles to which were inchoate, and not of lands
which had beer. granted by patent previous to the date of Hopkins's surve and entry.
"Second. That the patent covered all lands lying within the

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

Statement of the case.

exterior boundary of the survey, for which patents had issued
previous to Hlopkins's entry, survey, and patent, and became a
junior grant to that issued to Gallatin.
" Third. That if Watson was the owner of the land described
in the patent to Hopkins at the time the land in controversy
became forfeited to the Commonwealth; and if he was, pti the
27th of February, 1835, and up to the time of the forfeiture, in
the actual bondfide possession, by himself or tenant, of the land
in controversy, or any part thereof, under the patent to Hopkins; and ff he, Watson, had, at the date of the forfeiture, dis'charged all taxes upon the land, then that the Gallatin title
inured to and vested in Watson, and that the plaintiffs could
not recover.
"Fourth. That if the jury are satisfied, from the evidence,
that adversary possession commenced before 1st of November,
1836, and the same possession continued during the time of
the forfeiture, as well as from the 8th of May, 1845 (the time of
redemption), up to the time of the institution of this suit, and
by adding the time of adversary possession before forfeiture to
the adversary possession after redemption, makes a period of
fourteen years, then they must find for the defendants, or such
of the defendants as make out the fourteen years aforesaid.
"Fifth. That the act of 1844, which authorized Dundas and
Kugler to redeem the lands therein specified, did not so operate
as to relieve them from the effect of the statute of limitations,
which had commenced running for the defendants before the
forfeiture, for the time the land in controversy was so forfeited,
if the jury believe the defendants continued their possession
without interruption during the forfeiture and up to the time of
redemption, and that the defendants continued the possession to
the time of the institution of this suit."
The court refused these instructions, and charged that:
"The grant to Hopkins, embracing within its exterior boundaries 227',460 acres of land, which is reserved and excepted to
prior claimants, does not operate to divest them of their title,
unless they fail to show themselves entitled to the land under
said reservation; nor does the grant pass any legal title to the
grantee of the lands so reserved and excepted by it, where the
same have been previously appropriated and granted by the
Commonwealth, inasmuch as it appears that the patentee gets

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

all the lands he paid for, or for which he is chargeable with
taxes.
" To secure to the defendants the benefit of the forfeiture of
the Gallatin title, the jury must be satisfied that the Iopkips
grant is the younger, covers and includes the land in controversy, and that Watson and those claiming under him were in
the actual possession of the land, claiming the same in good
faith, having discharged all the taxes due the State duly assessed and charged against said land, as well as all taxes that.
should have been assessed and charged against the same from
the date of the deed from Hopkins to Watson; otherwise, the
forfeiture of the Gallatin title would not, under the act of 1835,
be transferred to Watson or to those claiming under him.
'"To defeat a recovery in this cause, under the statute of limitations, the defendants must have held unbroken and uninterrupted adverse possession of the premises in controversy, for a
period of fourteen years prior to the institution of this suit."
[The nature of this possession was explained by the court
to the jury.]
"If Watson or those claiming under him entered upon the
land claimed by the plaintiffs in 1832, '33, '34, '35, or '36, and the
same became forfeited by the failure of the owners to enter the
same upon the books of the commissioner of, the revenue of the
proper county and pay the taxes properly chargeable th'oreon,
the sume became vested in the Commonwealth by operation of
law on the first day of November, 1836, and the possession of
the defendants upon the said first day of November, 1836, terininated, and the possession of the land passed into and remained in the Commonwealth until the same was transferred to
Dundas and Kugler by the act of the 12th of February, 1844;
,and the adverse possession acquired by the said defendants before the first day of November, 1836, cannot be connected with
the adverse possession acquired by the defendants after Dundas
and Kuglcr became revested with the title of the Common.
wealth, under the act passed for their relief on the 12th of February, 1844."
The defendants excepted to the ruling of the court'refusing to give the instructions asked by them and in giving the
instructions given.

:Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONTO V. MORRILL.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The jury found a verdict for Morrill; the verdict containing nothing about Dundas, Kugler, or Tilghman. And no
motion in arrest of judgment being made, nor any objection
to the finding for Morrill alone, judgment was entered on
the verdict. The defendants brought the case here.
Messrs. B. I. Smith, W. M. Evarts, and S. A. Miller, for
the plainttfy:s in error:
1. There is error in the form of the verdict. The code of
West Virginia requies that the jury shall find for or againsl
all the parties to the record. The present verdict fails, to find
at all as to Dundas, Kugler, aind Tilghman, who were co.
plaintiffs with Morrill.*
2. The writing purporting to be signed by Mr. Willing
was made near eleven years after Mr. Morris's deed to him.
It has no seal. It was thus not a deed; or as such operating
to reconvey the estate previously vested in him. Neither
was it testimony to prove that he did not become a trustee.
In no view then is it,
of value. It had none of the forms and
requisites of a deposition, competent to prove his renunciation of the trust prior to the estate's vesting, nor was it sufficient in law to dive~t him of the estate when it had once
b(come vested.
3. The first three instructions asked by us have, reference
to the same legal question, and should be considered together. By the act of June, 1788, a person having a survey,
including in its bounds prior claims of others, might have a
patent according to the bounds of such survey, excepting in
the patent all such prior claims. Such patents were numerous under that act, am) became known to the country and
the courts as "'inclusive surveys." The patent of Hopkins
shows the form of the reservation adopted by the executive
of Virginia. That form is common to all inclusive grants.
The exception necessarily excludes from its operation a
patent which is older than the entry or survey on which the
exclusive grant is founded.
Chapter 90,
VOL. XIV.

23, 24, p. 520.
9

130

ARMSTRONG

V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The words "prior claims," in the statute, refer to entries
and surveys which precede a patent, and constitute only
equitable or inchoate titles, which would be defeated by the
'first patent, giving the elder legal title, without the exception. No such exception is necessary to protect an existing
patent. But the elder legal title protects itself. The words
" prior claims," used in the statute, had thus received, by
prior use in Virginia legislation about lands, a distinct and
definite application to equitable titles.*
-If the patent to Gallatin, dated in 1786 (nine years before
the entry of the inclusive grant), is not within the exception,
then Iopkins's patent secures to the patentee the same title
to the land that a junior patent located on an elder patent
would secure. It is a title well known and well understood
in Virginia legislation. The whole of West Virginia was
covered with large elder grants, and occupants under junior
grants have been sedulously protected against such large
unsettled surveys, on which elder grants have been issued.
Where these elder grants have been forfeited for non-payment of taxes and non-entry, the law casts the forfeited title
on the junior grant. As the land of Hopkins or Watson
was not forfeited, the taxes paid and the land occupied, the
forfeited Gallatin title, which is the land in controversy, inured to Watson and those holding under him as the junior
grantee.
We therefore contend that the first, second, and third instructions ought to have been given.
4. As to the adverse possession : The court erred in not
giving the fourth and fifth instruction's asked for.
The fourth instruction asked to unite the adversary possession which occurred before forfeiture with the possession
after redemption. This indeed falls short of the legal rights
of the defendants, for when time commences to run there is
no law that stops it. Bu't suppose that it stops for the State,
it does not follow that it stops for the defaulter. So far as it
Second Revised Code of Virginia, pp. 84-8-9, 382-5-7-8, 392-7; Wilds
v. Serpell, 10 Grattan, 406; Staats v. Board, lb. 400; Atkins v. Lewis, 14

1d. 80.

Dec. 18,71. ]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

has run, it is valid. After the redemption, the time run is
also valid. Is it not just then to unite them? By the instruction asked for by us the plaintiff gained the time of
the forfeiture; but that gain, obtained by sheltering himself
under the State, has no such merit as to avoid the valid
time wthich preceded the forfeiture.
The fifth instruction should also have been given. If this
was a suit with the State, or a purchaser from the State, the
statute might not be a bar. But it is a suit between individuals, one of whom for a time had lost his estate by neglect of duty; yet, by the leniency of the government, be is
allowed to be remitted to his former estate without prejudice to his rights by the State. He pays taxes and redeems.
He does not hold under 'the State, but under his own title,
which he has redeemed. He pays no consideration to the
State. He pays the debt for which the State held a lien on
the land. He cannot and ought not to be permitted to
thrust the State between him and the defendants.
5. There is also error in the instructions actually given
by the court, and excepted to by the defendants.
Mr. G. D. Camden, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Absolute title and the right of possession are claimed by
the plaintiff to the tract of land in controversy, and the
actual possession of the same being in the four defendants
named in the declaration, le brought an action of ejectment
against them to recover possession of the tract. He alleges
in the first count of the original declaration that on the day
therein named he was possessed in fee simple of the tract;
that on the eighth of October following the defendants entered into the premises, and that they unlawfully withhold
from him the described tract. Quite unlike that, the second
count alleges that the primary possession of the tract was in
one James Dundas and one Benjamin Kugler, and that the
defendants uiulawfully withhold the possession from those
parties. Process was served and the defendants appeared

132

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct

Restatement of the case in thje opinion.

and demurred to the declaration, and the court sustained the
demurrer as to the second count but overruled it as to the
first. Leave to amend was granted, and an amended declaration was filed, containing three counts, of which the first
is in the name of the plaintiff and the other two persons
named in the second count of the original declaration. All
three sue in that count as joint plaintiffs, but the second
count corresponds in all respects with the first count in the
original declaration, which renders it unnecessary to describe
the third, except to say that the other two persons are alleged
to have been the primary possessors of the tract, and that
the claim to recover possession is made in their names as
well as the claim for damages. Both parties acquiesced in
the decision of the court overruling the demurrer to the first
count and sustaining it as to the second of the original declaration, and the defendants pleaded to the merits that they
were not guilty of withholding the premises as alleged in
the new counts filed by leave of-court. Issue was tendered
and joined, but the plaintiffs, before trial, obtained leave to
file a fourth count, in which it is alleged that one William
M. Tilghman was the primary possessor of the tract, and the
charge, in that count, is that the defendants unlawfully withhold from him the actual possession of 'the same described
tract ,of land. Subsequently the parties went to trial and
the verdict was for the plaintiff, as described in the first
count of the original declaration, and also in the second
count of the amended declaration.
By the verdict the jury found that the plaintiff, Lot M.
Morrill, had an estate in fee simple in the premises, except
as to a small parcel therein described, and they also assessed
nominal damages for the plaintiff. Judgment was duly rendered against the first three defendants, the death of the
other having been suggested before the trial, and the survivors sued out a writ of error and removed the record into
this court.
To sustain the issue on their part the plaintiffs gave in
evidence: (1.) A copy of a survey made by the surveyor of
the proper county of the State for Albert Gallatin, assignee

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL,.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

of Stephen Lacoste, of fifteen hundred acres of land, part of
a laud-office warrant of five thousand acres, dated June 27th,
1770, bounded as therein described. (2.) Copy of the patent
to Albert Gallatin, dated February 10th, 1786, for the tract
of land described in the survey. (3.) Also copy of a deed
from Albert Gallatin, dated May 7th, 1794, to Robert Morris, conveying the same land. (4.) Deed from Robert Morris
and others to Thomas Willing, John Nixon, and John Barclay, dated March 5th, 1795, conveying the premies to them
and the survivor and survivors of them, and the heirs of the
survivor in trust, as more fully set forth in the deed exhibited
in the record. (5.) Certificate of William F. Taylor, auditor
of public accounts for the State, showing that James Dundas
and Benjamin Kugler, trustees as aforesaid, on the eighth
of May, 1845, redeemed the lands in question by the payment of the required sum into the treasury, in manner and
form as more fully set forth in that certificate, and certain
others also introduced by the plaintiff and exhibited in the
bill of exceptions. (6.) Disclaimer of Thomas Willing,
dated December 19th, 1806, in which he states that he did
positively refuse to accept or act under the trust, and that
he has not at any time since accepted the said trust, or acted
in any vise as trustee, under that deed. (7.) Also deed
dated June- 17th, 1845, from John M. Barclay and others to
James Dundas and Benjamin Kugler, conveying to them all
the right, title, and interest of the two trustees who did ac,ept tie trust created by the preceding deed. (8.) Deed
dated December 1st, 1854, fi'om James Dundas and Benjamin Kuugler, trustees of the North American Laud Company,
to the plaintiff in whose favor the judgment was rendered.
Evidence was also introduced by the plaintiffs showing
that the land in controversy, on the 1st day of November,
1836, became forfeited to the State by virtue of the second
sections of the statute of the State passed on the 27th of February, 1835, as c mstrued by the Supreme Court, or Court
of Appeals, of that State.* Forfeiture in such a case became
* Sessions Acts, 1885, p. 12; Staats v. Board, 10 Grattan, 400.

ARMSTRONG V.

MORRILL.

[Sup. CJr

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

absolute and complete by the failure to enter and pay the
taxes on the land and the damages, in the manner therein
prescribed, and no inquisition or judicial proceeding or inquest or finding of any kind was required to consummate
such a forfeiture.* Owners or proprietors of any tract of
land lying west of the Alleghany Mountains, granted bythe
State befbre the first day of' April, 1831, were required by
the act of the twenty-seventh of February, 1835, to enter or
cause to be entered, on or before the first day of July of the
succeeding year, on the books of the Commissioners of the
Revenue for the county whereia'any such tract or parcel of
land may lie, all such lands as he or they owned or claimed,
through title derived, mediately or immediately, from the
State, and have the same charged with all taxes and damages in arrear or properly chargeable thereon. They were
also required to pay and satisfy all such taxes and damages
which would not have been relinquished and exonerated by
the second section of the act of the tenth of March, 1832,
had they been returned for their delinquency prior to the
passage of that act, and the provision was that if they failed
to comply with those requirements " all such lands or parcels thereof not then in the actual possession of such owner
or proprietor, by himself or his tenant in possession, shall become forfeited to the Commonwealth after the first day of July,
eighteen hundred and thirty-six, except only as hereinafter
excepted."
Provision is also made by the third section of the act that
all right, title, and interest vested in the State by the preceding section of the act shall be transferred and absolutely
vested in any and every person or persons, other than those
for whose default the same have been forfeited, their heirs,
or devisees, now in actual possession of said lands, or any
part or parcel of the same, for so much thereof as such person or persons have just title or claim to, legal or equitable,
boA fide claimed, held, or derived fiom or under any grant
of the State bearing date previous to the period of time
Wild's Lessee v. Serpell, 10 Grattan, 405; Hale v. Branscum, 1b. 418.

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

mentioned in the preamble to the second section, who shall
have discharged all taxes duly assessed and charged! against
him or them upon such lands, and all taxes that ought to
have been assessed and charged thereon from the time he or
they acquired title thereto, whether legal or equitable. Ap,
pended to that section, however, is a proviso that nothing
therein contained shall be so construed as to impair the
right or title of any person or persons who have obtained
grants from the State for the same land and have regularly
paid the taxes thereon.
Section four provides, among other things, that the proprietors'of such lands, their attorney or agent, of the land
returned delinquent for non-payment of taxes for the years
eighteen hundred and thirty-two and the succeeding year,
may pay the taxes and charges upon said lands for each of
those years to the sheriff of the county where the lands lie,
and take his receipt therefor and deliver the same, on or before the first day of November, 1836, to the clerk of the
County Court of said county.*
Beyond all doubt the lands described in the deed of Robert Morris and others to the grantors of the plaintiff; became
forfeited to the State by reason of the failure to enter the
same on the books of the Commissioners of the Revenue, as
recited iii the preamble to the act of the twelfth of February,
1844, in which it is also stated that the grantors of the plaintiff petitioned " the General Assembly for permission to redeem the said lands upon the payment of all the taxes and
damages due thereou."t By the first section of that act
they were empowered " to redeem the whole or any paIrt of
the aforesaid lands by having the same entered upon the
books of the Commissioners of the Revenue of the county
wherein the land may lie, and assessed with all taxes due
thereon, to be ascertained in the same manier that the back
taxes on omitted lands are now ascertained by the several
commissioners of delinquent and forfeited lanids, and paying
into the treasury of the State, on or before the first day of
* Sessions Act,

1835, pp. 12, 13.

-t Sessions Acts, 1843-4, p. 108.

ARMSTRONG

V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Or.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

June" of the succeeding yeyr, " the amount of the taxes so
assessed, together with six per centum per annum damages
thereon." They complied with those conditions, and the
second section of the act provided, "that upon the payment
of the taxes' and damages aforesaid, all theiright, title, and
interest which may have vested in the president and directors of the Literary Fund, by the said forfeiture, to such
part or parts of the said lands as may be redeemed as aforesaid, shall be and the same are hereby released unto the said
James Dundas and Benjamin Kugler,.. . for the use and
benefit of the shareholders of the said North American Land
Company." Annexed to that, however, is a proviso that
nothing herein containled shall be construed to deprive any
person or persons having a legal or equitable title to any of
these lands by virtue of a subsequent grant from the State
or otherwise, of his or their right, title, or interest, but the
rights of such claimants shall remain the same as if this act
had never been passed.
Documentary evidences of title were also introduced by
the defendants, as follows: (1.) The plat and certificate of a
survey made for Samuel M. Hopkins for two hundred thousand acres of land in the county of Kanawha, dated the tenth
of December, 1795, as more fully set forth in the. record,
which contains the following certificate: " Surveyed for
Samuel M. Hopkins two litndred thousand acres of land in
the county pf Kanawha, by virtue of two land-office treasury
warrants, each for one hundred thousand acres;" aid then
follows the boundaries, at the close of which is the following
statement: "An allowance of two huhdred and twenty-seven
thousand four hundred and sixty acres is made in the calculation of the area of this plat for prior claims contained in
(the) boundary thereof." (2.) The patent, dated July 1st,
1796, issued on that survey to Samuel M. Hopkins for two
hundred thousand acres by the governor of the State.
Founded, as the patent is, upon the certificate of survey, it
contains the same boundaries and concludes as follows:
"But it is always to be understood that the survey upon

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

187

Opinion of the court.

which this grant is founded, includes two hundred and
twenty-seven thousand four hundred and sixty acres," exclusive of the above quantity of two hundred thousand acres,
"all of which having a preference by law to the warrants
and rights upon which this grant is founded, liberty is reserved that the same shall be firm and valid, and may be
carried into grant or grants," and this grant shall be no bar
in either law or equity to the confirmation of the title or
titles to the same, as before mentioned and reserved, with
the appurtenances. (3.) Deed from Oliver Wolcott and
others to James T. Wat.ohi, dated June 22d, 1808, conveying to him, among other things, the lands embraced in the
patent to Samuel M. I-opkins. (4.) Evidence tending to
show that the patent to Samuel M. Hopkins embraced
within its exterior boundaries the entire tract claimed by
the plaintiff, as shown by certain plats which were also introduced. (5.) Parol evidence was also introduced by the
defendants tending to prove that James T. Watson, claim-,
ing under the patent to Samuel M. Hopkins and the deed
to himself, took actual and bone fide possession, in the year
1827, of the lands in controversy, as well as of the coterminous surveys of Savary and Gallatin, previously introdueed in evidence, and that he, as early as the month of
Septernber, 1834, discharged all taxes and damages rendered
against him upon said two hundred thousand acres of land,
and all that ought to have been charged against him up to
the year 1840, as the same became due. (6.) Other evidence
was also introduced by the defendants, deraigning the title
from the last-named grantee to them or one of them, which
it is not imiortant to notice, as it is not the subject of controversy.
First objection to the judgment has respect to the form
of the verdict, because it does not find for or against all the
parties mentioned in the different counts Qf the declaration,
but the court is of the opinion that the objection is without
merit, as the finding conforms to the first count in the original declaration and to the second couant in the amended

ARMSTRONG

V.

MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

declaration. No motion in arrest of judgment was made,
and as no such question was raised in the court below, and
as the finding is fully justified by two of the counts and by
the evidence reported, the objection is overruled.
Adopting the order of events at the trial, the next question arises fron the exception of the defendants to the ruling
of the court in admitting in evidence the paper-writing
called the disclaimer of Thomas Willing, in which lie states,
under date of the nineteenth of December, 1806, to the effect
that he positively refused to accept the trust intended to be
created by the before-mentioned deed to John Nixyn, John
Barclay, and himself, and that he never did accept the same
or in anywise act as trustee" under that instrument. Before
offering that paper the plaintiff introduced the deed to
which it relates, and having proved 'the signature of the
signer, the plaintiff offered the paper as tending to show
that the signer never accepted the trust described in that
deed. Two objections were made to the admissibility of
the paper: (1.) That it was insufficient as a disclaiimer as it
was not under seal, but the paper was offered meiely as evidence to show that the signer never accepted the trust, and
not as an instrument releasing a vested right, which is all
that need be said in reply to that objection. (2.) That it
was not admissible as evidence that he never accepted the
trust, because it was not under oath. Appended to that
paper are the affidavits of three witnesses proving that the
signature of the signer is genuine. Annexed to that is the
certificate of an examiner of the Supreme Court of the State
of Pennsylvania, dated the third of March, 1844, that the
signature of the signer of the paper was proved before him
in due form of law, and also the certificate of the clerk of
Cabell County Court, Virginia, under date of the twentyninth of March, 1856, that the instrunment, together with
the certificates of proof, was admitted to record.
Authorities are hardly necessary to show that the mere
making oi a trust deed,'like the one in question, without
any acceptance, express or implied, by the trustee, is not

Dec. 18-71.]

ARMSTRONG V.

MORRILL.

Opinion of the court.

sufficient to vest in the trustee the title to the land mentioned in the deed, and that paro proof is admissibie in such
a case to show that the trust was never accepted. On the
other hand, it is equally clear that if the trust is a, epted,
though but for a moment, parol proof to show a. release of
the title to the trust estate cannot be'admitted.* Offered as
the paper-writing was, not as the release of a vested right,
but merely as evidence tending to prove that the signer
never accepted the trust created by the deed, no douht is
entertained that the evidence was properly adiiitted, as it is
well-settled law that every convyance which depends upon
the act of the parties is imperfect for vesting the title without the assent of the parties to the same, either express or
implied.t Two of the trustees accepted the trust and proceeded to execute it, but it does not appear that the signer
of the certificate ever joined with them in any act, either in
managing or disposing of the estate. Obviously the weight
of the evidence was for the jury, nor does it appear that
other testimony to the same point was not introduced, as
only so much is reported in the bill of exceptions as was
necessary to raise the question of law. Admitted as it was,
as a verbal act tending to show that the trust was not accepted, no doubt is entertained that the ruling was correct.
Exceptions were also taken by the defendants to the refusal of the court to instruct the jnry as requested, and alsto the instructions given in respect to the merits of' the controversy. Very great doubts are entertained whether the
evidence introduced by the defendants was such that the
court would have been warranted iii giving the first, second,
or third instructions as requested, but the j udguient of the
court will not be placed upon that ground, as it is clear that
the instructions given, if correct, were in all respects suf_
* Lewin on Trusts (4th ed.), 150; Robinson v. Pott, 3 P. Williams, 251 i
Doe v. Harris, 1 Meeson & Welsby, 517 ; Doyle v. Blake, 2 Schoale & Leiroy, 239; Staery v. Elph, I Mylne & Keene, 195; Tiff. & Bull. on Trusts,
532.

t

Smith v. Wheeler, 1 Ventris, 128.

ARMSTRONd V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ficient to dispose of the controversy, and as the verdict was
for the plaintiff the only material inquiry remaining is
whether the law was correctly given to the jury in those
instructions.
Two hundred and twenty-seven thousand four hundred and
sixty acres of land were embraced in the patent to Samuel M.
Hopkins which was reserved and excepted to prior claimants,
and the co-urt, in its fourth instruction, told the jury that the
patent did not operate to divest such prior claimants of their
title unless they failed to show themselves entitled to the
land under the said reservation; that the patent did not
pass any legal title to the patentee of said lands, so reserved
and excepted by it, where the same had been previously appropriated and granted by the State, inasmuch as it appeared
that the patentee got all the lands he paid for or for which
he was charged with taxes. What the defendants claimed
was that the title under the Gallatin patent was forfeited
and merged in the Watson claim under the act of the twentyseventh of February, 1835, but the jury were instructed that
the defendants could not derive atny benefit from the supposed forfeiture unless the jury were satisfied that the patent
of Hopkins, which was the junior patent, covered and included the land in controversy, and that Watson and those
claiming under him were in the actual possession of the said
land, claiming the same in good faith, having discharged all
the taxes due to the State, duly assessed and charged against
the same, from the date of the deed from Hopkins to Watson.
Apart from the 'merits the defendants set up the statute
of limitations, and insisted that the action could not be
maintained because, as they alleged, they had " held unbroken and uninterrupted adverse possession of the premisds in
controversy for a period of fourteen years prior to the institution of the suit." Pursuant to that claim the jury were
instructed, in the first place, that the defendants, to sustain
that defence, " must have held possession of the premises by
residence, iml)rovement, cultivation, or other open, notorious,
and habitual ac;ts of ownership, for fourteen years" before

De. 1871.'

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.
Opinion of the court.

the commencement of the action ; but if the jury find that
the defendant, Armstrong, resided there and was the owner
of a lot in the town of Ripley, and in the immediate vicinity
thereof he owned a tract of woodland, part of the land in
controversy, from which land, claiming it as his own, he, for
the time mentioned, openly cut and hauled his necessary
supply of fuel, and also the timber necessary for the construction of various houses on the lot, and also inclosed certain portions of the land, such acts and useare equivalent to
adversary possession from the time such acts and use were
commenced.
But the evidence showed that the land, on the first day of
November, 1836, became forfeited to the State, as matter of
law, by the failure of the owners to enter the same upon the
books of the Qommissioners of the Revenue of the proper
county, and pay the taxes properly chargeable thereon, and
the court upon that subject instructed the jury that if they
so found from the evidence, and that the possession passed
into and remained in the State until the title was transferred
to the grantors of the plaintiff, the defence under the statute
of limitations was not sustained, as the adverse possession
acquired by the defendants before the first day of November,
1836, cannot be connected with the adverse possession acquired by them after the grantors of the plaintiff became
vested with the title of the State, under the before-mentioned
act of the Assembly passed for their relief.
Two principal errors are alleged in the instructions: (1.)
That the court did not instruct the jury that the land, when
it became forfeited for non-entry on the books of the Commissioners of the Revenue, and for non-payment of taxes
and damages, was transferred to and became vested in the
owners of the Hopkins patent, under the third section of the
act declaring the forfeiture. (2.) That the court erred in the
instruction to the jury that the statute of limitations ceased
to run when the land became forfeited to the State, and that
the period of adverse possession before the -forfeiture took
place could not be added to the period which elapsed before
the suit was commenced, subsequent to the time the title

142

ARMSTRONG V. MOtIRILL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

under the act of the Assembly was conveyed to the plaintiff's
grantors, to make the required term of fourteen years to bar
the title.
Such a construction of the act of Assembly as the one first

claimed, certainly could not have been adopted unless it can
be held that the proviso emlwar'ed in the Hopkins patent
does not afford any protection to the owners of lands ineluded in that survey, where the patents had been previously
issued, which is the construction assumed by the defendants. They contend that the proviso only excludes from the
operation of the grant the " lands within its exterior boundaries, the titles to which were inehoaje, and not, lands which
had been granted by patents previous to the date of that
survey and entry," which is a construction not to be sustained if another consistent with the language employed can
be adopted better clculated to promote justice and to carry
into effect the plain intent of the lawgiver.
On the other hand the plaintiff contends that the reservation excludes from the operation of the patent all lands held
by then at the date of the survey, within the exterior boundary of the- patent, whether the title was only inchoate or
had been perfected by grants, which seems to be the more
reasonable construction, and not inconsistent with the language employed.
By the terms of the reservation it is stated that the survey includes two hundred and twenty-seven thousand four
humdred and sixty acres beyond the quantity granted to the
patentee, in respect to all of which "' liberty is reserved that
the same shall be firm and valid, and may be carried into grant
or grants," which means that all shall befirm and valid, whe.theri held by complete or incomplete titles, but that such
parts as are held by incomplete titles may be carried into
grant, and that the patent founded on that survey shall be
no bar, in either law or equity, to the confirmation of the
titles to the reserved lands included within the exterior
bounds of that survey.
Surveys had been made in different parts of the State,
subsequent to the treaty of peace, that included smaller

Dec.

1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

143

Opinion of the court.

tracts of prior claimants within their exterior boundaries,
and which were reserved toosuch claimants in the certificates
granted by the snrveyors. Doubts arose as to the authority
of the governor to grant patents in such cases, and to remove those doubts the General Assembly, June 2d, 1778,
enacted that it shall and may be laWful for the governor to
issue grants with reservation of claims to lands included in
such surveys, anything in any law to the contrary notwith-,
standing.* Prior to the passage of that law the authority
to issue such grants was at least doubtful, even if the power
existed at all, and it is clbar that the Assembly never intended that any such grant should cover any prior title,
whether complete or incomplete, within the exterior boundaries of the survey.t Supported as the proposition is by
repeated decisions of the State court it is adopted without
hesitation, as any othe rule would work very great iinjustice.T Where the exterior boundaries of a survey under
that law upon which a patent is fdunded includes tracts belonging to prior claimants, the patentee cannot in such a
case recover in ejectment without showing that the tract
claimed by the defendant is not within the bounds of the
excluded claims, which is a direct authority that the reserved
lands in a case like the present did not pass to the patentee.
Even more decisive also is the ease of Nichols el al. v. Covey,l
in which it is determined that where a patent is issued in
pursuance of the act of the second of June, 1788, which ineludes in its general courses a prior claim, it does not pass
to the patentee the title of the State to tie lands covered by
such prior claim. On the contrary, the title of the patentee
in respect to such a tract is not only subject to the title of
the prior claimant, but if that title is only a prior entry and
it becomes vacated by neglect to procure a survey and return
the plat, any one maylay a warrant on the same, as in other
aases oF vacant and unappropriated lands. Exactly the same
* 2 Revised uode of Virginia, 434,
f Ib. 850, 483 ; 1b. 865.
$ Hopkins et al. v. Ward et al., 6 Murford, 38.
Madison v. Owens, 6 Littell's Select Cases, 281.
(j 4 Randc phb, 865.

144

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. (t.

Opinion of the court.

rule is laid down by this court in the case of ScotU et al. v.
Ratliffe et al.,* in which the opinion was given by the Chief
Justice. He said such patents have been always held valid,
so far as respects the land not excluded, but to pass no legal
title to the land excepted from the grant, as the lands are in
this case in the habendum of the patent, and not a doubt is
entertained that the rule there laid down is th correct rule
upon the subject.t
2. Sufficient evidence was introduced by the defendants
to show that they or some of them took adversary possession
of the premises in controversy prior to the forfeiture of the
same to the State, and that they continued to occnpy the
same throughout the period that the title was vested in the
State, and after the State conveyed the tract to the grantors
of the plaintiff to the time when the suit was instituted, but
it is conceded that such adversary possession before the forfeiture was not fir the period of iburteen years, the time
then required by law to bar a recovery, nor did such adversary possession subsequent to the date of the conveyance by
the State to the grantors of the plaintiff and before the service of process, coitinue long enough to bar a recovery.
Both combined would maintain the defence, and of course
if the statute continued to run during the period the title
was vested in the State by the forfeiture, the instruction
given to the jury was erroneous and the judgment must be
reversed. Adverse possession was the defence in the citse
of Stoughton v. Baker,t where the question arose in respect
to the right of the defendant to an ancient grant which was
subject to an implied limitation, and it was contended that
he had been so long possessed of the premises that the State
had no right to interfere in any fortu of legal remedy. Possession and uninterrupted enjoyment for a very long period
was proved in that case, but tlhg court held that the limitation could not be extinguished by any inattention or neglect
6 Peters, 86.
j Kenna v. Quarrier, 3 West Virgkiia, 212; Hardman v. Boardman, 4
Leigh, 882.
$ A Massachusetts, 526.

Dee. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

145

Opinion of the court.

in compelling the owner to comply with it,for no laches s
to be imputed to the government and against it no time runs
go as to bar the public rights, which is no more nor less
thAn another form of words for expressing the ancient rule
of the common law, that time does not run against the
State.!*
Argument to show that the Atatute of limitations ceased
t9 run, when the forfeiture, attached and the title became
vested in the State can hardly be necessary, as the rule that
time does not run against the State has been settled for ce
turies, and is supported by all courts in all civilized coun
tries.t, Suppose that is so, still It is insisted that the twp
periods, that is, the period of adverse possession before tho
forfeiture and the period subsequent to the conveyance bY
the State tW the plaintiff or those inder whom he claims,
may be added together and considered as one entire period,
for the purpose of maintaining the defence, and it is clear
if that proposition is correct the in'struction given was erroneous. But, the proposition cannot be admitted, as it is
well-settled law that the possession, in order that it may bar
the recovery, must be continuous and uninterrupted as well
as-open, notorious, actual, exclusive, and adverse.t Such a
possession, it is conceded, "if continued without interruption for the whole period which is prescribed by the statute
evidence of a
for the enforcement of the right of entry, 'is
fee,' and bars the right of recovery. Independently of positive statute law such a possession affirds a presumption that
all the claimants to the laud acquiesce in the claim so evidenced and enforced, or that they forbear for some substantial reason to controvert the claim of the possessor or to
disturb him in the enjoyment of the premises. Secret possession will not do, as publicity and notoriety are necessary
as evidence of notice and to put those claiming an adverse
*United

States v. Hoar, 2 Mlason, 312; Lindsey et al. v.Miller, 6 Peters,

673.

t Angell on Limitations, 6th ed 28.
T Cook v. Babcock, 11 Cushing, 210,
VOL. XIV.

10

146

ARMSTRONG V,MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

.Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

interest upon inquiry.* Mere occupation is not sufficient,
but the possession must be adrerse, as seizin and possession
are supposed to be coextensive with the right, and that the
possession continues till the party is ousted thereof by an
actual possession in another under a claim of right.t
Continuity of possession is also one of the essential requisites to constitute such an adverse possession as will be of
efficacy under the statute of limitations.. Whenever a party
quits the possession the seizin of the true owner is restored,
and a subsequent wrongful entry by another constitutes a new
disseizin, and it is equally well settled that if the continuity
of possession is broken before the expiration of the period
of time prescribed by the statute of limitations, an entry
within that time destroys the efficacy of all prior possession,
so that to gain a title under the statute, a gew adverse possession for the time limited must be taken for that purpose.1
Beyond all question the case of flall v. Gillings, one of the
cases just cited, presented the same question as that involved
in the case before the court, and the decision was that the
forfeiture to the State within the period necessary to give
effect to the statute lid have the effect to break the continuity of adverse pos8ession, and prevented the operation of
the statute bar.
Viewed in any light the court is of the opinion that there
is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG, with whom concurred Justices
DAVIS and BRADLEY, dissenting.
In the view which a majority of my brethren take of one
branch of this case, I am unable to.concur.
The plaintiff in the court below claimed title to the land
Bradstreet v. Huntington, 5 Peters, 402; Blood v. Wood, 1 Metcalf,
528; Ewing v. Burnet, 11 Peters, 53.
t Angell on Limitations, 877; Clarke v. Courtney, 5 Peters, 354; McIver
v. Ragan, 2 Wheaton, 29; Kii'k a. Smith, 9 Id. 288.
$ Brinsilud v. Carter, 2 Kelly, 143; Ringgold v. Malott, I Harris & John.
zon, 316; Hall v. Gittings, 2 I d. 112.
Taylor v. Burnsides, 1 Grattan, 190.

Dec. 1871.]

AMSTRONG V. MORI[LL.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

in controversy under a patent of the State of Virginia,
granted to Albert Gallatin on the. 10th day of February,
,1786. It does not appear that any possession was ever taken
under this patent, but on the 1st of November, -1836, the
lands were iorfeited to the State for failure by the owners
'to make entry thereof upon the commissioners' books, for
taxation. On the 12th of February, 1844, however, an act'
of the legislature was passed for the relief of Dundas and
Kugler, who had become the grantees of the Gallatin right,
by which they were allowed to redeem the lands, on the
payment of all taxes and damages due thereon, and on the
8th day of May, 1845, the redemption was made. The
plaintiff has no other title.
The defendants claim as grantees by sundry mesne conveyances through James T. Watson from Samuel M. Hopkins, who also obtained a patent from the State, dated July
1st, 1796.
I agree that neither this patent to Hopkins, nor any legislation of the State affecting it, presents any sufficient defence to the claim of the plaintiff under the earlier patent
to Albert Gallatin., But the defendants set up in the court
below another defence. It was that they were protected by
the statute of limitations. They submitted evidence tending
to prove that they, or those through whom they claim, took
actual and adversary possession of the lands in 1827, and
that such possession had been continued until the institution
of this suit. Relying upon this, they presented to the court
the following two points (among others), and requested that
they might be given as instructions to the jury:
"Fourth. If the jury are satisfied from the evidence that adversary possession commen-ed beforo the 1st of November, 1836,
and the same possession continued during the time of the forfeiture, as well- as from the 8th of May, 1845, the time of redemption, up to the time of the institution of this suit, and by
adding the time of adversary possession befbre forfbiture to the
adversary possession after redemption makes a period of fburteen years, then they must find for the defbndants, or such of
the defendants as make out the iburteen years as afbrcsai l.

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Qt,

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

"Fifth. That the act of 1844, which authorized Dundas and
Kugler to redeem the lands therein specified, did not So operate
as to relieve them from the effect of the statute of limitation,
which had commenced running for the defendants before'the
forfeiture, if the jury believed the defendants continued their
possession without interruption during the forfeiture, and up to
the time of redemption, and that the defendants continued the
possession up to the time of the inlstitution of this suit."
Both these points the court refused to affirm, and, on the
contrary, charged the jury that on the 1st of November,
1836, the possession of the def'endants terminated and passed
into and remained in the Commonwealth until the same was
transferred to Dundas and Kugler by the act of February
12th, 1844, and that the adverse possession acquired by the
defendants before November 1st, 1836, could not be connected with the adverse possession acquired by the defendants after Dundas and Kugler: became revested with the title
of the Commonwealth. THerein, I think, was clear error.
Plainly., had there been no forfeiture, the adversary possession of the defendants, kept up continuously during fourteen
years, would have protected them against any. right of entry
by the plaintiff Th'e forfeiture did not disturb their actual
possession, nor their p(ssession under claim of exclusive
right in themselves, whieh is what is meant by adversary.
I agree that their possession between the forfeiture and the
redemption gave them no right as against the State. This
is not because their possession was not adversary, nor because the actual possession was.transferred by law to the
Commonwealth, but because adversary possession is unavailing to bar any rights of the State, it not being subject to
statutes of limitation, unless expressly named. The defendants here are,not asserting their adversary possession against
the State. The controversy is between them and one claiming under the Gallatin title, which, though at one time forfeited to the State, was allowed to be redeemed. They claim
nothing against the State on account of their possession
from November 1st, 1836, to May 8th, 1845, tho,igh it was

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

adversary and uninterrupted, either by abandonment or by
the entry of the State or of the plaintiff.
But why is not that possession operative against the plaintiff? I think it is. As between him and the defendants,
nothing but an entry or an action brought was sufficient to
change the character of their possession or break its continuity. It is not, however, necessary to discuss this. It is
sufficient for this case that the defendants held actual and
continuous possession of the lands from 1827 until 1857,
when this suit was brought; that the possession was always
adversary to the plaintiff; that he never took any steps to
disturb it, and that he has had more than fourteen years
within which he might have asserted his right.
Concede that the; plaintiff's right of ent-ry was suspended
by the forfeiture, still it revived when the lands were redeemed, atid if the defendants' possession was advbrse to his
right, and Continuous during fourteen years in which he
might have entered or asserted his right by action, I am unable to perceive why lie is not barred.
The fact that an owner's right of entry has been suspended, after the statute has commenced running against
him, can be of no importance, if he has had the statutory
period within which to bring his action against the disseizor
in adverse possession. If this is not so, then war might not
only suspend the running of the statute, but render of no
.ffect all adverse possession held before the war commenced.
This has never been asserted. It is the uninterrupted, adverse possession alone which creates the bar. It is not
essential to iAthat the right to enter or to bring suit should
have suffered no interruption.
Every reason for applying the statute, which would have
existed had there been no forfeiture, and consequently no
suspension of the plaintiff's right to enter, exists in full
force now. Statutes of limitation are dictated mainly by
twc considerations: one, that it is public policy to discourage stale claims; and the other, that it is not to be presumed
that one having a right would delay asserting it for a long
period in full view of another.'s wrongful interference with

150

ARMSTRONG V. MORRILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

it. Hence, the period was fixed at fourteen years, in Virginia and West Virginia, within which a party out of possession may bring his action of ejectmen~t against one in
possession holding adversely. Assuming that the jury would
have found the facts as stated in the points proposed, the
plaintiff has had that entire period, and the public policy, as
well as the presumptions arising from his laches, which gave
birth to the statute, apply, in all their potency, to his case.
And the statute is not only a bar to the assertion of a right
of entry upon one in idverse possession after the expiration
of the period fixed, but it gives a title to the disseizor. The
law casts title upon him, and assures to him the privilege of
asserting it, either aggressively or defensively. For the acquisition of this right the defendants have done all that the
'law contemplates. They entered under a claim of exclusive
right, that is, adversarily, and they held that adversary possession continuously until this suit was brought. That the
Gallatin title was forfeited during their occupancy was no
fault of theirs. It was due to the wrongful neglect of the
plaintiff, or those under whom he claims, to enter the lands
upon the commissioners' books, and to pay the taxes. Can
he now make use of'a forfeiture, caused by his own neglect,
to obtain or preserve rights which, confessedly, would have
no existence but for his neglect? Yet this was, in substance,
the instruction given to the jury. His laches, resulting in a

forfeiture, is to have the sameeffect as an entry would have
had, or as action brought. Thus he is allowed to secure 'an
advantage through his own default. Thus he is allowed to
make use of his own unlawful nonfeasance to break the continuity of the defendants' hostile possession. I cannot assent
to such a view of the law.
Had the Commonwealth, after the forfeiture of the Gallaiin title, granted the land to some other grantee, I agree
that such grantee would not be affected by any adverse possession of the defendants held by them before the forfeiture,
of less duration than fourteen years. But such was not the
case. The holders of the Gallatin title were allowed to redeem. The nature of th transaction by which they became

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. MeRRILL.

151

Opinion of Strong, Davis, and Bradley, JJ., dissenting.

reinvested with the title is plainly seen in the act of February12th, 1844, passed for their relief. Its preamble recited
that the lands had become forfeited by reason of failure to
enter the same on the bo)ks of the Commissioners of the
Revenue for taxation, and that Dundas and Kugler, the trustees of the North American Land Company, for whose use
the title had been held, had petitioned for permission to
"redeem" said lands, on payment of the taxes assessed, together with six per centum per annum damages thereon.
The first section authorized them to "redeem" on those
terms, on or before June 1st, 1845. The second section
"released" unto them, for the benefit of the shareholders of
the company, all the right, title, and interest which had been
forfeited upon the payment of said taxes and damages. The
third section authorized a judgment against the lands for the
amount of costs incurred, and for reasonable compensation
to any commissioner of delinquent and forfeited lands by
reason of his having prepared the redeemed lands for sale;
and the fourth section directed all proceedings by such commissioners to be suspended until after June 1st, 1845. It
thus appears that the redemption was not the acquisition of
a new title. It was the common case of a waiver of a forfeiture. Dundas and Kugler, after the redemption, held by
their old right, the Gallatin patent, and it was this right
which the plaintiff gave in evidence and asserted in the
present action. No new patent was issued to Dundas and
Kugler. The act of 1844 contains no words of grant to
them, and its avowed purpose was to place them in the same
position, as holders of the title and trustees of the company,
which they occupied before the forfeiture.
I am, therefore, of the opinion that the Circuit Court erred
in refusing to affirm the defendants' fourth and fifth points,
and also in the instruction which was given to the jury respecting the effect of the statute of limitations. For this
reason I think the judgment should be reversed, and that a

venire de nero should be awarded.

