Dec. 1871.]

CROSS V.

UNITED STATES.

Syllabus.

alone, while the power was to convey the joint property of
husband and wife. There would be some force in this position, if the original deed to Thiriat had been in trust for the
wife as well as the husband; but, as this was not the case, the
joinder of the wife could only have been intended to alienate
any supposed right of dower in the event that she sur'vived
her husband. She had no present title to the land, either
legal or equitable; and, although Cockle was empowered to
use her name, as well as her husband's, in any instrument
of sale he might execute, the failure to do so cannot, in any
event, operate to invalidate the bond for a deed which he
gave to Cain.
It is hardly necessary to notice the objection, that Jacquemart's name is incorrectly given in the contract of sale.
Cockle testifies that this was a. mistake, and it is the business
"of a court of equity to see that Cain is not harmed by it.
On the whole case we are of the o'inion that the defendant is within the protection of the limitation laws of Illinois, which he invoked for his defence, and which he had a
right to do for that purpose, although the title used to accomplish this object could not be employed by a plaintiff in
an action of ejectment, who can only recover when he has
the paramount legal title.
In conclusion, it is proper to state that we have examined
the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois, to which we
have been referred as affecting the question at issue, and do
not find anything decided which militates against the views
we have presented.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CROSS V.

UNITED STATES.

The government had leased from A. a warehouse for ten years, the rent

payable by instalments.

A. assigned his lease to B. and died.

B. sued

the government in the Court of Claims for certain instalments of the
rent which became due after the assignment. The Court of Claims dis-

mjssed the claim solely on the technical ground that the assignment of

CROSS V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
the lease was not so drawn as to vest B. with a legal title to the accruilg rents.

Congress afterwards passed a joint resolution reciting that

B. had " heretofore" filed his petition, &c., on account of rents alleged
to be ''due," and that the court had dismissed the ' said" petition on
the sole ground of an alleged technical defect, and remanding "the said
cause'' to the Court of Claims for afarther hearing, upon the testimony
already taken " and such further lestimony as either party might take,"

and ordering that if, on such further hearing, it should appear that B.
was in justice and equity entitled to the rents due on the lease the court
should render judgment in his favor: Provided that no money should be
paid him from the treasury until after he had given indemnity against
any demand which might be set tip by the heirs of A. (the original lessor) ''under or by virtue of the said lease or contract."

Held that B. could sue in the Court of Claims for all the rent that became
due under the lease; and that the fact that, after the remand, he had
filed his second petition for but the same rents for which he had filed
i;-s first, did not so exhaust the power of the court under'the joint resolution as that he could not file a third one for additional rents; even
though they were rents that were due when he filed his second petition
and such as lie might have included in a claim in it.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
Daniel Saffarans, in 1851, according to the forms of law,
leased to the United States for a term of ten years, at a certain monthly rent, a warehouse in San Francisco. Alexander Cross advanced the money to complete the building,
and was compelled for his own protection to purchase the
property and the contract of lease. The lease was assigned
to him and the warehouse occupied by the government for
a term of three years, when the Secretary of the Treasury
of that day, availing himself of an apparent legal informality
in the assignment or the lease, against the written protest
of Cross, rescinded the contract.
On the 15th of November, 1856, Cross petitioned the
Court of Claims for relief, but failed to obtain it on the
ground that the assignment of the lease was defective and
insufficient to vest in him a legal title to the accruing rents.
This adverse decision, in coniormity with the law at that
time, was reported to Congress, and while the proceeding
was pending there, Congress, on the 2d July, 1864, passed
the following joint resolution for his relief:
APPEAL

" Whereas Alexander Cross heretofore filed his petition in the

Dec. 1871.]

CROSS V. UNITED

STATES.

Statement of the case.

Court of Claims of the United States, praying relief on account

of certain rents alleged to be due from the United States to him
as assignee of one Daniel Saffarans, by virtue of a certain alleged
contract of lease between the said Saffarans (who is now deceased) and the United States; and whereas the said Court of
Claims, on the 24th of January, 1859, rendered a decision adverse to the prayer of the said petition, on the sole ground of
an alleged technical defect in the assignment of said lease from
the said Saffarans to the said petitioner: Now, therefore,
"Be it resolved, &c., That the said cause be remanded to said
Court of Claims for a further hearing, upon the testimony here,

tofore filed therein, and such further testimony as either party may
take; and if, upon the further hearing of said cause, it shall ap.
pear that the said petitioner is the equitable owner of said lease,
dnd in justice and equity entitled to the rents (if any) due~thereo&
from the United States, the said court shall be authorized to render
judgment therefor in his favor, notwithstanding any technical
defect in the assignment of said lease: Provided that no money

shall be paid out 6f the treasuryupon any judgment which may
be rendered in favor of the petitioner in said cause, until he

shall have filed with the Secretary of the Treasury a bond, with
ample security, in such sum as will fully indemnify the United
States against any demand which may be set up and established

by or on behalf of the heirs or representatives of the said Daniel
Saffarans, deceased, under or by virtue of said contract or lease."
Cross, accordingly, after the passage of the resolution, by
a supplemental petition, asked the Court of Claims to rehear
thv cause and give him judgment for the instalments of rent
claimed in his original petition, embracing the terms of time
between the 14th day of August, 1853, and the 14th day of
November, 1856. This was done. Two years afterwards
he brought, another action, to recover the instalments of
rent (amounting to $69,515) which were not included in the
first suit.

The court below held that this second suit could not be
maintained because the power and authority conferred upon
it by the joint resolution had been exhausted when it reheard the cause and rendered judgment. From that judgment it was that the present appeal was taken.
VOL. XXV,

31

482

CROSS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

The only question in this case related, of course, to the
proper construction of the already-quoted joint resolution of
Congress of July 2d, 1864.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Atlorney-General, and Mr. C. I. Hill,
Assistant Atlorney-General, in support of the ruling below:
The joint resolution 'only applied to the case of the first
petition of the appellant in the Court of Claims. This is
shown hy the preamble: " Whereas, Alexander Cross, heretofore filed his pelition in the Court of Claims of the United
States, praying relief on account of certain rents alleged to
be due from the United States to him,;" and" Whereas, as
the said Court of Claims rendered its decision adverse to the
prayer of said petition ;" and therefore, "Be it resolved, &c.,
That the said cause be remanded to said Court of Claims for
afurther hearing, upon the testimony heretofbre filed therein,
and such further testimony as either party may take and file
pursuant to the rules of said court."
This language would seem to refer to the cause of action
covered by the first petition, and to none other; and as the
Court of Claims could not give relief except so far' as it
was specially authorized by this act of Congress, its powers
must be strictly confined within the language and limits of
that act.
But if the resolution is broad enough to cover any claim
which the appellant had against the United States under the
lease from Saffarans, then the former judgment is a bar to
any future recovery by him for the same cause of action.
The resolution certainly did not contemplate more than one
action, and when the appellant filed his supplemental petition, the rents for which he iow sues were due and might
hav been included by him in that suit. As he did not elect
to do so, but brought a suit for a portion only of his claim,
he has lost by his laches any right which he might have had
under the resolution to recover the amount of the rents
which he had negligently omitted to include in his petition.
J. J. Combs, contra,for the claimant.

IDec. 1871.]

CROSS V.

"UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
To uphold the ruling made by the Court of Claims would
be, we think, to take a narrow view of the legislative intention in this case and to give substantial effect to the technical
defences which have distinguished this litigation. There is
no defence now on the merits, nor was there when the case
went to Congress. It went there, not because the United
States was not bound by the covenants of the lease, but for
the reason that, in the opinion of the Court of Claims, Cross
had not the legal right to enforce the obligation. Saflarans
had undertakeu to assign the lease to Cross, and no question
was made as to his ownership until the Secretary of the
Treasury attempted to rescind the contr'act. Then it waF
discovered that the assignment lacked legal formality, and
the government availed itself of this defence, and this only,
in the Court of Claims to defeat the action. In this state of
case Congress was called upon to act.
The technical defect in the mode of assignment was the
only obstacle encountered by Cross in the prosecution. of his
claim, yet while it remained it was effectual to prevent a
recovery. To remove it and allow a trial on the meiits
required the assent of Congress, and this was given. That
the waiver by Congress of the right of the United States to
make this defence was not limited to any particular' suit, but
wvas extended to the entire controversy respecting the lease;
seems clear enough from the language of the resolution,
itself. The Court of Claims was told if it found Cross to be
the equitable owner of the lease, and it justice and equity
entitled to the rents (if any) due thereon from the United
States, to render judgmen-t in his favor, notwithstanding any
technical defect in the assignment of the lease. And to
leave no room for doubt on the subject the court was direoted
further, to take bond from Cross to indemnify the government " against any demand which may be set up and established by or on behalf of the heirs or t'epresentatives of Saffarans under or by virtue of said contract or lease." Why
the extent of this requirement if the waiver was only applicable to the rents in controversy in the proceeding then

DIRsTr V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

pending before Congress ? We cannot suppose, without an
express declaration to that, effect, that Congress intended to
legislate in a manner that would enable a creditor of the
government to obtain only a part of his claim when the whole
of it was deemed by the court that tried the case to be meritorious.
It is true the lease was at an end when Congress acted
and the court reheard the cause, and Cross could by proper
amendment to his petition have embraced also that portion
of his demand for which he now sues; and that would have
been the proper course for him to have pursued, but he was
not compelled to take it. In covenant for non-payment of
rent, payable at different times, a new action lies as often as
the respective sums become due and payable. As this suit
is for instalments of rent not due when the first suit was instituted, and as they were not included in it in any stage of
the proceeding, the plea of fbrmer recovery has no application.
On the finding of facts by the court below judgment
should have been rerqdered for the claimant for $69,515.
It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment be reversed
and the cause remanded to the Court of Claims, with directions to enter
JUDGMENT FOR THAT SUM.

DIRST V. MORRIS.
1. A plaintiff in ejectment, claiming under a deed made on a sale in a foreclosure of a mortgage, may properly put in evidence the record of the
proceedings in foreclosure even though the defendant claim by a deed
absolute made by the mortgagor, prior to giving the mortgage under
which the foreclosure took place. Showing title from a party previously
seized, the plaintiff has a right to exhibit it subject to such decision with
regard to its effect as might become necessary after all the evidence is in,
2. Even more obviously has he a right to introduce it as evidence in chief,
and when the prior deed absolute under which the defendant claims has

not yet been offered in evidence; for in such a stage of the proceeding,
the proceedings in foreclosure give apparently a valid title.

