Dec. 1871.]

TJNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.
Statement of the case.

United States assuming the war risk, while the owners of
the boat agreed to bear the marine risk. If, therefore, the
stranding of the boat in going over the bar was owing to a
peril of the sea, her owners, and not the government, must
bear the loss. That the high wind and low stage of water
were the efficient agents in producing this disaster are too
plain for controversy. They were the proximate causes of
it, and in obedience to the rule "causa proxima non remota
spectacur" we cannot proceed further in order to find out
whether the fact of war did not create the exigency which
compelled the employment of the vessel. If it did, it was
known to the owners when the charter-party was formed,
who, with this knowledge, became their own insurers against
the usual sea risks, arid must abide the consequences of their
stipulation.
There is a certain degree of hardship in this ease growing
out of the peremptory order of the quartermaster to proceed to sea, but this is-outside of the contract, and, if worthy
of. being considered at all, must be addressed to another department of the government.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.
Where a contractor with the United States and the United States disagree as
to what is justly due to the contractor, and the question is referred to a
commission constituted by proper authority to audit such claims as that
of the contractor's, and the commission finds a certain sum as justly due,
and the contractor receives that sum, he cannot sustain a claim in the
Court of Claims for a further sum, even though he have given no receipt

in full.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case, as fbund by
it, being thus:
On the 12th of August, 1861, Philip S. Justice, by a letter
to Lieutenant Treadwell, first lieutenant of ordnance, proposed to supply the Ordwince Department with 4000 rifled

UNITED

STATES V. JUSTICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

muskets, "similar in style and finish to the sample deposited"
with the said lieutenant, at $20 each.
On the next day Lieutenant Treadwell, inclosing Justice's
proposition, wrote to General Ripley, then chief of ordnance, at Washington, as follows:
"I inclose a proposition from Mr. Justice to furnish rifle muskets, calibre .69. I have examined a sample of the musket, and
it is a good serviceable arm, .69 calibre, clasp bayonet, long-range
sight, original percussion barrel, and well finished."
On August 16th, 1861, General Ripley replied to Lieutenant Treadwell, saying:
"You are authorized to accept Mr. Justice's proposition."
And on August 17th, 1861, Lieutenant Treadwell wrote
to Justice as follows:
"I am authorize4d by the Ordnance Department to accept
your proposal of August 12th, to furnish for the United States
4000 rifled muskets, calibre 609Lof an inch, equal in all respect3 to
the sample deposited with me, at $20."
In execution of the contract, Justice delivered from time
to time, 2174 rifled muskets, all of which were inspected by
subordinate officers appointed by Lieutenant Treadwell, and
received under his official certificate that they had been duly
inspected and approved. "These arms" thus fhrnished,
"were not," as the Court of Claims found, "in all respects,
similar to the sample arm, but on an average not inferior to
it; which was far from being a standard or first-class arm of
the United States. It was not eqval to the Springfield rifle.
And the Justle arms were far from being a first-class arm."
Before the 19th of March, 1862, all the muskets, with the
exception of 472, had been received and approyed; and had
also been paid for by the United States at the contract price
of $20 each. These 472 were delivered on the said 19th of
March; on which day Lieutenant Treadwell acknowledged
their receipt, and issued to Justice a final voucher showing
that there was due to him for these and some other arms,
the sum of' $19,171.25.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.

537

Statement of the case.

The muskets thus furnished by Justice were given to
three regiments of Pennsylvania volunteers in the field, who
were accordingly armed with them. Some time afterwards
the Ordnance Department receiving serious complaints from
these regiments, alleging that the arms were unserviceable,
ordered reinspections 'of the arms in the hands of these
troops, as well as of those remaining yet in store. The reinspection of the arms in the hands of each of these regiments was made by Lieutenant harris, of the Ordnance,
Colonel Doubleday, of the Artillery, and Assistant InspectorGeneral Buford. It showed that many of the guns were
made up of parts of condemned muskets; that the stocks
were of soft, unseasoned wood, and were defective in construction ; that most of the barrels abounded in flaws; that
many locks were defective, that the sights had been merely
soldered on, and came off with the gentlest handling; that
the bayonets bent " like lead," and( came off, and that so
many of the guns burst that the men were afraid to use
them; and that as a whole, the arms in the hands of the
troops were " a worthless lot of arms, unfit for service and
dangerous to those who used them."
Of the arms yet in store, the inspection was made by
Lieutenant Treadwell in person. lie reported to General
iipley, March 28th, 1862, certifying to the ability and integrity of the arniorers who had conducted the original inspection, and saying:
"My instructions to them were to inspect the arms, and reject all that, in their opinion, were not good and serviceable,
and in all respects fit for use in the field. I think that these
instructions were complied with. The arms were offered to me
at a time when the demand for arms was most imperative, and
it was deemed desirable to accept them, to meet, in part, the
pressing demand. Comparing the arms with those of our own
manufacture, none would pass inspection, and it was not supposed that they should be subjected to any such standard; but
that all that were passed on inspection would prove good and
serviceable, was believed. Examining two boxes of these arms
in store, I do not find them to have the radical defects corn-

UNITED STATES V.

JUSTICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

plained of, nor can I account for the very different report of

their inspection at camp, and that made to me by my inspectors.
I find the sights are soldered on, but on tapping twenty of
them with a hammer sufficiently hard to dent them, none werq
found to come off, or even started."
On the 20th of March, 1862, the Chief of Ordnance informed the Secretary of War that he deemed it his duty to
withhold payment of the above voucher for $19,171.25, given
by Lieutenant Treadwell to Justice, until the matter could
be investigated. He submitted to the secretary all the papers on the subject, and suggested that the matter be referred to the two gentlemenu(Messrs. Joseph Holt and Robert
Dale Owen) who had been authorized by the secretary to
audit and adjust all claims and contracts in respect to ordnance, arms, and ammunition. This recommendation was
approved by the Secretary of War, who referred the voucher
of March 19th, together with all the papers and reports received from the Ordnance Office, to this committee, who'were
then sitting in Washington. The committee proceeded to
investigate the character aII(l quality of the arms. Justice
was in Washington during its session, appeared before it,
and was persistent and energetic in presenting his claim.
He offered no evidence, but presented several written arguments.
The first report of the committee, who declared that they
"considered it proved that Mr. Justice had not fulfilled his
obligation to furnish a serviceable arm to the governmert,"
was condemnatory of all the guns, as " not suitable in workmanship or material for the public service." Fourteen days
after it was made, Justice succeeded in convincing the commissioners that in thus condemning all the guns they had
fallen incontestably into error. He also protested that as
his arms were accepted after inspection by government authority, the government could not rightfully decline to pay
for all so accepted. A second report corrected the error
which Justice had pointed out, and found that the "complaints of inferiority" related chiefly to 2174 rifled muskets.
Accordingly the committee decided, in their second report,

Dec. 1871.]

539

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.
Statement of the case.

that thepayments theretofore made to Justice be considered
as " on account," and that $15 per gn only be allowed for
.the 2174 rifled muskets, instead of $20, the contract price.
[In their first report they had decided that $15 was an
ample equivalent for all the arms.]
The Second Auditor was now instructed by the Chief of
Ordnance to settle Justice's account on the voucher of March
19th for $19,171.25, on "the basis of this decision;" and
he accordingly stated an account between Justice and the
United States, in which he charged the contractor as with
an overpayment of $5 each for all the rifled muskets alreadg
paid for at the contract price of $20, and deducted $5 from the
contract price of each of the muskets embraced in the
voucher of March 19th. As the whole number of these
arms was, as has been seen, 2174, the amount deducted
from the fice of that voucher was thus $10,870, leaving on
the face of the account $8301.25 as the balance due.
On the 8th of December, 1862, Justice received frorn.the
Treasurer of the United States certificates of indebtedness
amounting to $6000, and a treasury draft for $2301.25,
amounting in all to $8301.25; the receipt of which he acknowledged in a letter to the Treasurer of the United States,
thus:
"Sim: Have received your letter of draft, together with the
following certificates of indebtedness, payable to blank, viz.
No. 36,332 to No. '337, i. e., 6 of $1000,.

$6000 00

Draft for balance remitted,
Amounting to,

2301.25
.

$8301 26

"Issued on war.warrant No. 3405 for that amount in favor of
Philip S. Justice.
"Scale No. 12,051.
"Yours, &c.,
"P. S. JUSTICE.
"F. B4

PINR

"Treasurer of the United States."

No other receipt was ever given by Justice for the amount,
or any portion of the amount, of the above voucher of March
19th. The amount thus received left a balance of that

UNITED STATES V.

JUSTICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

voucher amounting to $10,870 unpaid; and to recover this
balance, Justice, on the 16th of October, 1867 (nearly five
years, it will be seen, after receiving it), brought suit in the
Court of Claims.
The Court of Claims found for the claimant the $10,870
claimed, and the United States appealed.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney-General, and Mr. W. McMichael, Assistant Attorney-General, for the United States:
The arms were not according to contract. They were not
serviceable, nor did they equal the sample furnished by the
contractor; the Court of Claims having found, as a fact, that
these arms, furnished by claimant, were not in all respects
similar to the sample arm." This, although qualified by the
subsequent language of the court, nevertheless goes to show
a failure to comply with the condition of Lieutenant Treadwell's letter of August 17th, 1861, which provides that the
muskets shall be " equal in all respects to the sample deposited with" him.
These arms were furnished directly by the claimant. The
presumption is that he knew their defective character, and
he cannot take advantage of a nominal inspection at the
arsenal by subordinates, to screen himself from the consequence's of the careful inspections of the responsible officers
whose reports are above referred to. The obligation of his
contract with the United States was, not that his arms should
pass an inspection, but that they should be of a certain standard, and this obligation he failed to fulfil.
The result of the examination of Justice's claim by the
commission, was a settlement by which he was allowed at
the rate of $15 each for the defective arms.
Mr. Justice accepted the sum allowed, after having attended the meetings of the commission, and with full knowledge that it was intended as a final payment of his account;
and by this action he was concluded from making any further claim on the United States. United Slates v. Adams,*
United States v. Child,t United States v. Llyde,:! rule the case.
* 7 Wallace, 463.

t 12 Id. 232.

: 13 Id. 85.

Dec. 1871.1

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.

Argument for the contractor.

Mr. J. fubley Ashlon, con Ira:
Only two questions can be made in this case:
I. Whether the claimant is barred from maintaining thig
action by reason of having received a part of the amount
due upon the voucher of March 19th? And if notI. Whether, upon the facts found by the Court of Claims,
the government has any legal defence to this suit for the
contract price of the arms ?
I. The facts of this case do not bring it within the decisions in the Adams, Child, and Clyde cases cited on the
other side.
1. The claimant here had A valid and regular executory
contract to furnish a number of arms of a certain description at a fixed price. It was made upon the exhibition of a
sample, which proved satisfactory to the agents and experts
of the government. The arms were to be inspected by those
agents and experts according to that sample; and they were
to be rejected if found unsatisfactory, and accepted if found
satisfactory. Arms of the kind contracted for were delivered, and upon full inspection by the experts of the United
States, were accepted and appropriated to the contract. Regular vouchers, officially executed by the inspecting officer,
were issued to the contractor. All these vouchers, except
one, were duly paid, and the transactions closed.
Complaints being afterwards made against the arms by
the troops, the Ordnance Bureau stopped the payment of
this voucher. The arms yet in store were reinspected by
Lieuteniant Treadwell, a trusted officer of the Ordnance Department, who made the contract; and he again certified to
their character and quality as conformable to the contract.
Then an investigation is undertaken by a board of civilians.
Inspections directed by them also show the arms to be on an
average equal to the sample. They first make a report, condemning all the claimant's arms as unserviceable, and suggesting a deduction from the whole contract price of the
entire lot, and then, nearly a month after, they take this
back, and find that only about half of the arms had been

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.

[Sup. 10t.

Argument for the contractor.

the subject of complaint. This report, on its face, is founded
on a misconception of the contract of the claimant, viz. :
that it was to furnish what they call a " serviceable " arm,
when he expressly stipulated to supply an arm equal to the
sample. When the claimant exposes the error of the first
report, he protests against any repudiation of the contract
on the part of the government. Afterwards he receives, in
due course of business, from the Treasury Department, a
draft f)r $2301.25 and certificates of indebtedness for $6000,
and, in a letter to the United States Treasurer, he acknowledges the receipt of this draft and these certifieates, amounting in
all to $830L25. te gives no other receipt or acquittance.
He is not required to take the treasury drar't and the certificates of indebtedness, or the amount payable on them, in
full satisfaction of the whole claim, and he never acknowledged that amount to be in full satisfaction of the whole
claim. No such condition is imposed or fulfilled. Plainly,
then, the doctrine of the Adams, th'e Child, and the Clyde
cases do not apply.
In the Child case, Miller, J., by words carefully chosen
and expressive, rests the decision upon the effect of the re.
ceipt in fall, required by the government before payment,
and executed by the claimant contemporaneously with the
payment of the amount allowed. Bradley, J., in the Clyde
case does the same.
2. But there are other legal differences between this case
and the preceding cases, which render the decisions in the
latter inapplicable to the former.
The nature and character of the demand here involved
were different from those asserted in the cases cited. The
present demand here was fbr an ascertained and liquidated,
and an undisputed amount. It was liquidated by the legal
voucher of the proper officer, acknowledging the fact of the,
contract, the receipt of the arms, their character as in compliance with the contract, the pricepayable, and the sum due
It was liquidated in the full and absolute sense of the rule of
the common law, that the payment of a smaller sum cannot
be an accord and satisfaction of a larger debt which is fixed

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED

STATES V. JUSTICE.

Argument for the contractor.

and liquidated. By that rule, such a debt as this cannot be
discharged by the payment of a less sum, even though it
be acknowledged to be received in full satisfaction. This
is well settled by the old and authoritative case of C(Jmber
v. Wane, reported by Strange,* to be found with notes in 1
Smith's Leading Cases.t A forliori, it cannot be discharged
by the receipt of a less sum, which is not agreed to be taken
in full satisfaction.
Neither in the Adams, nor the Child nor Clyde ease was
the claim liquidated in any absolute sense. In the Child
case, Miller, J., speaks f the claim as " an unliquidated and
controverted demand." And in the Clyde case the amount
was not liquidated until the account was stated by the juartermaster at the reduced-rate of the Quartermaster-General.
But this was also an undisputed claim. Undisputed in a
legal sense.
The theory of the government would appear to have been,
that a better or different contract ought to have been made
than was Inade, or that the claimant ought to have furnished
better arms than the inspectors were willing and bound to
accept, or than the agreement provided for.
The proceedings of the accounting officers, made by instructions from the Chief of Ordnance, cannot be presumed
to have been known to the claimant. But if they could be,
the character and amount of the deduction from the face of
the voucher preclude the idea that he took, or meant to
take, the reduced amount in satisfaction of this debt. By
the manner of stating this account in the auditor's office,
the government proposed to enforce restitulion of over $8000
already in the pocket of the claimant, for arms not embraced
at all in this voucher. A reduction was made of the price,
not only of 472 muskets in this voucher, but of over 800
olter muskets long since paid for; and the supposed overpayment on account of these latter was deducted from the
amount certified to be payable in the last voucher. Justice
could not, in receiving this parcel of the amount due, have
* 1 Strange, 426.

tIPart 1, p. 556.

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the contractor.

meant to acquiesce in this arbitrary action in respect to his
debt, and intended to abide by it. For what was the proceeding, but the assertion by the government of a claim
against this party for damages for an alleged breach of warranty, the adjudication of that claim in its own favor, and
the execution of that judgment out of the money due the
claimant in, its own hands?
The appearance of the claimant before the Ordnance
Board cannot prejudice his right to recover.
The board took cognizance of the matter upon the action
of the War Department. The claimant protested before it
that, as his arms were accepted after inspection by government authority, the United States could not rightfully decline to pay for all so accepted. In other words, he denied
there, as he had the right to do, that there was power anywhere to release the government from the obligation of its
contract with him; though he was, at the same time, not
unwilling to aid the board or the War Department in any
proper investigation of the ficts of the case.
The board fell into two errors in regard to facts connected
with the tiansaction. One (in regard to the number of arms
complained of) was corrected; the other (in regard to the
actual terms of the contract) remained uncorrected, apparently, on the face of their report to the Ordnance Bureau.
Their report was rendered to that bureau. The claimant
received nothing from them; was not required to, receive
anything or to assent to anything; and did not assent to
anything.
He cannot, of course, be affected by the action of the accounting officers, under orders of the Ordnance Bureau.
11. Have the United States, independently of the theory
of satisfaction, any legal defence to this claim ?
1. There is no dispute in regard to the fact and terms of
the contract, or that it was made by competent authority of
the Ordnance Department. Nor will it be denied that where
a party offers to furnish articles like guns to the government,
whose officers are experts, subject to the inspection of those
officers by a samnle delivered and examined at the time,

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED

STATES V. JUSTICE.

Argument for the contractor.

and, after acceptance of the offer, the guns are delivered and
inspected, approved and received in good faith, the government is concluded by the determination of its official inspectors and advisers, and cannot withhold payment of the
agreed price on the ground that the guns were not suitable
to the public service. It has a right to reject and refuse to
pay for all arms disapproved in good faith by its inspectors,
as not conformable to the sample. But it is bound ,to pay
for all actually approved and accepted in good faith by these
agonts. As the contitetor cannot complain of the deeisioi
of the inspectors, rejecting his arms for want of confbrrait,
to the sample, so the government cannot repudiate the actio
of these inspectors in receiving the arms, as, in their judg.
ment, equal to the sample.
Even if the reports of the inspection of the arms in the
hands of the regiments in the field were competent legal
evidence of their condition, they would be entitled to little
or no consideration ; for, independently of the abuse to
which all arms in the hands of raw troops at that period
were necessarily subjected, it is well known that the volunteers of that day all desired to be armed with muskets manufactured by the government; and that this did, in point of
fact, lead to unthir treatment of other arms.
The idea of fraud or collusion between Justice and the
inspectors in this case is not and cannot be pretended.
Yet, further, there was no express warranty by Justice of
the quality of the sample arm deposited with Lieutenant
Treadwell. That officer thought the sample arail a serviceable one, but Justice never warranted it as such. The government might have chosen to require a warranty, but fiiling to do so the rule of caveat emptor must govern. The
case shows, however, affirmatively, that Lieutenant Treadwell and the other trusted inspectors of the government regarded the sample as a good, serviceable arm; and fully
believed that as all the arms received were equal to the
sample, they were likewise suitable and serviceable weapons.
2. Nor has the Court of Claims fbund that any of the
arms were not "good , serviceable arms, fit in all respects for
VOL. XIV.

35

UNITED, STATES 'V. \JUSTICE.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

use in the field." The court has found that the sample arm
"was not equal to the Springfield rifle," and that "the Justice arms were far from being a first-class arm." But that
might well be, and yet the arms might nevertheless have
been good and serviceable. Indeed, Lieutenant Treadwell
states that while they were inferior to the Springfield arm,
and could not have passed inspection if subjected to thai
standard, he believed they would prove "good and serviceable."
3. But, lastly, the Court of Claims has found, affirmatively, that these arms, while not in all respects similar to
the sample arm, were, on an average, not inferior (i. e., were
equal in quality) to the sample.
If this finding can be interpreted as meaning (which we
doubt) that some of the guns were not equal to the sample,
as it does not show how many were so inferior to the sample,
nor how-much less they were worth than. the contract price,
the finding can be of no avail to the United States in maintaining this defence. The finding is, therefore, for all the
judicial purposes of this case, equivalent to an ascertainment that all the guns were equal in quality to the sample
arm.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is impossible to escape the conclusion, after reading the
evidence which the Court of Claims incorporates with its
finding of facts in this case, that the arms obtained by the
government from Justice were unserviceable and even unsafe for the troops to handle, whether they were equal to
the sample arm furnished by him or not, It is true they
had been accepted by Lieutenant Treadwell, with whom the
contract of purchase was made, after inspection by subordinates appointed by him, but when difficulty arose in relation
to them he said, in justification of his conduct, and to show
his interpretation of the contract, that lie had instructed
these inspecting officers to reject all the arms that, in their
opinion, were not good and in all respects fit For use it the

field.

That the duty with which these officers was charged

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED'STATES V.

JUSTICE.

Opinion of the court.

was, to say the least, negligently performed is evident from
the result of the subsequent inspection which was ordered.
This inspection was in response to serious complaints from
three regiments of Pennsylvania volunteers which had been
armed with the muskets in controversy. The arms of each
regiment were inspected by a separate commissioned officer
of experience, and all united in condemning them as worthless, and, indeed, dangerous to those using them.
In this state of case, the Chief of the Ordnance Bureau informed the Secretary of War that he deemed it his duty to
withhold payment of one of the vouchers given for these
arms until the matter could be further investigated, and
recommended reference of the entire subject to the commission then sitting in Washington, which had been constituted
by the proper authority " to audit an.d adjust all contracts,
orders, and claims on the War Department in respect to
ordnance, arms, and ammunition." In accordance with this
recommendation the case was referred to this commission,
which, after full investigation, and a patient hearing given
to Justice, reported that he had not fulfilled his obligation
to furnish " a serviceable arm" to the government, and fixed
a basis on which the account should be settled. This basis
of settlement was adopted, and in accordance with it the
Secretary of the Treasury, on the 8th of December, 1862,
pursuant to a requisition of the War Department, drew his
warrant on the Treasurer of the United States in favor of
Justice for the amount found due by the accounting officers,
which was transmitted to him, and receipt of it acknowledged by letter. After waiting until the five years' limitation to actions of this kind had nearly expired, he brings
this suit to recover the balance of the claim, according to
the original contract price, and the question is, can he main.
tain it?
In the nature of things, during such a war as we have just
passed through, contracts would in many instances be made
by some of the numerous subordinates intrusted with that
duty, in disregard of the rights of the government, or if
properly made, would be so unfaithfully executed that the

UNITED

STATES V. JUSTICE[

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

public service would suffer unless their further execution
were arrested. Although every just government is desirous
of making full compensation to its creditors in all cases of
fair dealing, it cannot afford to recognize this rule where an

imposition has been practiced upon it. Of necessity it acts
through agents, and cannot, therefore, assure its own protection as natural persons in dealing with each other. What,
then, was the proper course for the government to pursue
in relation to these disputed claims ? To pay them, in the
existing condition of the country, would set a bad example
and lead to the most ruinous consequences, and to withhold
payment altogether until Congress or the Court of Claims
should act, would be, in case the claim should prove to be
meritorious, a hardship.. Common fairness required that
some mode should be a(lopte(l for the speedy adjustment or
these differences between the creditor and the government,
and what better mode for the accomplishment of this object
than the appointment of a commission of intelligent and
disinterested persons to hear the respective parties and to
settle the allowance to be made ? We know by the history
of the times, that several commissions for this purpose were
appointed during the war, and the record discloses the fact
that when this controversy arose there was one sitting in
this city, constituted by the Secretary of War under the
authority of the President, to audit and adjust claims of
like character. It is ftir to presume, in the absence of anything in the record to the contrary, that the creation of this
commission was a necessity produced by the number and
magnitude of the claims presented to the Ordnance Bureau
which the head of it deemed unjust, and was, therefore, unwilling to pay. This commission, like all others with similar authority, possessed no judicial power, nor did it attempt
to exercise any. It could not compel a claimant to appear
before it and submit to its action, nor would its decision, in
case there were no adversary party, have any conclusive
effect. If, on the contrary, the party whose claim was disputed went before it, participated in its proceedings, and
took the sum fbuid to be due him without protest, he can-

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. JUSTICE.
Opinion of the court.

not afterwards be heard tu say that he did not accept this in
full satisfaction of his demand. This voluntary submission
and reception of the money is an acceptance on the part of
the claimant of the mode tendered him by the government
for the settlement of his disputed claim, and precludes him
from any further litigation.
It is always in the power of parties to compromise their
differences. One way of' doing this is by arbitrators, mutually chosen, but from such submission neither party is at
liberty to withdraw after the award is made. The condition
of the government creditor is better than this, for if dissatisfied with the allowance made him by the commission, he
can refuse to receive it, or can accompany his receipt of it,
if he chooses to take it, with a proper protest. This protest
is necessary to inform the government that the compromise
is rejected, and that this rejection leaves the claimant free
to litigate the matter in dispute beford the Court of Claims.
If with this knowledge and under these circumstances the
money is paid, there can be no just cause of complaint on
either side, and the status of the parties is not affected by
&)nythingwhich transpired before the commission.
These views dispose of this ease. If it be conceded that
the guns obtained from Justice were equal to the sample
furnished, still it is manifest they were not a serviceable
,,rm, and were besides unsafe, and that the government
withheld the payment of the voucher because the contract,
in the opinion of the Ordnance Bureau, was unfaithfully executed. The contract, with the accompanying papers, were
referred to the ordnance commission. Justice appeared before it to contest the position of the government, and, although he offered no evidence, argued his case in writing.
And as if to leave no doubt of his intention to abide the
result, he succeeded, two weeks after the commission had
reported on the matter to the Chief of Ordnance, in getting
an error against him corrected. And when this was done,
und the account stated in conformity with this correction,
he receives the amount allowed him without afti intimation
of dissatisfaction. It is difficult to suppose that at this time

UNITED STATES V. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

he had any other purpose than to acquiesce in the decision
which was made. If his purpose were different, why the
long delay in instituting suit? It is hard to believe that
the course subsequently taken was not the result of an afterthought.
The recent cases in this court of the United States v.Adams
and the United Slates v. Child are like this in principle, although they contain some elements not applicable here.
JUDGMENT REVERSED and the cause remanded to the Court
of Claims, with instructions to DISMISS THE PETITION.

UNITED STATES V. HUNT.
In construing the third section of the act of March 3d, 1865, increasing the
commutation price of officers' subsistence, by fixing it at fifty cents per
ration, "provided that said increase shall not apply to the commutation
price of the rations of any officer above the rank of brevet brigadiergenral"-a brigaflier-general is to be regarded as above the rank
specified.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:

The third section of the act of March 3d, 1865,* enacts:
" That from and after the first day of March, 1865, and during
the continuance of the present rebellion, the commutation price
of officers' subsistence shall be fifty cents per ration: Provided,
That said increase shall not apply to the commutation price
of the rations of any officer above the rank of brevet brigadiergeneral, or of any officer entitled to commutation for fuel or
quarters."
Under this enactment, Hunt, a brigadier-general of volunteers, filed a petition in the Court of Claims claiming commutation pay. The United States demurred; thus adlnitting,
of course, that the petitioner was a brigadier-general during
13 Stat. at Large, 497.

