Dec. 1871.]

LEARY

v.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

LEARY V. UNITED STATES.
1. If by the terms of a charter-party the entire vessel is let to the charterer
with a transfer to him of its command and possession and consequent
control over its navigation, he will generally be considered as owner for
the voyage or service stipulated. But if the charter-party let only the
use of the vessel, the owner at the same time retaining its command and
possession, and control over its navigation, the charterer is regarded as
a mere contractor for a designated service, and the duties and responsibilities of the owner are not changed. In the first case the charterparty is a contract for the lease of the vessel ; in the other it is a contract for a special servce to be rendered by the owner of the vessel.
2. Stipulations in a charter-party that the general owners shall keep the
vessel in good condition during the existence of the charter, and receive
on board certain goods at the request of the government (the charterer)
and refuse to receive other"goods without its assent. Held, to be conclusive evidence that the possession and control of the vessel had not
passed to the charterer but had been retained by the general owner.
8. In a charter-party by which a vessel was hired by the government for the
purpose of plying in the harbor of Port Royal, in South Carolina, or
for such other service as the government might designate, it was stipulated that in case the vessel, while executing the orders of the government, should be destroyed or damaged, or by being compelled by the
government to run any extraordinarymarine risk, the owner should be
indemnified. In complying with the orders of the harbor master in
Port Royal the vessel struck upon the fluke of a sunken anchor ii the
harbor, and was sunk; held, that the risk which the vessel thus incurred
was not an extraordinary marine risk within the meaning of the charterparty, but an ordinary risk which every vessel runs that enters a harbor,
and which e'ery marine policy covers.

from the Court of Claims.
On the 19th of November, 1862, one Leary, owner of the
steamer Mattano, chartered her to the'United States, for the
purpose of plying in the harbor of Port Royal, South Carolina, or for any other service the government might designate.
By the terms of the charter-party Leary engaged that the
vessel during the existence of the charter, should be kept
tight, stanch, well-fitted, tackled, and provided with every
requisite, and with men and provisions necessary; that the
whole of it (with the exception of room necessary for the
Accommodation of the crew and the storage of cables and
provisions) should be at the sole use and disposal of the
APPEAL

608

LEARY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the-case.

government during the existence of the charter; and that no
goods or merchandise should be laden on board otherwise
than from the government or its agent, on pain of forfeiture
of the amount that may become due on the charter; that he,
Leary, would receive on board the vessel, during the charter,
all such goods and merchandise as the government might
think proper to ship. The government on its part agreed to
charter and hire the vessel at $250 a day, for each day that
it might be retained under the charter, the government to
supply the coal; and that in case the vossel, while executing
the orders of the government, should be destroyed or danaged by a hostile force from any quarter, or by being compelled 1 the government to run any exlraordinary marine risk,
then Leary was to be indemnified; in case of loss, the value
of the vessel being fixed at $26,000, "and in ease of damage,
the amount to be assessed by a board of survey, to he convened on her, after hier arrival at Port Royal, South Caro.
lina, or other friendly port, at the expense of the govern.
ment."
While under charter, the vessel was lying at one of the
wharves in the harbor of Port Royal. On the 12th of May,
1863, the military harbor-master ordered her out to make
room for another steamer. The captain of the Mattano objected to going out, as the tide was very lov ; and, as he
believed, there was a considerable breeze from an unfavorable quarter. The harbor-master ordered the Mattano peremptorily to back out, and ter captain let go his lines and
did so. In thus backing out she struck upon the fluke of a
sunken anchor imbedded in the sand, and sunk in fifteen
minutes.
This anchor, against whose fluke the vessel struck, was a
mooring anchor, and had been placed where it was by the
-United States quartermaster, to moor big ocean steamers
prior to November, 1862, anid had a buoy attached to it
which showed its position; but, about the 1st of' January,
1863, the buoy had gone adrift iii a gale of wind, and had
never been replaced, and there was nothing at the time of'
the accident to warn 'vessels of the position of the sunken

Dec. 1871.]

LEARY V. UNITED STATES.

Argument for the ship-owners.

anchor. No one could have lointed out where the anchor
was at that time. The captain of the Mattano knew of the
existence of the anchor, but thought he was a long way outside of it. There was no unskilfulness in executing the
order to back out.
The Mattano was removed from where she sank by a
wrecking-boat sent there by the Secretary of War, and under
orders from the quartermaster, about July 4th, 1863, and
the cost of this service was paid by the United States. A
gale of wind, which came on after she sank, did damage tc
her by carrying off her upper works, wheel-house, and
joiners' work clear to the hull. No board of survey was
convened to assess the damage done to the vessel.
After the vessel had been raised by the United States
Leary took possession of her, carried her to New York, and
there had her put in order in such a way as to leave her fit
for a towing or carrying vessel, but not fitted for passengers.
These repairs were completed on the 10th of December,
1863, and cost Leary for her restoration $18,265.25; and she
was woirth then $12,000 less than before the accident. From
the time this oecurred, 12th of May, 1863, until the time
the repairs were completed, December 10th, 1863, there
were two hundred and fourfeen days. The repairs were
made as rapidly and as economically as possible. She was
chartered again to the defendants in May, 1864, at $100 a
day.
On this case the Court of Claims decided that the disaster
was a usual marine disaster, such as was covered by ordinary marine policies of insurance, and not such extraordinary marine risk as was contemplated in the charter-party;
and that if the owners neglected to protect themselves
against such perils by insurance they would have to bear
the loss. The court accordingly dismissed the petition, and
hence the appeal to this court.
Messrs. Chipman, Hosmer, and Durant, for the appellants,
argued in substance:

1st. That the United States were the owners of the injured
VOL. XIV.

39

LEARY V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

vessel, by the terms of the charter-party, during the continuance of the service stipulated, and were consequently responsible for the damages sustained by the vessel whilst engaged
in that service.
2d. That the damages to the vessel were occasioned by
her running an extraordinary marine risk under compulsion
front the United States, and for indemnity against such damages the charter-party stipulated, and they sought a reversal
of the decree accordingly on those grounds.
Mr. G. H. Williams, AUorney- General, and Mr. C. H1. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General, conlra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no doubt that under some forms of a charterparty the charterer becomes the owner of the vessel chartered for the voyage or service stipulated, and consequently
becomes subject to the duties and responsibilities of ownership. Whether in any particular case such result follows
must depend upon the terms of the charter-party considered
in connection with the nature of the service rendered. The
question as to the character in which the charterer is to be
treated is, in all cases, one of construction. If the charterparty let the entire vessel to the charterer with a transfer to
him of its command and possession and consequent control
over its navigation, he will generally be considered as owner
for the voyage or service stipulated. But, on the other
hand, if the charter-party let only the use of the vessel, the
owner at the same time retaining its command and possession, and control over its naYigation, the charterer is regarded as a mere contractor for a designated sorvice, and
the duties and responsibilities of the owner are not changed.
In the first case, the charterparty is a contract for the lease
of the vessel; in the other it is a contract for a ;special service to be rendered by the owner of the vessel.
In examining the adjudged cases on this subjoct we find
ome differences of opinion, especially in the earlier', cases,
as to the effect to be given to certain technical terms used

Dec. 1871.]

LEARY V. UNUED

STATES.

O11

Opinion of the court.

in the charter-party in determining whether the instrument
parts with the entire possession and control of the vessel,
but no difference as to the rule of law applicable when the
construction is settled. All the cases agree that entire cOmmand and possession of the vessel, and consequent control
over its navigation, must be surrendered to the charterer
before he can be held as special owner for the voyage or
other service mentioned. The retention by the general
owner of such command, possession, and control is incompatible with the existence at the same time of such special
ownership in the charterer.*
If, now, in the light of these observations we look at the
charter-party in this case we shall find little difficulty in disposing of the first ground for reversal presented by the appellants. The vessel here was chartered for the purpose of
plying in the harbor of Port Royal, in South Carolina, or
for such other service as the government might designate,
and the provisions which the charter-party contains on the
part of the owners sound only in covenant. By it they
engage that during the existence of the charter the vessel
shall be kept tight, stanch, well fitted, tackled, and provided
with every requisite, and with the necessary men and provisions; that the whole of the vessel, with the exception of

the necessary room for the aceornmodation of the crew and
the storage tbr the cables and provisions, shall be at the sole
use and disposal of the government; that no goods or merchandise shall be laden on board otherwise than from the
government, or with the assent of its agent, on pain of forfeiture of the amount that may become due on the charter;
and that the owners will receive on board all lawful goods
and merchandise which the government may think proper
to ship. In consideration of these stipulations the United
States agree that the owners shall receive the sum of two
Christie v. Lewis, 2 Brod. & Bing. 410, 484; Marcardier v.The Chesa-

peake Insurance Company, 8 Cranch, 39, 49; The Schooner V lunte~r and
Cargo, I Sumner, 651, 556; Drinkwater v. Freight and Cargo of Brig Spartan, Waic, 149, 154; Donahoe v. Kettell, 1 Clifford, 135; Holt-on Shipping
461-471.

C12

LEARY V, UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ut.

Opinion of the court.

hundred and fifty dollars per day for each day the vessel is
retained, under the charter, and that they will supply the
vessel with coal; and in case the vessel, whilst executing the
orders of the government, shall be destroyed or damaged
by a hostile force, or by being compelled to run any extraordinary marine risk, that the owners shall be indemnified.
The stipulations here designated on the part of the owners
imply the possession and command of the vessel by them,
and would be inconsistent with such possession and command by the government.
Stipulations that the general owners shall keep the vessel
in good condition during the existence of the charter and
receive on board certain goods at the request of the government and refuse to receive other goods without its assent,
would be out of place and inappropriate if the government
were, at the same time, special owners of the vessel for the
service stipulate(], having the vessel in its entire possession
and control. Great weight was given to similar clauses by
the King's Bench, in Saville v. (amnpion,* and by the Supreme
Court of New York, in Clarkson v. Edes.t In eaeh of these
cases they were heh conclusive that the possession and control of the vessel had not passed to the charterer, but had
been retained by the general owner.
The fiact that the service stipulated in the present case
was to be rendered for the government, cannot alter the
natural import of the terms used in the charter-party, or
change its construction, although in a doubtful case that
fact might be entitled to much consideration.
2. The second ground presented by the appellants for a
reversal of the decree is readily answered. The risk that
the vessel incurred in complying with the orders of the harbor-master was not an extraordinary marine risk within the
meaning of the charter-party. The term extraordinary is
there used to distinguish an unusual risk which the vessel
might be compelled to run by order of the government,
from those risks which would be covered by an ordinary
* 2 Bai 'aewall & Alderson, 611.

f" 4 Cowen, 477.

Dec. 1871.]

ERSKINE

v.

HIIoHNBACII.

Syllabus.

marine policy anj which might be expected to arise from
the service in which the vessel was engaged. The contract
of the government was not intended to apply to the usual
risks attendant upon the performance of a service such as
was here mentioned, but risks outside and beyond them.
The risk incurred was of a possible collision with a sunken
anchor in the harbor. This was an ordinary'risk which
every vessel must run that enters a harbor, and is one which
every marine policy covers.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

ERSKINE, COLLECTOR, V. HOIHNBACH.
1. An appeal to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from an assessment
is only a condition precedent to an action for the recovery of taxes paid,
and not a condition precedent to any other action where such action is
permissible.
2. A collector of taxes of the United States cannot revise or refuse to enforce
an assessment regularly made by the assessor of his district in the exercise of the latter's jurisdiction. The duties of a collector in the enforcement of a tax assessed are purely ministerial. The assessment, duly
certified to him, is his authority to proceed, and constitutes his pro.
tection.
8. If an officer or tribunal possess jurisdiction over the subject-matter upon
which judgment is passed, with power to issue an order or process for
the enforcement of such judgment, and the order or process issued
thereon to a ministerial officer is regular on its face, showing no departure from the law, or defect of jurisdiction over the person or property
affected, then, and in such cases, the order or process will give full and
entire protection to the ministerial officer in its regular enforcement

against any prosecution which the party aggrieved thereby may institute
against him, although serious errors may have been committed by the
officer or tribunal in reaching the conclusion or judgment upon which
the order or process is issued.
4. The replication of de injurid, interposed to a special plea, justifying the
seizure and conviction of property sued for by one as collector of internal revenue unider an assessment against the plaintiff, duly made by the
assessor of the district and certified to him, puts in issue the material
averments of that plea. It throws upon the defendant the burden of
proving so much of the plea as constitutes a defence to the action.

