Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

375

Syllabos.

Proof to that effect was offered in this case, which consisted of the usual memorandumi signed by the party and
written on the back of the note, and the statement in the
bill of exceptions is that the defendant, when the note was
offered, objected to the admissibility of that writing, but the
dourt admitted it and the defendant excepted.
Satislactory proof of waiver in such a case is in all respects
equivalent in law to a compliance with the requirenent.*
Such a waiver need not be in writing, as an oral declaration to that effect would be equally effectual, and it does not
appear that any one of the internal revenue acts contains
any requirement if it is in writing that it should be stamped,
nor is any authority referred to as a support to the objection
taken to the ruling of the court. On the contrary, the iupreme Court of California has decided the other way and
this court is of the same opinion.t
JUDGMENT

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V.

AFFIRMkD.

•

WEIDES.

1. A statement in figures of the value of certain merchandise destroyed by
fire, which statemept professed to be a copy of another and original
statement contained in a book-itself destroyed in the fire-accompanied

by proof that on a certain day the witnesses took a correct inventory
of the merchandise and that it was correctly reduced to writing by one
of them and entered in the volume burnt, and that what is offered is a

correct copy, may, on a suit against insurers, be received in evidence to
fix the value of the merchandise burnt, even though there be no independent recollection by the witnesses affirming to the correctness of the
original statement of what they found the value of the merchandiso
to be.
2. Under a policy one of whose conditions is that in case of loss the assured,

after furnishing evidence of his loss, shall submit to an examination
*

Tauznton Bank v. Richardson, 5 Pickering, 1144,

2 Starkie on Evidence i

274; Woodmanv. Thurston, 8 Cushing, 157; Marshall v. Mitchell, 35 Maine,
221 ; Collins on Stamps, 30.

j- Pacific Bank v. De Ro, 37 California, 542; Chitty on Stamps, 192 200

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
under oath, and until such examination should be permitted no loss
should be paid, Held that the insurers could not, as a condition of re.
co~ery, compel the assured to answer questions as to the sum per cent.
of claim for which he had settled with other ptrties insuring him.
8. Under a policy one of whose conditions is that in case of loss the assured
should produce " ceitfied copies" of all bills and invoices, the originals
of which had been lost, and exhibit the same for examination to any
person named by the insurers, and that until the proofs, declarations,
and certificates were produced and examinations and appraisals permitted the loss should not be payable-Held, in the absence of proof
when tho insured was requested to produce duplicate bills of purchasewhether before the commencement of the action or afterwards, and of
proof whether there was neglect or refusal of the insured to complythat the insurers, even though they gave proof tending to show that the
insured were requested to produce duplicates of invoices, could not.properly ask an instruction that if the jury believed the assured were re,quested by the insurers to produce "d up l icat es" of invoices of goods
purchased by them, the originals of which were alleged by them to be
destroyed, and neglected to do so before the commencement of the action, no right to recover existed.
4. Under a policy one of whose conditions is that fraud or false swearing on
the part of the assured in an examination which, by the terms of the
policy, he was bound to submit to on a claim by him for loss, it is only
fraudulent false swearing in furnishing the preliminary proofs or in the
examination which avoids thespolicy; and whether there has been such
false swearing is a matter for the jury to determine.
EaROa to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota;
the case being this:

C. & J. R. Weide insured in four different companies a
stock of' goods which they had; all the policies being alike,
and each containing clauses thus:
" In case of loss the assured shall forthwith give notice of
said loss to the compa-nies, and as soon after as possible render
a particular account of such loss, signed and sworn to by them,
stating whether any and what other insurance has been made
on the same property, giving the actual cash value of the prop.
erty, their interest therein, for ivhat purpose and by whom the
building insured, or containing the property insured, and the
several parts thereof, were used I when and how the fire originated; and shall also produce a certificate, under the hand and
seal of a magistrate, . . . nearest to the place of the fire, stating
that he has examined the circumstances attending the loss,

Dec. 1871.] INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

377

Statement of the caee.

knows the character and circumstances of the assured, and
verily believes that the assured has, without fraud, sustained
loss on the property insured, to the amount which such magistrate shall certify; and the assured shall, if required, submit to an
examination under oath, by any person appointed by the companies,
and subscribe to such examination when reduced to writing,
and shall also produce their books of account and other vouchers of all property hereby insured, whether damaged or not
damaged; and shall also produce certified copies of all bills and
invoices, the originals of which have been lost, and exhibit the
same tbr examination by any one named by the company.
All fraud, or attempt at fraud, or false swearing on the part
of the assured, shall cause a forfeiture of all claim under this
policy."
A fire having occurred and the goods insured having
been burnt, the Weides sued the companies on the policies.
On the trial it became material to prove what was the
quantity and value of the goods which the plaintiffs had
when the fire occurred. As bearing upon this, evidence
was introduced, without objection, tending to show that the
plaintiffs took a correct inventory of their stock on the 28th
of February, 1866, which was correctly reduced to writing
by one of them in an inventory book; that the prices or
values were correctly tooted up therein; that at the sametime the footings were correctly entered by one of the plaintiffs.,upon the fly-leaf of an exhausted ledger, and afterwards
transferred also by one of the plaintiffs to the fly-leaf of a
new ledger; that neither of the plaintiffs could remember
the amount of such inventory or footings, and that both the
inventory book and the exhausted ledger had been destroyed.
The plaintiffs then offered the entry of the footings upon the
fly-leaf of the new ledger, which the court, in the face of
objection by the other side, received.
The reception of this evidence made the first exception.
The plaintiffs then oflered in evidence " the said first item
on the debit side in their present ledger of said merchandise
account therein," which the court received under objection;
.01d afterwards "the said merchandise account in said ledger

378

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

contained," received in like manner. The receptioin of these
two items of evidence. made the second and third exceptions.
There being evidence tending to show that the real loss of
the plaintiffs was far less than the total amount of insurance
made by the companies sued, aid that certain other insurance
companies had made insurance on the plaintiffs' stock of
merchandise; and also that the plaintiffs had made certain
settlements at the rate of 54 cents on a dollar with certain
of the said other insurance companies;, and'that on an exarnination of the plaintiffs before this action was commenced
under oath, required by the defendant of the plaintiffs, under
the already quoted conditions of the policies, the plaintiffs
disclosed the fact that they had made such settlements, but
on such examination refused to answer qulestions put to them
by the defendant as to the amounts for which tiny made such
settlements; the companies' defendant requested the court to
instruct the jury thus :
"If the jury shall believe that the plaintiffs, or either of them,
in th 0course of an examination on oath, under the policy, refused to answer any questions by which defendant could fairly
estimate or reasonably infer the plaintiffs' real loss in the insured
property, and have not before the commencement of this action
answered the said questions under oath, then the jury must find
for the defendant."
Which instruction the court refused to give; this refusal,
being the subject of a fourth exception.
There being also evidence tending to show that the plaintifs were vequested to produce duplicate bills of purchases, the
defendant moved the court to instrc'3t the jury as follows:
"If the jury believe from the evidence, that the plaintiffs were
requested by the defendants to produce duplicates of invoices of
goods purchased by them, the originals of which were alleged by
them to be destroyed, and neglected to do so before the com.
mencement of this action, their right of action never accrued,
and the jury must find for the defendant."
Which instruction the court refused to give; this refusal
being the matter of the fifth exception.

Dec. 1871] INSURANCE COMPANIES v. WEIDES.

379

Statement of the case.

So to the testimony of the plaintiffs tending to show material
discrepancy from material statements made by them in their
.proofs of loss and their examination on oath under the policy,
the defendant moved the court, as his fourth prayer, to instruct the jury as follows:
"If the jury shall believe that the plaintiffs testifying on this
trial have made statements materially differing from statements
knowingly made under oath in their proofs of loss, whether in
their particular account made to the defendant, or any examination on oath submitted to by them, under the terms of the policy,
this is false swearing, and the jury must find for the defendant."
Which instruction the court refused to give.
In the examination on oath made by the plaintiffs under
the policy, the plaintiffs having stated their outstanding
debts to be between $18,000 and $20,000, and having stated
in evidence before the jury that their indebtedness did not
exceed $8000 at the time of the fire, and there being evidence
tending to show that plaintiffs knowingly made the statement
in their examination on oath, and subscribed and made oath
to the same, the defendant moved the court, as a fifth prayer,
to instruct the jury as follows:
"In their examinations under the policy, plaintiffs seem to
have sworn that the outstanding debts of their firm amounted
to between $18,000 and $20,000 at the time of the fire. In their
testimony here they state positively that their indebtedness did
not exceed $8000 at that time. If the jury shall believe that they
knowingly made the statement set forth in their examination
on oath and subscribed and made oath to the same, the jury
must find fbr the defendants."
Whiehmotion or request the court refused to give; their
refusal of these fourth and fifth prayers making a sixth and
seventh exception.
The reception oe the evidence of the footings on the flyleaf of the new ledger and the refusals to charge as requested
were the mnatters assigned for error.
There were two other errors assigned arising from a refusal by the court to lay down as rules of law a certain rule

880

INSURANCE

COMPANIES V. WEIDES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

for tLe jury to pursue, in computing the amount of stock
from certain data. But the counsel of the companies in this
court, while asserting that the rule was undoubtedly correct
arithmetically, candidly admitted that it could not be stated
as a rule of law to be laid down by the court. The requests,
therefore, need not be stated.
Messrs. J. M. Carlisle and .J. D. McPherson, for the plaintiffs in error; Messrs. W. H. Peckham and Loreazo Allis,
contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is contended in the first place, that there was error in
the court's receiving the entry of the footings upon the flyleaf of the new ledger. It will be observed that the footings
upon the fly-leaf of the ledger were not offered or received
as independent evidence. They were accompanied by proof
that they were correct statements of the values of the merchandise, and that they were correctly transcribed either
from the -inventory book or from the fly-leaf of "the exhausted ledger, both of which appear to have been originals.
How far papers, not evidence per se, but proved to have been
true statements of fact, at the time they were made, are
admissible in connection with the testimony of a witness
who mnade them, has been a frequent subject of inquiry, and
it has many times been decided that they are to be received.
And why should they not be? Quantities and values are
retained in the memory with great difficulty. If at the
time when an entry of aggregate quantities or values was
made, the witness knew it was correct, it is hard to see why
it is not at least as reliable as is the memory of the witness.
It is true a copy of a copy is not generally receivable, for
the reason that it is not the best evidence. A copy of the
original is lees likely to contain mistakes, for there is more
or less danger of variance with every new transcription.
For that reason even a sworn copy of a copy is not admissible when the original can be produced. But in this case
the inventory book and the fly-leaf of the exhausted ledger

Dec.

1871.1 INSUrANCE'COMPANIES v. WEIDES.

81

Opinion of the court.

had both been burned. There was no better evidence in
existence than the footings in the new ledger, And we do
not understand the bill of exceptions as showing those footings to have been copied from a copy. It does not appear
whether they were taken from the inventory book or from the
fly-leaf of the old ledger. And it is of little importance, for
as those entries were made at the same time, neither ought
to be regarded as a copy of the other, but rather both should
be considered originals. We do not, however, propose to
discuss this exception at length, for we regard it as settled
by the decision in Insurance Company v. Weide,* that the evidence under the circumstances was properly received.
The second and third exceptions are disposed of by what
we have already said, and they are unsustained.
There is nothing also in the fourth exception. By the
policies the assured after furnishing proofs of loss were
bound, if required, to submit to an examination under oath,
and it was stipulated that until such examination should be
permitted the loss should not be payable. Of course it is to
be understood that the examination contemplated relates to
matters pertinent to the loss. In these cases the plaintiffs
did submit to aii examination, but declined to answer questions respecting the amounts for which they had made settlements with other insuring companies. We are unable to
perceive that the questions' proposed had any legitimate
bearing upon the inquiry, what was the actual loss sustained
in consequence of the fire. If the plaintiffs had claims upon
other insurers, and comlromised with some of them for less
than the sums insured, it is not a just inference that their
claim against these insurers was exaggerated. A compron'ise proposed or accepted is not evidence of an admission
of'the amount of the debt. There was then no sufficient
foundation laid for the instruction requested by the defendants, that if the jury should believe that the plaintiffs, or
either of them, in the course of an examination on oath,
under the policies, refused to answer any questions by which
* 9 Wallace, 677.

INSURANCE COMPANIES V., WIEIDES

[Sup, Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the defendants could fairly estimate, or reasonably infer
plaintiffs' real loss in the insured property, and had not before the commeucement of the actions answered the questions under oath, the verdict must be for the defendants.
There was no evidence of refusal to answer such questions.
The fifth exception is to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury that if they believed from the evidence the
plaintiffs were requested by the defendants to produce duplicates of invoices of goods purchased by them, the originals
of which were alleged by them to be destroyed, and neglected to do so befbre the commencement of the actions,
their right of action never accrued, and that the verdicts
must be for the defendants. "The prayer for this instruction
was founded on the clause in the policy that the assured
should produce certified copies of all bills and invoices, the
originals of which had been lost, and exhibit the sfime for
examination to any person named by the company, and that
until the proofs, declarations, and ceetificates (stipulated for
in case of loss) were produced and examinations and appraisals permitted, the loss should not be payable. The
bills of exception state that there was evidence tending to
show that the plaintiffs were requested to produce duplicate
bills of purchases, but there does not appear to have been
any evidence when the request was made, whether before
the commencement of the acti6rs or afterwards, or whether
there was neglect or refusal' of 'the plaintiffs to comply..
Moreover, the request was for duplicates, and not forcertified copies. We cannot, therefore, sy there was error in
refusing the instruction asked for.
Nor was there error in denying the defendants' third and
fourth prayers. It is true the policies stipulated that fraud
or false swearing on the part (ifthe assured should work a
4irtiture of all claim under them. The false swearing reterred to is such as may be in the submission of preliminary
proofs of loss, or in the examination to which the assured
agreed to submit. But it does not inevitably follow from
the fact that there was a material discrepancy between the
statements made by the plaintiffs under oath in.their proofs

Dec. 1871.] BANK OF

BETHEL V.

PAIIQUIOQUE BANK.

383

Statement of the case.

of loss, and their statements when testifying at the trial that
the former were false, so as to justify the court in assuming
it, and directing verdicts for the defendants. It may have
been the testimony last given that was not true, or the statements made in the proofs of loss may have been honestly
made, though subsequently discovered to, be mistaken. It
is only fraudulent false swearing in furnishing the preliminary proofs, or in the examinations which the insurers have
a right to require, that avoids, the policies, and it was for
the jury to determinc whether that swearing was false and
fraudulent.
The remaining two assignments of error are not pressed,
and it is properly conceded .that the court could not lay
down as a rule of law the mode of computation designated
in the prayers for instruction.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BANK OF BETHEL V. PAHQUIOQUE BANK.
1. A National anljing association may be sued in any state, county, or municipal court in the county or city where such azsociation is located,
having jurisdiction in similar cases.
2. Such an nssociatiofl does not lose its corporate existence by mere default
in paying its circulAting notes, and upon the mere appointment of a receiver.
3. Such an association may be sued though a receiver have been appointed,
and is administering its concerns.
4. The decision of the receiver upon the validity of a claim presented to
him for a dividend is not final'; the creditor may proceed afterwards, to
have the validity of the laim judicially adjudicated in a suit in a
proper State court, against the bank.

Ix error to the Supreme Court of Connecticut; the ease
being thus c
On the 3d bf Jime, 1864, Congress Oassed'its well-known
"act to provid a Na tional currency, secured by a pledge
of United States bonds;"* un'der which act numerous new
* 13 Stat. at Large, 99.,

