Dec. 1871.]

TRADERS'

BANK V.

87

CAMPBELL.

Statement of the case.

to the appellate jurisdiction of this court from the decisions
of the State courts. The writ of error must be
DISMISSED.

TRADERS'

BANK V. CAMPBELL.

1. Suit in chancery by an assignee in bankruptcy to recover the proceeds of
goods sold under judgment in a State court against the bankrupt taken
by confession when both parties knew of the insolvency.
Such a judgment, though taken before the first day of June, 1867, is
an unlawful preference under the 35th section of that act, if taken after
the enactment of the bankrupt law.
2. The proceeds of the sale of the bankrupt's goods being in the hands of
one sued as a defendant, another person who had a like judgment and
execution levied on the same goods is not a necessary party to this suit,
being without the jurisdiction. The rule laid down as to necessary
parties in chancery.
3. The proceeds of the sale being in the hands of the bank, though it had
given the sheriff a certificate of deposit, the assignee was not obliged
to move against the sheriff in the State court to pay over the money to
him, but had his option to sue the banik which had directed the levy and
sale and hold the proceeds itt its vaults.
4. The defendant having money received as collections for the bankrupt delivered it to the sheriff, who levied the defendant's execution on it and
applied it in satisfaction of the same. This is a fraudulent preference,
or taking by process under the act, and does not raise the question
whether if the defendant had retained the money it could be set off in
this suit against the bankrupt's debt to the defendant.
5. So taking a check from the bankrupt and crediting the amount of the
check then on deposit, on the ban krupt's note the day beire taking
judgment, was a payment by way of preference and therefore void, and
does not raise the question of set-off.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the Northern District

of Illinois.
The bankrupt act of the United States enacts by its 35th
section that if any person being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency, within four months before the filing of
a petition by or against him, with a view to give a preference to any creditor having a claim against him procures his
property to be seized or makes any payment, transfer, &c.,
thereof, directly or indirectly, the person receiving such pay-

TRADERS'

ANK V.

CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ot

Statement of the ease.

ment, transfer, &c., having reasonable cause to believe the
debtor to be insolvent, and that the payment, conveyance,
&c., is in fraud of the act, the same shall be void, and the
assignee may recover the property or its value.
Similarly its 39th section provides that if any person being
insolvent or in contemplation thereof should make any payment or transfer of money or property, or give any warrant
to confess judgment, or procure or stuyer his property to be
taken on legal process, with itent to give a preferencee or to defeat
or delay the operation of the act, the money or property
might be recovered back if the person receiving the payment
or conveyance had reasonable cause to believe that a fraud
on the act was intended, and that the debtor was insolvent.
The 20th section of the act provides "that in all cases of
mutual debts or mutual credits between the parties, the account between them shall be stated, and one debt set off
against the other."
The act was approved on the 2d'of March, 1867. But
a proviso at the end of its 50th section provides, "that no
petition or other proceeding under this act shtll be filed,
received, or commenced before the 1st day of June, A.D.
1867."
,.With this statute and this proviso as part of it in force,
Hitchcock & Endicott, traders in Chicago, and keeping their
bank account with the Traders' National Bank there-the
bank being in the habit of discounting their notes and collecting their drafts-were requested by the bank, on the 6th
of May, 1867, to furnish them with a statanient of their
affairs; the firm being at this time confessedly debtors of
the bank, and in a much-embarrassed and really insolvent
condition. A statement was soon furnished by the bookkeeper, which on the 24th of May was discovered by the
bank to be untrue; the liabilities of the firm being set down
in it much below their reality. Thereupon, on the 28th
May, the bank brought a suit against Hitchcock & Endicott,
in which, on an allegation of fraud, a capias was issued for
the arrest of Hitchcock. To avoid this arrest the firm gave
the bank a note, payable on demand, for the whole amount

Dec.

1871.]

TRADERS' BANK V. CAMPBELL.

89

Statement of the case.

of their debt, which was $6707.43, with a warrant of attorney
to confess judgment, and on the next day, the 29th, the bank
entered a judgment in one of the State courts of Illinois for
the debt, and $50 attorney's fee, less $325.20, the amuount
which the firm had in deposit account with the bank on that
day. For this $325.20, the firm drew a check in favor of
the bank, in virtue of which check, the sum just named was
indorsed on the note as a credit. Execution for $0438 was
immediately (May 29th) issued on this judgment and levied
on a stock of goods belonging to the firm. In what was
thus done the president of the bank acknowledged that he
was aware of the insolvent condition of I-itchcocl< & Endicott, and had instituted his proceeding after takhlg the
opinion of counsel, and learning from this source that the
bankrupt law did not affect such cases until after the first
day of June, the earliest time at which proceedings could be
commenced under that law.
On the 30th of May Hlotchkiss & Sons, of Conneelicul, obtained a judgment against the same parties for' a much
smaller debt, on which execution was also issued and levied
on the same goods.
On the 25th of June, some other creditors of Hitchcock
& Endicott filed a petition in the District Court ibr Northern
Illinois, praying to have them declared bankrupt, and on
the 10th of July they were so declared; one Campbell being
appointed the assignee in bankruptcy. On the 21st of the
following August the goods of the firm were sold under the
execution of the bank. At the same time the bank caused
to be sold under the same execution a certain sum of $943,
Which it had received on the 12th of June by way of collections made by it in the ordinary course of business, of drafts
belonging to the firm. The net sum raised by the execution on the goods was $6062.43. On the 21st of August,
while things were standing in this way-the sheriff having
as yet made no return of his execution-Campbell, the
assignee in bankruptcy, filed a bill in chancery, in the District Court t elow, against the bank and lotehkiss & Sons,
alleging that each of them had obtained fl'orn Hitchcock &

TRADEtS' BANK' V. OAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Endicott fraudulent preferences, and that the several judgments in their favor were void. Iotchkiss & Sons being
non-residents no service was made on them. The bill
prayed that the judgments be set aside, and that the defendants be ordered to pay over to the assignee the value
of the goods sold under the two executions. With this bill
thus pending, the sheriff (who as already mentioned, had not
made any return to his execution), deposited $6500 raised
under the bank's execution on the goods in the bank itself,
receiving from it a "certificate of deposit," that he had deposited the sum named "to the credit of himself subject to
his order, on the return of this certificate." There was,
however, an arrangement made by the batik with the sheriff
that the money should remain with the institution as a deposit, to be used by it until the suit brought by Campbell
should be decided, and that if it was decided in favor of the
bank that the money should, inA that case, he returned to the
sheriff, but if decided against the ba'nk, that then it should
abide whatever decision was made. The balance ($562.43)
of the $6062.43, the net proceeds of the execution of the
goods, the sheriff retained in his own hands.
The execution in favor of Hotehkiss came to nothing, the
property levied on in virtue of it being levied on subject to
the prior execution of the bank.
Pleadings being made up, and evidence taken, the bill
was dismissed as to the non-residents and unserved defendants, Iotchkiss & Sons. On the other part of the case, the
court was of opinion that Hitehcock & Endicott were insolvent on the 28th of May, 1867; that the Traders' batik had
reason to suspect and believe the tact of such insolvency;
that under such circumstances the firm gave to them the
note and warrant of attorney in question; that on the 29th
of May the bank appropriated as part payment of this
note $325.20, then on deposit to the credit of the firm ; that
the payment of $325.20 upon the note and the judgment in
favor of the bank were alike void, as fraudulent preferences.
The decree ordered that the assignee recover from the
oank the $325.20 aid interest from May 29th, 1867, also an

Dec. 1871.]

TRADEits' BANK

V.

CAMPBELL.

91

Argument for the bank.

amount equal to the judgment and costs rendered in favor
of the bank with interest from May 29th, 1867, amounting
in all to $7903.12.
This decree being affirmed in the Circuit Court the case
was brought here on error.

Messrs. G. C. CumpbeWland B. C. Cook, for the appellants.
A preliminary point arises in view of the proviso of the
50th section. We submit that under that proviso the bill
below (lid not lie, because all the acts which are complained
of took place before the 1st of June, 1867, prior to which
day the proviso declares that no petition or proceeding shall
be begun. But waiving that, we submit that the decree is
erroneous.
1. Because the proper parties were not before the court.
In Shields v. Barrow,* Mr. Justice Curtiss, in delivering the
opinion of the court, says:
"The court can make no decree affecting the rights of any
absent person, and can make no decree between the parties before it, which so far involves or depends upon the rights of an
absent person that complete and substantial justice cannot be
done between the parties to the suit without affecting those
rights."
Under this rule Hotchkiss & Sons were necessary parties.
The goods and funds of the bankrupts had before bankruptcy
been levied upon and sold by the sheriff, under two executions, one in favor of the bank and the other in favor of
Hotchkiss & Sons. Upon the hearing the bill was dismissed
as to Iotchkiss & Sons, and then decree rendered that the
judgment in fhvor of the bank was void, and that it pay
over to the assignee in bankruptcy $6500 of the proceeds of
the executions, with interest from May 29th, 1867. This
$6500 was still in the hands of the sheriff; that is, he held
a certificate of deposit of the bank for that amount of the
proceeds of sale; the balance, $562.43, he still held in cash.
The judgment in favor of Hotchkiss & Sons has never been
17 Howard, 141.

92

TRADERS' BANK V. CAM'PBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the bank.

declared void, but is still in force, and when the judgment
in favor of the bank was declared void, itbecame the first
lien upon the funds in the sheriff's hands; made from the
goods of the bankrupts, and was and is entitled to be paid
in full out of those funds. No reason exists why Hlotchkiss
&Sons cannot obtain from the State court an order upon
the sheriff to pay their judgment in full. The sheriff could
not successfully resist sueh rule by pleading the decree in
this case, Hotchkiss & Sons not being parties to the bill.
If the decree in this case operates to transfer to the assignee
in bankruptcy the $6500 deposited by the sheriff with the
bank, leaving in his hands only $562.43 with which to satisfy the judgment of Hotchkiss & Sons, it certainly affects
the rights of these absent parties. If the sheriff can plead
this decree in answer to a rule in the State court, to pay
over the money, Ilotchkiss & Sons are deprived of their
money by decree in a case to which they are not a party.
If the sheriff cannot plead the decree in answer to such rule
he is left liable to Hotchkiss & Sons in that amount, and
that by the operation of a decree in a case to which he was
not a party.
2. The assignee should have applied to the State court for
an order on the sheriff to pay over to him the proceeds of
the execution in his hands. The judgmentsi question
were obtained in the State courts prior to adjudication in
bankruptcy; executions were issued, levied, and sale made
by the sheriff prior to any proceedings to recover the property or proceeds. The fund of $7062.43 realized from the
goods of Hitchcock & Endicott was thereibre legally in the
hands of the sheriff, and under the control of the State
court when this bill was filed.
8. The bank has never received from the sheriff any
amount whatever in satisfaction of the judgment recovered
by it against Hitchcock & Endicott. As heretofore stated,
the sheriff still holds the funds made from the property of
Hitchcock & Endicott. The decree seems to have procedded
upon the hypothesis that the money deposited by the sheriff
with the bank was a payment to it of the amount of the ei-

Dec. 1871.]

TrADERS' BANK

V.

CAMPBELL.

98

Argument for the bank.

ecution in its favor.

This hypothesis is, however, inconsist-

ent with the facts of the case.

If the assignee had applied to the State court for an order
on the sheciff to pay over to him the funds realized upon
the two executions, nll parties would have been in court and
bound by the order rendered, and equal and exact justice
done to each,* This proceeding, on thb contrary, results in
great wrong to the appellant. A decree is rendered against
it for $7903.12 as money madc from the bankrupts' estate,
when in fact it has only realized $325.20. So that in consequence of an honest misconstruction of the bank uptcy act,
the bank not only lose their entire claim of $6707.43, but
some $1800 in addition thereto.
4. The decree rendered against the bank is for far too
large a sum. The account stated between the bank and the
bankrupts is thus:
Original amount of the bank's debt,
Contra.
Csh of bankrupts' on deposit,
.
Cash collected on drafts, June 12th,

.

$6,707 43

$325 20
928 38
-

True balance due the bank,

..

1,253 58
$5,453 85

Nqw, under the 20th section it was lawful for the bank to
apply in payment of their claim against Hitchcock & Endicott all of the moneys which came into its hands prior to
the filing of the petition in bankruptey. Thus setting one
debt off against the other the balance is $5453.85. This
certainly would be the full amount of the claim which could
have been allowed to the bank if its officers had appeared in
the bankrupt court for the purpose of proving their claim.
If it were true then that the whole amount of the judgmnent in favor of the bank against the firm had been paid,
the decree would be too great by $1259.40, and interest from
the 29th of May io the date of the decree.
Mr. M. W. Fuller, contra.
Rohrer's Appeal, 62; Pennsylvania State, 498.

TRADERS'

BANK V.

CAMPBELL.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not asserted by counsel here that the defendant acquired. any rights to the property levied on by its execution.
It would be useless to do so in view of the acknowledgments
of the president of the bank upon this subject and of the
circumstances in which he stated that he had instituted his
proceeding.*
We are of opinion that the proviso to the 50th section of
the Bankrupt Act, which declares that no petition or other
proceeding under it shall be commenced before the first (lay
of June, 1867, is limited in its effect to such commencement, and that any act done after its approval, March 2(1,
1867, in fraud of the purpose of the statute, was within its
prohibitions.
We will consider the objections to the decree .in fivor of'
the plaintiff in the order in which they are assigned in the
appellant's brief.
1. It is said that Hotchkiss & Sons ivere necessary parties,
without whom the court could not proceed. They were not
within the jurisdiction of the court, and, though made defendants by the bill, never appeared in the case, and it was
dismissed as to them without prejudice.
Their interest, as asserted by -the appellant's counsel, was
that they also had a judgment against the bankrupts, on
which execution was levied, on the same property, and that,
as it was sold under both executions, Hotchkiss & Sons have
a right to be heard as to the validity of that sale.
In the case of _Barney v. Ballimore,t this court, after reviewing the former decisions on this subject, remarks that
there is a class of persons having such relations to the matter in controversy, merely formal or otherwise, that, while
they may be called proper parties, the court will take no
account of the omission to make them parties. There is
another class whose relations to the suit are such that, if
their interest and their absence are formally brought to the
attention of the court, it will require them to be made par*

ee supra, p. 89.

"f6 Wallace, 280.

Dec. 1871.]

TRADERS'

BANK V. CAMPBELL.

95

Opinion of the court.

ties, if within its jurisdiction, before deciding the ease. But,
if this cannot be done, it will proceed to administer such
relief as may be in its power between the parties before it.
And there is a third class, whose interest in the subject.
matter of the suit, and in the relief sought, is so bound up
with that of the other parties, that their legal presence as
parties in the proceeding is an absolute necessity, without
which the court cannot proceed.
Hotchkiss & Sons manifestly belong to this second class,
and not the third. TI'e bank is sued for its own wrong in
procuring judgment and selling the property, and for the
proceeds now in its vaults. Hotchkiss & Sons may, or may
not., be in the wrong in procuring their judgment and levy,
but it is not alleged that they have received any of the
money. If they are entitled to any of it they will be at
liberty to bring any suit they may be advised to, after this
suit is disposed ot against the assignee, or any one else, and
their rights will not be precluded by the present decree;
nor have they any such interest in the subject-matter of this
suit, that their presence is necessary to the protection of the
bank. A complete decree can be made between the bank
and the assignee without touching the rights of' Hotchkiss
& Sons, or embarrassing the bank in'its relations to them.
The organization of the Federal courts has always required
them to dispense with parties in chancery not within their
jurisdiction, unless their presence was an absolute necessity,
which it clearly is not in this case.
2. It is said that the assignee should have applied to the
State court for an order on the sheriff to pay over the proceeds of the execution to him.
But it cannot be maintained that the assignee, who is pursuing the assets of the bankrupt in the hands of third parties, is bound to resort to the State courts because there is a
litigation there pending. The language of the 14th section,
that the assignee may prosecute and defend all suits, pending at the time of the adjudication of bankruptcy, in which
the bankrupt is a party, does not oblige him to seek a remedy
in that way. The 2d section of the act declares that the

96

TRADERS' BANK V. CAMPBELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Circuit Courts of the United States shall have concurrent
jurisdiction with the District Courts of all suits, at law or
in equity, which may or shall be brought by the assignee
against any person claiming an adverse interest touching
any property, or rights of property, of said bankrupt.
The decree in the present suit is founded on the idea that
the bank, by means of its illegal and collusive proceedings
in the State court, has received the proceeds of property
which ought to have come to the assignee. lie has a right
to proce ed against the bank directly in the Federal court
for those proceeds, and is not obliged to resort to the State
court, where the m'atter is substantially ended, for relief.
3. The third objection is, that the bank has not received
from the sheriff any sum whatever in satisfaction of the
judgmient which it recovered against the bankrupts.
The facts of the case are simple and undisputed * The
goods of the bankrupt were sold under the execution in
favor of the bank, and the sheriff after deduetin g the costs
of the proceeding deposited the remainder with the defendant. This suit being then pending, the defendant, instead
of giving the sheriff a receipt for the amount as paid on the
execution in his hands, gave him a certificate of deposit.
This transparent device can deceive no one, and does not
vary the legal character of the transaction. The sleriff,
under the direction of the bank, levies upon and sells thi
property of the bankrupt, after the title has passed to the
assignee, and in violation of the law. He deposits the proceeds of the sale with the party whose agent he was in this
illegal appropriation of the goods. The assignee electing to
assert his right to the proceeds of the sale instead of the
goods themselves, sues the party who caused the seizure
and sale, and who has their proceeds in his possession. His
right to recover under such circumstances cannot well be
doubted.
4. The fburth objection is that the decree rendered against
the bank is for too large a sum.
This assignment of error has regard to certain sums coming
to the hands of the defendant as bankers of Hitchcock &

Dec. 1871.]

TRADERS' BANK

V.

CAMPBELL.

97

Opinion of tho court.

Endicott, and which they claim a right to retain by way of
set-off.
The amount of $928.38 was received on the 12th day of
June, some days after their judgment had been recovered in
the State court, and after the execution had been levied on
the stock of the, bankrupts' goods. It was received as collections made by the batik, from drafts placed by the bankrupts in their hands in the ordinary course of business, and
if they had retaine(l it and appropriated it as a set-off agains
the debt of the bauk,,upt to them, an interesting questioll
might have arisen as to their right to do so. But instead of
doing this, they handed it over to the sheriff who levied or
it as the property of the bankrupt, by virtue of the same
execution under which he levied on and sold the goods. By
the act of the bank it was thus placed in the same category
with the goods, and instead of exercising thei-r own right of
set-off, by directing the sheriff to credit the execution with
the sum received by them on the debt, they delivered it to
him to be treated as the goods of the bankrupt and subjected by him to their illegal judgment. This amount then
must be treated in the same manner as the other money received by them from the sheriff on the sale of the goods.
There was inthe bank on deposit to the credit of Hitchcock & Endicott on the day they gave the judgment note,
the sum of $325.20. This sum was not computed or deducted when the note was given. On the next day, before
the bank caused the judgment to be entered up, they credited this amount on the note, and took judgment for that
much less. They now assert that this was wliat they had a
right to do, and that it should remain a valid set-off. But
this does not appear to have been really what was done. It
appears that Hitchcock & Endicott gave the bank a check
for the sum, and by virtue of that check it was indorsed on
the note as a payment. Now as both the bank and the
bankrupts knew of the insolvency of the latter, this was a
payment by way of preference and therefore void by the
35th section of the bankrupt act. In this case as in the
other, if they had stood on their right of set-off, it might
VOL. xIv.

7

Tim, THtAMES.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

possibly have been available, but when they treat it as the
)ankrupts'property, and endeavor to secure an illegal pref.

erence by getting the bankrupts to make a payment in the
one Case. ,1r1d seizing it by execution in the other, when they
knew of the insolvency, both appropriations are void.
We see no Orror in the decree whicli was rendered in the

District Court and affirmed in the Circuit Court on appeal,
and which isagain
AFFIRMED BY TillS COURT.

THE THAMES.
1. The contract between a ship and the shipper is that which is contained in
the bills of lading delivered to the shipper. The bill retained by the
ship or "'ship's bill," as it is sometimes called, isdesigned only for its
own intormation and convenience; not for evidence, as between the
parties, of what their agreement was. If it differs from the others,
they must be considered as the true and only evidence of the contract.
of hading for merchandise, stipulating for "adelivery to
2. By issuing bills
order, the ship becomes bound to deliver it to no one who has riot the
order of the shipper. It is no excuse for a delivery to the wrong persons that the indorsee of the bills of lading was unknown, and that
notice of the arrival of the merchandise could not be given to him
Diligent inquiry for the consignee, at least, is a duty. And if, after inquiry, the consignee or the indorsee of a bill of lading for delivery to
order cannot be found, the duty of the carrier is to retain tle goods
until they re claimed, or to store them prudently for and on account
of their owner. He has no right under any circumstances to deliver
them to a stranger.
8. Tle indorsee of a bill of lading may libel the vessel on which the goods

arc shipped, for failure to deliver them, though he may be but an agent
or trustee of the goods for others ; as ex yr., the cashier of a bank.
APPEAL fr.om the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, the case being this:
In January, 1868, Al( red Bennett, James Van Pelt, and
Gilbert Van Pelt, were merchants doing a commission business in New York under the name of' Bennett, Van Pelt &
Co. The partner, Gilbert, resided in Savannah, where he
was in the habit of purchasing cotton and consigning it to

