THE MABEY AND COOPER.

[Sup. M

Syllabus.

gation that it was a rash act for the steamship with her two
tugs, one on her larboard side and the other on her port
side, to attempt to pass between the Gladiator and the
wreck, even if the space between those objects was somewhat wider than the three steamers abreast, which, to say
the least of the proposition, is very doubtful.
Beyond doubt it was the duty of the steamship to keep
out of the way, both because she was astern and because the
Celuta to which the Gladiator was lashed was aground, and
it is no answer to say that it was possible to pass, and that
the attempt would have been successful if the Calhoun,
when she reached shoal water abreast of the G!adiatoi', had
not careened, as alleged in the answer. Under the circumstances it must be assumed that those' in charge of the
steamship knew that it was their, duty to keep out of ,the
way, and if they did not know that the water shoaled where
the Celuta was grounded, it only furnished additional evidence to support the conclusion that the attempt to pass between the Gladiator and the wreck was a rash act and that
the owners of the steamship are responsible for the consequences. Such being our conclusion, it is unnecessary to
examine the other questions discussed at the argument.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

THE

MABVY AND COOP9R.

1. Although the general rule is that a party who does not appeal cannot be
heard in opposition to the decree, still where it appeared-the suit below
being a libel for collision against a tug and her tow-that an appeal
from the District Court to the Circuit Court had been taken from the
entire decree by the owners of the tow who had ordered the tug, and who
had undertaken her defence as well as their own, and thus represented
the entire interest of the losiig party in the suit, an appeal by the tug
from the Circuit Court to this court was entertained here, though the
court observes that doubt might perhaps exist as to the regularity of the
proceeding

Dec. 1,871.]

TiE MABEY AND COOPER.
Statement of the case.

2. Where a ship ordered a tug to tow her out of th-, East River to sea in an
unfavorable state of the wind and tide, and when the navigation was
made in that state dangerous by ice, and the master of the tug remonstrated against setting off in the tiben condition of the wind and tide,

and finally went only on the ship's owners insisting on her towing, and
on their agreeing to take the risk of all accident, both ship and tug
were held liable for a collision, there being in addition some evidence of,

faulty navigation.
3. An amended answer setting up an improbable defence, and one quite departing from that set up in the answer, treated unfav6rably.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The ship Helen Cooper, lying at her dock in the East
River, at Brooklyn, near the gas.works there, on Saturday
the 17th of February, 1866, with her stern towards the river
but ready for sea, applied to the captain of the steamtug
Mabey to tow her out. Irnnediately opposite, at pier 45, on
the New York City side, was lying at the same time and
well in her dock, another ship, the Isaac Chapman. The
wind on that day was somewhat high, the East River on the
Long Island side of it was filled more or less with ice, and
the day generally was not favorable for a' sailing vessel's
getting out of that part of the East River for sea. The
Isaac Chapman, at least, like the Helen Cooper, was on that
day and at that hour ready for sea, but was afraid'to go out,
and remained waiting till the river by slack water should be
made less dangerous from ice. Other sailing vessels, however, in other parts of the East River and at a differe t hour sailed,
on the 17th, and many from the North River. The captain
of the Mabey when desired' to tow out the Helen Cooper,
remarked upon the state of the tide and unpropitious character of the day generally, and advised her owners to wait
till the tide changed and the river got more free of ice. The
owners seeing no danger, and wanting the Mabey to get off,
resolved to go, and ordered the tug to proceed. " We will
take," said their agent, " tihe risk of all accidents." Accordingly the Mabey attached her hawser and pulled the Helen
Cooper out, stern foremost, into the middle of the stream;
cutting the hawser there and attaching it in a new way.

TjE

MABEY AND

COOPER.

[S~up. Ot.

Statement of the case.

From this point and before the operation of getting her
under the intended way was complete(, she shot straight
into the Isaac Chapman, near the main rigging, cutting her
down to the water's edge, carrying away her back-stays and
mizzen-stay, mashing her boats, starting her deck, and disabling her generally.
The owners of the Chapman hereupon libelled both the
tug and ship. The tug answered on the 7th of May, 1867,
setting forth that her master informed the owners that it
was not safe to proceed to sea in the then condition of the
weather and tide. That the agent of the owners insisted
that the vessel should go to sea; that he yielded to the
orders of the agent of the ship, he agreeing that the owners
would assume all risk; that the collision was oc casioned by
disobedience of the orders of the pilot and bad navigation
of the ship; that the order of the pilot'was not to cast off the
hawser by which the ship was moored but only to slacken it
until the head of the ship was swung round; that the order
was disobeyed, and that the hawser was cast off before the
ship came round, which sent the ship over to the New York
shore; and -that the ship, when she had reached the middle
of the stream, and was headed down stream, put her helm hard
aport, so that she took a sheer to starboard, which caused her
to run into the Chapman.
As the master of the tug had acted in the whole matter
against his own judgment, and had set out at all only upon
the request of the owners of the ship Helen Cooper, and on
their agreeing to take upon themselves all risks, tbey now
largely took upon themselves the management of the deJ
fence. They had already, May 2d, 1867, put in an answer.
By the answer they set up,
"That they had a Sandy Hook pilot on board; that by his
direction the tug took the ship in tow by hawser; that at this
time the ship was lying at the wharf with her bows up and her
stern out; that the hawser was made fast to her bows on the
port side of the ahip, and passed along aft, and there made fast
by stops, and that the ship was towed stern foremost into the
atream ; that, as she passed out into the stream, the stop at the

Dec. 1871.]

THE MABEY

AND

COOPER.

Statement of the case.

stern was cut, so as to allow her bow to turn around and head
down the river; that while in the act of turning, both the ship
and tug were unexpectedly caught in an immense field of floating, ice, which, in spite of the tug, set both the ship and tug
towards the New York shore; that, finding that the field of ice
was too powerful for the tug to control, both anchors of the ship
were lct go, with a'large amount of chain, notwithstanding
which, the ice carried the ship and tug across and down the
river, so that the head of the ship having finally got pointed
down the river,-was carried by the ice so that her bows were
carried inside pier 45, and into the side of the Chapman ; thus
causing any damage that was done. That the field of ice in
which the ship became entangled was too powerful to be controlled; and that all which she could do, was to drop her anchors with a view to stop her headway; which, however, being
done, failed to bring her up; that the collision was thus the result of inevitable accident; or if not of inevitable accident, then
certainly that it arose from no fault of the ship, or her officers,
,orcrew."
An amended: answer was as follows:
"That, at the time there was considerable floating ice on the
Brooklyn side of the East River, but that the river whs clear
for a considerable distance out on the New York side; that,
owing to th floating ice, the ship was turned with more diffi,
culty than it would otheC'wise have been ; that the tug had got
the ship's head turned down the river, angling towards the New
York shore, and with most of the ship in clear water, free from
ice; that, while the tug was thus successfully towing the said
ship, and angling well off her port bow so as to keep her head
turning down the stream, until she should head directly down,
a ferry-boat suddenly and improperly crossed the bows of the tug,
-and in order to prevent the striking the said ferry-boat the headway of the tug was suddenly slowed, but that with the impetus which the ship had, she shot ahead towards the piers
on the New Yoi:k sido;.that, the instant the pilot discovered
that the tug had slowed he waved her on, but that she could
not go on without running into Ihe ferry-boat; that, instantly
upon the slowing of the tug it was seen that the tug had lost,
by slowing, the control of the ship; that both anchors were at
once let go, they being all ready for that purpose, but that

THE MABEY AND COOPER.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the tow and tug.

owing to the character of the ground the ship overran her anchors, and dragged them both, and came upon the Chapman;
that the wheel of the ship was hard astarboard from the time
she left the pier at Brooklyn to the time of coming into contact

with the injured vessel Chapman."
Though both the master of the Helen Cooper and the
pilot swore positively to this ferry-boat's shooting out of
her dock in the way described, and that this--by compelling
the tug to slow, and so to slack her hawser, and let the
ship drift without motive power on a wrong course-was
the cause of the whole difliculty, yet some other testimony
went to show that the collision was caused primarily by
setting out in an unfavorable state of the tide, and when the
ice rendered navigation diflcult; in proceeding with too
much rapidity, and in towing with too long a hawser; and
from the causes set forth in the answers of the owners of
the tug.
The District Court condemned both tug and ship; and
the owners of the ship, who had undertaken and managed
the whole defence, appealed to the Circuit Court, where
the decree was affirmed. From the decree of affirmance
the owners of both the tug and of the ship appealed to this
court.

Messrs. Beebe, Donohue, and Cooke, for the appellants:
There is no sufficient positive testimony that the day was
an unsafe one. It was a Saturday, when, of course, five
ocean steamers set off. Some sailing vessels also set off. On
the other hand, there is sufficient and most positive testimony
that the tug was embarrassed by a ferry-boat suddenly shooting out of dock, passing ahead of her, and that by the tug
stopping, the ship, which had considerable way on, and had
not got headed around, was left without motive power to
keep her in the right course; and so that she could not
avoid the collision, although she made all the efforts in her
power, by dropping her anchor, and otherwise.
The East River opposite New York is not so wide as that
you can turn a large ship in the middle of the river, and if

Dec. 1871.]

THE

MABEY

AND COOPER.

Argument for the injured ship.

you could not run near the opposite shore you could never
turn.
The cause of the collision was an inevitable accident, and
such a one as neither tug nor ship could guard against. It
was no fault of either that the ferry-boat embarrassed the
tug, and had there not been a cake of ice in the river, Or
had the hawser been the shortest, that embarrassment would
have been equally as great. Indeed, if the hawser had been
shorter the ship would have been into the tug and both into
the ferry-boat; and perhaps all into the Chapman.
The ship was under the control and management of the
tug, and she is not responsible for the acts or faults of the
tug. It is no cause to hold her responsible that the owners
.of the ship assumed the defence of the tug, because if the
collision happened by the ship's fault, the tug should be discharged. Yet she is held. It is not good sense to hold both
the'ship and the tug responsible. If the fault is on the one
or the other the court must say so.
If both the tug and ship are in fault, the loss should be
equally divided between them.
Messrs. Benedict and Benedict, contra:
As to the appeal taken by the tug. No appeal was taken
in her behalf from the decree of the District Court. The
ship having assumed her defence, she had no further care
of the controversy and took no appeal. She is, therefore, in
no situation to take an appeal from the decree ot the Circuit
Court, and her appeal ought to be dismissed.
As to the ship's appeal. The sole defence set up in the
ship's answer was, that the ship was " unexpectedly caught
in an immense field of floating ice." The amended answ&er
entirely abandons this defence, even contradicting it in material points, ad sets up as a defence that "a ferry-boat suddenly and improperly crossed the bows of the tug," causedi
her to stop and thus caused the collision. This new defence
was clearly an afterthought. The ship's cod'efendant, the
tug, sets up no such defence. Yet the defence is one which
must be applicable to both the tug and the ship, if it had
VOL. XIV.

14

TiE MABEY

AND

COOPER.

[Sup.:Q .

Argument for the injured ship.

any existence at all. It is one whose existence miust have
been better known to the tug than to the ship, and the fact
that the tug does not set it up but charges the collision to
be the result of negligence on the part of the ship, throws
the strongest suspicion upon it. This suspicion is still further strengthened by the subsequent conduct or the cause.
The tug having made this charge upon the ship, the latter,
by agreement, takes upon herself all the res[ponsibility of
the litigation, and then fails to put before the court any evidence from the tug as to the occurrence in question. The
inference is irresistible that her owners knew that those witnesses would not sustain their theory of the defence, but
would show negligence on the part of the ship, and that
they took this course to keep this evidence from the knowledge of the court. This they have succeeded in doing, but
they cannot avoid the conclusions to which such a course of
conduct on their part necessarily exposes them.

It is vain to say that the matter of the ferry-boat was after
discovered. It is not credible that the owner of the ship
had never inquired the cause of the collision ; nor is it credible that, having inquired, he should have heard nothing of
this ferry-boat, or sh6uld have forgotten all about her, if she
was the cause of it. And how is the ftt to be accounted
for, that, while the witnesses from the tug must have been,
from their position, the best witnesses to prove the existence
and movements of this ferry-boat, and that while the ship,
by assuming the responsibility or the defence, had done all
in her power to make those witnesses disinterested, she
failed to call one of them to support her allegations? It is
plain that this alleged ferry-boat, of whom no one can tell
the name, whence she came, or whither she went, had no
real relation to the disaster. Independently of all which
the court is asked to hold that an ordinary movement of a
Brooklyn ferry-boat is an inevitable accident, and that this
ship is not liable for the consequences, resulting to an innocent third party from her fihilu.'e to provide for and guard
against such ordinary movement.
It is plain from the general aspect of the case that the ship

Dec. 1871.]

THE MABEY AND COOPER.
Opinion of the court.

desired as soon as possible to get out of the ice into the clear
water, which led them to go over to the New York side, and
then the tug had not sufficient power in that narrow space
to keep the ship off from the (locks.
It was recklessness on the part of the ship to go to sea at
all when she did. It does not in the least alleviate this to
show that steamers sailed, as ocean steamships do, from the
North River on the same day, or that other vessels left other
-thelower-parts of the East River at slackwater, no doubt,
before the ice began to run.
If the ship had to go to sea at the hour when she did, it
was negligence not to have had a second tug. If the condition of things was such in the river that the ship was compelled to go in such dangerous proximity to the piers, and that
the crossing of a ferry-boat, which is always to be expected
in that part of the river, made the difference betwedn safety
and the injury which she actually wrought, that should have
been foreseen and guarded against by having a tug alongside. A tug alongside would have averted the collision.
Both vessels must take the consequences of the negligence.
The ship was the duxfaeli. It was her doing; but the tug,
undertaking the service at the risk of the ship, is none the
less to blame. ' She had no right, no matter what guarantees
she had, to undertake this dangerous service, single-handed,
in a port whose piers were lined with valuable ships and
cargoes, fastened fore and aft, and helpless alike to resist or
to escape.
The case falls within what is said in The Bridgeport.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Controversies growing out of collisions between ships
arise where the colliding vessel was in charge of a tug ii
which both the tug and the tow are liable for the consequences, as when the officers and crews of both vessels
jointly participated in their control and management and
where those in charge of both vessels are deficient in skill,
* Supma, 116.

212

TnE MABEY

AND COOPER.

[Sup. Ct,

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

omit to take due care, or are guilty of negligence in their
navigation. Cases also arise where the tow alone is responsible, as where the tug is employed as the mere motive
power to propel the tow from one point to another, and both
vessels are under the exclusive control and management of
the officers and crew of the tow. Other cases also arise
where the tug is solely responsible, as where the tug, under
the charge of her own master and crew, undertakes to transport another vessel from one point to another, which, fbr the
time being, has neither her master nor crew on board, as in
that case her officers and crew direct and control the navigation of both vessels.*
Compensation is claimed in this case by the owners of the
ship Isaac Chapman for injuries which the ship received in
a collision between the ship of the libellants and the ship
Helen Cooper and the steamtug R. L. Mabey, which had
the latter ship in tow. As alleged in the libel, the collision
occurred on the seventeenth of February, 1866, in the harbor of New York, while the ship of the libellants was moored
on the upper side of pier forty-five in East River, and the
proofs show that she lay with her head towards the shore,
her stern being twenty feet inside of the outer end of the
pier. She had a cargo of merchandise on board and was
ready for sea, but those in charge of her did not deem it
prudent to leave the wharf at that time as the tide was ebb
with a strong current and there were large masses of floating
ice in the stream.
Different views, however, were entertained by those in
charge of the ship Helen Cooper, which was also loaded and
ready to sail for a Southern port. "Bythe answer as originally filed it appears that she was lying at the wharf of the
gas-works, on the Brooklyn side of the river, with her head
towards the shore and her stern towards the stream; that
while in that situation those in charge of the steamtug R. L.
Mabey made fast to her bows on the port side by a hawser
Sturgis v. Boyer et al., 24 Howard, 122.

Dec. 1871.]

TE MABEY AND COOPER.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

which was passed aft and there fastened by stops, and by
that means she was towed into the stream stern foremost,
the tide having just commenced to ebb, and the statement
of the answer is that as the ship passed out into the stream
the stop at the stern was cut so as to allow the ship to turn
and head down the river, and that both the ship and the
steamtug, while the ship was in the act of turning, were unexpectedly caught in an immense field of floating ice, which,
in spite of the power of the steamtug, set both vessels towards the opposite shore and carried them down and across
the river so that the bows of the ship passed inside of pier
forty-five and struck the side of the ship of the libellants and
caused whatever damage the libellants' ship received by the
collision. Proof of the collision, therefore, is unnecessary,
as the allegation is admitted, but the respondents allege that
the ship is not liable, as the collision was the result of inevitable accident.
Prompt appearance was also entered by the claimant of
the steamtug, and he filed a separate answer, in which he
alleges that the master of the steamtug when applied to on
that day to tow the ship of the respondents to sea informed
the owners that it was not safe to proceed to sea in the then
ondition of the weather and tide. Had he himself been
governed by that opinion the case of the stearntug would be
quite different, but the proofs show that he yielded to the
importunity of the owners or agent of the ship and took her
in tow, the owners of the ship agreeing to assume the risk
of all accidents and dangers. Apart from that he also
charges that the collision was occasioned by disobedience
of the orders of the pilot and faulty navigation of the ship;
that the order of the pilot was not to cast off the hawser by
which the ship was moored but only to slacken it until the
head of the ship was swung round; that the order was disobeyed, and that the hawser was cast off before the ship
came round, which had the effect to set the ship over to the
opposite shore towards the ship of the libellants; and he
also charges that those in command of the respondents'
ship, when she had reached the middle of the stream "and

THE MABEY AND COOPER.

[sn p. Ct

Opinion of the court.

was headed down stream," put her helm hard aport so that
the ship took a sudden sheer to starboard, which caused her
to run into the ship of the libellants.
Leave was granted to the owners of the respondent ship
to file an amended answer, in which they still insist that the
collision was the result of inevitable accident, but of a widely
different character from that described in the original answer
filed more than five months earlier. They now 'alege that
the river was clear of ice foi a considerable distance on the
opposite 'side of the river; that owing to the ice on the
side where the ship lay it was more difficult than it otherwise would have been to turn the ship so that she would
head down, the river, and that while the steamtug was endeavoring to accomplish that object a ferry-boat suddenly
and improperly crossed the bows of the stearatug, and in
order to prevent striking the fery-boat it became necessary
that the steamtug should be suddenly slowed, which had
the effect to turn the ship towards the opposite shore and
caused.the collision, in the manner more fully described in
the amended answer.
Both parties took testimony and were fully heard in the
District Court, and the District Court being of the opinion
that both the tug and the tow were in fault, entered a decree
for the libellafits against both the respondent vessels, and
the owners of the ship appealed from the whole decree to
the Circuit Court, where the parties were again heard upon
the same pleadings and proofs, and the Circuit Court affirmed
the decree of the District Court, holding that both the respondent vessels were in fault. Whereupon the owners of
the respective vessels took separate appeals to this court.
Objection is made that the owners of the steamtug could
not properly appeal to this court, as they did not formally
appeal from the District Court to the Circuit Court, but it is
not necessary to decide that questioq, as it is quite clear that
the decree must be affirmed against the tug as well as the
tow. Nor is the court prepared to admit the validity of the
objection, as the record shows that the owners of the tow

Dec. 1871.]

THE MABEY AND COOPER.
Opinion of the court.

signed a written stipulation before the decretal order was
entered in the Distriqft Court, that they, as the owners of the
ship, would assume the entire conduct of the defence and
that they would answer and.pay whatever sum the libellants
should recover in the case against both vessel,
Undoubtedly the general rule is that a party who does not appeal
cannot be heard in opposition to the decree. Still it appears
in this case that an appeal from the DistricI Court to the
Circuit Court was taken from the entire decree, and by a
party who represented the entire interest of the losing party
in the suit. Well-founded doubt may, perhaps, arise as to
the regularity of the proceeding, but it is not necessary to
solve that doubt in the present case.
Suppose the appeal is correctly here, we are all of the
bpinion that the decree of the court below was correct.
Where the collision occurs exclusively from natural causes,
and without any negligence or fault on the part of either
party, the rule is that the loss must rest where it fell, as no
one is responsible for an accident which was produced by
causes over which human agency could exercise no control.
Such a doctrine, however, can have no application to a case
where negligence or fault is shown to have been committed
on either side. Inevitable accident, as applied to a case of
this description, must be understood to m'ean a collision
which occurs when both parties have endeavored, by every
means in their power, with due care and caution, and a
proper display of nautical skill, to prevent the occurrence of
the accident, aud where the proofs show that it occurred in
spite of everything that nautical skill, care, and precaution
could do to keep the vessels from coming together.*
Want of due care is shown in the fact that the ship went
to sea at a moment when the master of the tug which had
her in tow knew that it was not safe in view of the condition
of the weather and tide; nor can the tug be held blameless
any more than the ship, because as the master ultimately
The Pennsylvania, 24 Howard, 313; The Morning Light, 2 Wallace,
656.

216

CAPERTON V. BOWYER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

yielded to the importunities of the owners of the ship and
assumed the risk, subject to his claim on the owner of the
ship for indemnity. !Faulty navigation is also shown, which
of itself is a sufficient answer to the defence of inevitable
accident.
Palpable error is shown to have been set up in the original answer filed by the owners of the ship, and the court is
not satisfied that the defence set up in the amended answer
is entitled to any more credit. Such a defence as that set
up, that a ferry-boat suddenly and improperly crossed the
bows of the steamtug, if founded in fact, could easily be
proved by those who were on board the ferry-boat and know
what occurred. Instead of that, not even the name of the
ftrry-boat is given, either in the answer or in the proofs,
and. not a witness is called except the pilot and the master
of the ship, and their statements in that behalf are not satisfactory. No such defence is set up in behalf of the steamtug, and nothing of the kind was alleged in the original
answer filed by the owners of the ship shortly after the suit
was commenced. Neither of the courts below appear to
have given that defence much credence, and this court concurs with the subordinate courts that the defence is not
established.
DECREES AFFIRMED-

CAPERTON

v.

B WYER.

1. A Southern State passed in 1865 a statute of limitations enacting that in
computing the time in which any civil suit, proceeding, or appeal should

be barred by any statute of limitation, the term of time from the 17th
April, 1861, to the 1st March, 1865, should not be computed. It then
passed another, enacting that the time from 1st March, 1865, to 27th
February, 1866, should not be. The courts of that State were closed to
loyal suitors by the rebellion between the 17th April, 1861, and the 27th
February, 1866. On suit brought in Mfay, 1866, for a cause of action
which arose in 1862, and which but for this deduction of time would
have been barred in one year from 1862, by older statutes of iimitation, the defendant asked the court to charge that if the jury believed
that the right to bring the suit accrued more than one year before the

