EX PARTE NEWMAN.

[Sup. CU.

Statement of the case.

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

Certain Prussian sailors libelled a Prussian vessel in New York in admi.
The master set up a proralty for wages, less in amount than $2000.
vision in a treaty of the United States with Prussia, by which it was
stipulated that the consuls of the respective countries should sit as judges
in "differences between the crews and'captains of vessels " belonging to
their respective countries ; and the consul of Prussia, coming into the
District Court, protested. against the District Court's taking jurisdiction.
The District Court, however, did take jurisdiction, and decreed $712 to
the sailors. On appeal the Circuit Court reversed the decree, and dismissed the libel because of the consul's exclusive jurisdiction. Held,
that mandamus would not lie to the Circuit judge to compel him to entertain jurisdiction of the cause on appeal, and to hear and decide the
same on the merits thereof; and that this conclusion of this court was
not to be altered by the fact that owing to the sum in controversy being
less than $20C0, no appeal or writ of error from the Circuit Court to
this court existed.

PETITION for writ of mandamus to the United States Circuit judge for the Eastern District of New York; the ease
being thus:
The Constitution ordainis* that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend "to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction."
The 10th article of the treaty of the United States with
the King of Prussia, inade May 1st, 1828,t contains this
provision :
"The consuls, vice-consuls, and commercial agents shall have
the right as such to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences as may arise between the captains and'crews of the vessels
belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to their
charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless
the conduct of the crews, or of the captain, should disturb the
order or tranquillity of the country; or the said consuls, viceconsuls, or commercial agents, should require their assistance to
cause their decisions to be carried into effect or supported. It
is, however, understood that this species of judgment or arbi*Article 3,

2.

t8

Stat, at Large, V78.

Dec. 1871'.

Ex PARTE NEWMAN.
Statement of the case.

tration shall not deprive the contending parties of the rights
they have to resort on their return to the judicial authority of
their country."
"All treaties made, or which shall be made, under the
authority of the United States," it is ordained by the Constitution of the United States,* " shall be the supreme law of
the land."
With this treaty thus in force, the mate and several of the
crew, all Prussians-who had shipped in Prussia on the
Prussian bai'k Elwine Kreplin, under and with express reference, made in the shipping articles, to the laws of Prussiagot into a difficulty at New York with the master of the
bark, who caused several of them to be arrested on charges
of mutiny and desertion. They, on the other hand, took
the case before the Prussian consul; denying all fault on
their part, and claiming wages. The vice-consul heard the
case, and decided that on their own showing they bad forfeited their wages by the Prussian law applied to their contract of slAprnent. In addition to this he issued a requisition addressed to any marshal or magistrate of the United
States, reciting that the ma~ter and crew had been guilty of
desertion, and requiring such marshal or magistrate to take
notice of their offence.
The mate and men now filed a libel in the District Court
at New York against the bark for the recovery of wages (less
than $2000), which they alleged were due to them; and the
bark vas attached to answer. The master of the bark intervening for the interest of the owners answered, and set
up various grounds of defence to the claim, some of which
arose under the laws of Prus'sia, and especially he invoked
the protection of the clause ii the above-quoted treaty between his country and this, and denied the jurisdiction of
the District Court, alleging, moreover, that the matter in
difference, the claim of the tibellants for wages, had already
in fact been adjudivated by the Prussian consul at the port
of New ¥Yofk.
* Article 6.

EX PARTE NWMA'N.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Before the cause was tried in the District Court, the consulgeneral of the North German Union presented to that court
his formal protest against the exercise of jurisdiction by that
court in the matter in difference.* He invoked therein the
same clause in the treaty, and claimed exclusive jurisdiction
of such matters in difference; and declared also that, before
the filing of the libel the matter had been adjudicated by
him, and insisted that his adjudication was binding between
the parties, and could only be reviewed by the judicial tribunals of Prussia.
The District Court proceeded notwithstanding to hear
and adjudge the ease; placing its right to do this, on the
ground that the suit before it was a proceeding in rem to enfbrce a maritime lien upon the vessel itself, and not a " difference between the captain and crew;" and, also, because
the Prussian consul had no power to conduct and carry into
effect a proceeding in rem for the enforcement of such a
lien, and had not in fact passed at all and could not pass
upon any such case. Accordingly after a careful examination of the facts, that court decreed in favor of the libel]ants $712. The case then came by appeal to the Circuit
Court. This latter court considered that the District Court
had given to the treaty too narrow and technical a construetion. The Circuit Court said:
"The master is the representative in this port of the vessel
and of all the interests concerned therein. He is plainly so regarded in the treaty. The matter in difference in this cause is
the claim for wages. That arises between the crew and the
master, either as master or as the representative here of vessel
and owners. The lien and the proceeding in rem against the
vessel appertain only to. the remedy. The very first stcp in this
cause is to settle the matter in dispute. If the claim be estabThe consul-general of the North German Union was commissioned by
the King of Prussia, Prussia being one of the States composing the North
German UxIion ; and by certificate of the Secretary of State of the United
States, under the seal of that department, it appeared that the Executive Department of the United States kecognizes the consuls of the North German.
Union as consuls of each one of the sovereign States composing that Union,

"the same as if they had been commissioned by each one of such States."

Dec. 1871.]

DEx

PARTE

NIEWMAN.

Statement of the case

lisbed, then, as incident to the right to the wages, the lien and
its enforcements against the vessel follow. The District Court
can have no jurisdiction of the lien, nor jurisdiction to enforce
it if it has no jurisdiction of the difference or dispute touching
the claim for wages. To hold that the jurisdiction of the consul
is confined to cases in which there is no maritime lien, and in
which no libel of the vessel could, apart from the treaty, be
maintained, is to take from the treaty much of its substance."
The Circuit Court adverted to and relied on the fact, that
the Prussian consul had moreover actually heard the mate
and sailors, and pronounced against them.
The Circuit Court accordingly, while it expressed on a
general view of the merits its sympathy with the sailors,
and 'a strong inclination to condemn the conduct of the
master in the matter, yet was "constrained to the conclusion
that the treaty required that the matter in difference should
have been left where the treaty with Prussia leaves it, viz.,
in the hands and subject to the determination of their own
public officer." The result was the dismissal of the libels
by the Circuit Court for want of jurisdiction.
Thereupon Newman and the others, by their cou.nsel,
Messrs. P. Phillips and D. McMahon, filed a petition in this
court fbr a writ of mandamus to the Circuit judge, commanding him "-to entertain jurisdiction of the said cause on

appeal, and to hear and decide the same on the merits
The judge returned that the Circuit Court had
thereof."
entertained the appeal, and had heard counsel on all the
questions raised in the case, and had decided it; and that
the said court had decided that the matter in controversy
was.-within the jurisdiction of the consul under the treaty,
and that in the exercise of the jurisdiction so given him, he
had decided the matter, and that therefore the court had
dismissed the libel.
The question now was whether the mandamus should
issue.

The reader will of course remember the provision in the
13th section of the Judiciary Act, by which it is enacted:
"That the Supreme Court shall have power to issue writs of

EX PARTE NEWMAN.

[
[sup.
Ct.

Argument in favor of the mandamus.

mandamus, in cases worranted by the principles and usages of
law, to any courts appointed or persons holding office under the
authority of the United States."
And also the provision of the 22d section, extended by an
act of 1803 to appeals in admiralty, by which it is enacted:
"That final judgments and decrees in civil actions . . . in a
Circuit Court

.

.

. removed there by appeal from a District Court,

where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of $2000,
exclusive of costs, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed
in the Supreme Court."
Messrs. D. McMahon and P. Phillips, in support of the
motion:
The mandamus should issue:
1st. Because the treaty stipulation is unconstitutional. It
strips' the courts of the United States of the admiralty jurisdiction conferred on them by the Constitution of the United
States. It is well settled that admiralty courts have jurisdiction, at their discretion, over foreign vessel§ within their
jurisdiction, and actions in rem against them brought by
foreign seamen. If then the treaties attempt to confer on a
foreign officer exclusive jurisdiction of cases already within
the control of admiralty, they violate the Constitution, and
are so far null.
2d. The treaty with Prussia has .no reference to suits or
proceedings in rem, and in that respect differs frlom the case
mentioned in the treaty, of a difference between, the master
and seamen. The proceeding is against the vessel to foreclose a lien, and the owners are brought in incidentally.
The master, as such, has no intecest, nominal or otherwise,
in the suit in question, and it is a misnomer to call the
present case a controversy between a master and his crew.
3d. The Prussian consul made no adjudication in the
matter now in diiffrence, between the libellants and the
master.
4th. The treaty is with the kingdom of Prussia, and the
tribunals refer'ed to in it are the consuls, vice-consuls, and
commrcial agents of that government. Now, at tho time

Dec. 1871.]

Ex PARTE NEWMAN.

157

Argument against the mandamus.

of the occurrence of the facts here in controversy, there
were no consuls, or vice-consuls, or commercial agents of the
kingdom of Prussia in the city of New York, or in the
United States, though there are such officers of the North
German Union. A treaty stipulation to maintain tribunals
independent of our own, in this country, is contrary to the
spirit of our institutions, as its effect may be to create in
our midst many tribunals independent of our national courts.
It should, therefore, be construed strictly.
5th. The consul is estopped from asserting his exclusive
jurisdiction, because that he appealed in his " requisition"
to our marshals and other magistrates, and prayed them to
take cognizance of the case. le cannot be permitted, after
doing so, to avail himself of the benefit of the treaty stipulations.
Messrs. Salomon and Burke, contra:
This is an attempt to cause this court to review the decision already rendered in the Circuit Court and to direct
the Circuit judge to change his decision, and to render a different judgment in a case which cannot be brought before
this court by appeal, because the amount in controversy is
less than $2000. This cannot be done.
Mandamus cannot perform the functions of a writ of error
or of an appeal. This court will never direct in what manner the discretion of an inferior tribunal shall be exercised;
but will only, in a proper case, require the inferior court to
decide. If the Circuit judge had refused to decide the case,
or to enter a decree therein, this court might compel him by
mandamus to decide or to enter a decree; but even then it
could not by such process have commanded him how to decide it, or what decree to enter. A revision of his judicial
decision can only take place by appeal. But here the applicants do not complain that the judge has refused to decide the case, or that he has refused to enter judgment, but'
they complain that his decision upon some of the questions
involved therein, and which were fully argued before, and
have been carefully considered and adjudged by him, is

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

[Sup. c

Argument against the mandamus.

erroneous, arid that consequently this court should overrule
his judgment in this case.
Now, strictly speaking, this court cannot look into the
opinion of the Circuit judge for the purpose of ascertaining
on what ground his decision is based with a view of revis.
ing it.
It can look only to the record, which shows only that the
Circuit Court has entertained the appeal, heard and tried
it, and upon such hearing and trial, after due consideration,
has ordered that the decree of the District Court be reversed
and the libel dismissed. How can this court, then, upon an
application for a mandamus, compel him to decide differently ?
But, waiving this, no doubt the question arising under
fle treaty with Prussia has from the beginning been the
material question in the controversy. That under the treaty
the Prussian consul had exclusive jurisdiction, and had exercised that jurisdiction and decided- between the parties,
was set up by the claimant in his answer; it was brought
before the District Court by the consul's protest; upon that,
mainly, the appeal was taken to the Circuit Court. The
question involved not only the proper construction of the
treaty, but also the examination and adjudication of important facts and circumstances relating to the consul's action
in the case. All the points were argued before the Circuit
Court, and that eburt, after consideration, has decided upon
the facts and the law. This is in no proper sense a case in
which the Circuit Court has refused to entertain or to exercise jurisdiction. It has, in fact, entertained the appeal from
the decree of the District Court, and upon consideration has
decided that the decree appealed from should be reversed,
on three grounds:
-irsl. That under the treaty with Prussia, the Prussian
consul had jurisdiction of the matter in difference involved
in the litigation.
Second. That that jurisdiction of the Prussian consul was
exclusive.
Third. Ul'on the proofs the court found and decided, that

Dec. 1871.]

EUx

PARTE NTEWMAN.

Reply.

the Prussian consul had adjudicated the matter in difference
involved in thelitigation, and that the libellants were bound
by that adjudication.
If this court can by mandamus review this decision of the
Circuit Court, then it can in this manner review every case
in which a suit is dismissed on the ground of a former adjudication of the subject-matter between the same parties.
Admiralty courts generally decline to interfere between
foreigners concerning seamen's wages, except where it is
manifestly necessary to do so to prevent a failure of justice,
and then only where the voyage has been broken up, or the
seamen have been discharged.* Now, if for this reason, in
the proper exercise of his judicialdiscretion, the Circuit
judge, on appeal, had ordered a dismissal of the libel, caa
it he maintained that by mandramus this court could compel
,him to reverse his own decision? Non constat that, if the
Circuit judge had not ordered the disipissal of the libel on
account of the treaty and the exercise of the consular jurisdiction, he would not have so ordered on this ground of
comity between nations.
The application is for a mandamus directing the Circuit
judge to hear the appeal and to decide the same on the
merits thereof. What are the merits of the controversy ? Is
not this question of the jurisdiction of the Prussian consul
and his decision a part of them ? Will this court, by mandamus, determine what is and what is not of" the merits of
a controversy ?"
Reply: The law will leave no one remediless, and the
amount in controversy not being $2000, and no appeal existing, and there being no other remedy, the remedy in the
premises must be by mandarnus. The writ is issued to inferior courts to enfiorce the due exercise of these judicial
powers; " and this not only by restraining their excesses,
but also by quickening their negligence and obviating their
denial of justice."t While this court will not restrain nor
" Gonzales v. Minor, 2 Wallace, Jr., 348.
- Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wallace, 375.

Ex PARTE NEW'MAN.

[Sup. (Jt.

Reply.

direct by mandamus in what manner the discretion of the
inferior tribunal should be exercised, it will, in proper
cases, require the court to bear and decide. ThQ "principles and usages of law," give the right to a mandamus
where a party has a legal right, and no other remedy to enforce it.*
In the case at bar the proposed mandamus does not usurp
the functions of a writ of error or appeal, for no appeal lies,
the amount being less than $2000.
The case is this. The Circuit judge refuses to consider
and determine, on the merits, a cause over which he has
ample jurisdiction, he entertaining the opinion that he has
no jurisdiction, because of the terms of treaty with Prussia.
In this court it is submitted that his conclusion is erroneous. * No appeal, however, lies. A Circuit judge entertaining very strict, notions of the extent of admiralty jurisdiction, might, in a contest between State and National
courts, paralyze the commerce of a great commercial port
like New York. Can there be no correction for this? Is a
party to be dismissed in a case like this, with the allegation
that the writ of mandamus cannot usurp the function of a
writ of error, therefore there is no correction?
While it is conceded that the writ of mandamus cannot
be used to correct an erroneous judgment of a court of acknowledged jurisdiction, yet it can be invoked to compel a
court to exercise its jurisdiction, even though such court be
of the opinion it had'not jurisdiction. The distinction between the two classes of eages is obvious. The distinction
lies between a direction to an inferior tribunal to act, and
direction to it how to act. We do not seek to control the
Circuit Court's judgment by the mandamus, but only to
compel it to entertain jurisdiction of the cause, and then to
hear and decideaccording to the law and the allegations and
proofs.
Authorities are clear on the right of a superior tribunal to
compel an inferior tribunal to hear a cause and decide it
Pillips's
h*
Practice, p. 230.

Dec. 1871.]

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

even after the latter has declined to entertain the cause because of an alleged want of jurisdiction.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Attempt was made in the first place to prosecute the suit
in the name of the mate for himself and as assignee of the
crew, but the court before entering the decree suggested an
amendment, and the crew were admitted as co-libellants,
which will render it unnecessary to make any further reference to that feature o" the pleadings.
Proceedings in rem were instituted inthe District Court
against the bark Elwine Krepline, by the mate, for hinsel
and in behalf of the crew of the bark, on the twenty-fouri
of Ang ust, 1870, in a case of subtraction of wages civil and
maritime, and they allege in the libel, as amended, that the
bark is a Prussian vessel, and that they are Prussian subjects, and that they were hired' by the master and legally
shipped on board the bark for a specified term of service,
and that they continued well and truly to perform the duties they were shipped to fulfil, and that they were obedient
to the lawful commands of the master, until they were discharged. They also set forth the date when they were
shipped, the length of time they had served, the wages they
were to receive, and the amount due and unpaid to them
respectively for their services, and aver that the owners of
the bark refuse to pay the amount.
Process was issued and served by the seizure of the bark,
and the master appeared, as claimant, and filed an answer.
He admits that the appellants shipped on board the bark at
the place and in the capacities and for the wages alleged in
the libel, but lie avers that they signed the shipping articles
and bound themselves by the rules, regulations, and directions of tile shipping law and rules of navigation of the
country to which the burk belonged, and he denies that they
well and truly performed their duties, or that they were
* Rex v. Justices of Kent, 14 East, 395; Hull v. Supervisors of Oneida,
19 Johnson, 26; Judges of Oneida County v.The People, 18 Wendell, 92
and 95.
I1
VOL. XIV.

162

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

obedient to his lawful commands. On the contrary, he alleges that they, on the day they were discharged, were guilty
of gross insubordination and mutinous conduct, that they
resisted the lawful commands of the master, and refused to
obey the same, and interfered with him in the performance
of his duty, -and with force and threats prevented him from
performing the same, and thereafter, on the same day, deserted from the vessel.
Apart from the merits he also set up the following defences:
1. That the court had no jurisdiction of the matter contained in the libel, because the bark was a Prussian vessel,
owned by Prussian citizens, and because the libellants were
Prussian subjects belonging to the cre w of the vessel, and
were also citizens of that kingdom.
Support to that defence is derived from the tenth article
of our treaty with that government, which provides that
consuls, vice-consuls, and commercial agents of the respective countries, in the ports of the other, shall have the right,
as such, to sit as judges and arbitrators in such differences
as may arise between .the captains and crews of the vessels
belonging to the nation whose interests are committed to
their charge, without the interference of the local authorities, unless the conduct of the crews, or of the captain,
should disturb the order or tranquillity of the country, or the
consuls, vice-consuls, or commercial agents should require
their assistance to cause their decisions to be carried into
effect.*

He set up that provision of the treaty, and prayed that he
might have the same advantage of it as if the same was
separately and formally pleaded to the libel.
2. That the libellants in signing the shipping articles
bouid themselves, under the penalty of a forfeiture of wages,
not to sue or bring any action for any cause, against the
vessel, or the master, or owners thereof, in any court or
tribunal except in those of Prussia.
* 8 Stat. at Large, 882,

Dec. 1871.]

Ex

PARTE Nr1WMAN.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

3. That the consul-general'of the North German Union,
resident in the city of New York, which government included Prussia and other sovereiguties, heard and examined
the questions of difference between the libellants and the
claimant and adjudicated the same; that the libellants appeared before the court on the occasion and presented their
claim t6 be discharged and their claim for wages, and that
the consul, in his character as such, heard and examined
their said claims and adjudged that the libellants should return to the vessel, and that no wages were due them or
would be due them until they complied with the contract of
shipment.
Testimony was taken in the District Court, and' the District Court entered a decree in favor of the libellants for the
amount due them for their wages, and referred the cause to
a commissioner to ascertain and report the amount. Subsequently he reported that the amount due to the libellants
was seven hundred and forty-three dollars and forty-one
cents. Exceptions were filed by the claimant, and the District Court upon further heatring reduced the amount to
seven hundred and twelve dollars and thirty-two cents, and
entered a final decree for that amount, with costs of suit.
Thereupon the claimant appealed to the Circuit Court, and
the record shows that the appeal was perfected, and that the.
cause was duly entered in that court.
On the fifth of the last month the petition under consideration was filed in this court in behalf of the appellees in
that suit, in which they represented that the cause appealed
was fully argued before the Circuit Court on the same pleadings and proofs as those exhibited in the District Court, and
that the Circuit judge reversed the decree of the District
Court and dismissed the libel for want of jurisdiction in the
District Court to hear and determine the controversy; that
the Circuit judge declined to entertain the cause or to consider.the same on the merits, and that no final decree on the
appeal has been entered in the Circuit Court or signed by
the Circuit judge.
His refusal to entertain jurisdiction and to hear and de-

164 ,

EX PARTE NEWiMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

Aestatement of the case in the opinion.

cide the merits of the case was plaoed, as they allege, upon
the ground that the matter in difference, under the tenth
article of the treaty, was within the exclusive cogniiance of
the consul, vice-consul, or commercial agent therein described, and in consequence thereof that the District Court
was without any jurisdiction, which they contend is an error
-for the following reasons:
(1.) Because the treaty stipulation, if so construed, is unconstitutional atvd void.
(2.) Because that article of the treaty applies only to disputes between the masters sntd crews of vessels, and has no
reference to suits in ren against the vessel.
(3.) Because the record in this case shows that the Prussian authorities refused -to enhtertain jurisdiction of the controversy.
"(4.) Because the treaty is with Prilssia, and it appears that
her government has noa consul, vice-consul, or commercial
agent at that port.
(5.) Because, that the consul who acted in the case requested the District Court to take jurisdiction of the matter
in difference.
Hearing was had on the day the petition was presented,
and this court granted a rule requiring the Circuit judge to
show cause on the day therein named why a peremptory
writ of m andamus should not issue to him directing him to
hear the appeal of the petitioners and decide the sa~ne on
the merits. Due service of that rule was made, and the
case now comes before the court upon the return of the Judge
to that rule. He returns, among other things not necessary
to be reproduced, as follows: That the cause of the libellants proceeded to a decree in their favor in the'District
Court; that an appeal from that decree was taken in due
farm to the Circuit Court for that district; that the Circuit
Court (lid not refuse to entertain the appeal nor did the Circuit Court refuse to decide the case on the appeal nor hold
or decide that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to hear
3P decide the same, as required by the proofs or by the law.
On the contrary, the Circuit Court did entertain the appeal,

Dec. 1871.1

Ex PARTE NEWMAN.
Opinion of the court.

did hear the counsel of the parties fully on all the questions
raised in the case, and did decide the same. But in making
such decision the said court did hold and decide that the
matter in controversy was within the jurisdiction of the consul, under the treaty, and that the consul, in the exercise of
that jurisdiction, after hearing the parties, had decided the
matter. Pursuant to those views the Circuit Court, as the
return shows, did thereupon direct that the decree of the
District Court be reversed, and that the libel of the petitioners be dismissed.
Power to issue writs of mandamus to any courts appointed
under the authority of the United States was given to this
court by the thirteenth section of the Judiciary Act, in cases
warranted by the principles and usages of law.* When
passed, the section also empowered the court to issue such
writs, subject to the same conditions, to persons holding
office under the United States, but this court, very early,
decided that the latter provision was unconstitutional and
void, as it assumed to enlarge the original jurisdiction of the
court, which is defined by the Constitution.t
Applications for a mandamus to a subordinate court are
warranted by the principles and usages of law in cases where
the subordinate court, having jurisdiction of a case, refuses
to hear and decide the controversy, or where such a court,
having heard the cause, refuses to render judgment or enter
it decree in the case, but the principles and usages of law do
not warrant the use of the writ to re-examine a judgment or
decree of a subordinate court in any case, nor will the writ
be issued to direct what' judgment or decree such a court
shall render in any pending case, nor will the writ be issued
in any case if the party aggrieved may have a remedy by
writ of error or appeal, as tire only office of the writ when
issued to a subordinate court is to direct the performance of
a ministerial act or to commnd the court to act in a case
where the court has jurisdiction and refuses to act, but the
1 Stat. at Large, 81.
t Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 175; Ex parte Hoyt, 13 Peters, 290.

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

supervisory court will never prescribe what the decision of
the subordinate court shall be, nor will the supervisory court
interfere in' any way to control the judgment or discretion
of the subordinate court in disposing of the controversy.*
Where a rule is laid, as in this case, on the judge of a subo1dinate court, he is ordered to show cause why the peremptory writ of mandamus shall not issue to him, commanding
him to do some act which it is alleged he has power to do,
and which it is his duty to do, and which be has improperly neglected and refused to do, as required by law. Due
service of the rule being made the judge is required to make
returrn to the charge contained in the rule, which he may do
by denying the matters charged or by setting up new matter
as an answer to the accusations of the relator, or he may
elect to submit a motion to quash the rule or to demur to
the accusative allegations. Matters charged in the rule and
denied by the respondent must be proved by the relator, and
matters alleged in avoidance of the charge made, if denied
by the relator, must be proved by the respondent.t Motions
to quash in such cases are addressed to the discretion of the
court, but if the respondent demui's to the rule, or if the
relator demurs to the return, the party demurring admits
everything in the rule or the return, as the case may be,
which is well pleaded, and if the relator elects to proceed to
hearing on the return, without pleading fo the same in any
way, the matters alleged in the return must be taken to be
true to the same extent as if the relator had demurred to the
return.1 Subordinate judicial tribunals, when the writ is
* Insurance Co. v. Wilson, 8 Peters, 302; United States v. Peters, 5
Cranch, 135; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Peters, 648; Ex parte Many, 14 Howard, 24; United States v. Lawrence, 3 Dallas, 42; Commissioner v. Whitely,
4 Wallace, 522; Insurance Co. v. Adams, 9 Peters, 602.
t Angell & Ames on Corporations, 9th ed., 727; Cagger v. Supervisors, 2
Abbott's Practice, I. S. 78.
Tapping on Mandamus, 347; Moses on Mandamus, 210; Com. Bank
v. Commissioners, 10 Wendell, 25; Ryan v. Russell, I Abbott's Practice, N.
S. 280; Hanahan v. Board of Police, 26 New York, 316; Middleton v. ComMissioners, 37 Pennsylvania State, 245; 3 Stephens's Nisi Prius, 2826; 6
Bacon's Abridgment, ed. 1856, 447.

Dec. 1871.]

D Ex
PARTE -NEWMAN.
Opinion of the court.

addressed to them, are usually required to exercise some
judicial function which it is alleged they have improperly
neglected or refused to exercise, or to render judgment in
some case when otherwise there would be a failure of justice
from a delay or refusal to act, and, the return must either
deny the facts stated in the rule or alternative writ on which
the claim of the relator is founded, or must state other facts
sufficient in law to defeat the claim of the relator, and no
doubt is entertained that both of those defences may be set
up in the same return, as in the case before the court.*
Several defences may be set up in the same return, and if
any one of them be sufficient the return will be upheld.t
Evidently the District judge was inclined to adopt the
proposition, advanced by the libellants, that the suit for
wages, as it was prosecuted by a libel in rem, was not within
the treaty stipulation, nor a controversy Within the jurisdiction of the consul, but he did not place his decision upon
that ground. He did, however, rule that the treaty did not
have the effect to change the jurisdiction of the courts, except to require them to decline to hear matters in difference
between the masters and crews of vessels in all cases where
the consul had acted or perhaps was ready to act as judge
or arbitrator in respect to such differences. Beyond doubt
he assumed that to be the true construction of the treaty,
and having settled that matter he proceeded to inquire
whether the consul had adjudicated the pending controversy, or whether the evidence showed that he was ready to
do so, and having answered those inquiries in the negative
he then proceeded to examine the pleadings and proofs, and
came to the conclusion in the case which is expressed in
the decree from which the appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court.
All of those matters were again fully argued in the Circuit
Court, and the Circuit judge decided to reverse the decree
of the District Court upon the following grounds: (1.) That
Springfield v. Tlarnden, 10 Pickering, 59; People v. Commissioners, 11

Howard's Prttice, 89; People v. Champion, 16 Johnson, 61.
f Wright v. Fawcett, 4 Burrow, 2041; M1oses on Mandamus, 214.

Ex

PARTE NEWMAN.

[Sup. Cr,

Opinion of the court.

the Prussia'i consul, under the treaty, had jl2risdiction of
the subject-matter involved in the suit in the District Court.
(2.) That the jurisdiction of the consul under the treaty was
exclusive. (3.) That the proof's showed that the consul
heard al adjudicated the matter involved in the'suit appealed fo the Circuit Court, and that the libellants were
bound by that adjudication.

Such questions were uldouhtedly raised in the pleadings,
and it is equally certain that they were decided by the District Court in favor of the libellants. Raised as they were
by the pleadings, it cannot be successfully denied that the
same questions were also presented in the Circuit Court,
and in view of the return it must be conceded that they
were decided in the latter court in favor of the respondent.
Sul))ort to that proposition is also oiund in the opinion of
the. Circuit judge, and in the order which he made in the
case. Suffice it, however, to say, it so appears in the return
beibre the court, and this court is of the opinion that the
return, in the existing state of the proceedings, is conclusive.
Con hessedly the petitioners are without remedy by appeal
or writ of error, as the sum or value in controversy is less
than the amount required to give that right, and it is insisted
that they ought on that account to have the remedy sought
by their petition. Mandamus will not lie, it is true, where
the party may have an appeal or writ of error, but it is
equally true that it will not lie in many other cases where
the party is without remedy by appeal or writ of error. Such
remedies are not given save in patent and revenue cases, excent when the sum or value exceeds two thousand dollars,
but the writ of mandamus will not lie in any case to a' subordinate court unless it appears that the court of which complaint is made refused to act in' respect to a matter within
the jurisdiction of the court and where it is the duty of the
court to act in the promises.

Admiralty courts, it is said, will not take jurisdiction in
such a case except where it is manifestly necessary to do so
to prevent a failure of justice, but the better opinion is that,

independent of treaty stipulation, there is no constitutional

Ex

Dec. 1871.]

PARTE NIEWMAN.

Opinion of the court.

or legal impediment to the exercise of jurisdiction in such a
case. Such courts may, if they see fit, take jurisdiction in
such a case, but they will not do so as a general rule without the consent of the representative of the country to which
the vessel belongs, where it is practicable that the representative should be consulted. His consent, however, is not a
condition of jurisdiction, but is regarded as a inate'ial fact
to aid the court in determining the question of discretion,
whether jurisdiction in the case ought or ought not to be
exercised.*
Superior tribunals may by mandamus conimand an inferior court to perform a legal duty where there is no other
remedy, and the rule applies to judicial as well ais to ministerial acts, but it does not apply at all to a jndicial act to
correct an error, as where the act has been erroneiously performed. If the duty is unperformed and it bejuldicial in its
character the mandate will be to the judge (lirectilig him to
exercise his judicial discretion or judgmcnt, witho't any direction as to the manner in which it shall be (nic', or if it
be ministerial, the mandamus will direct the specific act to
be performed.t
Power is given to this court by the Judiciary Act, under
a writ of error, or appeal, to,affirm or reverse the judgment
or decree of the Circuit Court, and in certain'cases to render
such judgment or decree as the Circuit Court should have
rendered or passed, but no such power is given under a writ
of mandamus, nor is it competent for the superior tribunal,
under such a writ, to re-examine the judgnient or decree
of the subordinate court. Such a writ cannot perlorm the
functions of an appeal or writ of error as the superior court
will not, in any case, direct the judge of the subordinate
court what judgment or decree to enter in the case, as the
writ does not vest in the superior court any power to give
2 Parsons on Shipping, 224; Lynch v. Crowder, 2 Law Ieporter, N. S.
855; Thomson v. Nanny, Bee, 217; The Bee, Ware, 332; Tnc Infanta, Ab-

bot's Admiralty, 268.
t

Carpenter v. Bristol, 21 Pickering, 258; Angell & Ames on Corpora-

tions, 9th ed.,

720.

170

[Sup. (t.

THE SCOTIA.
Syllabus.

any such direction or to interfere in any manner with the
judicial discretion and judgment of the subordinate court.*
Viewed in the light of the return, the court is of the
opinion that the rule must be discharged and the
PETITION DENIED.

THE SCOTIA.
1. Although it is the clear duty of an ocean steamer sailing at night to
keep out of the way of a sailing vessel, yet if the course of the sailing
vessel, when first seen, is such, that compared with her own no collision
She need
is probable, the steamer is not bound to change her course.
but watch and see that the courses of the two vessels are preserved. It
is only when the sailing vessel does change her course, so as to render a
collision possible, that the steamer must change hers also; and if she
then makes the proper manoeuvres to take herself from the sailing
vessel, and when collision becomes more probable slows, stops, and
backs, all as the best judgment that can be formed in the emergency
suggests, she is not liable for the collision.
2. The statutes of the United States and the orders in council of Great
Britain having each prescribed the sort of lights which, on the one
hand, their steamers are to carry at night, and the different sort which,
on the other, their sailing vessels are to carry, and both nations adoptig
is this form the same distinction in the sorts of lights for the two
sorts of vessels respectively, the court declares that where a British
steamer and an American sailing vessel are navigating at night in the
known path of vessels navigating between the United States and Great
Britain, so that there is a reasonable probability that vessels in that
path would be either American or British, a steamer may, in the absence of knowledge, act upon the probability that a vessel whose light
she sees while she cannot distinguish at all the vessel herself, is such a
vessel as her light indicates, and apply the rule of navigation common
to the two countries accordingly.
6 Under the existing statutory regulations of the United States and Great
Britain (stated more fully infra, pp. 171-2), both of which on the one
hand require sailing vessels to carry colored lights and not to carry a
white one, and both of which on another require steamers to carry a
white light at their mastheads,-when an American sailing vessel carries in mid-ocean at night a white light hung at her bow, fastened low
Ex parte Crane, 5 Peters, 194; Ex parte Bradstreet, 7 Id. 634; Insurance Co. v. Wilson, 8 Id. 304; Ex parto Many, 14 Howard, 25.

