THE

LAURA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

THE LAURA.
1. The master, officers, and crew of a vessel, with every person on board,
having gone off in extreme anxiety for their personal safety from the
vessel on to another which thqy had brought to them by signals of distress, the mere expressed intention by the master to employ if possible
a tug to go and rescue his vessel (she then lying at anchor in a violent
gale), to which expression of intention, the person to whom it was made
replied, that he "Icould not get a tug that would come and bring the
boat in, as the weather was too rough," was held not sufficient to deprive
the vessel of the character of a derelict, so far as ti.nely effort to save
her was contemplated.
2. A vessel undertaking in good faith to perform the office of salvor to a
derelict vessel, held not responsible for the latter having been wholly
-lost in the effort to save her.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Louisi.
ana; the case being thus:
The high-pressure steamer Savory and the steamer Laura,

a low-pyessure steamer of a rival line, were in the habit, in

the year 1866, of plying on Lake Pontchartrain ; that is to
say, of going up and down flom the mouths of the rivers
Tangipahoa and Tch'efuncta (streams which empty into [be
north part of the lake), and from the towns or Mandeville
and Madisonville (also on the north part of the lake-its

northeast part-and not far from each other, or from the
mouths of the rivers named), to the railroad-landing, on the

southwest part of the lake, of a short railroad which goes to
New Orleans. The length of the lake is about thirty-six
miles. As is common between steamers of opposing lines,
there was some rivalry between them.

On the night of Friday, January 19th, 1866, the Savory,
with twenty-five people on board-seven of them paying as
passengers--and with a raft of timber in tow, had come
from the Tchefuncta, and was on her way from the Tangipahoa to the railroad-landing. She had gone well down the
lake when a gale came up which, increasing in severity,
compelled her to cut away her rafts and to come to anchor.

The Savory had- been built originally as a river-boat,

"

high

Dec. 1871.]

THE LAURA.

337

Statement of the case.

up," and was not specially adapted to the lake navigation.
When she cast anchor, as just mentioned, she was within
five or six miles of the railroad-lauding where she wanted
to go, and not more than a mile and a half from the western
shore of the lakle. Onl that shore, anad within three or four
miles of where the vessel was anchored, was what is called
the " Old Basin," and rather closer to her what was called
the new one. The gale increased. About 3 o'clock of
Saturday morning it became very steady, and the danger
of her sinking was so considerable that the utmost anxiet
prevailed among her officers, crew, and the few passengerI
on board, to get off her, The captain ordered the flag to b
raised Union down; had his life-boat made ready; hai
driven spikes across the edges of a bale of cotton, and al,

tached ropes to these for persons in the water to hold to
and swim or float to shore; and by what he said, and by
what in various ways he did, showed extreme anxiety for
the safety of all on board, including specially himself.
In this state of things, and about 10 o'clock on the morning of Saturday, the Laura, being on her usual trip, hove in
sight. The captain of the Savory at once blew signals of
distress from his steam-whistle. "What can 1 do for you ?"
was the inquiry of the captain of the Laura on hearing the
whistle and seeing the Union down. " Save my passengers
and crew," was the reply from the Savory. Thereupon the
captain of the Laura came alongside; in doing which, owing
to the violence of the wind and waves, he was driven against
the Savory with s. much force, that the wheel-house of the
Savory was considerably torn by the contact. As soon as
she got near enough for persons on the Savory to pass on
board of her, they began to come; the clerk of the Savory
first, and her captain right afterwards; the third or fourth
'person who did come. "There was no degree of order,"
said one witness, "observed by the passengers in getting on.
They were very much excited, and came on the Laura the
best way they could. We had to tell them several times to
be calm, that there was no danger." The captain ordered
two or three mene to remain, but not one single one of thoru
VOL. xiv.

22

TjiE

LAURA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case,

did remain; and as the Laura left the Savory, her captain
-was heard to remark, in reference to her, "There at~e $5000
gone !"
Subsequently, and oil their way down the lake, the captain
of the Savory told the captain of the Laura, as that officer
swore, that he was "going to try to get a tug to bring the
Savory out;" to which the captain of the Laura told him
that " he could not get one in the whole basin that would
come out and bring his boat in, as the weather was too
rough." The captain of the Savory swore that he said he
was going ashore to get a tug to bring his boat in.
The Laura now arrived at the railway-landing where both
vessels had been- bound, and there, in about three hours
after she left the Savory, and in about thre.-quartcrs of an
hour after her arrival at the landing, she had landed her
own passengers and those which she had taken from that
steamer. Here the owner of the Laura, one Frigerio, came
on board. After the freight was discharged and the Laura
was about to make a return trip, her .captain went to Frigerio: "I told him," said the captain, "that itwas my duty
to go over there and save that steamer, and asked him if he
would let me go." 'le replied, ", that I was the captain of
the boat, and had to use my own discretion." The captain
hereupon went on his trip for the other end of the lake,
meaning to make fast to the Savory and tow her to the
Tchefuncta River, the place whence the Savory had come,
and near to which, as already said, was the town of Mandeville, where he himself was going in regular course. The
captain of the Savory, while on the landing, saw the Laura
reach the Savory, take her in tow, and start to sea with her,
heading northward for Mandeville. After that, and on the
same Saturday afternoon, he went to New Orleans and engaged a tug, then lying in the New Basin, to go after the
Savory. The tug did go after her; setting off on Sunday
morning at 9 o'clock; the captain of the. Savory on board.
"We had heard, before we started," said the chief engineer
of the tug, "that the Savory had been taken off by the
Laura; and she was by us supposed, to be at Mandeville.

Dec. 1871 ]

THE LAURA.
Statement of the case.

We went in sight of Mandeville, saw that the Savory was
not there; then changed our course for Madisonville, but
did not find her there. We found the Laura there. The
captain of the Savory went aboard of' the Laura; returned,
and ordered us back to New Orleans."
The history had been thus: The Laura, on arriving at the
Savory, found her wheel-hause, as already mentioned, considerably torn by the contact which she had made with her
when signalled to come to her relief; that her chimneys
were loosened and careened, and that, though the vessel
was not leaking, the waves were breaking over her decks,
and water getting into her hold. Her captain went alongside, struck her bulwarks a little, but not so, he thought, as
to make her leak, caused the chain to be cut, put three men
aboard of heil to keep her clear of water, and took her in tow;
his ' intention being,, as lie testified, ' to save the boat, if
he could, by towing her into smooth water on the north
shore, which was the only place where there was smooth
water." The sequel was thus told by the captain himself:
"I towed her about ten or twelve miles, with her chimney
hanging pretty well on her starboard side, which was loose and
shaking from one side to the other. I found the boat was coming more to the starboard all the time, and then sung out to the
men to heave some of the wood and lumber overboard, off the
starboard side. This was done, but did not help her much. The
water went in her so strong that finally she capsized bottom up.

One of the men was in the pilot-house when she capsized, the
other two finally, came up amongst the broken-up cabin. I then
went and picked up the three men, and Went on my trip to
Mandeville."

The captain gave it as his belief, that " had the Savory
rem-ained at anchor where she was, and with the weather
that prevailed, she would have gone down in six hours, as
the norther blew until next day, and harder that night than
in daytime."
When she went down, the captain of the Laura said that
"that would be the fate of all the high-pressure steamers on
the lake."

THE L~uhA.

[Sup. CJt.

Argument for the Savory.

The owners of the Savory, after the disaster, filed a libel
both against the Laura and her owner, Frigerio, alleging
that when the vessel was lying at anchor in Lake Pontehartrain, near Lakeport, and within a half-mile of the shore,
and when she was neither abandoned nor in need of assistance, the Laura, under the direction and at the instance of
Frigerio, did wrongfully take her from her anchorage and
tow her out into the lake, and then sink her.
Frigerio, answering for himself; and as claimant of the
Laura, set up that the Savory was in a sinking condition,
abandoned by her officers and crew, and that in
an effort to
save her by towing her to a place of safety, she capsized and
sunk; that this result was without fault on his part or of the
officers of the Laura, but was the result of a severe gale and
of the crippled condition of the Savory.
Evidence was taken and the facts as above presented, including the alarm of the captain of the Savory, and indeed
of an extreme anxiety for his own personal safety, fully
established. On the hearing in the District Court, however,
and in the face of this he denied that he knew that the
Union was down, and swore that he gave no orders for signals of distress. He swore also that he had a permit from
the custom-house to carry passengers;. while the inspector
of steamlboats for New Orleans showed that he had none.
The District Court decreed in favor of the libellants. The
Circuit Court reversed this decree and dismissed the libel.
The owners of the Savory now brought the case here.
Mr. J. Nubley Ashton, for the appellants:
1. The Savory and the Laura were opposition boats, running on Lake Pontchartrain, by regular trips between New
Orleans and the same towns. There was a good deal of
rivalry and jealousy-between them; and obvious ill feeling
on the part of the owner and master of the Laura to highpressure steamers. It is perhaps not a greatly-strained conclusion that the Laura meant to destroy this vessel. Such
is the impression certainly of the libellants.
2. The Savory was anchored not more than three or four

Dvc. 1871,1

THPn

LAURA.,

Argument for the Savory.

miles from the entry of the Old Basin, and somewhat nearer
the New Basin, and although she might easily have been
towed into the New or the Old Basin, if the master of the
Laura really meant to save her, and although the rmaster of
the Laura professes to have believed she would have gone
down at her anchorage if lie had never touched her; nevertheless he cat her anchor chain, attached a hawser to her,
and attempted to cross the lake, a voyage of thirty miles, in
the face of a head wind and a rough sea, with the Savory in
tow. The result was as might have been expected. In
three hours, the gale being very heavy, little or no progress
was made, but the Savory went down; pulled obviously to
pieces.
3. It is not pretended that the master or owner of the
Laura had any authority from the owners or master of the
Savory to touch that vessel. The right to do what was done,
if right existed at all, must be rested on the ftct that she
was derelict.
But the Savory, at the time she was taken by the Laura,
was not derelict. The owners were in constructive if not
actual possession of her. The master swears that he gave
no orders for signals of distress, and that he did not know
Ihat the flag had the Union down. All this shows that the
oeondition of the vessel was not one of great peril, and that
the case could not have been one of derelict. What consti',utes a case of derelict has been authoritatively defined by
this court:
"The abandonment must have been final, without hope of
recovery, or intention to return. If the crew have left the ship
temporarily, with intention to return after obtaining assistance,
it is no abandonment, nor will the libellants be entitled to salvage as of a derelict."*
The British admiralty authorits are likewise clear to the
point, that in every case of derelict there must be an abandonment animo derelinquendi; and that the intention at the
* The Island City, 1 Black, 128.

THE LAURA.

[Slip. Ct

Opinion of the court.

time of going is the point on which the question of derelict
must be decided.* The evidence shows affirmatively that
the master of the Savory left her temporarily, for the purpose of obtaining a tug to tow her into the basin. Conclusive proof of his purpose is furnished by his subsequent acts
in execution of his original intention of obtaining assistance.
'We have seen that he went at once to New Orleans and engaged the services of a tug, and followed the Savory with
her to Madisonville.
The case in short is one of a trespass, and the vessel having been lost the Laura and her owners are responsible.
Mr. T. J. Durant, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Some attempt is made to show that the Laura and the
Savory were rival vessels in the same trade, and that the result was due to the wish of the owner or the master of the
Laura to remove a competitor in business. But of this
there is nothing but suspicion. On the contrary, there is
strong evidence that the master of the Laura, who controlled
her entirely in the matter, though her owner was on board,
was governed by a sincere wish to afford all the relief he
could to the Savory and her passengers and crew.
It is also argued that the master showed a culpable want
of skill and judgment in attempting to carry the Laura
across the lake, instead of trying to get her into the mouth
of the old or new canal, within a mile or two of where she
was abandoned. But though there is some apparent conflict
of testimony on this point, we are satisfied that the master
of the Laura was justified in assuming that in such a gale as
was then blowing, it was more dangerous to attempt to land
her in either canal than to tow her across the lake to calmer
water, and a safe harbor on the other side.
The only question of any doubt in the case arises on his
right to interfere at all to save the vessel. The libellants
" The Cosmopolitan, 6 Notes of Cases, 24; The Aquila, 1 C. Robinson,
40; The Barefoot, 14 Jurist, 841 ; The Sarah Bell, 4 Notes of Cases, 14G.

Dec. 1871 ]

TilE LAUR A.
Opinion of the court.

deny this right on two grounds: 1st, that she ws safe where
she was; and, 2dly, that the master of the Laura was distinctly informed by the master of the Savory, that he was
going ashore to get a tug to relieve her.
1. In regard to the condition of the vessel at the time the
Laura took her in tow, we are of opinion that it justified the
belief that her condition was one of great peril and that she
would sink in a short time if left alone.
The testimony of the master of the Savory, which it is
argued shows a state of facts that would not justify this
conclusion, is so fully contradicted, and he appears to have
been so overcome with fear at the time of leaving the vessel, that but little credit can be given to any of his statements.
2. It is sworn by the master of the Savory that on his way
to the railroad landing he told the master of the Laura that
he was going ashore to get a tug to bring his boat in. The
master of the Laura swears that the master of the Savory
did say that he was going to try to get a tug to bring the
Savory out, to which he replied that he could not get a tug
in the whole basin that would come and bring the boat in,
as the weather was too rough.
This conversation evidently had reference to the tugs in
the basin at the mouth of the canal, and the efforts of the
master to get a tug in New Orleans were not in pursuance of
this conversation, for he expressly says that he saw the Laura
start with the Savory before he left the shore for New Orleans. This effort was to bring her back from such place
as the Laura might have carridd her to, and shows that he
did not think it probable she could be navigated without
such assistance.
In the case of The Esperance the claimants received a letter
from the master, who, with the crew, had left the vessel, advising them of the fiet, and immediately sent proper persons
to take charge of her and her cargo. But before they arrived othei salvors had taken the vessel and finally brought
her in and libelled her. Sir W. Scott said it was a clear
case of derelict; there was first the chance of the party sent

TnE

LAURA.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

by the claimants not finding her; and, secondly, that if
found, she would be a complete wreck.*
In the case of the brig John Gilpin,t Judge Betts, in considering a question of derelict somewhat analogous, said,
that "she" (the vessel) "was apparently abandoned, and if
her crew might have been absent to procure assistance from
other vessels and more force, their ability to return to the
wreck, or the chance of affording any aid after the lapse of
a few hours, must, in the then condition of things, have been
most dubious contingencies."
In The Coromnandel,t Dr. Lusbin gton, in speaking of a case
very similar to this, remarks: "It may be perfectly true
that the master and these fifteen men, when they had got
on board the Young Frederick, and were sailing away to
Yarmouth, intended, if possible, to employ steamers to go
and rescue the vessel, which was at no great distance. But
is not that the case every day? A master and crew abandon
a vessel for the safety of their lives;. he does not contemplate returning to use his own exertions, but the master
hardly ever abandons a vessel on the coast without the intention, if he can obtain assistance, to save his vessel. That
does not take away from the legal character of derelict."
This language applies with a precision remarkable to the
case before us. And the casual observation of the master
abandoning the vessel in great fear for his own immediate
personal safety, that he designed to get a tug to bring his
boat in, is of the class of intentions referred to by Dr. Lushington above, and that he rade no response to the reply of
the captain of the Laura, that he could get no tug to try it
in such rough weather, shows the truth of Dr. Lushington's
remarks.
We think that the master of the Laura was authorized to
conclude that the Savory was in a condition of immediate
peril, and abandoned so far as any timely effort to save her
was contemplated; that he acted in good faith, and with
reasonable judgment and skill, and that, therefore, the libel
* L:Esperance, 1 Dodson, Ve

t" Olcott, 78.

t I Swabey, 208.

Dec. 1871.1

THE CONTINENTAL.
Statement of the case.

of appellants was properly dismissed by the Circuit Court.
The decree is accordingly
AFFIRMED.

TH1i

CONTINENTAL.

1. Although one vessel may be sailing at night with lights other than
those whose use is made obligatory on her by acts of Congress, and may
by actually misleading another vessel tend to cause a collision, yet this,
will not discharge the other vessel if she, on her part, have suffered her-

self to be misled by the wrong lights when, if she had been intelligently vigilant, other indications would have pointed out or led her to
suspect that the vessel was not what her lights indicated.
2. Accordingly, where one vessel was using wrong lights, and the other was
not thus intelligently vigilant, the two vessels were made to livido

equally a loss by collision between them.
AN act of Congress-that of July 25th, 1866*-prescribes
that all coasting steamers and those navigating "batys, lakes,
or other inland waters, shall carry a green light on the starboard side, a red light on the port side, and in addition
thereto a central range of two white lights, the after light being
carriedat an elevation of at least fifteen feet above the liq/it at the,
head of the vessel; the head-light to be so constructed as to
show a good light through twenty points of the compass,
namely, from right ahead to two points abaft the beam on
either side of the vessel ; and the after light to show all around.
It also enacts that ocean-going steamers shall cart'y "at the
foremast-head a bright white light," on the starboard side a
green light, and on the port side a red light; these two last
so fixed as to throw the light from right ahead to two points
abaft the beam, and fitted with in-board screens projecting
three feet, so as to prevent these lights being seen across
the bow.
A previous act, the well-known one of April 29th, 1864,
for preventing collision on the waters,"t thus prescribes:
14 Stat. at Large, 228.

t 18 Id 58.

