442

IMPROVEMENT

COMPANY V.

MUNSON.

[Sup. CC

Statement of the case in the opinion.

IMPROVEMENT

COMPANY V. MUNSON.

1. By'the settled land laws of Pennsylvania no title can exist under a second
survey, unless such second survey have been ordered by the board of
property.

2. The mere fact that a second survey was made is not evidence, even after
a long time, as against another confessedly first, that an order for the
second was made by the board of property, and that the order has been
lost. And although the loss of such an order may be presumed after a

lapse of time, yet the presumption can be made only where the order is
shown by some kind of competent proof to have once existed.
8. Where a charge is merely ambiguous, a party dissatisfied with it ought,
before the jury leave the bar, to ask the court to make it clear. He
should not acquiesce in the correctness of the instruction, take his chance
with a jury, and after the verdict is against him, claim the benefit of the
ambiguity on error.

IN error to the Circuit Court for'the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania; in which court, Munson and others brought
ejectment against The Schuylkill and Dauphin Improvement
Company and two other like companies, all corporations of
Pennsylvaniia, to recover certain valuable lands in the State
just named. Judgm ent having gone for the Plaintiffs, the
companies brought the case here.

Mr. N H. Sharpless, for the plaintif in error; Messrs. G.
W. Woodward, F. B. Gowen, and J. E. Gowen, eontrta.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Rules of decision in the courts of the United States, as
well as the fbrms and modes of process, are very largely derived from the laws of the States as construed by the decisions of the State courts, in cases where they apply, except
where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United
States otherwise require or provide.
Controversy having arisen between the parties in respect
to tile title to the tract of land described in the record, the

Dec. 1871.)

IMPRoVEMENT COMPANY V. MUNSON.

443

Statement of the case in the opinion.

plaintiffi, on the sixth of February, 1866, brought an action
of ejectment against the three corporation defendants and
'the other defendants therein named, to recover the possession of the tract, alleging that the title to the tract and the
right of possession were in them and not in the defendants.
Service was duly made and the defendants appeared and
pleaded that they were not guilty as alleged in the declaration. Issue was joined upon that plea and the parties went
to trial, ,nd the verdict and judgment were for the plaintiffs.
Exceptions wre duly taken by the defendants, and they
sued out a wilt of error and removed the cause into this
conrt.
Title to the premises in controversy is deraigned by the
plaintilfi from one Benjamin Bonawitz, whose claim to the
same is supposed to be established by the following documentary evidejves of title, as more fully set forth in the bil'
of exceptions: (1.) An application to the land office of the
State, dated December 14th, 1829, made by him for sixty-six
acres of unimproved land in Lower Mahantongo Township,
Schuylkill County, bounded as therein described. (2.) Warrant fromn the State, of the same date, to the applicant fbr
the land described in the application, as fully set forth in
the record. (3.) Return of survey made by a deputy surveyor of the county, June 1st, 1829, in pursuance of the
warrant, as duly returned to the land office, and accepted
the fifth of March of the succeeding year, as follows, to
wit: Situate in Lower Mahantongo Township, Schuylkill
County, containing sixty-six acros and one hundred and
three perches, and allowance of six per cent., returned this
third day of March, 1830, in pursuance of a warrant dated
the 14th of December, 1829, to Benjamin Bonawitz. Superadded to the return is the following statement, that the
lines and corners of the survey were made on the eighteenth
of June, 1829, in pursuance of a warrant dated the seventeenth of March of that year, granted to the same person,
a return on which was made, but was rejected on account
of the survey not answering the description of the warrant.
(4.) Sundry mesne conveyances from the warrantee and sub.

444

IMPROVEMENT COMPANY V. MUNSON.

[Sup. Cte

Statement of the case in the opinion.

sequent grantees of the land described in the warrant, to
the plaintiff.
Appended to the statement that those conveyances were
introduced is the admission of the counsel for the defendants
that Schuylkill County was erected out of Berks County,
and that Porter Township, where the premises are situated,
as alleged in the declaration, was created out of Lower Mahantongo Township, which is the name of the township
where the location was made under the warrant, survey, and
'rettirn.
Documentary evidences of title were then introduced by
the defendants to maintain the issue on their part, as follovs:
(1'.) An application, dated July 1st, 1793, made by Jacob
Veager to the land office for four hundrb.d acres of land adjoining land granted the same day to William Witman, Jr.,
in the county of Berks. (2.) Warrant from the State, dated
July 1st, 1793, to Jacob Yeager for the same land, as more
fully set forth in the bill of exceptions. (3.) Return of survey on the warrant by the deputy surveyor of Berks County,
on the tenth of July, 1794, of four hundred and forty acres
and sixty-four perches of land and allowance, situate in
Pinegrove Township, in the county of Berks, returned and
accepted August 26th, 1794, as therein ce tified. (4) Sundry conveyances were also offered in evidence by the defendants, tending, as they contend, to deduce title to. the said
corporations, or one of them, to theland located and surveyed under the warrant to Jacob Yeager, which includes
the land embraced in the warrant anl survey under which
the plaintiffs deraign their title.
Rebutting evideace was then introduced by the plaintiffs:
(1.) Certified copies of eighteen applications, dated July 1st,
1793, to the land office, for four hundred acres each, the
leading one beingin the name of James Silliman, and one
of the number being the application by Jacob Yeager given
in evidence by the defendants, as follows: Jacob Yeager
4pplies for four hundred acres of land adjoining land this
day granted to William Witman, Jr., in the county of Berks.
(2.-) Certified copies of eighteen descriptive warrants, issued

Dec.

1871.] IMPROVEMENT

COMPANY V.

MUNSON.

445

Staterniht of the case-in the opinion.

upon those application's, including the wairant given to
Jacob Yeager, infrodu-ced in evidence by the other party..
(3.) Also certified copies of eighteen surveys, incIuding the
Jacob Yeager tract, made by a. deputy surveyor of Berks
County, upon those warrants, corresponding with the descriptions set forth in the warrants, the certificate of the
survey in qniestion being fully set foirth'in the bill of exceptions. (4.) Return and acceptance of those eighteen surveys,
Tnade by Henry Vandersliee, Jdly 16th, 1793, as appears in
the list annexed to fhe return. They also introduced a certilied copy of a caveat, entered July 18th, 1793, by John
Kunckle and Aaron Bowen against granting the tracts either
to the said Jacob Yeager or to any one of the other seventeen applicants under the warrants included in that list. (5.)
Certificate from the office of the surveyor-general that no
pi-oceedings had ever been had upon the said caveat.
By that certificate it appears that diligent and careful
search had been made inthat department for procee(lings
on that caveat, and the proper officer certifies that he does
not find that any citation was ever applied for, or that any'
proceedings or action was ever had',by the board of property
upon or concerning the same, which remains reco'ded in the
office of the surveyor-general. (6.) They also pffered in
evidence A map, showing the two locations of the Jacob
Yeager tract, the first by Henry Vanderslice, and the seconud
by Willian Wheeler, both deputy surveyors of Berks
County. (7.) Both ides admitted that Henry Vanderslice
was a deputy surveyor of Berks County, and that the location of the Jacob Yeager tract as made by him was made in
the county of Northumberland, within one mile of the line
between that county and Berks County, And that the second
location of the warrant by William Wheeler was made in
Berks County, about twenty-two miles distant from the sur.
vey made by the other deputy surveyor.
Responsive to the rebutting evidence given by the plaintiffs
the defendants then introduced certified copies of returns
of surveys made by William Wheeler, July 10th, 1794, upon
the Jacob Yeager warrant, and upon three others of the

446

IMPROVEMENT COMPANY V. MUNSON.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

eighteen warrants returned and accepted, August 26th of
that year, together with a connected chart of the four tracts,
as prepared from the original surveys on file in the ofice of
the surveyor-general.
Neither party' desiring to offer any further evidence the
presiding justice proceeded to charge the jury. Speaking of
the warrant and survey introduced by the, plaintifIa, he told
the jury that the court saw no defect in the plaintiffs' title
under that warrant and survey, adding that the only claim
which the defendants have set up is under warrants located
several miles from the land in controversy by surveys returned 'and acceptedIand to that instruction no exception
was taken by the defendants. But the court also told the
jury that "no subsequent 6fficial survey of the land under
those warrant§, without a warrant of survey or order of the
board of property, was authorized." Therefore, said the
justice, if the jury take the same view of the evidence as
the court, the verdict should be for the plaintiffs, and the
jury followed that instruction, and the defendants excepted.
Two errors are assigned, as follows: (1.) That the court
erred in charging the jury that no subsequent official survey
of the land under those warrants, without a warrant of survey
or order of the board of property, was authorized. (2.) That
the court erred in telling the jury that if they took the same
view of the evidence as the court the verdict should be for
the plaintiffs, as the effect of the instruction, as the defendants contend, was to withdraw from the jury the consideration of the question whether or not the'board of property
might not have issued an order for a second survey of the
tract, the evidence of which had been lost.
Much discussion of the first error assigned is unnecessary,
as the defendants admit that the law is well settled in that
Statethat a warrant, where it appears that a survey has been
ordered upon it and made, returned, and accepted, isfunchus
officio, and that no title under a second survey can be made
unless such second survey was ordered by,the board of property, which it is admitted is not directly proved in this case.

Dec.

1$71.]

IMPRIOVEMENT COMPANS:

V.

MUNSON.

447

Opinion of the cout.

Such an admission by the defendants is a very proper one,
as the decisions of the State court which furnish the rule of
decision for this court in this case are very numerous and
decisive to that effect. Perhaps the leading case upon the
subject is that of Deal v. McCormick,* in which Gibson, J.,
said, "The law is well settled that after a survey made and
returned into office, a second survey without an order of the
board of property is merely void." If the owner of a warrant be prejudiced by the fraud or mistake of the officer, the
board of property, wlich is a board created by statute, will
grant him relief, if no new right has attached itself to the
land, but a new survey, even pursuant to an order of the
board, will not affect an intervening claim.t
Doubtless the official surveyor may correct his survey
while the warrant remains in his hands, but his control over
it ceases after his return has been made to, the land office,
and the decisions are direct that no second survey thereon
without an order for that purpose is of any validity whatever, either against the State or any other claim ant, or, as
Justice Strong said, in the case of Hughes v. Stevens :1 A
second survey without an, order for it amounts to nothing,
as it is merely an unofficial act, which cannot give the warrantee any rights either against the State or any other claimant of the tract.§
2. Whether the Circuit Court erred, ,as alleged in the
second assignment of errors, depends upon the disputed fact
whether there was any evidence in the case which would
have warranted the jury in finding that an order for a second
survey was ever granted by the board of property,
as it is
settled law that it is error to submit a question to a jury in
a case where there is no evidence upon the subject.
It is clearly error in a court, said Taney, C. J., in United
States v. BReitling,ll to charge a jury upon a supposed or con** 3 Sergeant & Rawle, 346.

t Purdon's Digest, 9th ed., 619, pls. 7 and 8.

: 7 Wright, 197.

Drinker v. Iolliday, 2 Yeates, 89; Porter v. Ferguson, 3 Id. 60; Vickroy
v. Skelley, 14.Sergeant & Rawle, 377; Oyster v. Bellas, 2 Watts, 397; Bellas v. Cleaver, 4 Wright, 260; Gratz v. Beates, 9 Wright, 495.
il20 Howard, 254.

448

IMPROVEMENT

COMPANY V.

MUNSON.

[Sup. (r.

Opinion of the court.

jectural state of Facts, of which no evidence has been offered,
as such an instruction presupposes that there is.some evidence before the jury which they may think sufficient to
establish the fact hypothetically assumed in the charge of
the court, and if there be no evidence which they have a
right to consider, then the charge does not aid them in coming to a correct conclusion, but its tendency is to embarrass
and mislead them in their deliberations.* When a prayer
for instruetion is presented to the court and, there is no evidence in the case to support such a theory it ought always
to be denied, and if it is given, under such circumstances, it
is error; for the tendency may be and often. is to misleid the
jury by withdrawing their attention from the legitimate
points of inquiry involved in the issue. Nor are judges any
longer required to submit a question to a jury merely bcause some evidence has been introduced by the party having the burden of proof, unless the evidence be of such a
character that it would warrant the jury in finding a verdict
in favor of that party.t Formerly it was held that if there
was what is called a scintilla of evidence in support of a case
the j~udge was bound to leave it to the jury, but recent decisions of high authority have established a more reasonable
rule, that in every case, before the evidence is left to the
jury, there is a preliminary question for the judge, not
whether there is literally no evidence, but whether there is
any upon which a jury can properly proceed to find a verdict
for the party producing it, upon whom the onus of proof is
imposed.T:
Very strong doubts are entertained whether the conStruction, of the language employed by the judge, assumed by
the defendants, is the correct construction of he same, and
Goodman v. Simonds, 20 Id. 359; Dubois v.Lord, 5 Watts, 49; Haines
7. Stouffer, 10 Barr, 863.
t Ryder v.Wombwell, Law Reports, 4 Exchequer, 39; Law Reports, 2
PrivyCouncil Appeals, 835.
$ Jewell v.Parr, 13 C. B. 916; Toomey v.L. & B. Riilway Co., 3 C. B.,
N. S. 150; Wheelton v. Hardisty, 8 Ellis. & Blackburn, 266; Schuchardt V.
Allen-, 1 Wallace, 369.

Dec. 1871.]

IMPROVEMENT COMPANY V. MUNSON.

449

Opinion of the court.

the settled rule is if the charge is merely ambiguous the
party dissatisfied with it should have requested to have it
made clear before the jury left the bar; that a party under
such circumstances may not acquiesce in the correctness of
the instruction by his silence and take his chance with the
jury, and then be allowed, if the verdict is against him, to
claim the benefit of the ambiguity without having invited
attention to the subject and given the court an opportunity
to have made the correction to the jury. Much weight is
certainly due to the suggestions of the plaintiffs, tha. th,
judge did not withdraw the evidence from the jury, if anI.
there was in the case, that the language only warrants thi
conclusion that he expressed his own opinion, as he bad a

right to do, if he thought it proper, and left the question to
the determination of the jury. Assume that to be the true
construction of the language employed, and it is quit3 clear
that the exception cannot be sustained, but the court is not
inclined to place the decision upon that ground, as it is even
clearer that there was no evidence in the case which would
have warranted the jury in finding that an order for a new
survey was ever granted by the board of property, as required by law and the repeated decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State.
Lost instruments may be proved by parol testimony where
it is shown that the instrument once existed and is lost, and
the proof of loss, where it is first shown that it once existed,
may consist of evidence showing diligent and unsuccessful
search and inquiry in the place where it was usually kept or
in which it was most likely to be found, if the nature of the
ease admitted of such proof.* Presumptions of law are fie.
quently absolute and conclusive, as they determine the quantity of evidence requisite for the support of any particular
averment, which is not permitted to be overcome by any
proof that the fact is otherwise. Such presumptions arise in
respect to the intermediate proceedings in cases where lands
are sold under licenses granted by courts to executors, ad*

VOL. xIv.

Greenleaf on Evidence, 2d ed.,

29

558.

450

IMPROVEMENT COMPANY V. MuNsoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ministrators, guardians, and other officers, where they are

required to advertise the sales in a particular manner, and
to observe other formalities in their proceedings. Lapse of
time, usually for the period of thirty years, aflbrds a conclusive presumption in such cases, if the license and the official
character of the party and the deed of conveyance are proved,
that all the intermediate proceeditgs were correct. Were it
otherwise great uncertainty of titles, and other public mischiefs, would ensue, but the rule that lapse of time accompanied by the acquiescence of parties adversely interested
does not in general extend to records and public documents
which are supposed always to remain in the custody of officers charged with their preservation, and which, therefore,
munst be proved or their loss accounted for by secondary evidence.*
Surveys, it seems, were sometimes made in that State by
deputy surveyors ir.early times without going upon the
land, by plotting the chart and marking the lines and corners in their offices, and those surveys are called "chamber
surveys," but such surveys were fbrbidden by the act of the
State legislature of the eighth of April, 1785, which enacts
that every survey hereafter to be returned into the land
office upon any warrant issued after the passing of the act
shall be made by hetually going upon the land and measuring the same and marking the lines.t Decided cases are
ieferred to by the defendants where it is held that in controversies respecting titles under those surveys there ariges a
conclusive presumption, After the lapse of twenty-one years
from the return of the survey into the land office, that the
survey was regularly made upon the ground as returned
and required by law. Evidently the cases referred to must
be regarded as establishing a rule of property in that State,
1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 12th ed.,
20; Hathaway v. Clark, 6 Picker.
ing, 490; Brunswick v. McKean, 4 Greenleaf, 508.
t Purdon's Digest, 9th ed., pl. 65.
I Mock v. Astley, 13 Sergeant & Rawle, 382; Caul v. Spring, 2 Watts,

390; Norris v.. Hamilton, 7 Watts, 91; Nieman v. Ward, 1 Watts & Ser.
geant, 68; Ormsby v. Ihmsen, 10 Casey, 462.

Dec. 1871.]

IMPROVEMENT COMPANY V. MUNSON.

451

Opinion of the court.

but the court here is of the opinion that they are not applicable in this case, as the defect in the defendants' title arises
from the fact that the new survey was made without any
order to that effect ever having been granted by the board
of property as required by law. Surveys made under those
circumstances are simply void, as shown by the best considered cases upon the subject decided by the highest courtof
the State.*
Attempt is made in this case to supply by presumption a
matter absolutely necessary to give legality to the survey
and without which it is a nullity and amounts to nothing,
but is held to be as worthless as if there had never been any
warrant at all. Viewed in that light, as it must be, it is
clear that the case falls within the decision of the court in
the case of Wilson v. Stoner,t which, indeed, is decisive of
the controversy. It was there decided that a survey is not
evidence without first showing an authority to make it, or
proving that such authority existed and was afterwards lost.
Possession in that case was proved for upwards of thirty
years under a survey in the handwriting of an assistant
deputy surveyor, indorsed " copied for return," with a memorandum by him that there was authority to make it, but
the court held that those circumstances could not be received
as affording presumptive evidence from which thejury might
draw the necessary conclusion, as matter of fact, that even if
the existence of the location was admitted, some account of
its loss would have to be given before secondary evidence of
its contents could be received, as without'that the survey
would be inadmissible for want of a previous authority.
Unless it can be shown that the rule laid down in that case
is not good law it is quite clear that the second error assigned
must also be overruled, as the defendants did not prove possession for any considerable time, or occupati9n of the premises, nor the making of any improvements upon the same,
Deal v. McCormick, 3 Sergeant & Rawle, 346; Oyster v. Bellas, 2 Watts,

897; Cassiday v. Conway, 1 Casey, 240; Hughes v. Stevens, 7. Wright, 197.
" 9 Sergeant & Bawle, 39.

452

NIOOLSON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

nor the payment of any taxes assessed upon the land. On
the contrary, they proved nothing except themnere lapse of
time, unaccompanied by evidence of possession, or of improvements, or the payment of taxes, or any other circumstance, as a ground of presumption to warrant the jury in
finding that the board of property ever granted a new warrant of survey or made any order of a character to give
legality to the title set up in their behalf, which is all that
need be remarked to show that there is no error in the
record. Unquestionably lost records maybe proved by secondary evidence, but their former existence and loss must
first be established by competent proof, and it is clear that
evidence merely showing that they do not exist is not sufficient to establish either of those requirements.
JUD)GMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice STRONG having been of counsel for one of
the parties did not sit.

iNICOLSON PAVEMENT COMPANY V. JENKINS.
An assignment of a reissued patent, reciting the date and number of the reissue, and that the original patent had been "given for the term of fourteen years ;" reciting that the assignee had agreed to purchase all the
right, title, and interest which the patentee had "in the said inventzen
as secured by the said letters-patent ;" and transferring to the assignee
all the right, title, and interest which the patentee has "1in the said invention and letters-patent;" "the same to be held and enjoyed by the said party
for the use and behoof of him and his legal representatives to the full end of
the term for which the said letters-patent are or may be granted, as fully and
effectively as the same would have been held and enjoyed by the assignor had
theassignment never been 9nade," will transfer an extension and renewal of
the patent made under the acts of July 4th, 1836, and of May 27th, 1848;
and this though the patent be reissued subsequently to the assignment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of California;
the case being thus:
On the 8th of August, 1854, Samuel Nicolson obtained

