252

HOOK V. PAYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The counsel representing both mortgages, in the argument in this court, advised us that we need not decide the
question of priority as between the two instruments, they
having made an agreement which fixes their respective
rights. We have not, therefore, considered the question.
If there be any surplus after satisfying these claims it must
be distributed to the general creditors.
So much of the decree of the Circuit Court, as is brought
before us by this appeal, is REVERSED, and the cause will be
remanded to that court, with directions to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

HOOK V. PAYNE.
1. In a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States by a distributee of the
estate of a decedent to recover a distributive share, the mere fact that
the administrator is ordered to account before a master does not make
parties all who were entitled to distribution, nor authorize a decree in
their favdr.
2. If such persons do not appear before the master no decree can be made
for or against them, because they would not be bound thereby.
8. If they should appear and claim an interest, if there are controverted
matters between them and the administrator -outside of the mere accounting to be made by him, this can only be decided on proper pleadinps and regular hearing by the court.
4. A bill which seeks to set aside a fraudulent receipt obtained by an administrator from one distributee, and to recover the amount coming to that
distributee, is not a suit in which all other persons interested in the
estate can be heard unless they are made parties, or make themselves
parties to the suit in some appropriate mode.
6. In a State where the law allows ten per cent. per annum interest, a decree will not be reversed, because it allows against a fraudulent administrator eight per cent. interest with annual rests.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
Ann Payne, a citizen of Virginia, filed a bill in chancery
in the Circuit Court of the United States fbr Missouri, against

Dec. 1871.]

HOOK v. PAYNE.
Statement of the case.

Zadok Hook and others, citizens of the State of Missouri.
Hook had acted as administrator of the estate of one Curtis,
and the other defendants were sureties on his official bond,
and the object of the bill was to assert the right of the complainant, as one of th'e heirs of Curtis, to an account and a
distribution of the assets in hook's hands. But she bad
received of Hook a certain- sum of money, in consideration
of which she had signed a paper which might be called
either a release or assignment to ,Hook of all her interest in
the estate of which he wts administrator, and she charged
in her bill 'that this instrument had been procured by fraud,
and prayed to have it set aside and held for naught. She
also charged that certain settlements made by Hook with
the County Court, which had probate jurisdiction of such
matters, were fraudulent, and she prayed that they be restated, and she alleged that she was entitled to one-eighth
part of the estate of the said Curtis on final distribution,
and prayed that on a fair statement of the administrator's
account a decree be rendered in her favor for Ihe one-eighth
of the sum found in his hands subject to distribution.
Susan Curtis and Mary Gwinn, each of whom held a like
interest with Ann Payne in the estate, had signed the same
paper, and each of them brought a similar suit to that
brought by Ann Payne, in the same court, and though the
bills in these cases were not in the record, it was conceded
that except in the name of the complainants they were identical with that of Ann Payne. These suits were consolidated before answer, by order of the court, and were treated
in the subsequent proceedings as one case.
The defendants answered, and the court made an interlocutory decree setting aside the release given by the complainants and the settlements made by hook with the
County Court, and appointed a master to state an account
with Hook as administrator, and he was directed to inquire
what other persons were interested in the estate besides the
complainants, axid to report what payments, if any, had
been made to them, and what was due to them, respectively, at the date of the report.

,HooK v. PAYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The report of the master seemed, as this court considered,
to have been based upon diligent inquiry and accurate information, and if the principles on which it is founded were
sound, there seemed to be no reason to question the facts on
which it proceeded.
It charged, the administrator with intereston all that came
to his hands at the rate of 10 per cent. per annum, with annual rests. It reported the names of all who were entitled
to distribution, which the master believed he had correctly
ascertained. He said that some of these appeared before
him, either in person or by attorney, and claimed their rights
in the estate, while others did not, and he gave the names
of those who did and of those who did not. He reported
that, as to some who appeared, they had given releases similar to those given by the complainants, and that, though this
was shown, he disregarded them, and allowed their interest
as though the releases were void, and ascertained and ieported what was due to each distributee, whether appearing
or not. The final decree modified the report by substituting
8 per cent. per annum as the rate of interest, and confit'med
it in all other respects, and made a final decree distributing
the estate according to the report, and ordering Hook to pay
to each person the specific sum found due, with interest
from tle date of the report. On the subject of the annual
rests, and as a ground therefor, it appear~ed that nearly all
the bonds and notes belonging to the estate bore 10 per cent.
interest, which was collected by Hook, who failed to charge
himself with the interest received; that he had used the
money of the estate in trade and speculatior ; buying and
selling gold, discounting paper, and lending it at full interest. In answering the bill, too, and in giving testimony,
he dealt mostly in generalities, when positive information was
called for. lie could not tell when he made collections, nor
in what amountts; "paid no particular'attention;" lent the
money I, from time to time;" but to whom he lent it, in
what amounts, when the money was collected, and how long
he kept it on hantd, or when be re-lent it, le did not state,
but said he had kept no accounts by which he could answer

Dec. 1.871.]

HOOK V. PAYNE.
Opinion of the court.

these questions. He admitted that he had deposited the
trust money with certain bankers named, but he did not
produce his deposit books, because, as he said, his private
funds were mixed up in the accounts; to what amount he
could not remember. His loans and deposits of the estate's
money were in his own name, excepting one loan. On the
other hand he attempted to prove by sundry witnesses that
in their opinion money could not have been lent at certain
times during the war at all.
The case coming here many objections were taken to the
decree, among them two, much insisted on:
1st. That the coui't had disposed of the rights of parties
who were in no kind of way actually or in contemplation
of law before it.
2d. That the rate of interest was too high, and that the
case was not one for rests.
Mr. J. B. Henderson, for the appellants; Messrs. Glover and
Shepley, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. We are of opinion that all that part of the decree which
attempts to settle the rights of the parties, who were neither
plaintiffs nor defendants in the original suit, must be reversed.
We do not propose, in this case, to lay down any precise
rule on the subject of adjusting administrators' accounts in
the Federal courts, or how far certain persons, not made
parties in the Original suit, or incapable of being made parties by reason of their citizenship, may or may not come in
before the master, on a general accounting, anal protect their
rights; nor do we intend to go into that question.
In the case before us persons representing a considerable
interest in value have not appeared at all. As to them we
hold it to be clear that they cannot be bound by the decree
rendered in this case, and they have an undoubted right to
bring such a suit or institute such other proceeding as the
law authorizes for the assertion of' their rights, notwithstanding this decree.

HoOK V. PAYNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It follows from this also, that as they are not bound by it,
so Hook, the administrator, cannot be bound by a decree
which does not bind them as to any rights to be controverted
between them and him.
It is also equally clear that if Hook had paid money to
any other parties who did appear before the master, and had
made a purchase of the interest of these parties in the estate,
that purchase could not be set aside and held for nought
without such adversary proceedings between them and Hook
as would give him a fair heariing on that subject. They
should have filed such a bill as the present plaintiffs did, and
the question of the fraud should have been heard and decided by the court. It by no means follows that because the
court, on full hearing, set aside his purchase of Ann Payne,
that the master could without pleading or trial assume that
all other purchases were equally fraudulent.
Another reason for this may be found in the nature of the
original bills. Although there are three of them there is
no attempt to make the other distributees parties, nor do
they make each other parties to their separate bills. They
,are each framed on the basis of setting aside the release executed by them, in which no other distributee bad any interest, and each claims for herself the one-eighth to which she is
entitled, without any prayer for general accounting or general
distribution. The consolidation then of these cases does not
change this feature of the relief sought, and the ground of
that relief, namely, the fraud in obtaining the release.
These bills are obviously not framed'on any theory of a
final settlement of the estate and distribution among all entitled. They are merely brought to obtain for each plaintiff
the special relief from the fraudulent release and the specific
sum of money due to each from Hook, and on this theory
it is that counsel brought three separate suits instead of one.
For these reasons we aie of opinion that the only relief
to be administered in this case is that in favor of the three
complainants.
2. It is strongly urged upon us that the account stated
against the administrator is too hard to be justified, in refer-

Dec. 1871.]

HOOK V. PAYNE.
Opinion of the court.

ence to the interests, both as regards the rates charged and
the annual rests.
The laws of Missouri allow a conventional rate of interest not exceeding ten per cent. The master stated the
account on that basis, but the court below, on mature consideration, reduced the rate to eight per cent., and we are
not disposed to disturb that decision. The annual rest is one
which can hardly be sustained in a case of honest administration unless it be sl')wn that the amount so ascertained
was actually received. But there are circumstances in thij
case which seem to justify the decree of the court so far a,,
to disincline us to interfere with it on that point. The ad.
ministrator is shown to have mixed the funds with his owrn
and to have used them for puposes of speculation for his
own profit. The assets for which he was held accountable
were almost exclusively notes due the intestate, bearing ten
per cent. interest and collected by the administrator. In
his settlement with the County Court he rgndered no ac.
count of the interest received on these notes, nor any interest account for the use of the money after it came to his
hands. Nor of the profits made by him by its use in his
own business transactions. He is shown to have made private arrangements to settle separately with the distributees
or to buy out their interests, and these have been shown to
be accompanied with fraud and without any Tair statement
of the condition of the 'estate, and he kept no separate account of the trust funds in hig hands. Under such circumstances we are of opinion that ie should be held to account
for all that he might have made by the use of the money,
and as the master atid the Circuit judges have held that he
might have invested and reinvested annually, at eight per
cent., we will not disturb their finding.
The decree in favor of Ann Payne, and Susan Curtis, and
Mary Gwini, is AFFIRMED, and thd decrees in favor of the
other parties are REVERSED, and the case remanded to the
Circuit Court with directions to dismiss the case as to them
without prejudice. And that each party pay their own costs
of appeal.
VOL. XIV.

17

