Dec. 1871..]

MAHAN

v.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

beneficial owner. Besides, it is settled that the agent of
absent owners may libel in admiralty, either in his own
name or in that of his principals.*
DECREE AFFIRMED.

MAIAN V. UNITED STATES.
1. The 4th and 5th rules regulating appeals from the Court of Claims, were
designed to enable a party to secure a finding of fact on any point material to the decision by that court
2. But a failure of the court to find the tact as the party alleges it to be,
will not justify the bringing of all the evidence on that subject before
this court, though on a refusal of that court to make any finding on the
subject, the Supreme Court may remand the case for such finding.

TiIS was a motion in a suit which had come here o, appeal
from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
Some years ago, by act of Congress, appeals were allowed
from the Court of Claims to this court; and this' court, in
conformity with authority given in the act, prescribed certain rules under which the appeals might be heard. They
were thus:
RULE I.

In all cases hereafter decided in the Court of Claims, in which,
by the act of Congress, such appeals are allowable, they shall
be heard in the Supreme Court upon the following record, and
none other:
1.' A transcript of the pleadings in the case, of the final judgment or decree of the court, and of such interlocutory orders,
rulings, judgments, and decrees, as may be necessary to a proper
review of the case.
2. A finding of the facts in the case by said Court of Claims,
and the conclusions of law on said facts on which the court
founds its judgment or decree.
" Houseman v. The Schooner North Carolina, 15 Peters, 49; MeKinlay v
Morrish, 21 Howard, 355; Lawrence v. Minturn, 17 Id. 100.

MAHAN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The finding of the facts and the conclusions of law to be
stated separately and certified to this court as part of the record.
The facts so found are to be the ultimate facts or propositions
which the evidence shall establish, in the nature of a special
verdict, and not the evidence on which those ultimate facts are
founded.
RULE 11.

In all cases in which judgments or decrees have heretofore
been rendered, where either party is by law entitled to an appeal, the party desiring it shall make application to the Court
of Claims by petition for the allowance of such appeal. Said
petition shall contain a distinct specification of the errors alleged to have been committed by said court in its -rulings, judgment, or decree in the case. The court shall, if the specification
of alleged error be correctly and accurately stated, certify the
same, or may ce 'tify such alterations and modifications of the
points decided and alleged for error as, in the judgment of said
court, shall distinctly, fully, and fairly present the points decided
by the court. This, with the transcript mentioned in Rule 1
(except the statement of facts and law therein mentioned),
shall constitute the record on which those cases shall be heard
in the Supreme Court.
RULE II.
In all cases an order of allowance of appeal by the Court of
Claims, or the chief justice thereof in vacation, is essential, and
the limitation of time for granting such appeal shall cease to
run from the time an application is made for the allowance of'
appeal.
These rules not being found quite sufficient, this court at
a later date (December Term, 1869) adopted two additional
rules, thus:
RULE IV.

In all cases in which either party is entitled to appeal to the
Supreme Court, the Court of Claims shall make and file their
finding of facts, and their conclusions of law therein, in open
court, before or at the time they enter their judgment in the
case.
RULE V.
In all such cases eithc r party, on or before the hearing of the

Ro-e. 1871.]

MAHAN V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the cort.'

cause, may submit to the court a written request to find specifi.

cally as to the matter of fact which such party may deem material to
the judgment in the case, and if the court fails or refuses to find in
accordance with such prayer, then such prayer and refusal shall
be made a part of the record, certified on the appeal, to this
court.
In this state of the rules, Mrs. E. Mahan claiming certain
property in the treasury of the United States, and having
made a claim and produced her evidence in the Court of
Claims, filed a written request to the court, before its decree
was rendered, that it. would find, as a matter of fact, that
the title and ownership of the property in question was in
her, and that she was entitled to recover the proceeds thereof.
The court refused to do this, but fbund, to the contrary, that
she was not the owner of the captured property, and was not
entitled to the proceeds of it in the treasury.
Having set forth these facts in this court, where the case
had now been brought by her on appeal, h~r counsel, Mr.
-. A. Corwine, now moved to remand the case for further
findings, maintaining that, under Rule 5, above quoted,
regulating appeals from the Court of Claims, she was entitled to have all the evidence which was before the Court of
Claims brought here, and have this court decide the question
which she propounded to that court.
And it was argued by him that these rules, especially the
4th and' 5th rules, were adopted in order and to the end that
disputed questions of fact might be brought here for review.
Mr. B. _1.Bristow, Solicitor-General,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The view taken by the appellant's counsel of the rules
regulating appeals from the Court of Claims, is a total misconception of' their spirit if' not of their letter. It is not possible to look at the three fist rules adopted when the appellate jurisdiction of this court was first exercised, without
seeing that the purpose was to bring nothing here for review
but questions of law, leaving the Court of Claims to exer

MAHAN V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Slip. OCt.

Opinion of the court.

cise the functions of a jury in finding facts, equivalent to a
special verdict, and with like effect.
In practice it was found that the Court of Claims did not,
in many cases, make the necessary finding of faets until after
they had rendered their decree, and complaints were made
here that the findings were often insufficient to present the
law points on which parties relied, and of which they desired a review in this court.
To remedy these evils the 4th and th rules were adopted
at the December Term, A.D. 1869.
The fourth requires the Court of Claims to make and file
their finding of, fhcts in all cases where an appeal can be
taken, in open court, at or before the time of entering their
judgment. The fifth rule enables a party to obtain a finding of that court on any question of fact arising in the case
le has only
and deemed by him essential to its decision.
to file a written request that, as to that point, the court will
make a finding. But it was never supposed that the party
would Ask or the court must find the fact to be as the party
claimed it, and if they did not, that he could, for that reason,
bring the whole testimony here to show that he was right.
To do this would be to render useless all the rules adopted
by this court, and to reverse the system on which we have
proceeded from the first.
The rule does say that if the Court of Claims refuses to
find as prayed, the prayer and refusal must be made part of
the record. The remedial purpose of this rule is that when
a party has, in writing, indicated a specific question of fact
on which he desires the Court of Claims to make a finding,
and the court has neglected or refused to do so, this court
may be able to determine whethel the questin is one so
necessary to the decision of the case that it will send it back
for such finding.
In the present case the Court of Claims did make a very
explicit finding on the questiou of fact presented by the request of plaintiff, and this is all the rule required, though
the finding is contrary to her averment.
MOTION OVERRULED.

