564

GIREGG V. MOSS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

look after the fugitive and hostile owners, required such a
tax, and such a mode of collecting it.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the sale being a valid
one the rent charge of the defendant in error was cut off
and destroyed by it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

proceedings

and the cause remanded for further

IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

GREGG V. Moss.
1. A judgment will not be reversed for the rejection of testimony, whether
it was in strict principle admissible or not, where the rejection worked
no harm to the party offering it.
2. Whether the evidence before a jury does or does not sustain the allegations in a case is a matter wholly within the province of the jury, and
if they find in one way, this court cannot review their finding.
8. A. lent to B. & C. a certaifn sum of money, whether for themselves or for
a firm of which ill parties were members, was a matter not clear. The
money was, however, in fact, put in the firm by B. & C. An agreemont was subsequently made, by ill the partners, reciting that some
had advanced money beyond their shares, and agreeing that each should
make a statement of what he had advanced, and that the accounts so
rendered and agreed upon should remain capital stock, and that partner's stock in the partnership. On the trial evidence being given, on
the one hand, tending to show that in a statement furnished by A. in
professed pursuance of the agreement, he had not included this money
lent to B. & C., and on the other that at the time of the agreement he
had agreed that he would put it in, an instruction was held to be correct
which told the jury, that if at the time of the agreement between the
partners, A. had assented to treat this money as an advance and to fund
it, B. & C. would not remain personally liable on the original loan, if
it had in truth been made to them personally; and that the fact that
A. did not include the amount in his statement of advances made was
Dot material, provided, as already said, that at the time of the agreement
be had in fact agreed to include it.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case, as assumed by the court from a bill of ex-

Dec. 1871.]

GiiEG

V. MOSS.

Statement of the case.

ceptions covering thirty 8vo. pages, in long primer type,
without any assignment of errors, having been thus:
Richard Gregg sued W. S. Moss, in assumpsit, on this instrument; Kellogg, the party signing it with Moss, having
been wholly insolvent.
PEORIA, December 23d, 1856.
RICHARD GREGG, EsQUIRE.
DEAR SIR: Mr. Elder is

here, and wants to take the funds
with him to pay drafts due to-morrow. It is not right that he
should be forced to pay this money for our accommodation. If
you will send us two drafts at sixty days, $5000 each, we will
return you the money before the expiration of the sixty days.
It must be done, as we cannot get along any other way. Mr.
E. wishes to leave in the ears.
Yours truly,
W.

KELLOGG,

W. S. Moss.
The defendant pleaded non assumpsil, &c.
On the trial no question was made but that the money
asked for in the letter, or its equivalent, had been advanced
by the plaintiff. But it seemed that there existed at'that
time in Peoria, where the tiansaction occurred, and where
all the parties resided, a partnership formed, to build a railroad, styled Kellogg, Moss & Co., of which the plaintiff and
efendant, and Kellogg and others were members, and that
the money furnished by Grcgg had been used for the benefit
of this partnership, which had now spent its funds and failed
in its enterprise. The defendant alleged that the money
had been advanced by the plaintiff to the parlnership,and on
its credit, and not on the individual credit of Kellogg and
Moss; and that if this were not so at the time, that the
plaintiff afterwards (on the 1st .of December, 1857) had
-igreed that this sum, with others advanced by him to the
partnership, should become capital in the partnership business, and thus increase his share of the capital.
The plaintiff proved the signatures to the letter, and that
the sum mentioned in it was received by Kellogg, partly in
money and partly in drafts, which answered the purpose;

666

GRFGG V. MOSS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and, in the further progress of his case, offered to prove by
a competent witness that only a few minutes after Kellogg
had obtained the money, he told the witness that lie had
received the money from the plaintiff; and had "fixed Elder
off," and that Elder bad gone home. On objection by the
defendant the court excluded the testimony, and the exclusion was the subjeet of the first bill of exceptions.
Testimony was given on both sides on the point above
stated to have been the grounds on which the defendants
chiefly put the case, to wit, that the $10,000 had been advanced, originally to the partnership, and on its credit; and
if not, that by the agreement of 1st December, 1857, the
plaintiff had agreed that it should become capital in it. It
was not denied that all the partners of the firm of Kellogg
& Co., had, on the 1st of December named, made on agreement reciting that some of the members had advanced
money and funds beyond their shares in the partnership,
and agreeing that " each and every member of the said firm
should.make a statement of . .. advancements made to said
firm, together with 10 per cent. interest from the dates of
them, which after the said 1st of December, 1857, should
remain as the capitil stock of the firm, and represent the
capital stock of each individual member of the firm, and fix
their interests therein respectively andpro leo." But Gregg
swore that he had never funded this debt; that he had made
out the statement in accordance with the agreement of December 1st, 1857, and that this $10,000 was not included in
that account. Other testimony, however, tended to prove
that when the agreement of 1st December was made Gregg
did agree to put in this $10,000, and that it was one condition on which other partners signed it.
The evidence being closed the court charged fully saying,
among other things, to the jury:
"If the evidence satisfies you that the plaintiff, at the time
the agreement of the 1st of December, 1857, was made, assented
to treat this $10,000 as a part of his advances to the firm of
Kellogg, Moss & Co., and to have the same funded, as contomplated in said agreement, such assent on his part is binding

De(;. 1871.]

GREGG V. MOSS.
Statement of the case.

upcn him, and releases Kellogg & Moss from their promise to
pay the said sum or see the same paid. It is a substitution of
the liability of the new firm to ultimately reimburse this amount
as a part of' the capita! put into the old firm by the plaintiff foil
the individual liability of Kellogg & Moss, to him. But it is for
you to say, under the evidence, whether such assent or agreement to fund was, in fact, made or not. If made, the defence
is made out.
"Nor is it material whether the plaintiff afterwards included
this amount in his statement of advances to the old firm or not.
It is enough that he agreed to do so. Granting that Kellogg &
Moss were liable to make it good to him in December, 1857,
still, if the plaintiff agreed that the sum for which they were so
liable should be carried over to his capital stock with Kellogg,
Moss & Co., then the agreement is binding on the plaintiff, because this sum had already clearly been put into the affairs of
the firm, and either the plaintiff or Kellogg & Moss were entitled
to have it charged up as part of the assets furnished and sunk
in the past business of the firm."
Verdict and judgment having gone for the defendant the
case was now brought here, where it was submitted on a
printed brief of Mr. 0. Jackson, for the plaintff" in error; a
like brief by Messrs. Harding and Me Coy, for the defendant in
error; a reply by Mr. Jackson, and an answer by Mr. Harding to
the same. The argument of the counsel of the plaintiff iu
error was directed to prove,1st. That there was error in the exclusion of the testimony
to show what Kellogg had said a few minutes after obtaining the money; that this ruling was erroneous, because the
plaintiff had a right to prove the admission of one of the
joint promisors as to the receipt of the money, made at
about the time of or immediately after the transaction took
place ; a position which the learned counsel sustained by an
able argument; relying on Lowle v. Boteler,* Bachman v.
Killinqer,t (ady v. Shepard,T and other cases in Massachusetts and elsewhere, though he admitted that the rule was

different in New York, and perhaps in some other States.
4 Harris & McHenry, 346.
: 11 Pickering, 400.

t

35 Pennsylvania State, 416.

OREGG V. MOss.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2d. Because, as matter of fact, the testimony did not show
with sufficient certainty either that the plaintiff had originally advanced the money to the partnership, or that he
had subsequently, on the 1st of December, 1857, agreed to
fund it.
3d. That the charge on this branch of the subject (and
quoted supra) was erroneous.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause has been submitted to us on printed arguments
on each side, with replies and counter-replies, none of which
contains any regular assignment of errors, as required by
the twenty-first rule of this court. The record presents a
bill of exceptions of thirty printed pages of testimony, which
is certified to be all that was given on the trial, and the arguments address themselves to the entire merits on this
evidence.
We have felt very much inclined'to dismiss the writ of
error or affirm the judgment without an attempt to look up
the questions of*law which might possibly be involved in the
record, for the number of cases coming to this court in which
the bill of exceptions embodies all the evidence offered, and
counsel, tempted by this, argue before us the whole case as
if the verdict concluded nothing, requires a decisive remedy.
As far as we are able to see there are but two questions
of law raised by the record.
The first relates to the exclusion of a single item of evidence offered by the plaintiff, and the-second to the charge
of the court.
The plaintiff having proved the signatures to the letter of
December 23d, 1856, and that the sum mentioned in it was
received by Mr. Kellogg, offered in the further progress of
his case to prove by a competent witness that only a few
minutes after Kellogg had Obtained the money he told the
witness that he had received the money from the plaintiff,
and had "fixed Elder off," and that Elder had gone home.
The exclusion of this testimony is the occasion of the first
bill of exception.

Dec. 1871.]

GREGG

569,

v. Moss.

Opinion of the court.

We have a learned argument on the vexed question of the
admissibility of the declarations of one partner, or joint
obligor, against the other. But we are of opinion that the
ruling of the court presents no error which should reverse
the judgment, because its rejection worked no harm to the
plaintiff. The execution of the paper was not denied, nor was
it coptroverted, except by the general form of the pleading,
that Kellogg had received the money. It had already been
proved by several other witnesses afid was at no time -made
a point in the case. The whole controversy before the jury
turned on the question whether the money so received was
advanced by Gregg on the credit of Kellogg and Moss alone,
and if so, whether he had afterwards agreed to convert it
into capital. The admission of Kellogg that he lad received
the money from Gregg gave no light on either of these
questions. The judgment should not be reversed for the
rejection of this testimony, whether it was in strict legal
principle admissible or not.
The brief of the plaintiff proceeds to argue that the evidence before the jury does not sustain either of the allegations of advancing the money to the partnership, or the
agreement of the plaintiff to convert it into capital of the
partnership. With this we can have nothing to do. It was
the province of the jury to determine whether either of
these allegations was proved, for either of them was a valid
defence to this action, and they have found in favor of defendant.
It is argued, however, that the instructions of the court
on this branch of the subject were erroneous-to the prejudice of the plaintiff.
We have examined carefully the points of the charge objected to as well as the other parts of it, and, without elaborating the matter, we are of opinion that it puts this, the
turning-point of the case, to the jury on fair grounds, and
we can see no objection to the legal propositions stated by
the court and excepted to by counsel.
JUDGMENT AFIRMED.

