UNITED STATES V. HUNT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

he had any other purpose than to acquiesce in the decision
which was made. If his purpose were different, why the
long delay in instituting suit? It is hard to believe that
the course subsequently taken was not the result of an afterthought.
The recent cases in this court of the United States v.Adams
and the United Slates v. Child are like this in principle, although they contain some elements not applicable here.
JUDGMENT REVERSED and the cause remanded to the Court
of Claims, with instructions to DISMISS THE PETITION.

UNITED STATES V. HUNT.
In construing the third section of the act of March 3d, 1865, increasing the
commutation price of officers' subsistence, by fixing it at fifty cents per
ration, "provided that said increase shall not apply to the commutation
price of the rations of any officer above the rank of brevet brigadiergenral"-a brigaflier-general is to be regarded as above the rank
specified.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:

The third section of the act of March 3d, 1865,* enacts:
" That from and after the first day of March, 1865, and during
the continuance of the present rebellion, the commutation price
of officers' subsistence shall be fifty cents per ration: Provided,
That said increase shall not apply to the commutation price
of the rations of any officer above the rank of brevet brigadiergeneral, or of any officer entitled to commutation for fuel or
quarters."
Under this enactment, Hunt, a brigadier-general of volunteers, filed a petition in the Court of Claims claiming commutation pay. The United States demurred; thus adlnitting,
of course, that the petitioner was a brigadier-general during
13 Stat. at Large, 497.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. HUNT.

Argument for the brevet officer

the recent civil war, and was not entitled to commutation
for fuel and quarters. Ile was then entitled to the increased
commutation for subsistence if his rank of brigadier was not
above the rank of brevet brigadier. The question was, was
it such ?
The Court of Claims gave judgment in favor of the petitioner, and the United States appealed, assigning as error
that a brigadier-general is above the rank of a brevet brigadier-general, and therefore not entitled to the benefit of this
provision.
Mr. T. J.D. Fuller, in support of the ruling below:
The solution of the question turns upon the word "rank,"
as used in the proviso, and the equality of rank of a brigadier with a brigadier by brevet. The Court of Claims held
that the rank ot each is the same, and consequently that the
one is not above or below the other. Its construction of the
act was that the proviso should be read as though the word
"brevel" were not there.
Now we submit that in rank there is no difference between
a brevet brigtdier, or, more accurately speaking, a brigadiergeneral by brevet and a brigadier-general without a brevet;
that the one may command the other, by virtue of the
priority or the date of their respective commissions when
throwni together, under circumstan ces contemplated by the
usage of the service and the Articles of War. What is rank
in the army? The grades of rank in the army, as known
and recognized by law at the present time, are1. General.
2. Lieutenant-general.
3. Mjor-general.
4. Brigadier-general.
5, Colonel.
6. Licutenant-colonel.
7. Major.
8. Captain.
9. Lieutenants-first and second.
The law knows no inteimediate rank, or grade of rank,

UNITED

STATES

V.

HUNT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

between the enumerated grades or ranks. There is but one
rank of brigadier-generals. There are not two ranks of
brigadier-generals, the one inferior or the other superior;
but one grade, one rank. There are two kinds of rank in
tenure, but nevertheless equal. " Rank" by brevet is rank
in the army generally, as contradistinguished from rank in
some one of the divisions of the army. Campbell's Dictionary of Military Science defines " brevet" -to be "a rank in
the army higher than the regimental commission held by an
officer. Ini garrison and brigade duties it confers precedence
according to seniority."
Mr. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Our duty in construing acts of Congress is to give the
meaning to words which Congress obviously intended. It
may be that in the strict sense of the military term the rank
of brigadier and brevet brigadier is the same, but it is well
known that practically they are by no means identical, and
that the position of the former is, in many respects, better
than that of the latter. Brevet rank is conferred, in theory
at least, for special and meritorious services, by commission
from the President, under authority of an act of Congress.
It does not entitle the holder to corresponding pay or command, except under special circumstances defined by law.
When an officer holding rank by brevet receives a regular
commission of the same grade, he is said to be promoted
and to bee6me a full officer of that rank. These circumstances make it evident that there is a difference of military
position between an officer by brevet and an officer by regular commission, and that the one is less eligible than the
other. And Congress seems to have referred to this distinction or position rather than to technical rank in the provision under consideration. It they did not, why employ
the word brevet at all ? Why use the term brevet brigadier
when it was so easy to say brigadier, and thus avoid all ambiguity ? We think that Congress had in view the distine-

Dec. 1871.]

TURNER V. SMITH.

Statement of the case.

tion between brevet rank and regular rank, to which we
have referred, and regarded the latter as above the former.
The practice of the Department of War, as we understand,
and of the accounting officers, has been in accordance with
this view, and seems to us correct.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

TURNER V. SMITH.
1. Under the act of 6th February, 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 640), "to amend
an act entitled 9 An Act for the Collection of Direct Taxes in Insurrec-

tionary Districts, &c., approved June 7th, 1862,' '' which said amendatory act was intended to be a substi'ule for the seventh section of the said
previous act of June 7th, 1862 (lb. 422), the connissioners of taxes,
"
though '' ailhorized" to bid off property to the U nited States at a sum
not exceeding two-thirds of its assessed value,' arc not bound so to bid it
up so as to make it bring in all cases that much.
2. Under these acts the tax commissioners are not bound to hunt up the real
owners. The tax laid is a direct tax on the land and on all the estates,
interests, and claims connected with or growing out of it.
3. A rent charge is accordingly cut off' and destroyed by a sale of the land.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Virginia; the case being
this:
Hannon being owner in fee simple and free from licn of
a house and lot in Alexaindria, granted out of it by an oltfashioned formal ground-rent deed, with clause of right of
re-entry, &c., in 1819, a rent charge of $224 to Moore, with
right of distress, re-entrv, &c. In 1821 Iannon died insolvent, and the rent not being paid, Moore "took possession
of the house again, though in what mode or whether with
any of the requisites of a common law re-entry did not
appear.
In 1825 being still in possession lie conveyed the rent
charge, describing it in form, to one Irwin, and Irwin in
1854 (onveyed it with ihe lot on wlich it was charged to R. M.
and J. M. Smith; Irwin and Smith, each respectively, being

