CITY OF LEXINGTON V.

BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY (having stated the case) delivered
th opinion of the court.
It seems difficult to find any ground for sustaining this
appeal. Conceding that the deed of trust held by the complainants would have been valid as against Johnson and his
assigns, had his pre-emption right been sustained; still, this
right was not sustained. tie had nothing that he could
mortgage or convey. The subsequent sale by the government agents conveyed a good title to the purchasers, clear
of the mortgage. The other ground on which the appellants relied, nalnely, that at the public sale Johnson had
made some reservations in his own favor, in his agreement
with the other creditors, for the purpose of enabling him to
settle with the appellants, is taken away by the discovery
of a copy of that agreement., It contains no such provision
whatever. On the contrary it is a mutual agrecrment made
for the sole benefit of those who executed it.
No question arises here, in reference to the eighty acre'
purchased by Johnson's mother. The original decree did
not embrace any portion of that, and no appeal from that
decree was taken by the complainants.
Some observations were made in reference to the provision of the agreement, looking to a combination to prevent competition in bidding at the government sale; but
that objection, if valid, could only be taken by the government itself'
To, conclude, the copy of the agreement which was discovered, and which laid the foundation for the bill of review,
is sufficiently proved; and its absence at the former trial is
DECREE AFFIRMED.
satisfactorily accounted fbr.

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
1. The restriction of the 2.th section of the Judiciary Act giving original
jurisdiction to the Circuit Courts, but providing that thy shall not
" have cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of tny promissory
note or other chose in action, in favor of an assignee, unless a suit might

Dec. 1871.]

CITY OF LEXINGTON

283

V. BUTLER.

Statement of the case.
have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents if no
assignment had been made," does not apply to cases transferred from

State courts under. the act of March 2d, 1867, giving to either partylin
certain cases a right to transfer a suit brought in a State court where
either makes affidavit, &c., " that be has reason to believe, and does believe, that from prejudice or local influence he will not be able to obtain
justice in such court."
2. Independently of this, negotiable paper (within which class coupons to
municipal bonds, if having proper words of negotiability, fall) is not regarded as falling within the exception.
3. When a corporation has power under any circumstances to issue negotiable securities the bona fide holder has a right to presume that they
were issued under the circumstances which give the requisite authority,
and they are no nore liable to be impeached for any infirmity in the
hands of such a holder than any other commercial paper.
4. A municipal corporation on a suit against it for bonds issued to a railroad,
set up that the plaintiff had notice of certain proceedings, which (as
the plea alleged) destroyed the plaintiff's right to sue.

The plaintiff re-

plied, denying the notice. The city demurred to the replication, field,
that the city thus admitted that he had no notice.
5. A suit upon a coupon or interest warrant to a bond is not barred by the
statute of limitations, unless the lapse of time is sufficient to bar also a
suit upon the bond.
THE

11th section of the Judiciary Act enacts:

"The Circuit Court shall have original cognizance of all
suits . . . between a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State."

It is enacted by the same section:
"That no Circuit Court shall have cognizance of any suit to
recover the contents of any promissory note or other chose in
aktion, in favor of an assignee, unless such suit may have been
prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents, if no assignment had been made, except in cases of foreign bills of exchange."
The 12th section, however, of the same act enacts:
"That if a suit be commenced in any State court against an
alien or by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and the defendant shall
against a citizen of another State, ....
au the time of entering his appearance in such State court file
a petition for the removal of the cause for trial into the next
and offer good and sufficient surety for his
Circuit Court, ....

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.

[S'up. Ot

Statement of the case.
eutering in such court on the first day of its session copies of
said process against him, and also for his there appearing ....
it shall then be the duty of the State court to accept the surety
and proceed no further in the cause; . .. and the said copies
being entered as aforesaid in such court of the United States,
the cause shall there proceed in the same manner as if it had
been brought there by original process."
By a statute of March 2d, 1867, this right of removal was
extended to controversies in any State court, between a citizen of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of
another State, in cases where either party-plaintiff or defondaut-shall, any time before final hearing,
"Make and file in such State court an affidavit stating that
he has reason to and does believe, that from prejudice or local
influence, he will not be able to obtain justice in such State
court."
With these statutes in force the city of Lexington, Kentucky, acting under the authority of an act of the legislature
of Kentucky, issued in 1853 to the Lexington and Big Sandy
Railroad Company, one hundred and fifty bonds, each for
$1000, having thirty years to run, and bearing an interest of
6 per cent. per annurn, payable semi-annually, flur which
coupons were annexed to the bonds. The coupons were
payable "to bearer."
The bonds bore the corporate se,.l of the city and were
signed by the mayor, and countersigued by the city clerk.
They were payable to the Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company or order at the Bavk of America, New York,
and were indorsed and assigned b. the railroad company to
bearer. They rcited upon their face that"This certificate is used in part payment of a subscription of
150,0J00 by the city of Lexington to the capital stock of said
Lexington and Big Sandy Railroad Company, by order of the
mayor and council of said city, as authorized by a vote of the peoplo
taken in pursuance of an act of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky incorporating said railroad company, approved the 9th of January, 1852."

Dee. 1871.]

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
Statement of the case.

They were sold in market overt by the railroad company,
and being by the indorsement made payable to bearer, circulated by delivery from hand to hand. J. C. Butler, a citizen
of Ohio, became the owner of four of them. The coupons
for a number of years being unpaid, he brought suit in a court
of the State of Kentucky for the recovery of the amount of
them. Before the trial came on, he removed the cause into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the )istrict of
Kentucky, for trial, under the already-quoted act of Congress of March 2d1, 1867, and on bringing the transcript of
the cause into the Circuit Court, he filed a declaration in
debt in that court, in conformity with the rules of proceeding in causes removed from the State court. To this declaration the city of Lexington filed two pleas in bar.
.irsl plea. That fhe city was authorized to make the subscription of the $150,000, on condition that a majority of the
qualified voters of the city should cast their votes in favor
of the subscription, and that without such a vote the city
had no authority to make the subscription ; that the vote
was cast in f-avor of the subscription, hut only on the condition that it should not be obligatory until $1,000,000
should be first subscribed by others; that the $1,000,000
not having been subscribed, the city refused to make the
subscription or to issue the bonds ; that the company thereupon obtained a judgment of mandamus to compel the city
to make the subscription and execute the bonds; and that
the city was comfelled by that judgment, atd did so make
the subscription and issue the bonds; that the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, however, reversed this judgment;
that a rule was then made upon the company to redeliver
the bonds in order to be cancelled ; but that the company
refused to redeliver them; that before the comprtny had
negotiated the bonds sued upon, the city obtained an injunction against the issue, and an order that the bonds be de
posited with a receiver; that these ordet's, although process
was duly served on the company, were not obeyed; and that
both actions were still pending.

CITY OF LEXINGTON

v.,

BUTLER.

[SuL , Ut

Argument in behalf of the city.

The plea then alleged that it was after all these proceedings
and with these action&pendinq, that the company transferred
and delivered the bonds to Butler; and that Butler had notice
of the proceedings aforesaid before said bonds were transferred
to him.
Second plea. As to the coupons the city pleaded a statute
of limitations, applicable to debts not under seal; a statute
of five years;-fifteen years being the statutory bar in regard to sealed instruments.
To the first plea the plaintiff replied, traversing the notice
and denying all knowledge of any facts set out in the plea
when he took the bonds.
To the second plea he demurred.
To the plaintiff's replication to the first plea (the replication denying notice of the proceedings about the bonds) the
city demurred.
The court below on the whole case gave judgment for the
plaintiff; and the city now brought the ease here.
The questions, of course, were:
1st. Whether under the restriction of the 11th section of
the Judiciary Act and under the act of March 2d, 1867, the
court below had jurisdiction.
2d. Whether the fact that Butler had no notice of the
proceedings about the bonds, set up to rebut his bona fides
and destroy his right to sue (which facf of want of notice
was of course admitted by the city's demurrer to his replication), made him, presumably, a bon(2ide holder for value,
and entitled to sue.
3d. Whether the statutory bar of five years was applicable
to coupons to bonds under seal, and w.here to the bonds
themselves nothing less than fifteen would by statute be a
bar, or whether the coubons partook of the qualities of the
bond in such a way as to be subject to the law which governed them ?
Mr. J. F. Fisk, for the plaintff in. error:
1. The court below had no jurisdiction. The bonds sued
on were made by a corporation or citizen of Kentucky, and

Dec. 1871.]

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
Argument in favor of the bondholder.

were payable to the order of the railroad company, another
citizen or corporation. If no assignment had been made
then certainly under the 11th section the Circuit Court
would have had no jurisdiction, the suit being between citizens of the same State. It is only in virtue of the assignment which was made by the indorsement that Butler, a
citizen of Ohio, has any rights. But the same 11th section
says that the Circuit Court shall not hive cognizance of any
suit to recover any chose in action in favor of an assignee, unless the suit could have been prosecuted in the same court
if no assignment had been made.
2. The facts alleged in the plea other than that of noticewhich is the only part of the plea traversed-are sufficient
to bar the action. The allegation of notice was not necessary. IButler was bound to take notice of the proceedings.
The rule of lis pendens applies; a rule than which none has
been established on higher authority or with more uniform
sanction, one also peculiarly applicable to negotiable paper.
3. The court held the bonds negotiable and yet held that
the statute of limitations governing promissory notes did not
apply. This was plain error. Even if the bonds which
were sealed did not come within the statute of five years,
the coupons, which were not sealed-mere ordinary promises, did.
Mr. J. I. Stevenson, contra:
1. As to the jurisdiction. The whole argument of the other
side on this point has no foundation. Since the case of
_Bushnell v. Kennedy,* in which it was decided that the restriction of the 11th section as to the right to sue on choses
in, action assigned, not being found in the language of the
12th, and the reasons for its being in the 11th not existing
for its being in the 12th, "it is not to be considered as applying to cases transFerred from State courts to the Circuit
Courts -under this latter section." The decision applies
equally to cases transferred under the act of March 2d, 1867.
9 Wallac6, 887.

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.

rkSup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the bondholder.

2. As to the demurrer of the city to the replication. The plea,
to which this replication was filed, went on to set forth a
state of facts fromwhich it was to be inferred the bonds
were issued without authority of law. In the face of bonds
which recite that they were issued by authority of law, such
a plea would be bad, unless it also showed that Butler was
not an innocent holder for value. The law presumes in
favor of the holder: (1) that he took the bonds before they
were due; (2) that he paid a valuable consideration for
them ; and (3) that he took them without notice of any latent
defect which would render them invalid.* The plea did
not dispute the first two points, to wit: That Butler took
the bonds before they were due and paid a valuable consideration for them. Ifence these two presumptions stood in
his favor, notwithstanding the plea. It did, however, aver
that at the time he took the bonds he had notice of the facts
set forth in the plea and relied on as rendering the bonds
invalid. It was this averment of notice alone that rendered
the plea good.
The replication traversed the averment of notice, and denied all knowledge or notice of any of the facts set out in
the plea at the time the plaintiff took the bonds.
By demurring to the replication the city confesed Butler's denial of notice to be true, and thereby confessed away
an allegation in its plea which was absolutely necessary to
render it good.
3. As to Butler's demurrer to tle second plea. This plea is an
attempt to rely upon the statute of limitation of five years,
in force in Kentucky, to actions on simple contracts. But
the obligation to pay this interest is embodied in the bond
itself, which is a specialty, under seal, and of a higher nature
than simple contracts. Therefore no lapse of time, short of
fifteen years, would bar an action on the bond, that being
the period of limitation to actions upon sperialties by the
statute of Kentucky. That bonds of this character are specialBronsun v. La Crosse, 2 Wallace, 283; Woods v. Lawrence, 1 Black,
886; Alexander v. Springfield Bank, 2 Metealfe, 534; Nelson v. Cowing, 6
lill, New York, 839.

Dec. 1871,]

CITY OF LEXINGTON

v. BUTLER.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

ties, and that the coupons attached to them partake of their
character and are governed by the same term of limitation
as governs the bond itself, was ruled by this court in The
City v. Lamson.*
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Subscription to the stock of the Lexington and Big Sandy
Railroad Company was made by the corporation defendants
to the amount of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
and on the fifteenth ,f October, 1853, they, as the municipa
corporation of Lexington, issued one hundred and ift',
bonds, each for one thousand dollars, sealed with the corpo
rate seal and signed by the mayor and clerk of the corpora
tion. By-the terms of the bonds they are payable to th
railroad company or order, at the Bank of America, it)
thirty years from date, with interest semi-annually at the
rate of six per centur per annum, also payable at the same
bank in the city of New York. Interest warrants were annexed to each bond, whereby the municipal corporation undertook and promised to pay to bearer the several instalments of interest provided in the bonds, as the same matured
and became payable.
Pursuant'to that arrangement the railroad company became the lawful owners and holders of the whole of those
bonds, and they, as such holders and owners, indorsed the
bonds in blank and transferred the same to divers persons
or corporations as the means of borrowing money to construct their railroad, and the plaintiff in that way,, as he
alleges, became the purchaser and owner of four of those
bonds with the unpaid interest warrants annexed. Payment
of the interest being refused the plaintiff instituted the
present suit in the State court to recover the amount of the
interest overdue, as more fully appears in the petition or
declaration filed in the State court where the suit was commen(ced. Service was made and the defendants appeared,
and on their motion the cause was continued. Subsequently
* 9 Wallace, 477.

VOL. XIV.

19

CITY OF LEXINGTON

V. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the plaintiff filed a petition and affidavit for the removal of
the cause into the Circuit Court of the United States, for
trial, alleging as the ground of the application that he had
reason to believe and did believe that from prejudice and
local influence he would not be able to obtain justice in the
State court, and the applicant having given bond as required
by law the cause was removed into the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district.*
Two special pleas were filed by the defendants in bar of
the action :
I. That they were not liable to pay either the bonds or
the interest on the same because the conditions precedent to
the right of the corporation to subscribe for the stock of the
railroad company and to issue the bonds were never fulfilled;
that the conditions annexed to the right, as enacted by the
legislature, were that the proposition to subscribeshould be
submitted to the qualified voters of the corporation, and that
it should be approved by a majority of the persons voting on
the question ; that three conditions were embodied in the
proposition as submitted to the voters, as specifically set
forth in the plea; that the proposition as submitted did not
authorize a subscription unless h million of dollars were
previously subscribed by other parties; that other parties
not having subscribed that amount the authorities of the
corporation refused to make the subscription, and that the
State court on the application of the railroad company issued
a mandamus and compelled the authorities of the corporation to make the subscription and issue the bonds; that the
defendants appealed to the Court of Appeals, where the
judgment of the subordinate court was reversed, the Court
of Appeals holding that the corporation had no authority to
subscribe for the stock or to issue the bonds until one million of dollars had been subscribed by other parties; that
the action was thereupon redocketed and a rule laid upon
the railroad company to redeliver the bonds to the defend.
ants to be cancelled; that the railroad company in the mean.
14 Stat. at Large, 569.

Dec. 1871.]

CITY OF TEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

time deposited forty-eight of the bonds with an agent with
directions to sell the same for their benefit; that before the
bonds were negotiated or transferred they, the defendants,
obtained an injunction and an order of court that the same
should be deposited with a receiver of the court to be sold,
and that the proceeds should be applied under the order of
the court, and the defendants allege that the action is still
pending and that the order of the court was never obeyed;
that the bonds described in the declaration are a portion of
those bonds, and that the plaintiff, when the bonds in suit
were transferred to him, well knew of the pendency of said
actions and of the judgments and orders therein, and that
the bonds had been issued under and by virtue of said writ
of mandamus.
II. That the cause of action did not accrue to the plaintiff
within five years next before the action was commenced.
To the first special plea of the defendant the plaintiff filed
a replication, in which he denied that he had any knowledge,
notice, or information whatever, before or at the time the
bonds were transferred to him, of the pendency of said supposed actions, or any or either of them, or of the supposed
judgments or orders in those actions, or that said bonds had
been issued. under or by virtue of the said writ of mandamus,
in manner and form as the defendants have alleged and
tendered an issue, and the defendants demurred to the replication and the-plaintiffs joined in demurrer.
On the other hand the plaintiffs demurred to the second
plea of'the defendants and the defendants joined in demurrer,
so that both pleas terminated in an issue of law Ibr the decision of the court; and the court overruled the demurrer
of the defendants to the replication of the plaintiff and sustained the demurrer of the plaintiff to the second plea of the
defendants, and gave judgment fbr the plaintiff in the sum
ot three thousand six hundred and thirty dollars and six
cents, being the amount of the debt demanded in the declaration. Dissatisfied with the judgment of the court the
dMfendants sued out a writ of error and removed the cause
into this court.

CITY OF LEXINGTON

V. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Three errors are assigned by the original defendants:
(1.) That the court erred in rendering judgment for the
plaintiit, as the court had no jurisdiction of the case. (2.)
That the court erred in overruling the dernurrer of the defendants to the replication of the plaintiff filed to their first
special plea. (3.) That the court erred in sustaining the demurrer of the plaintiff to the second'plea of the defendants.
Jurisdiction of the case is denied by the defendants bei
cause, as they insist, the suit is founded on a cause of action
which could not properly be removed from the State court
into the Circuit Court, where the judgment was rendered,
but the objection is not well founded, as will be seen by
reference to the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act and the
amendatory act under which the removal in this case was
made. Where a suit is commenced in any State court, in
which there is a controversy between a citizen of the State
in which the suit is brought, and a citizen of another State,
and the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of five hundred
dollars, exclusive of costs, such citizen of another State,
whether he be'plaintiff or defendant, if he will make and
file in such tate court an affidavit stating that he has reason
to, and does, believe that from prejudice or local influence
lie will not be able to obtain justice in such State court may
at any time before the final hearing or trial of the suit, file
a petition in such State court for the removal of the suit into
the next Circuit Court of the United States, to be held in
the district where the suit is pending. Autho~ty to remove
such a suit is given by that act to the Ilain'tiff as well as to
the defendant, but the further provision is that the party
desiring to exercise the privilege, must offer good and sufficient surety that he will enter in such court, on the first
day of its session, copies of all process, pleadings, depositions, testimony, and other proceedings in said suit, and
that he will do such other appropriate acts as are required
by law to be done for the removal of a suit from a State
court into a Federal court.*
*

14 Stat. at Large, 559.

Dec. 1871.]

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
Opinion of the court.

Evidenice that the plaintiff complied with those conditions,
it is conceded, is exhibited in the record, but the precise ob.
jection is that the cause of action is not one cognizable in
the Circuit Court under any circumstances, and reference is
made to the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act to support
that proposition. By that section it is provided that no
District or Circuit Court shall have cognizance of any suit
to recover the contents of any promissory note, or other chose
in aclion in favor of an assign ee, unless such suit might have
been prosecuted in such court to recover the said contents
if no assignment had been made, except in cases of fbreign
bills of exchange.
All of the bonds were made payable to the order of the
rai-_oad company, and each was assigned by a writing on
the back of the instrument to bearer by the company, and
the payrient of principal and interest was guaranteed by the
obligees in the bond. Neither bonds of the kind nor the
coupons annexed, where they are made payable to bearer or
are indorsed to bearer by the original obligees or payees, are
regarded as falling within the prohibition of' the eleventh
section of the Judiciary Act, as they pass from one holder to
another by delivery without any formal assignment, as has
been held by this court in several cases, to which reference
asmade for the reasons upon which the rule is founded.*
Suppose, however, the rule is otherwise, still the objection
must be overruled, as the suit was not originally commenced
in the Circuit Court. Suits may properly be removed from
a State court into the Circuit Court in cases where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, if the suit had been originally
commenced there, could not have been sustained, as the
twelfth section of the Judiciary Act does not contain any
such restriction as that contained in the eleventh section of
the act defining the original jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts.
Since the decision in the case of Bushnell v. Kennedy,t all
White v. Railroad, 21 Howard, 576; Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Wal.
lace, 331.

f 9 Wallace, 387.

CITY OF LEXINGTON

v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

-doubt upon the subject is removed, as it is there expressly
determined that the restriction incorporated in the eleventh
section of the Judiciary Act, has no application to cases removed into the Circuit Court from a State court, and it is
quite clear that the same rule must be applied in the construction of the subsequent acts of Congress extending that
privilege to other suitors not embraced in the twelfth sectiou of the Judiciary Act.* Such a privilege was extended
by the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act only to an alien
defendant, and to a defendantt, citizen of another State, when
sued by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought,
but the privilege was much enlarged by subsequent acts,
and the act in question extends it to a plaintiff as well as
to a-Jefendant, where the controversy is between a citizen
of the State where the suit is brought and a citizen of another State, if the matter in dispute exceeds the sum of five
hundred dollars, exclusive of costs, which shows that the
Jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in this case was beyond
controversy.
III. Express authority to subscribe for the stock of the
railroad company, and to issue the bonds 'n payment for the
same, was conferred upon the colporation defendants by the
twenty-eighth section of the act incorporating the railroad
company, subject to the conditions therein prescribed, that
the proposition to subscribe for the stock should be submitted to the qualified voters of the corporation, and the
'same section points out the steps to be pursued by the proper
authorities to take the sense of the voters upon the subject.
Authority was conferred by the legislative act upon the corporation defendants to issue bonds to the amount of one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars and the plea alleges that,
by virtue thereof, they issued one hundred and fifty bonds,
each of one thousand dollars, payable in thirty years from
date, with coupons or interest warrants annexed providing
for the payment of tie interest setrii-annuallyat the rate of
six per centum per annum. They bear the corporate seal
* 1 Stat. at Large, 79.

Dec. 1871.]

CITY OF LEXINGTON V. BUTLER.
Opinion of tho court.

of the city and are signied by the mayor, and are countersigned by the clerk, each bond containing on its fitce a cer-

tificate that it was issued in p~art payment of the subscription
of one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, by the city of
Lexington, to the capital stock of the railroad company, by
order of the mayor and council of said city, as authorized
by a vote of the people takeu in pursuance of the beforementioned act of the General Assembly of the State.* Issued
by authority of law, as the bonds purport to have been, and
being, by the regular indorsenient thereof, made payable to
bearer, they lawfully circulated from holder to holder by
delivery, and the plaintiff having purchased four of the
number in market overt, became the lawful indorsee and
holder of the same, together with the coupons annexed, and
the interest secured by the coupons being unpaid he instituted the present suit to recover the amount. Evidently,
the prinafriepresumption in such a case is that the holder
acquired the bonds before they were due, that he paid a
valuable consideration for the same, and that he took them
wiihout notice of any defect which would render the instruments invalid. Impliedly the plea admits that the bonds
were purchasedbefore they were (ue, and that the plaintiff
paid a valuable consideration for the same, but the defendants allege that he took the same with notice of the irregularities in issuinig the same, as set forth in the plea, and they
rely on those allegations as a complete defence to the action,

but the replication traver'sed the averment of the notice and
tendered an issue to the country, and the defendants, by demurring to the replication, confessed that the allegations of
the plea in that behalf were uutrue, and that the plaintiff
was the boi iide holder of the bonds without notice of the
alleged defects in the inc6ption of the instruments.
Coupons attached as interest warrants to bonds for the
payment of money, lawfully issued by municipal corporations, as well as the bonds to which they are attached, when
they are payable to order and are indorsed in blank, or are
Session Acts of Kentucky, 1852, p. 786.

CITY OF LEXINGTON

V.

BUTLER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

made payable to bearer, are transferable by delivery and are
subject to the same rules and regulations, so far as respects
the title and rights of the holder, as negotiable bills of exchange and promissory notes. Holders of such instruments,
if the same are indorsed in blank or are payable to bearer,
are as effectually shielded from the defence of prior equities
between lie original parties, if unknown to them at the time
of the transfer, as the holders of any other class of negotia
ble instrunents.*
Admitted, as it is, that the corporation defendants possessed the power to subscribe for the stock and to issue the
bonds, it is clear that the plaintiff is entitled to recover upon
the merits, as the repeated decisions of this court have established the rule that when a corporation has power under any
circumstances to issue negotiable securities the bon fide
holder has a right to presume that they were issued under
the circumstances which give the requisite authority, and
that they are no more liable to be impeached for any infirmity in the hands of such a holder than any other com-,
mercial paper.t
IV. Actions on simple contracts are barred by the limitation law of that State unless commenced within five years
next after the cause of action accrued, and the second plea
was filed as a bar to the action under that section of the
statute of limitations, but the bonds described in the declaration are specialties not falling within that section of the
statute. On the contrary, suits upon bonds nidy be maintained if commenced at any time within fifteen vear's next
after the cause of action accrued, and it is well-settled law
that a suit upon a coupon is not barred by the statute of
limitations unless the lapse of time is sufficient to bar also a
suit upon the bond, as the coupon, if in the usual form, is
but a repetition of the contract in respect to the interest, for
*Moran
v. Miami Co., 2 Black, 722; Mlercer County v. Hacket, 1 Wal'ace, 83.
t Gelpekov. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 203; Knox Co. v. Aspinwall, 21 Howard,
539; Supervisors v. Schenck, 5 Wallace, 784; Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24
Howard, 299.

Dec. 1871.]

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

Syllabus.

the period of time therein mentioned, which the bond makes
upon the same subject, being given for interest thereafte." to
become due upon the bond, which interest is parcel of tlh.e
bond and partakes of its nature and is not barred by lapse
of time except for the same period as would bar a suit on
the bond to which it was attached.* Coupons are substantially but copies of the stipulatioi in the body of the bond
in respect to the interest, and are so attached to the bond
that they may be cut off by the holder as matter of convenience in collecting the interest, or to enable hint to realize
the interest due or to become due by negotiating the same
to bearer in business transactions without the trouble of presenting the bond every time an instalment of interest falls
due.

For these reasons we are of the opinion that the ruling of
the Circuit Court was correct.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

BIGLER V.

WALLER.

1. Where the terms of a mortgage or deed of trust require that before any
foeclosure or sale under it is made, sixty days' notice shall be given in
certain newspapers, a sale without the notice conveys no title.
2. Although a mortgagee who takes possession of the mortgaiged premises,
under what purported to be a sale of the property, may be liable for
rents and profits of the estate notwithstanding that the sale was wholly
void, yet to be so liable he must have had such a possession as gives an
actual enjoyment and peruancy of profits. A false claim of title is of
itself insufficient.
B. A mortgagor, who on a bill attempting to charge his mortgagee with
reception of profits of the estate because of a foreclosure whiel:, though
void for requisite notice of the intended sale in foreclosure, was gone
through with in form, has had his bill dismissed, with a decree that he
is himself still owner and liable for a balance of unpaid mlortgaga-money,
cannot object, on error, that the decree did not order the heirs of the
formal purchaser (the purchaser himself being dead) to convey, if the
bill have not made such heirs parties, or if they have not been callod in
2 Revised Statutte
Wallace, 483.

of Kentucky, 126 and 127; The City v. Lamson, 9

