PUT-IN-HAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. *RYAN. 409
Syllabus.

been reviewed by this court, in any manner, either by appeal
from that court, or by mandamus to that court, or by writ of
error to the state court.
It would be an extraordinary result if, while an order of remand by the Circuit Court, of its own motion, is not subject to
review in any form, an order of remand by that court, by direction of the Circuit Court of Appeals, were subject to a further
appeal to this court.
The appeal in this case is taken under the last paragraph of
section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, by which "in all
cases not hereinbefore in this section made final," and when
the matter in controversy exceeds $1000, there is of right a
review of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals by this
court on appeal or writ of error.
Such appeal or writ of error, of course, can only be taken
from a final judgment. But an order of remand is not a final
judgment, according to the cases above cited, especially Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, Richmond & Danville Railroad v. TEtoWron, Chicago Railway v. Roberts, and .Xissouri Paci~ft Railway
v. Fitzgerald. Therefore no appeal lies from the order of remand.
Apeal dismissed for want ofjurisdiction.

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. COMPANY v. RYAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
OHIO.
No. 332.

SubmittedFebruary 25,1901.-Decided AIay 13, 1901.

The property and franchises, which are the subject matter of this suit,
were not in the possession of the state court, when the Federal court
appointed its receiver.
Within the letter of the statute there was a controversy between citizens
of different States, in which the matter in dispute was over the sum of
or value of two thousand dollars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
Jurisdiction having attached under the allegations of the original bill,
that jurisdiction did not fail by reason of anything that appeared in
ex parte affidavits, denying the truth of the allegations contained in the
original bill in respect to the amount in dispute.

IN September, 1892, the Electric Supply Company, a corporation and citizen of the State of Connecticut, filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Ohio a bill of complaint against the Put-in-Bay Waterworks,
Light and 'Railway Company, a corporation and citizen of the
State of Ohio. It was alleged in the bill that the plaintiff
company had, in June, 1812, sold and delivered to the defendant company certain materials and supplies to be used in the
erection of the lighting apparatus, powerhouse, station and
railway of the defendant, of the value of $2787.04, and that
said supplies and material were used in the construction of the
lighting apparatus and railway of said defendant, situated in
Put-in-Bay Island, in Ottawa County, Ohio, and that the entire amount of said claim was due and unpaid.
The bill further alleged that, on September 7, 1892, the
plaintiff company had filed with the recorder of Ottawa County
an affidavit containing an itemized statement of the amount
and value of the materials and supplies furnished under said
contract of sale, with a statement of the account and terms of
payment to be made thereunder and a description of the premises upon which said lighting apparatus and railway were located, which said statement and all connected therewith were
duly recorded by said recorder in a book kept for that purpose;
that the plaintiff has a lien on the premises and all the property of defendant company from the 7th day of June, 1892, for
the amount due with interest; and that, in the premises, the
plaintiff was entirely without remedy according to the strict
rules of the common law, and could only have relief in a court
of equity where matters of such a nature were properly cognizable and reviewable.
The bill further alleged that the Railway Equipment Company, a corporation and citizen of the State of Illinois; John
Arbuckle, Charles Ryan and W. J. Ryan, citizens of the State
of Ohio; James K. Tiliotson, a citizen of the State of Ohio;

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

411

Statement of the Case.

the Cleveland Electrical Manufacturing Company, a corporation and citizen of the State of Ohio; the Industrial and Mining
Guaranty Company, a corporation and citizen of the State of
New York; John P. Carrothers, a citizen of the State of New
York; and H. El. Warner, a citizen of the State of New York,
claimed to have some interest in the premises upon which the
plaintiff claimed the aforesaid lien; and the bill prayed that
each of said parties should be required to appear and set up
their respective claims, or be forever barred from setting up
the same against the plaintiff. The bill prayed for an account
with the defendant company, and for a decree of sale of said
premises, etc.
On September 10, 1892, an answer and cross bill were filed
by J. K. Tillotson. In this cross bill it was alleged that said
Tillotson had built and equipped the railroad of the defendant
company, and had received in payment therefor the stock of
said company and mortgage bonds to the amount of $125,000;
that he had contracted with John P. Carrothers and H. I1.
Warner, as owners and controllers of the Industrial and Mining
Guaranty Company of New York, (named as defendants in the
bill of complaint,) to sell and dispose of said stock and bonds,
but that said Carrothers and Warner had not sold, or accounted
for the said stock or bonds, but that said Carrothers, claiming
to be the owner of the capital stock of said defendant company,
had elected himself president thereof, and had taken possession
of said railroad, etc. It was thereupon prayed, in said cross
bill, that a restraining order should be issued against said Carrothers and Warner and the said Industrial and Mining Guaranty Company, forbidding them, during the pendency of this
suit, from selling or disposing of said stock and bonds, and that
the court should appoint a receiver to take charge and custody
of the railway and property in plaintiff's bill of complaint described, with instructions to care for and operate the same under the order of the court, and as, in the judgment of the court,
might be for the interest of all parties concerned.
Thereupon, on September 10, 1892, a subpoena was issued
summoning said Carrothers, Warner and the Industrial and
Mining Guaranty Company to appear and answer said cross

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

bill. On the same day a temporary restraining order was issued
against said Carrothers and Warner as prayed for in the cross
bill, and one L. S. Baumgardner was appointed receiver, who
gave a bond as such receiver in form and amount approved by
the United States IDistrict Judge.
The United States *marshal made return that he had served
the restraining order and subpcena on said John P. Carrothers,
and that said H. 11. Warner and the Industrial and Mining
Guaranty Company were not found.
Subsequently, on September 26, 1892, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company filed an answer to the bill
of complaint, admitting that on June 7, 1892, the defendant had
entered into a contract with the complainant company, whereby
the latter company was to sell and deliver certain materials to
be used in the construction of defendant's railway in Ottawa
County, Ohio. The said answer contained the following allegations:
" This defendant says that it is not true that Exhibit ' A' attached to complainant's bill contains a true and correct statement of the material so sold by the complainant to this defendant as aforesaid. 'And it is not true that all of said supplies and
materials contained in said Exhibit 'A ' were used in the construction of t1ae said railway. But, on the contrary, this defendant says that a large part of said materials were sold and delivered to said J. K. Tillotson, defendant, for the purpose of being
used, and which were used, in the construction of certain property known as Hotel Victory on South Bass Island. This defendant says that it is not true that the material sold to this
defendant by said complainant as aforesaid were of the value
of $2787.04, as set forth in said Exhibit 'A,' but on the contrary
this defendant is informed and believes, and so states the fact
to be, that the materials so sold by said complainant to this defendant, through its vice president, the defendant Tillotson, for
the purpose of being used in the construction of said railway,
and which were so used, amounted in value to about the sum
of $700, and no more.

.

.

. This defendant further says that

the said complainant, when it sold the said Tillotson the material
set forth in Exhibit 'A' of said complaint, well knew that a

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

413

Statement of the Case.

large part of said material was so sold and delivered for the purpose of being used, and was used, in the construction of Hotel
Victory, of which the said Tillotson was president, and which
had no connection whatever with this defendant's railroad. And
this defendant alleges that said complainant, at the request of
said Tillotson, procured a lien to be filed with the recorder of
Ottawa County against this defendant's property, on the day
previous to the filing of the complainant's complaint herein, and
for the entire amount of the material sold this defendant and
also sold to said Tillotson for the use of said Hotel Victory. And
said lien was so filed by said complainant at the request of said
Tillotson, for said amount, and for the express purpose of instituting this action in this court.
" And this defendant prays that this honorable court may
take an account of material sold by complainant to and for the
use of the defendant, to be used in the construction of said railway, and the amount of said material so sold, which has been
actually used in the construction thereof. And that the court
may determine the value of said material so sold to and used
by this defendant, and the actual amount of the lien which said
complainant has on account thereof against the property of this
defendant."
On September 26, 1892, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light
and Railway Company filed an answer to the cross bill of Tillotson, admitting some and denying many of the allegations thereof, and containing the following allegation:
"This answering defendant further says that on or about the
3d day of September, 1892, the said defendant Tillotson, attempting to interfere with the said company in the operation of its
said railway, and to prevent the said company from the peaceable enjoyment of its said property, the common pleas court of
Ottawa County, Ohio, on the petition of said Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, issued a restraining order
enjoining the said defendant James K. Tillotson from interfering or attempting to interfere in any manner with the said company in the operation of its railway, and which said restraining
order is still in full force and effect."
It also appears that the defendant company sued out of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

court of common pleas a writ of replevin against Tillotson, but
it is not shown what the property levied on was.
Afterwards, on September 30, 1892, the answer and cross bill
of Arbuckle, Ryan & Company, who had been named as defendants in said suit, was filed, in which it was, among other
things, alleged that said firm had furnished a large amount of
machinery and of labor for the said Put-in-Bay Waterworks,
Light and Railway Company, which went into the construction
of said railroad and powerhouse of said company, on which there
was unpaid and due to the said Arbuckle, Ryan & Company a
balance of $11,153.60, and for which they had filed, on August 17, 1892, with the recorder of Ottawa County, Ohio, an
affidavit and itemized account, by virtue of which proceeding
they had obtained a lien upon the property and railroad of the
defendant, the said railroad company. They therefore prayed
for an account, and for an order directing the sale of the said
property and railroad, and for the payment of their claim out
of the proceeds of such sale.
On October 15, 1892, L. S. Baumgardner, theretofore appointed receiver, filed a petition showing cause why certain expenditures incident to the care and preservation of the railroad
and its property since they had come into his hands, and other
expenditures necessary to be made, required him to raise a sum
of not less than $5000, and prayed for leave to issue receiver's
certificates for that purpose. This was followed by an order of
the court authorizing the receiver to issue certificates to the
amount of $5000, and declaring said certificates to be a first lien
upon all the property of said railway company in the hands of
said receiver.
Afterwards, on October 29, 1892, a motion to discharge the
receiver was made on behalf of the defendant railway company,
which was accompanied by an affidavit of J. P. Carrothers, as
president of said company, in which, among other things, it was
stated that on September 3, 1892, the affiant, as president of said
company, was compelled to and did institute replevin proceedings to obtain possession of the personal property of said company, and that by virtue of said action the property of said company was turned over to affiant as president thereof, excepting

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. r. RYAN.

415

Statement of the Case.

the books, papers, muniments of title and certain other of the
personal property belonging to said company which were taken
away and secreted by said Tillotson; and that said railway
company obtained from the court of common pleas of Ottawa
County a restraining order enjoining Tillotson from interfering
with the company's peaceable enjoyment of the possession and
control of said Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway
Company, its property and business, such order to take effect
upon the plaintiff giving an undertaking, as provided by law,
in the sum of $5000, to the satisfaction of the clerk of said
court.

Afterwards, on November 12, 1892, an affidavit of one F. S.
Terry, as manager and attorney of complainant company, was
filed in the present case, in which, among other things, it was
stated that the Electric Supply Company was induced to include all sums due for material furnished for use ot the Hotel
Victory Company in its account against said railroad; that the
amount actually used in the construction of the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company amounted to $861.23;
that the balance of said material, to the amount of $1925.81,
was used inside of said Hotel Victory; that all of said material
was ordered by said defendant Tillotson, as vice president of
said defendant corporation, and was charged upon the books of
the plaintiff corporation to the said Put-in-Bay Waterworks,
Light and Railway Company.
On December 22, 1892, the court overruled the motion to dismiss the receiver and to modify the order to said receiver to
issue certificates; and an order was made, on the further petition of the receiver, allowing him to issue additional certificates
to the amount of $5000.
On January 20, 1893, an appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court overruling the motion to discharge the injunction
and to modify the order authorizing the receiver to issue certificates, and retaining jurisdiction, was tqken by the Industrial
and Mining Guaranty Company, a corporation of New Jersey,
and one of the defendants in the cause, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; and, on June 22, 1893, that court
reversed the decree of the Circuit Court, the injunction was dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

solved and the cause was remanded to the Circuit Court with
directions for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. 58 Fed. Rep. 732, 746.
On December 14, 1893, the Circuit Court, in pursuance of the
mandate from the Circuit Court of Appeals, dissolved the injunction theretofore granted on the cross bill of Tillotson, and,
on December 28, 1893, appointed Irvin Belford a special master
commissioner for the purpose of examining the accounts of the
receiver, with particular reference to the disposition made by
him of the proceeds of the certificates, and also to report the
expenses found by the master to have accrued to the defendants, or any of them, and the reasonable compensation to which
the receiver was entitled, etc.
On March 31, 1894, Irvin Belford, the special master, filed
his report in the Circuit Court, in which he found that the receipts of the receiver from all sources amounted to the sum of
$12,230.90, whereof $8776.10 were from proceeds of receiver's
certificates, and his expenditures amounted to the sum of
$11,969.58, leaving a balance of cash on hand of $261.32. The
master further found that the reasonable compensation to which
the receiver was entitled was $2200; of which $1200 were for
his personal services, and $1000 for his attorney's fees. He also
found that the expenses and costs incurred by the defendant,
the Industrial and Mining Guaranty Company, consisting principally of attorney's fees, amounted to the sum of $8795.25.
Subsequently, on June 12, 1891, the Circuit Court made the
following order:
"This day this cause came on for further hearing upon the
motion of the Industrial and Mining Guaranty Company, the
Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company and John
P. Carrothers, to dismiss this cause for want of jurisdiction.
And the court, having heard the evidence and the arguments
of counsel, and being now fully advised in the premises, does
grant said motion conditionally.
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed that, upon
the payment into court of the amount due on the certificates
issued by L. S. Baumgardner, heretofore appointed receiver
herein, or the filing herein of said certificates, duly paid and

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

417

Statement of the Case.

cancelled on or before the 30th day of June, 1894, and the payment to the clerk of this court of the costs in this case, including the compensation of the receiver, which is now taxed at the
sum of $1200.00, and the compensation of receiver's counsel,
which is now taxed at the sum of $1000, said cause be, and the
same is, hereby dismissed."
On December 5, 1891, Arbuckle, Ryan & Company moved
the court to dismiss the cause in compliance with the order
previously made that said cause be dismissed when the receiver's
certificates were paid, because, as alleged, that said certificates
have been paid in full, but that Walker P. Hall and James E.
Hutton, the holders of said certificates, have failed and refused
to bring the same into court to have them cancelled, etc.
On March 1, 1895, the following order was entered:
"This cause came on to be heard on the motion of Arbuckle,
Ryan & Company to compel the holders of the receiver's certificates heretofore issued under the orders of this court herein
to deliver them up to be cancelled and to dismiss said cause;
the order to Walker P. Hall and James E. Hutton to show
cause why said receiver's certificates should not be cancelled;
the answer of Walker P. Hall to said citation to show cause,
and the evidence was argued by counsel; and the court, being
fully advised in the premises, finds that the said Walker P. Hall
purchased said certificates for full value and in good faith, relying upon the orders of this court and is the present owner
and holder thereof; that the same have not been paid, nor has
anything been paid to the said Walker P. Hall on account
thereof, and that they are still a first lien upon all of the property and franchises of the defendant company, the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, and that said cross
petitioners are not entitled to have said cause dismissed until
said receiver's certificates and expenses and the costs of this
cause are paid in full."
On October 5, 1895, a motion was made by the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company to dismiss said action and to direct the receiver theretofore appointed to forthwith deliver the property of the company in his possession and
under his control, etc.
VOL. CLXXxI-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

On May 6, 1896, Judge H. F. Severens entered an order fixing May 14 for the hearing of said motion, and further ordering
that any other party or parties who might be interested in the
action of the court to be taken upon said motion should have
leave to intervene and be heard at said hearing.
On June 4, 1896, Judge Severens entered an order containing, among other things, the following:
"I am further of the opinion that the motion heretofore made
upon the petition of the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and
Railway Company, directing the receiver to surrender the property in his hands and dismissing the suit, should be denied, my
opinion being that there are certain charges incurred in the receivership, the extent of which is not now determined, which
must be ascertained and satisfied before the property can be
released and the case dismissed, even if the case be dismissed
and the property surrendered, this order, however, to be without prejudice to a renewal of a like application and motion
when the situation of the case shall be ripe for a dismissal."
On June 25, 1896, the defendant company filed another petition, renewing its motion that the receiver should be directed
to surrender to the company the property in his possession,
which petition contained, after certain recitals, the following
paragraphs:
"Your petitioner further represents that it is ready and willing and hereby tenders to the court a good and sufficient bond
for the payment of all charges incurred in said receivership that
may be finally determined a first and prior lien upon the property of your petitioner.
"Wherefore your petitioner prays that an order may be entered in this cause directing the receiver to forthwith deliver
to your petitioner all of the property of your petitioner of every
kind and description now in his custody or under his control by
virtue of his appointment as receiver aforesaid, upon the filing
by your petitioner of the bond hereinbefore tendered and the
Your petitioner further
approval thereof by the court. . .
prays that a reference be had for the purpose of ascertaining
the amount of the charges incurred by the receiver herein with
particular reference as to the disposition made by the receiver

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

419

,Statement of the Case.

of the proceeds of the receiver's certificates heretofore issued
in this action, the purposes for which, the persons to whom and
the dates the same were made; that said reference shall include
the ascertainment of any other charges made in said receivership and the purposes for which the same were created."
Whereupon, on July 15, 1896, Judge Severens entered an
order granting the railway's petition for restoration of property
upon giving a bond of $20,000, to be approved by the clerk of
the court, for the use and benefit of the parties who might hereafter be entitled thereto, and providing that the obligors of said
bond should bind themselves to secure the payment of all charges
incurred in the receivership in this action, including his certificates aforesaid, which might finally be determined to be a lien
upon the property of said railway company, and should, in giving this bond, submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the court
to the end that the court might make such bond effectual for the
collection of said charges by order or decree in this cause, etc.
On April 17, 1897, the following order was entered:
"It appearing under the decree ordered herein on July 15,
1896, providing for a restoration of the property in the hands
of the receiver, L. S. Baumgardner, heretofore appointed in
this cause, to the defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light
and Railway Company, upon the said company filing a bond
as provided in said decree, and further under the decree of
January 6, 1897, extending the time for the filing of said bond
to March 1, 1897, that said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, has not filed said bond:
Now, therefore, it is hereby ordered and decreed that the said
decree of July 15, 1896, be and it is hereby set aside and held
for naught."
Several further motions were made not necessary now to
mention, and finally on January 31, 1898, the court filed an
opinion finding that there was not a sufficient available fund
in the hands of the receiver with which to satisfy the receiver's
certificates and other necessary charges, and that it was necessary to sell the railroad and other real estate and fixtures belonging to the works of the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and
Railway Company, in order to raise a fund necessary to corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

pletely satisfy the charges, and accordingly directed notice to
be given to the several intervening parties.
Pending these proceedings, the Atlantic Trust Company, a
corporation and citizen of the State of New York, on March 7,
1898, asked and obtained leave to file an intervening petition
or complaint against the defendant railway company, wherein
it was alleged that said intervening company was the holder as
trustee of certain bonds of said railway company aggregating
$125,000, secured by a deed of trust or mortgage, bearing date
June 16, 1892, on all the property, railroad and franchises of
said railway company; that said bonds were in default and
unpaid; and thereupon prayed that said mortgage be declared
a lien on said property and be foreclosed.
On November 21, 1898, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light
and Railway Company filed a demurrer to the intervening petition of the Atlantic Trust Company, which demurrer was on
January 31, 1899, overruled.
On December 12, 1899, the Circuit Court, lion. Horace I-.
Lurton, Circuit Judge, and Hon. H-enry F. Severens, present,
entered an order containing, among other things, the following :

"It appearing to the court that there has been filed in this
cause no plea or answer to the intervening petition of the defendant Atlantic Trust Company, or to its amendment thereto,
and that each and every of the defendants and the complainant are in default thereof: Now, therefore, on this 12th day
of December, 1899, came the said Atlantic Trust Company,
by its solicitors, IT. Van Campen, Jr., and Swayne, Hayes and
Tyler, and on its motion, it is ordered that the said intervening
petition and amendment thereto be taken pro eonfe,,so as to
all parties to this action-reserving, however, to the defendant, the Bodefield Belting Company, without further pleading
herein, the right to present for the further consideration of the
court and its orders thereon all or any question as to the priority of the lien claimed by said the Bodefield Belting Company
over the said lien of said Atlantic Trust Company."
And thereupon, on the same day, Irvin Belford was appointed
as special master to ascertain and report the number and owner-

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

421

Statement of the Case.

ship of bonds secured by said mortgage, and the amount of principal and intei est due thereon.
On December 15, 1899, the Circuit Court, present Hon. Horace
HI.Lurton, Circuit Judge, and Hon. Henry F. Severens, District Judge, entered the following decree or order of sale:
"It being made to appear to the court that there is now past
due and unpaid on the receiver's certificates heretofore issued
under the order and direction of the court in this case the sum
of $7996.10, which amount represents the balance due on all of
said certificates now outstanding up to this date and shall bear
interest hereafter at seven per cent, all of which certificates have
been deposited with the clerk of this court, and which amount
and the costs of this case taxed and taxable against the defendant the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company,
to wit, the sum of $-, the court finds are the first and best
lien on all the property of the said defendant, the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, and there being no
income or moneys available in the hands of the receiver sufficient to provide for the payment of said certificates and costs,
it is accordingly ordered, adjudged and decreed that unless said
defendant or some party in interest pay or cause to be paid to
the clerk of this court the amounts so as aforesaid found due for
receiver's certificates and the costs, as aforesaid, together with
the sum of $15,033.44, being the amount due as found by this
court in a prior order in this case on the amended intervening
petition of Arbuckle, Ryan & Company, with interest computed
to the date of this decree, and the sum of $784.85, being the
amount found due in a prior order of this court on the intervening petition of Barbour & Starr, with interest computed to the
date of this decree, and the sum of $486.88, being the amount
found due in a prior order of this court on the intervening petition of the Bodefield Belting Company, with interest computed
to the date of this decree, within thirty days from the date of
this decree, all of the property of the defendant, the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, hereinafter more
specifically described, and all of the right, title, and interest and
equity of redemption of said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, and each and every party to

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

this action in and to the said property and in and to all property
which has since the date of the filing of the petition herein been
acquired by said the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway
Company or by the receiver appointed by this court or which may
hereafter be acquired prior to the sale hereinafter provided for,
shall be offered for sale and sold by and under the direction of Mfathias A. Smalley, who is hereby appointed special master for the
purpose, in the manner hereinafter directed, to satisfy the amounts
due, as aforesaid, for said receiver's certificates, and costs, and also to satisfy the amounts found due as aforesaid, on the amended
intervening petition of Arbuckle, Ryan & Company and the intervening petitions of Barbour & Starr and the Bodefield Belting
Company, and that the property ordered to be sold under this
decree shall be sold in accordance with the course and practice
of this court at public sale to the highest bidder for cash, at the
courthouse of Ottawa County, Ohio, at Port Clinton, in said
county, being the county in which said property is situate, and
that notice of the time and place of such sale shall be given by
said 'Mathias A. Smalley, special master, as aforesaid, by advertisement thereof published once a week for at least four weeks
prior to said sale in at least one newspaper printed, regularly
issued, and having a general circulation in said Ottawa County,
which said notice shall describe the property to be sold.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said
special master in making such sale shall first offer for sale all
the right, title, and interest of the defendant the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company in and to the railroad, so called, of the said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, including therein the line
of railway cars, motors, apparatus, tracks, side tracks, switches,
turnouts, poles, wires, and other apparatus, together with the
franchises, easement, and rights of way connected therewith
or appurtenant thereto, not part of, however, or belonging to
the powerhouse property, so called, hereinafter described, provided that no bids for said above-described property, when thus
offered separately, shall be received for less than a sum equal
to the amounts found due, as aforesaid, upon receiver's certiflcates and the costs hereinbefore provided; and provided fur-

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

423

Statement of the Case.

ther, however, and it is hereby ordered, that if within thirty
days from the date of this decree the said defendant, the Put-inBay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, or any party
in interest herein, pay or cause to be paid to the clerk of this
court the amount so, as aforesaid, found due on said receiver's
certificates, together with the costs of this action, as hereinbefore adjudged, then said marshal shall not expose or offer for
sale under this decree the railroad property as above described.
In case said railroad property, so called and above described,
shall be separately offered for sale under the above terms of
this decree and the amount bid therefor shall equal the amount
of said receiver's certificates and costs aforesaid, then said special
master shall sell the aforesaid property to the highest and best
bidder therefor, and thereupon shall next offer for sale and sell
to the highest and best bidder for cash all the right, title, and
interest of the defendant the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and
Railway Company in and to the remainder of the property of
'the said the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, to wit, the powerhouse property, so called, being lots numbers four hundred and seventy-one (471), four hundred and
seventy-two (472), four hundred and seventy-three (473), four
hundred and seventy-four (474), and four hundred and seventyfive (475) of Victory Park addition, in Put-in-Bay or South
Bass Island, Ottawa County and State of Ohio, together with
all the buildings and appurtenances thereon, including the plant,
machinery, apparatus, and fixtures attached to or contained in
said buildings or either of them, provided that no bid for said
powerhouse property as above described shall be received for
less than $10,000.
"It is further ordered that if in accordance with the terms of
this decree, as hereinabove set forth, separate offer of the aforesaid railroad company, so called and as hereinabove described,
shall be made, and the sum bid therefor shall not, however, be
equal to the amount found due, as aforesaid, upon said receiver's
certificates and the costs aforesaid, then separate sale thereof
shall not be made, but in lieu of said offer of the remainder of
the property of said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks,
Light and Railway Company, as provided by the terms of this

OCTOBER TERAM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

decree hereinabove set forth, said special master shall forthwith
offer for sale and sell for cash to the highest and best bidder
therefor all the property of the said defendant, the Put-in-Bay
Waterworks, Light and Railway Company above described, including both the railroad property, so called, and the powerhouse property so called, as hereinabove described, as a unit,
but no bid therefore as a unit shhll be received for less than
$16,500.
"It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said
special master return the proceeds of said or any of said sales
into the registry of this court, to be there held subject to the
further order of this court.
"It is further ordered and directed that the said special master make report of his acts and doings under this decree with
all convenient speed after said sale or sales shall have taken
place.
"The court hereby reserves for further consideration as between Atlantic Trust Company and the Bodefield Belting Coinpany any and all questions arising between them as to the priority of their respective liens, and the court further expressly
reserves for its further consideration all matters not herein expressly provided for."
On March 2, 1900, the report of M. A. Smalley, special master
in chancery, was filed, showing that on February 24, 1900, he
had sold to 5. W. and C. W. Ryan, at public auction, for the sum
of $16,501, all the property of the said defendant, the Put-inDay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company; and on March 8,
1900, the court approved the said report and sale nisi; and on
March 26, 1900, no exceptions or objections to the sale having
been filed by any of said parties, it was ordered that the said
order confirming said sale was made absolute, and the special
master directed to immediately execute a deed for the property
so sold by him to the purchasers.
On Tune 8,1900, an order or decree of distribution was made,
containing, among other things, the following:
"This day came Arbuckle, Ryan & Company, the Bodefield
Belting Company, Barbour & Starr, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, Walker P. Hall, L. S.

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

425

Statement of the Case.

Baumgardner, receiver, and Atlantic Trust Company, by their
respective counsel, and thereupon this cause was heard upon the
motion of Walker P. Hall for an order releasing the bond by
him heretofore given conditioned for the repayment of any
moneys by him received from the receiver herein should he be
ultimately found not entitled thereto.
"In consideration whereof the court, being duly advised in
the premises, doth find that the condition of said bond has been
fully satisfied, and that the same should be cancelled and discharged, but retained in the custody of the court.
"It is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that said
bond be, and the same hereby is, cancelled and discharged, and
the said Walker P. Hall and his surety are hereby released from
any and all liability thereon.
"And thereupon this cause was further heard upon the motion of the said Walker P. Hall for an order of the court directing the clerk to pay the said Walker P. Hall out of the
moneys in the registry of the court and arising from the sale of
the property of said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Waterworks,
Light and Railway Company, the sum of $2400, claimed to
have been paid by him on the 28th day of July, 1894, to said
L. S. Baumgardner, as receiver, in liquidation of the allowances
theretofore made said receiver and his counsel, together with
certain expenditures by said receiver made, and was argued by
counsel.
"In consideration whereof the court, being duly advised in
the premises doth find that said motion is not well taken and
should be denied.
"It is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that said
motion be, and the same hereby is, overruled at the costs of said
Walker P. Hall.
"Thereupon this cause was further heard upon the fifth and
final report of said receiver, L. S. Baumgardner, heretofore appointed herein, and was submitted to the court.
"In consideration whereof and upon examination thereof the
court finds the same to be, in all respects, true and correct, and
it is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that the same
be, and it is hereby, approved and confirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"And the court doth further find that all the property of the
said defendant, the Put-in-Bay Vaterworks, Light and Railway
Company, has been sold and delivered to the purchaser thereof,
and that there is no further deed for a receiver herein.
"The court does further find that said receiver and his counsel, Doyle & Lewis, have performed valuable services in the care
and preservation of the property of said defendant since the last
allowance made them herein. It is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that out of the funds in his hands said receiver be allowed, and he is hereby authorized to pay unto himself, in full of his compensation for such services, the sum of
$200; to Doyle & Lewis, his said counsel, the sum of $300, in
full payment for the services rendered him as such receiver, and
to the clerk of this court the balance remaining in his hands,
to wit, the sum of $269.18, to be applied by said clerk in part
payment of the costs herein incurred.
"It is further ordered and adjudged by the court that upon
making said payment of said sum to said clerk, and upon filing
with the clerk of this court proper receipts, evidencing the disbursements by him made, as set forth in his said final account,
said receiver shall stand discharged from all further duties and
obligations as such receiver, and that the condition of said bond
by him heretofore filed herein as such receiver be satisfied and
said receiver and his surety be relieved from all liability thereon.
"And thereupon this cause was further heard upon the petition of Arbuckle, Ryan & Company, one of the intervenors
herein, for an order of the court distributing the proceeds arising from the sales of the property of the Put-in-Bay Water
works, Light and Railway Company, heretofore made in accordance with the former order of this court, and was argued by
counsel.
"In consideration whereof the court, being duly advised in
the premises, doth find that the prayer of said petition should
be granted.
"It is therefore ordered and adjudged by the court that the
clerk of this court be, and he hereby is, ordered and directed
to forthwith distribute the moneys in the registry of the court
and arising from said sales aforesaid in the following manner,
to wit:

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

427

Statement of the Case.

"I. To the clerk of this court the costs of this suit and remaining unpaid, including the sum of $175 to the special master
commissioner hereby allowed as his compensation for his services by him rendered in selling said property, and the further
sum of $54.30, hereby allowed him for the expenses and expenditures by him incurred in connection therewith, which said
amounts shall be paid said master commissioner.
"II. To the owner or owners of receiver's certificates, heretofore issued herein, upon the surrender and cancellation thereof,
the amount heretofore found to be due thereon, to wit, $7966.10,
together with interest thereon, at the rate of 7% per annum,
from the 13th day of December, 1899, to the date when this
order shall finally take effect.
"III. To the county treasurer of the county of Ottawa and
State of Ohio the sum of $591.66, being the taxes and assessments levied and assessed against the property of said the Putin-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company for the
year 1899.
"IV. The one hundred one hundred sixty-fifth part of the
balance remaining to Arbuckle, Ryan & Company, the Bodefield Belting Company and Barbour & Starr, pro rata, in proportion to the amounts heretofore found due them respectively.
"The balance, after the payments aforesaid, to wit, the sum
shall be retained in the registry of the court to await
of $-,
its further and final order.
"And thereupon this cause was further heard, upon the motion of the Atlantic Trust Company, trustee, for leave to withdraw its petition filed herein for allowance of compensation;
which leave is given, and the same is accordingly done, without
prejudice, however, to the rights of said trustee to hereafter file
its petition therefor.
" To all the foregoing order and decree the said the Put-inBay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, by its counsel,
excepts on the ground that the court is without jurisdiction in
the premises, for the reason that it appears by the record herein
that this suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said court,
and the parties to said suit were improperly and collusively

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Statement of the Case.

joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by said
Circuit Court under the act of Congress of M1arch 3, 1875, as to
which question of jurisdiction an appeal has been taken by the
said the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company
to the Supreme Court of the United States, at Washington."
On June 2, 1900, an appeal was allowed in the following
terms:
"The former appeal prayed by the above-named appellant,
the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company, and
allowed by me on the 23d day of February, 1900, having been
discontinued, and the said appellant having now presented a
new petition praying for the allowance of an appeal from the
decrees of this court made on the 12th, 13th and 15th (lays of
December, 1899, said petition is now granted and the appeal is
allowed.
"And thereupon, on the request of Walter L. Granger, of
counsel for the appellant, I do hereby certify to the Supreme
Court of the United States that upon the hearing of the said cause,
wherein the said decrees so appealed from were entered, as well
as upon various interlocutory hearings during the progress of the
cause, the said appellant denied the jurisdiction of the court
over said cause and contended that the court was without jurisdiction upon the grounds that the amount in controversy was
in truth and in fact much less than the sum of two thousand
dollars ($2000), exclusive of interest and costs, and that the
case had been fraudulently and collusively instituted by the parties thereto for the purpose of creating the appearance of jurisdiction not in fact existing; which contention, so far as related
to the receiver's certificates and the intervening petitions, was
overruled.
"And it is accordingly certified that the appeal herein allowed
is granted for the single purpose of presenting to the said Supreme Court the question whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to entertain the said cause and render the decrees so appealed from.
"The clerk is therefore directed to certify to the United
States Supreme Court, at Washington, the portions of the record in said cause appertaining to said jurisdictional question

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

429

Opinion of the Court.

upon the appellant executing a bond for costs in the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500).

"H. F. SEVERENS, Circuit Judge."
rft.Joseph B. Foraker and
pellant.
_Y'. J
lees.

r'. Walter L. Granger for ap-

Hamilton,and Xr'. William C. Cohran for appel-

M . JUSTIOE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The contention in the brief on behalf of the appellant, that
"by the service of the writ of replevin issued from the state
court the property came into the custody and possession of that
court for all purposes of jurisdiction in that case, and no other
court had a right to interfere with that possession except a
court having a direct supervisory control over the court issuing
the writ, or some superior jurisdiction in the premises, the
state court having placed the property in the possession of the
officers of the railway company as against the claim of Tillotson, by a writ of replevin, the United States Circuit Court in
this case had no jurisdiction to issue an injunction or to appoint
a receiver, by means of which the company and its officers
were prevented from using and operating the railway property,
which the state court had directed its officers to place in their
hands," seems to answer itself.
By the operation of the writ of the state court certain personal property of the Put-in-Bay Waterworks, Light and Railway Company was taken from the possession of one Tillotson
and restored to that of the company, and by a restraining order
Tillotson was prohibited from interfering with the use and operation by the company of its railway property. Whatever, then,
may have been the nature or merits of the questions between
the railway company and Tillotson, it is conceded that the
actual possession of the property, whether real or personal, was
in the railway company at the time when, in the suit of the
Electrical Supply Company, the receiver was appointed by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of the United States. It is too plain for argument that the replevin suit, affecting only certain articles of

personal property, and arising out of a controversy between the
railway company and Tillotson, its vice president, could not
draw into the jurisdiction and control of the state court the
railroad and franchises of the railway company, so as to pre-

clude creditors of the company from instituting proceedings in
the Federal court. As respects the restraining order, if such
were ever issued, it does not appear that Tillotson ever dis-

obeyed it, and, if he did, he personally would be answerable to the
state court. It may be further observed that it is not made to
appear that the restraining order ever became operative as an
injunction by the filing of a bond in $5000, which was imposed
as a condition for its issuance. At all events, and conclusively
as to the merits of this contention, the property and franchises
which are the subject-matter of the present suit were not, either
actually or constructively, in the possession of the state court
when the Federal court appointed its receiver.
Our inspection of this record has not constrained us to hold
that the Circuit Court lost its apparent jurisdiction of the case
by reason of disclosures made subsequently in the progress of
the case. The mere denial that the materials sold by the complainant to the railway company were of the value alleged in
the bill did not, of itself, deprive the court of jurisdiction.
Thereby was presented a question of fact into which the court
had jurisdiction to inquire. Within the letter of the statute
there was a controversy between citizens of different States, in
which the matter in dispute was over the sum or value of two
thousand dollars.
The fifth section of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470,
provided that if in "any suit commenced in a Circuit Court,
it shall appear to the satisfaction of said Circuit Court.,
at any time after such suit has been brought, that such suit
does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court, the said
Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but shall dismiss the suit."
And it has been several times decided by this court that a

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN. 431
Opinion of the Court.

suit cannot properly be dismissed by a Circuit Court as not
involving a controversy of an amount sufficient to come within
its jurisdiction unless the facts, when made to appear on the
record, create a legal certainty of that conclusion. Barry v.
Edwards, 116 U. S. 550; Tetmore v. ]?ymer, 169 U. S. 115.
It is not clearly shown in this record that, at any time after
the suit was brought, it was made to appear, to the satisfaction
of the Ciircuit Court, that the suit did not really and substantially
involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court. On the contrary, it appears that
the Circuit Court was not so satisfied, but overruled complainant's motion to dissolve the preliminary injunction and to discharge the receiver. Thereupon the cause was taken on appeal
to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court directed that
the preliminary injunction granted by the Circuit Court should
be dissolved, but held that, on that appeal, the Circuit Court
of Appeals had no jurisdiction to proceed further, and was
without power to direct a dismissal of the bill or to vacate the
order appointing a receiver.
It is true that observations were made by the judges of that
court, based on affidavits made in the court below, that jurisdiction had been collusively obtained by reason of false statements of the amount of materials sold by the complainant to
the defendant company, and they seem to have thought that
by such affidavits the Circuit Court had been made to know
that its equitable jurisdiction had been improperly invoked.
Industrial,etc., Co. v. Electrical Suply Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 733,
744.
But such observations of the learned judges did not have the
force of a decision, nor did they undertake to direct the Circuit Court to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction.
It further appears that, upon the filing of the mandate of
the Court of Appeals in the Circuit Court, the counsel of complainant filed a motion to dismiss the bill, and claimed that the
Court of Appeals had decided that the Circuit Court had no
jurisdiction. This and subsequent motions to the same effect
were overruled by the Circuit Court, and the Circuit Court of
Appeals denied an application for a writ of mandamus. 90
Fed. Rep. 831.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Pending these proceedings and before the final decree of sale,
the Atlantic Trust Company filed an intervening petition, alleg-

ing its ownership as trustee of one hundred and twenty-five
mortgage bonds of the defendant company; that there was
the sum of $40,250 due and unpaid on account of said indebtedness, and praying for an account and for a decree of foreclosure and that the lien of said trust company should be decreed
to be a lien prior to those of the other creditors. As already
stated, the Circuit Court overruled the defendant's demurrer to
this intervening petition, and on December 12, 1899, the court
entered an order that said intervening petition should be taken
pro coilfesso, and appointing a master to ascertain and report
the amount and ownership of the outstanding mortgage bonds.
And subsequently, on December 15, 1899, the final decree or
order of sale was entered, in which the court reserved for further consideration, as between the Atlantic Trust Company
and the ]3odefield Belting Company, any and all questions arising between them as to the priority of their respective liens.
A sale of all the property of the defendant railway company,
in pursuance of said decree, was made on February 24, 1900;
and, no objections or exceptions to the sale having been filed
by any of the parties, on MN[arch 26, 1900, the sale was confirmed absolutely, and the master directed to execute a deed
for the property so sold by him to the purchasers.
It appears that, under the intervening petitions of other creditors than the complainant, there were involved, before and at
the time of the decree of sale, liens and claims against the defendant's property largely in excess of the amount necessary to
confer plenary jurisdiction on the Circuit Court. Jurisdiction
having attached under the allegations of the original bill, and
the court having proceeded, in a proper exercise of its discretionary power, to appoint a receiver and to authorize a large
expenditure of money raised by certificates, in order to protect
and preserve the property in its custody, and the court having
also, in the exercise of its power as a court of equity, allowed
the intervention of other creditors, as between some of whom
and the defendant company there was jurisdiction in the court,
both as respects diversity of citizenship and amount of claims,

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. RYAN.

433

Opinion of the Court.

we think its jurisdiction did not fail by reason of anything that
appeared in expaerte affidavits filed on behalf of the defendant
company, denying the truth of the allegations contained in the
original bill in respect to the amount in dispute.
In IEr.ipe)ndofv. HUyde, 110 U. S. 283, it was said: "The
equitable powers of courts of law over their own process, to
prevent abuses, oppression and injustice, are inherent and equally
extensive and efficient, as is also their power to protect their own
jurisdiction and officers in the possession of property that is in
custody of the law. Buck v. Colbat/, 3 Wall. 334; -Hagan v.
Lucas, 10 Pet. 400. And when, in the exercise of that power,
it becomes necessary to forbid to strangers to the action the
resort to the ordinary remedies of the law for the restoration
of property in that situation, as happens when otherwise conflicts of jurisdiction must arise between courts of the United
States and of the several States, the very circumstance appears
which gives the party a right to an equitable remedy, because
he is deprived of a plain and adequate remedy at law; and the
question of citizenship, which might become material as an element of jurisdiction in a court of the United States when the
proceeding is pending in it, is obviated by treating the intervention of the stranger to the action in his own interest as what
Mr. Justice Story calls, in Clarke v. Matthewson, 12 Pet. 172, a
dependent bill."
Circuit Judge Severens, in his opinion in the present case,
aptly referred to the case of Gumbel v. Pitkin, 124 U. S.132,
as containing an elaborate exposition of the principles upon
which a court of equity may proceed when the rights of intervening creditors are to be dealt with, and upon which principles
the Circuit Court proceeded in this case.
We fail to perceive any equities in the position of the appellant company. All its creditors, as well the original complainant as the several intervening creditors, have acquiesced in
the action of the Circuit Court and have availed themselves of
the remedy afforded by the sale of the defendant's property.
Having failed and declined to accept the opportunity afforded
by an interlocutory order to regain possession of its property,
by giving a bond to pay such charges as the court should deVOL CLxxxI-28

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

termine to be just and proper, and not having offered, at last,
to pay the claims and liens adjudged to be just and proper, the
defendant company seems to us to have suffered no injustice.
However this may be, the case is before us only on the question whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to entertain the
said cause and render the decrees so appealed from, and this we
answer in the affirmative, and direct the appeal to be dismissed
with costs.
Let it be so certified.

UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY v. AMERICAN
OAIK LEATHER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 150.

Argued January 25, 28, 1901.--Decided May 13, 1901.

The right of an insolvent debtor to prefer one creditor to another, exists in
the State of Illinois to its fullest extent, and the giving of judgment notes
is recognized as a legitimate method of preference.
In the absence of national bankrupt laws, if a remedy is sought in a court
of equity against fraudulent preferences, it must be on allegation and
proof of a design to defraud and to delay the complaining creditor.
While the policy of the law permits preferences, and such preferences as
are necessarily unknown to others than those concerned, it does not permit any device which prevents the debtor from giving a like advantage to
his other creditors, if he so wishes, unless such device is put in the form
of a mortgage, or other instrument, perpetually open to public inspection
upon the public record.
The present case is one in which the fundamental rule that equality is equity,
may properly be applied.

ON September 11, 1896, the American Oak Leather Company,
a corporation of the State of Ohio, filed, in the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Northern District of Illinois a bill of
complaint against C. I. Fargo & Company, a corporation of the
State of Illinois; the United States Rubber Company, a corporation of the State of New Jers~y; L. Caudee & Company,

