OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Statement of the Case.

BRYAN v. BERNHEIMER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTII CIRCUIT.
No. 58. Submitted October 31, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A bankrupt, nine days before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against
him, made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors which
was an act of bankruptcy. After the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
the assignee sold the property. After the adjudication in bankruptcy,
and before the appointment of a trustee, the petitioning creditors applied
to the District Court for an order to the marshal to take possession of the
property, alleging that this was necessary for the interest of the bankrupt's creditors. The court ordered that the marshal take possession,
and that notice be given to the purchaser to appear in ten days and propound his claim to the property, or, failing to do so, be decreed to have
no right in it. The purchaser came in, and propounded a claim, stating
that he bought the property for cash in good faith of the assignee, submitted his claim to the court, asked for such orders as might be necessary for his protection, and prayed that the creditors be remitted to their
claim against the assignee for the price, or the price be ordered to be paid
by the assignee into court and paid over to the purchaser, who thereupon
offered to rescind the purchase and waive all further claim to the property. Held, that the purchaser had no title in the property superior to
the bankrupt's estate, and that the equities between him and the creditors
should be determined by the District Court, bringing in the assignee if
necessary.

THIS was a summary petition to the District Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama, sitting in
bankruptcy, for an order to Bryan, the marshal of the District,
to take immediate possession of property of David Abraham, a
bankrupt, in the hands of Louis Bernheimer. The material
facts, as appearing by the record, were as follows:
On October 29, 1898, Abraham made a general assignment
of all his property, consisting of his stock of goods and book
accounts, in a storehouse numbered 106 Dexter Avenue in Montgomery, Alabama, for the equal benefit of all his creditors, to
one I. C. Davidson, who had the assignment recorded, and
caused to be filed an inventory, and an appraisement of the

BRYAN v. BERNHEIMER.
Statement of the Case.

property at the sum of $7900, in a court of Alabama, according
to the laws of the State, (Civil Code of Alabama of 1896, c. 113,)
and forthwith took possession of the property.
On November 1, 1898, certain creditors of Abraham filed in
the District Court of the United States, sitting in bankruptcy,
a petition alleging that said assignment was an act of bankruptcy, and praying that he might be adjudged a bankrupt.
On December 12, 1898, Abraham, after due notice to him,
was adjudged a bankrupt. On the same day, the petitioning
creditors presented to the District Court a petition, alleging the
assignment to Davidson, and the adjudication in bankruptcy,
and that upon the filing of the petition for that adjudication
the court obtained jurisdiction over Abraham's estate, and it
was the duty of Davidson, as his assignee, to hold all his property subject to the orders of the court; but that Davidson, disregarding the authority and jurisdiction of the court, had sold
and disposed of the property at much less than the aforesaid
appraisement, and the purchasers had been in possession of the
property for several days, selling and disposing thereof at retail
and at bankrupt prices; and that, unless the court made an order
requiring the property to be taken immediate possession of, the
petitioners and all other creditors of Abraham would be greatly
damaged, and their dividends out of the estate greatly lessened;
and praying for an order to the marshal of the District to take
possession of, and to hold until further order of the court, all
the property owned by Abraham at the time of his assignment
to Davidson, wherever the same might be found, and all
property sold by Davidson to Louis Bernheimer or to any one
else, and being in the storehouse numbered 106 Dexter Avenue
in Montgomery, and to hold it until the further order of the
court. On the filing of this petition, the District Court made
the order therein prayed for, reciting" it further appearing from
said petition that it is necessary to the interest of the creditors
of the said Abraham that this court take possession of all the
property and effects of said Abraham." And on the same day
the marshal, pursuant to that order, seized the stock of goods
in Bernheimer's possession.
On December 13, 1898, the District Court, on a petition of

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

the marshal for instructions concerning the goods seized by
him, ordered that notice be given to Bernheimer to appear in
ten days, and to propound any claim that he had to the goods
so seized, or, on failing to do so, be decreed to have no claim or
right to them; and directed the marshal to retain possession of
the goods until the further order of the court.
'On December 17, 1898, the petitioning creditors presented
another petition to the District Court, further alleging that on
or about November 17, 1898, after the filing of the petition in
bankruptcy against Abraham, and in disregard of the proceedings thereon pending, Davidson turned over and delivered
to Bernheimer the whole stock of goods, then worth about
810,000, and Bernheimer, with knowledge of the pending proceedings in bankruptcy, took possession of the goods, sold large
quantities thereof, and received large suns of money therefor,
before the rest was taken by order of the court into the bands
of the marshal; and praying for an order that Bernheiier file
with the referee in bankruptcy an account of the moneys so received by him.
On December 22,1898, Bernheimer, in obedience to the order
of December 13, came into the District Court, and propounded
a claim to the stock of goods. The claim stated the assignment to Davidson, and the petition for an adjudication of bankruptcy, and that the petitioning creditors afterwards filed a
petition in the court of bankruptcy, praying that Davidson be
required to appear and show cause why he should not be restrained from selling the goods so assigned to him; that, in
obedience to a rule issued on that petition, Davidson appeared
and showed cause satisfactory to the court; and that the court,
on the ground that the petition was not sworn to, nor any bond
given, discharged the rule against him, declined to grant the restraining order, and dismissed the petition without prejudice.
The claim further stated that Davidson thereupon proceeded to
sell the goods by public auction, and the claimant, acting in
good faith and under the advice of counsel, bought the goods
from Davidson at the sale by public auction for the sum of
$3500, which was a fair and reasonable price, and paid the price,
in cash to Davidson, and took and kept possession of the goods

BRYAN v. BERHHEIMER.
Statement of the Case.

until deprived thereof by the marshal; that the claimant never
intended to interfere in any way with the process of the court,
or with any property of the bankrupt; that if he was deprived
of these goods, and Davidson was allowed to keep the money
paid him by the claimant as their price, the claimant's position
would be one of great hardship and loss; that Davidson, under
the terms of the assignment to him, would be compelled to pay
that money to Abraham's creditors, and the goods purchased
in good faith by the claimant would also be held and sold again
for the benefit of those creditors. Bernheimer's claim concluded as follows: "Claimant respectfully submits to the court
his claim in this behalf. He asks the court's protection in the
premises, and that it will issue such rules and orders in the
premises as may be necessary to such protection. He further
asks that the creditors of said bankrupt estate be remitted to
the fund derived by said Davidson from claim for the purchase
price of said goods. Claimant prays also that, in default of
such order, or if he is mistaken in the relief prayed for, your
honorable court will issue a rule that the said Davidson be ordered to pay into this court the full amount derived by him
from claimant, as purchase money of said goods, and that same
be paid over to claimant, who thereupon offers to rescind said
purchase and to waive all further claim to said goods."
On December 24, Bernheimer, in answer to the petition of
December 17, filed an account as therein requested, showing
that he had received, from sales of the goods, sums amounting
to $2768.40; that at the time of his purchase from Davidson
he also bought the exemptions allowed to the bankrupt under
the laws of Alabama and the Bankrupt Act of 1898, amounting to the sum of $1,000; and that, deducting that sum and
necessary expenses, he had a net balance in his hands of $1434.80.
On the same 24th of December, the petitioning creditors demurred to the claim of Bernheimer, because it showed no title
in Bernheimer good as against their rights; because the alleged
sale by Davidson to Bernheiiner was made with knowledge by
both of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, and after the
court of bankruptcy had acquired jurisdiction of the property;
because the deed of assignment to Davidson was an act of bank-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy, void as against the petitioning creditors; and because
Bernheimer asked the court to settle and decide questions between him and Davidson which it had no jurisdiction to try
and determine.
On the same day, the District Court sustained the demurrer;
and, Bernheimer declining to plead further, adjudged and decreed "that the said Louis Bernheimer acquired no title to the
said goods, or to the proceeds of the sales thereof made by him,
under the purchase of said goods from H. C. Davidson as assignee of said bankrupt, superior to the title of said bankrupt
estate;" and that Bernheimer pay over to the marshal, to
await the further order of the court, all the proceeds, to be ascertained by a referee in bankruptcy, of the sales made by him
of those goods.
Bernheimer appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which,
considering the case as if before it on a petition for revision of
the decree of the District Court, reversed that decree; and
ordered the cause to be remanded to that court, with instructions to dismiss the petition against Bernheiner, to vacate all
orders made thereon, and to restore to him the goods taken
from his possession; and further ordered that all costs, counsel
fees, expenses and damages, occasioned to him by the marshal's
seizure and detention of the property, be fixed and allowed by
the court of bankruptcy, and paid by the petitioning creditors.
93 Fed. Rep. 767; 35 0. C. A. 592.
The marshal, in behalf of the petitioning creditors, thereupon
obtained a writ of certiorari from this court. 175 U. S. 724.
-'. John D. Rouse, .M'. Gustave F. Afertins and .Afr. Wi
liam Grant for petitioner.
Xi-r. Robert E. Steiner, -Mr. Thomas H. Clark and XM. Gordon XoDonald, opposing.
MR. Jusiou GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The general assignment, made by Abraham to Davidson, did
not constitute Davidson an assignee for value, but simply made

BRYAN v. BERNHEIMER.
Opinion of the Court.

him an agent of Abraham for the distribution of the proceeds
of the property among Abraham's creditors. This general assignment was of itself an act of bankruptcy, without regard to
the question whether Abraham was insolvent. Bankrupt Act
of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 3; West Co. v. Lea, 174 U. S. 590.
Nine days after this assignment, certain creditors of Abraham
filed a petition in the District Court of the Tnited States to
have him adjudged a bankrupt, alleging this assignment as an
act of bankruptcy. After the filing of that petition, Davidson
sold the property to Bernheimer, and the District Court, after
the adjudication of bankruptcy, and on petition of the same
creditors, alleging that, unless the court made an order requiring the property to be taken immediate possession of, the petitioners and all other creditors of Abraham would be greatly
damaged, and their dividends out of the estate greatly lessened,
and praying for an order to the marshal to take possession of
the property, ordered the marshal to do so; and on his petition
for instructions as to the property so seized, ordered notice to
Bernheimer to appear in ten days, and to propound any claim
that he had to the property, or, on failing to do so, be decreed
to have no right to it. In obedience to that order, Bernheimer
came into court, and propounded a claim to the property under
the sale by Davidson to him, alleging that if he was deprived
of it, and Davidson was allowed also to keep the price paid, his
position would be one of great hardship; submitting his claim
to the court, and asking it to make such orders as might be
necessary for his protection; and praying that the creditors be
remitted to their claim against Davidson for such price, or, if
the claimant was mistaken in the relief he prayed for, for an
order that such price be paid by Davidson into court and paid
over to the claimant, who thereupon offered to rescind the purchase and to waive all further claim to the property.
The District Court sustained a demurrer of the petitioning
creditors to this claim, and decreed that Bernheimer had no
title superior to the title of the bankrupt estate. On his appeal
from that decree, the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed it, and
ordered the property to be restored to him, with costs, counsel
fees, expenses and damages, occasioned to him by the seizure.
VOL. CLxxxI-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The marshal, in behalf of the petitioning creditors, thereupon
obtained this writ of certiorari.
The case, as the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals
states, presents this question: "Did the District Court, as a
court of bankruptcy, have jurisdiction to try the title to the
goods involved in this controversy by summary proceedings,
seizing the goods, and requiring Louis Bernheimer, the purchaser at the assignee's sale, by a rule entered against him, to
appear before that court within ten days and propound any
claim he had to the goods, or any part thereof; or, failing
therein, that he be decreed to have no claim or right thereto?"
The Bankrupt Act of 1898, § 2, invests the courts of bankruptcy "with such jurisdiction, at law and in equity, as to
enable them to exercise original jurisdiction in bankruptcy proceedings, in vacation in chambers, and during their respective
terms;" to make adjudications of bankruptcy; and, among
other things "(3) appoint receivers or the marshals, upon application of the parties in interest, in case the courts shall find
it absolutely necessary for the preservation of estates to take
charge of the property of bankrupts after the filing of the petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee is qualiied;"
"(6) bring in and substitute additional persons or parties in proceedings in bankruptcy when necessary for the complete determination of a matter in controversy; (7) cause the estates of
bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed,
and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein
otherwise provided." The exception refers to the provisions
of section 23, by virtue of which, as adjudged at the last term
of this court, the District Court can, by the proposed defendant's consent, but not otherwise, entertain jurisdiction over suits
brought by trustees in bankruptcy against third persons to recover property fraudulently conveyed by the bankrupt to them
before the institution of proceedings in bankruptcy. Bardes
v. JHawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524; .Jitchell v. .ItcClure,178
U. S. 539; licks v. lYnost, 178 U. S. 5-1.
The present case involves no question of jurisdiction over a
suit by a trustee against a person claiming an adverse interest
in himself.

BRYAN v. BERNHEIMER.
Opinion of the Court.

Nor is it a petition under § 3e or §.69 of the Bankrupt Act
of 1898, each of which relates to applications to take charge of
and hold property of a bankrupt after the petition and before
the adjudication in bankruptcy. The provisions of those sections, requiring the applicants to give bond for damages, have
no application to a case where there has been an adjudication
of bankruptcy, and the property thereby brought within the
jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy.
But it is a petition filed after an adjudication of bankruptcy
and before the appointment of a trustee; and must rest on the
authority given to the court of bankruptcy, by clause 3 of section 2, to "appoint receivers or the marshals, upon application
of parties in interest, in case the courts will find it absolutely
necessary for the preservation of estates, to take charge of the
property of bankrupts after the filing of the petition and until
it is dismissed or the trustee is qualified." Does this include
property of the bankrupt in the hands of third persons?
The Bankrupt Act of March 2, 1867, c. 176, § 40, provided
that upon the filing of a petition for an adjudication of involuntary bankruptcy, if probable cause should appear for believing
that the debtor was about to remove or conceal, or to make any
fraudulent conveyance of his property, the court might issue a
warrant to the marshal commanding him "forthwith take possession provisionally of all the property and effects of the debtor,
and safely keep the same until the further order of the court."
14 Stat. 536; Rev. Stat. § 5024. It was held by the Court of
Appeals of New York that this did not authorize the marshal
to take possession of the goods of the bankrupt in possession of
third persons claiming title thereto. Doyle v. Shaqpe, 74 N. Y.
154. But that decision was overruled by this court, and Mr.
Justice Miller in delivering its opinion said:
"The act of Congress was designed to secure the possession
of the property of the bankrupt, so that it might be administered
under the proceedings in the bankrupt court. Between the
first steps initiating proceedings in the bankrupt court and the
appointment of the assignee, a considerable time often passes.
During that time, the property of the bankrupt, especially in a
case commenced by creditors, may be surreptitiously conveyed

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

beyond the reach of the court or of the assignee, to whose possession it should come when appointed. If the bankrupt does
not voluntarily aid the court, or is inclined to defeat the proceedings, he can, with the aid of friends or irresponsible persons, sell his movable property and put the money in his pocket,
or secret his goods or remove them beyond the reach of his assignee or the process of the court, and defy the law. The evidence in this case shows the manner in which this can be done.
It was the purpose of the act of Congress to prevent this evil.
It therefore provides that, as soon as the petition in bankruptcy
is filed, the court may issue to the marshal a provisional warrant
directing him to take possession of the property and effects of
the bankrupt and hold them subject to the further order of the
court. To have limited this right or duty of seizure to such
property as he might find in the actual possession of the bankrupt would have manifestly defeated in many instances the
purposes of the writ. There is therefore no such limitation
expressed or implied. As in the writ of attachment, or the
ordinary execution on a judgment for the recovery of money,
the officer is authorized to seize the property of the defendant,
wherever found; so here it is made his duty to take into his
possession the property of the bankrupt wherever he may find
it. It is made his duty to collect and hold possession until the
assignee is appointed or the property is released by some order
of the court, and he would ill perform that duty if he should
accept the statement of every man in whose custody he found
the property which he believed would belong to the assignee,
when appointed, as a sufficient reason for failing to take possession of it." S/ampe v. Doyle, 102 U. S. 686, 689, 690. A
like decision was made in .Feibelnanv. Packard,109 U. S. 421.
These considerations are equally applicable to an application,
after the adjudication in bankruptcy and before the qualification of a trustee, for an appointment of the marshal, under
clause 3 of section 2 of the Bankrupt Act of 1898, to take charge
of "the property" of the bankrupt "after the filing of the
petition and until it is dismissed or the trustee qualified." It
is true that under this provision the appointment is only to be
made "in case the courts shall find it absolutely necessary for

BRYAN v. BERNHETMER.
Opinion of the Court.

the preservation of the estates." But that condition of things
is shown, in the present case, by the allegation of the application, and the finding of the court of bankruptcy, that it was
necessary to the interest of the creditors of the bankrupt to
take immediate possession of his property.
In the opinion in Bardes v. Hawarden Bank, 178 U. S. 524,
538, it was indeed said: "The powers conferred on the courts
of bankruptcy by clause 3 of section 2, and by section 69, after
the filing of a petition in bankruptcy, and in case it is necessary
for the preservation of property of the bankrupt, to authorize
receivers or the marshals to take charge of it until a trustee is
appointed, can hardly be considered as authorizing the forcible
seizure of such property in the possession of an adverse claimant, and have no bearing upon the question in what courts the
trustee may sue him." But the remark, "can hardly be considered as authorizing the forcible seizure of such property in
the possession of an adverse claimant," was an inadvertence,
and upon a question not arising in the case then before the
court, which related exclusively to jurisdiction of a suit by the
trustee after his appointment.
Moreover, the consent of the proposed defendant, Bernheimer, to this mode of proceeding is shown by the terms of his
claim, in which, not protesting against the jurisdiction of the
court of bankruptcy, he expressly submitted his claim to that
court, and asked for such orders as might be necessary for his
protection.
Considering that the property was not held by Davidson under any claim of right in himself, but under a general assignment which was itself an act of bankruptcy; that no trustee
had been appointed; that the sale by Davidson to Bernheimer
was made after and with knowledge of the petition in bankruptcy; and that Bernheimer consented to the form of proceeding; we are of opinion that Bernheimer had no title superior
to the title of the bankrupt's estate; that the District Court, as
a court of bankruptcy, was authorized so to decide in this proceeding; and that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
directing the goods to be restored to Bernheimer, must be reversed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

The question remains what further order should be made.
It is manifestly inequitable that Bernheimer should lose both
the goods themselves and the price which he had paid to Davidson for them. His equities in that respect, and the rightful
claim of the bankrupt's creditors against him, may depend upon
many circumstances, and can be best settled in the District
Court, which has authority, under clause 6 of section 2 of the
Bankrupt Act of 1898, to bring in Davidson if necessary for the
complete determination of the matter.
Judgment of th4e Circuit Court of Appeals ireversed, and case
-remandedto -DistrictCourtfor fur'therproceedingsin conformity with this opinion.

RASMUSSEN v. IDAHO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.
No. 215. Submitted March 13, 1900.-Decided April 22, 1901.

The provision in the statute of March 13, 1899, of Idaho that "whenever
the governor of the State of Idaho has reason to believe that scab or any
other infectious disease of sheep has become epidemic in certain localities in any other State or Territory, or that conditions exist that render
sheep likely to convey disease, he must thereupon by proclamation, designate such localities and prohibit the importation from them of any
sheep into the State, except under such restrictions as, after consultation with the state sheep inspector, he may deem proper," does not conflict with the Constitution of the United States.
This case distinguished from Railroad Company v. IHusen, 95 U. S. 465.

ON March 13, 1899, the legislature of Idaho passed an act,
the first section of which contains the following:
"Whenever the governor of the State of Idaho has reason to
believe that scab or any other infectious disease of sheep has
become epidemic in certain localities in any other State or Territory or that conditions exist that render sheep likely to convey disease, he must thereupon, by proclamation, designate
such localities and prohibit the importation from thein of any
sheep into the State, except under such restrictions as, after

