HALE v. LEWIS.
Syllabus.

purchaser of the vessel and the assignee of the charter party,
since it was not shown to have had any notice of the conversation, and therefore, in taking over the charter, was only bound
by the obligations imported by the words of the insurance clause
in their ordinary commercial sense. Paige v. Cagwin, 7 Hill,
361; Bristol v. Dann, 12 Wend. 142; Clews v. Iehr, 90 N. Y.
633; Truax v. Slater, 86 N. Y. 630; Tabor v. Yan Tassell, 86
N. Y. 642.
In conclusion, we are of opinion that, if anything more were
intended by the insurance clause than to impose on the owners
the duty of paying the premiums, it was fully satisfied by an
ordinary policy of insurance against perils of the sea; that such
policy would not cover damage done to another vessel by a
collision with the vessel insured, and that the primary liability
for such damage rested upon the charterers and not upon the
owners. We express no opinion as to the effect of any payment that may have been actually made by the underwriters
upon this loss.
The decrees of both courts must therefore be reversed, and the
case remanded to the .District Court for the District of
MAfassachusetts, forfurtherproceedingsnot inconsistent with
this opinion.

HALE v. LEWIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OP THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 151. Argued January 28, 29, 1901.-Decided Way 13, 1901.

A statute of Wisconsin required building and loan associations to deposit
with the state treasurer securities to a certain amount, to be held in trust
.for the benefit of local creditors. The receiver of a Minnesota building
and loan association, which had made the deposit required by the Wisconsin statute, prayed that such securities might be turned over to him,
and the proceeds distributed among all the shareholders of the association, wherever they might reside, upon the ground that the association

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
had no authority to pledge such securities; that such pledge operated to
prefer the Wisconsin shareholders over the other shareholders of the
association, and was a violation of the contract clause of the Constitution.
The Supreme Court held that the contract clause of the Constitution could
not be invoked to release these securities from the operation of the statute, as the stockholders had waived their right to insist upon the constitutional objection by the voluntary act of the board of directors, which
was binding upon them, in making the deposit with the state treasurer
under the statute. Held: That this was a non-Federal ground broad
enough to support the judgment, and the writ of error must be dismissed.

Tis was a petition filed by Lewis, as subscriber for five
shares of stock in the American Building and Loan Association,
in the circuit court for Dane County, against the American
Savings and Loan Association, the treasurer of the State of
Wisconsin, and William D. Hale, receiver of the association,
(subsequently admitted as def6ndant,) to compel the securities
of this association, held in trust by the state treasurer, to be
sequestrated and distributed among the members and stockholders who are residents of the State of Wisconsin, and for an
injunction and receiver as adjuncts to such relief.
The facts of the case as disclosed by the complaint, answer
and counterclaim are substantially as follows:
The American Building and Loan Association was originally
incorporated under the laws of Minnesota, April 15, 1887,with
its principal office at Minneapolis, where it continued to transact
its corporate business until June 26, 1892, when its name was
changed to the American Savings and Loan Association, without in any way affecting or altering its corporate rights. The
general nature of its business was declared to be "to assist its
members in saving and investing money, and in buying and
improving real estate, and in procuring money for other purposes, by loaning or advancing under the mutual building society plan, to such of them as might desire to anticipate the ultimate value of their shares, funds accumulated from the monthly
contributions of its stockholders, and also such other funds .as
may from time to time come into its hands." The management
of its affairs was vested in a board of seven directors, elected
by the stockholders. Membership was acquired by taking stock

HALE v. LEWIS.
Statement of the Case.

in the company and paying an admission fee. On July 31,
1888, the association amended its articles by adding thereto
that "the board of directors may sell and dispose of the mortgages held by the corporation whenever they may deem best
and as provided by the by-laws." But no by-laws were ever
passed upon this subject; and on July 11, 1889, the articles of
incorporation were again amended by declaring that "the
board of directors shall not sell or dispose of any of the mortgages held or owned by this corporation."
On April 19, 1889, the legislature of Wisconsin enacted a law
which provided that"No foreign building and loan association

shall is-

sue its shares, receive moneys or transact any business in this
State unless such association shall have and keep on deposit with
the state treasurer of Wisconsin, in trust for the benefit and
security of all its members in this State, the securities of the
actual cash value of $100,000 of the kind mentioned in section 2
of this act, to be approved and accepted by said state treasurer,
and held in trust as aforesaid, until all shares of such association
held by residents of this State shall have been fully redeemed
and paid off by such association, and until its contracts and obligations to persons and members residing in this State shall have
been fully performed and discharged." Sanford & Berryman's
Stats. see. 2014a.
At the time the complaint was filed the association had 246
shareholders in Wisconsin, of whom 162 had become such prior
to the enactment of this law; and thereafter, and prior to the
appointment of plaintiff in error as receiver, 84 additional residents of the State became sharehblders, all under a contract
identical with that by which all the shareholders in thirty-four
other States became shareholders in the association, and the
rights, privileges, immunities and liabilities of every shareholder,
whether residing in Wisconsin or elsewhere, were the same.
A few days after the enactment of the above law, and on
May 1, 1889, the board of directors adopted the following resolution: "1Resolved,That the state treasurer of Wisconsin be
made a depository of the association for temporary convenience
in complying with the law of Wisconsin in regard to the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

posit of securities, $100,000. Also resoZved, That the association
comply with the Wisconsin law as soon as possible." Thereafter, from time to time, without other or additional authority,
mortgages taken by the association from its members were delivered to the state treasurer in the aggregate face value of
$145,234. The shareholders had no knowledge whatever of the
delivery of these mortgages to the state treasurer, nor did they
consent or acquiesce in that disposition of them.
On January 14, 1896, the association having become insolvent,
the plaintiff in error, William B. Hale, was duly appointed receiver by the district court of Hennepin County, Minnesota,
under the laws of that State.
Subsequent to the appointment of Hale as receiver, and on
February 5, 1896, one Melville C. Clarke, was appointed receiver
for such association for the State of Wisconsin, by the circuit
court of Dane County, and the state treasurer, who was a party
to the proceeding, was ordered by the court to turn over all the
mortgages in his possession as treasurer, to Clarke as receiver.
This was done, and Clarke was proceeding to collect the same
for the purpose of distributing the proceeds to the shareholders
residing in Wisconsin.
Prior to the appointment of either of these receivers, however, Lewis fied this petition, to which Hale, the Minnesota
receiver, was subsequently made a party defendant. He also
filed an answer, praying that the Wisconsin receiver, Clarke,
turn over to him the mortgages held by him, to be by him,
Hale, collected, and the proceeds equitably distributed to all
the shareholders of the association, wheresoever they may reside.
Clarke, the Wisconsin receiver, demurred to the counterclaim set up in the answer of Hale, which was sustained, and
an appeal was taken from the order sustaining such demurrer
to the Supreme Court, which affirmed the order of the lower
court, and remanded the case for further proceedings. Hlale,
refusing to amend his answer and counterclaim, and electing
to stand upon the record, judgment was rendered against him
for costs, and from this judgment an appeal was taken to the

HALE v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court, which again affirmed the judgment of the circuit court. Whereupon plaintiff in error sued out this writ.
_Y. Eugene G. Hay for plaintiff in error. _lM. Charles H.
'Fan Campen was on his brief.
Xr. JoAn L. Er"dal for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
While no motion was made to dismiss this case, the question
of jurisdiction arising from the alleged want of a Federal question is elaborately discussed by counsel in their briefs, and has
received our attentive consideration.
The original complaint by Lewis against the Building and
Loan Association and the state treasurer makes no reference
to such question, and merely prays for relief under the state
statute, and for a distribution of the local assets among the
local stockholders. The answer of the state treasurer admits
the main allegations of the bill, and apparently accedes to the
position of the plaintiff. The answer and counterclaim of Hale,
the Minnesota receiver, who was subsequently admitted as
defendant, sets up no conflict between the Wisconsin statute
and the Federal Constitution, but denies the authority of the
association to pledge, transfer or dispose of any of its mortgages, which were delivered to the state treasurer without authority; asserts that the assets of the association, including the
mortgages in the possession of Clarke, are not su fficient to pay
all-the shareholders in full, and that if Clarke, the Wisconsin
receiver, shall collect the mortgages in his possession, and distribute the same to the Wisconsin shareholders, they will receive their pay in full, and thereby be constituted a preferred
class against equity and good conscience, and contrary to the
purposes of the association as defined by its articles; and finally,
"that the law under which it is alleged said mortgages were
deposited was intended to protect said Wisconsin shareholders
in-all their rights growing out of their membership in said association, and not for the purpose of extending, altering or

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

changing said rights; that the purpose for which any deposit
made by said association with said state treasurer under said
law was made terminated and was at an end when said association became insolvent and incapable of carrying out its contracts and effectuating the purpose of its being."
To this answer and counterclaim Clarke, the Wisconsin receiver, as well as Lewis, the plaintiff, demurred for insufficiency.
The demurrer was sustained, and the defendant Hale given leave
to amend. Instead of amending, Hale took an appeal to the
Supreme Court from the orders sustaining the demurrer.
Upon this appeal the Supreme Court held that the principal
question presented was as to the construction, validity and effect
of the law of Wisconsin requiring such associations to make a
deposit of securities as a condition to doing business, and decided, first, that the mortgages in dispute were deposited with
the state treasurer by the corporation in a bonafide attempt to
comply with the Wisconsin law; that it was its duty and within
the power of its directors to make such deposits, as a condition
precedent to the right to do business in Wisconsin; that the
recognition of the existence of a corporation by any other than
the State of its creation depends purely upon the comity of such
other State or States; that the power to exclude such corporations embraces the power to regulate them, and that this doctrine was conclusive as to the validity of the pledge of the securities in question under the Wisconsin statute, and was also
within the power of the corporation, and not in violation of the
trust reposed in the board of directors. And, second, that whatever the view taken of the rights and relations of the entire body
of stockholders as between themselves and the corporation, the
contract clause of the Constitution could not be invoked to release these securities from the operation of the statute, as the
stockholders had waived their right to insist upon the constitutional objection by the voluntary act of the board of directors
in making the deposit with the state treasurer under the statute. Said the court: "Whatever the practical result of the
enforcement of the trust in favor of Wisconsin shareholders,
creditors and others sustaining contractual relations with the
corporation defendant may be, it rests, as we think and as we

HALE v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the Court.

hold, upon the consent of the corporation and of its shareholders
lawfully given, as it well might be in the present case, by and
through its board of directors, for a valid consideration received
by the corporation to the benefit and advantage of those now
denying its validity."
The orders appealed from were affirmed, and the case sent
back to the circuit court. Hale refusing to amend and electing to stand on the record, judgment went against him for costs.
He appears to have carried the case again to the Supreme Court,
and for the first time assigned as error the repugnancy of the
statute to the Constitution of the United States. Judgment was
again affirmed.
Passing the question whether a party who failed to set up a
Federal question in his original pleadings, or upon his first appeal to the Supreme Court, and subsequently declines to amend,
and only sets such question up in an assignment of errors on a
second appeal, after the question had been practically disposed
of by the Supreme Court, does not lay himself open to the objection so often sustained by us -thata party cannot raise a Federal question for the first time on a motion for a rehearing,
Union .futual Life Ins. Co. v. .Kfirchoff, 169 U. S. 103, 113;
Yazoo & tississiypi -alley Railway Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S.
1, it is clear that the Supreme Court disposed of the case upon
a non-Federal ground broad enough to support the judgment.
It held, in substance, that, conceding the law to be unconstitutional, the corporation is estopped to set up its invalidity, by
the action of the board of directors in depositing securities with
the state treasurer under the Wisconsin statute; that such action
was within the power of the board; was binding upon the stockholders, and that such deposit, having been made subject to the
condition that the securities shall be held "in trust for the benefit and security of its members in this State, . . . and held
in trust as aforesaid, until all shares of this association shall
have been fully redeemed and paid off by such association, and
until its contracts and the obligations to persons residing in this
State shall have been fully performed and discharged," the
stockholders as well as the corporation were estopped to claim
that such condition was invalid.

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The case is completely covered by that of Eustis v. Bolles,
150 U. S. 361. This was an action to recover the residue of a
note, the holder having received one half of the amount under
certain insolvency proceedings in Massachusetts. Defendants
pleaded the proceedings in insolvency, an offer of composition,
its acceptance by plaintiff and the receipt of the amount coming
to him under the composition. Plaintiff demurred, and insisted
that the statute, which had been enacted after the note had been
executed, impaired the obligation of his contract. The Supreme
Court held that the action of plaintiff in accepting his dividend
under the insolvency proceedings was a waiver of his right to
object to the validity of the statute. Upon writ of error from
this court, we held that, in deciding that it was competent for
plaintiff to waive his legal rights, and that accepting his dividend under the insolvency proceedings was such a waiver, the
court did not decide a Federal question, and the writ of error
was dismissed, citing Beaupjw v. _-Noyes, 138 U. S. 397. See
also Electric Co. v. Dow, 166 U. S. 489; Pierce v. Somerset
Railway, 171 U. S. 6411 ; Seneca 7lation v. Ckristy, 162 U. S. 283.
The case differs from the one under consideration only in the
fact that in this case there was a further question whether the
waiver was binding not only upon the corporation but upon its
stockholders. That question involved the construction of the
Wisconsin statute, but no Federal right. See also 2lloran v.
Horsky, 178 U. S. 205, in which a defence under the laws of
the United States was held by the Supreme Court of Montana
to have been waived by the laches of the plaintiff. This was
also held to be a non-Federal ground sufficient to support the
judgment, and the writ of error was dismissed.
The same result must follow in this case, and the writ of error
is, therefore,
Dismissed.

