OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in F ench v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., ante, 324, TFight v.
.Davidson, ante, 371, and Tonawanda v. Lyon, ante, 389, all just
decided. For the reasons stated in my opinions in those cases,
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case.

CASS FARM COM2PANY v. DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 508. Argued February 25, 26,27, 1901. - Decided April 29, 1901.

The court holds and adheres to its decisions in Frenchv. Asphalt Paving,Co.,
Tonawanda v. Lyon, ante, 371, and WVight v. Davidson, ante, 389, and
finds nothing in the record to show that the complainants have entitled
themselves to its interference.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.JM. Henry X. Campbell for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Timothy E. Tarsney and _31r. C. 1).
MR. JUSTICE SHI

oslyn for Detroit.

S delivered the opinion of the court.

A bill in equity was filed in September, 1898, in the circuit
court for the county of Wayne, State of Mlichigan, by the Cass
Farm Company, Limited, and others, owners of lands lying and
abutting upon Second avenue in the city of Detroit, against
said city, the board of public works, and the Alcatraz Asphalt
Paving Company, whereby it was sought to enjoin the city of
Detroit from paving a portion of Second avenue, and to have
the proceedings taken with reference to said paving declared
void.
There was a decree in the circuit court in favor of complainants, and thereupon the case was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan, where the decree of the trial court

CASS FARM CO. v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

was reversed, and a decree was entered dismissing the complainant's bill with costs of both courts.
We learn from a statement in the opinion of the Supreme
Court that among other grounds of relief stated in the bill
was the following:
"That the provisions of the charter and of the paving ordinances of the city, in so far as the same provide for an assessment of the cost of paving upon the abutting property in proportion to the frontage of such property, were in violation of
the Constitution of the United States and the amendments
thereof, and therefore null and void."
The state Supreme Court disposed of this contention in the
following language:
"In paving cases the rule has been settled in this State by
many decisions that it is competent for the legislature to authorize the cost of paving streets to be assessed upon the abutting
property according to frontage.
"lIt was said by Mr. Justice Cooley in Skeley v. Detroit, 45
Michigan, 431:
"'We might fill pages with the names of cases decided in
other States which have sustained assessments for improving
streets, though the apportionment of the cost was made on the
same basis as the one before us. If anything can be regarded
as settled in municipal law in this country the power of the
legislature to permit such assessments and to direct an apportionment of the cost by frontage should by this time be considered as no longer open to question. Writers on constitutional law, on municipal law and on the law of taxation have
collected the cases and have recognized the principle as settled;
and if the question were new in this State we might think it
important to refer to what they say; but the question is not
new. It was settled for us thirty years ago.'
"We should feel inclined to follow the opinion of the Supreme
Court of the United States in N-orwood v. Baker, inasmuch as
it was based on the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
of the United States, if that were a paving case; but that was
a street opening case, and until that court shall pass upon the
question in the exact form in which it is here presented, we shall

OCTOBER TER.M, 1900.
JUSTICES HARLAN , WaITE and MCKENIA, dissenting.

feel bound to follow our own decisions." Thie Cass Farm Anyrovernent Co. v. Detroit, 83 N. E. Rep. 108.
We have recently held that it was not the intention of the
Fourteenth Amendment to subvert the systems of the States
pertaining to general and special taxation; that that amendment legitimately operates to extend to the citizens and residents of the States the same protection against arbitrary state
legislation affecting life, liberty and property, as is afforded by
the Fifth Amendment against similar legislation by Congress,
and that the Federal courts ought not to interfere when what
is complained of is the enforcement of the settled laws of the
State applicable to all persons in like circumstances and conditions, but only when there is some abuse of law, amounting to
confiscation of property or deprivation of personal rights, as
was instanced in the case of Arorwood v. Baker. Fi'ench v.
Asphalt Paving Co., Tonawanda v. Lyon, IWight v. Davidson,
ante, 324, 389, 371.
We are not convinced, by anything appearing in this record,
that the complainants have entitled themselves to the interference of this court. As held by the Supreme Court of their
own State, the proceedings to enforce the payment of their proportion of a common burden have been conducted in due regard
to the forms and provisions of the statutes and ordinances applicable to the facts of the case, and disclose no departure, actual or intended, from constitutional principles.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Michigan is
Affirmed.
MR. JuSTIOE HARLAN, (with whom concurred
WHt ITE and MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA,) dissenting.

AIR.

JUs'rxc

The controlling question in the above case is the same as is
presented in .rench v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., ante, 324,
Wight v. Davidson,ante, 371, and Tonawandav. Lyon, ante, 389,
just decided. For the reasons stated in my opinions in those
cases, I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court
inthis case.

