LYNDE v. LYNDE.
Statement of the Case.

North Dakota requires a domicil in good faith of the libellant
for ninety days as a prerequisite to jurisdiction of a case of divorce. Smith v. Smith, I North Dakota, 404, 413. The facts
in evidence warranted, and indeed required, the finding that the
husband had no bonatjidedomicil in the State of North Dakota,
when he obtained a divorce there, and it is not pretended that
the wife had an independent domicil in North Dakota, or was
ever in that State. The court of that State, therefore, had no
jurisdiction.
Judgment apwaed.

LYNDE v. LYNDE.
LYNDE v. LYNDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 305, 369. Submitted November 5, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A decree of the highest court of a State, giving full faith and credit to a
decree in another State for alimony, cannot be reviewed by this court on
writ of error sued out by the defendant.
The refusal of the highest court of a State to give effect to so much of a
decree in another State, as awards alimony in the future, and requires a
bond, sequestration, a receiver and injunction, to secure payment of past
and future alimony, presents no Federal question for the review of this
court.

Tnis was an action brought May 26, 1898, in the Supreme
Court for the county and State of New York, on a decree of
the Court of Chancery of New Jersey of December 28, 1897,
by which it was ordered that the plaintiff was entitled to recover of the defendant the sum of $7840 for alimony at the rate
of $80 per week from February 11, 1896, to the date of the
decree, and the further sum of $80 per week permanent alimony
from the date of the decre, the said weekly payments to be
valid liens on the defendant's real estate; that the defendant
give bond to the plaintiff in the sum of $10,000 to secure the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

payment of the sums of money directed to be paid; and to pay
costs, taxed at $136.07, and a counsel fee of $1000; and that on
his default to pay any of the "foregoing sums of money" or to
give bond, application might be made for the issue of a writ of
sequestration against him, or for an order appointing a receiver
of his property, and enjoining his transfer thereof. The record
showed the following material facts:
On November 18, 1892, the plaintiff in this action filed her
bill for a divorce in the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, setting forth her marriage with the present defendant on March 25,
1884, in New Jersey, where she has since resided; and praying
for a divorce from the bond of matrimony for desertion for two
years, and for reasonable alimony. The defendant was not
served with process other than by publication, and did not appear or answer the bill. On August 7, 1893, a decree of divorce
was entered, not mentioning alimony.
On February 10, 1896, the plaintiff, alleging that this decree
was incomplete through the neglect of her counsel, filed a petition in that court, praying for an opening and amendment of
the decree by allowing reasonable alimony. Upon this petition,
a rule to show cause was entered, and it was ordered that copies
of the petition and affidavits accompanying it be served on the
defendant.
In answer to the rule, the defendant appeared generally, and
filed an affidavit, declaring that he was a resident of New York,
"that this defendant was by the decree of this court divorced
from said petitioner" on August 7, 1893, "and since that time
has been married again to another woman," "that the decree
for divorce in said cause was purposely drawn without providing for or reserving any alimony;" and "that he is financially
unable to pay alimony."
On October 26, 1896, the Court of Chancery of New Jersey
amended the decree of August 7, 1893, by ordering that the
petitioner "have the right to apply to this court at any time
hereafter, at the foot of this decree, for reasonable alimony,
and for such other relief in the premises touching alimony as
may be equitable and just; and this court reserves the power
to make such order or decree as may be necessary to allow and

LYNDE v. LYNDE.
Statement of the Case.

compel the payment of alimony to the petitioner by defendant,
or to refuse to allow alimony." 6 Dickinson (54 N. J. Eq.)
473. On appeal this order was affirmed by the New Jersey
Court of Errors and Appeals. 10 Dickinson (55 N. J. Eq.) 591.
Thereupon an order of reference, based on all prior proceedings,
and on notice to the solicitor for the defendant, was made by
the Court of Chancery to a master to find the amount of alimony, if any, due to the plaintiff. Neither the defendant nor
his solicitor appeared at the hearing before the master; and on
December 28, 1897, the Court of Chancery, confirming the
master's report, made the decree now sued on.
That court, on its being made to appear that a certified copy
of this decree was personally served on the defendant, and that
he refused to comply with said decree, ordered that a receiver
be appointed to take possession of all the defendant's real and
personal property in New Jersey to apply it to the payment of
the plaintiff's claim. The receiver, however, was "unable to
obtain possession of any property or assets of said defendant
in the State of New Jersey;" nor had the defendant "complied
with said decree in any respect."
The Supreme Court of New York decreed that the plaintiff
was "entitled to a judgment against the defendant, enforcing
against said defendant the decree of the Court of Chancery of
New Jersey, dated December 28, 1897," and the order appointing a receiver, and enjoining the defendant from transferring
his property; also that the plaintiff was entitled to judgment
that the defendant pay her $8976.07, "being alimony, counsel
fee and costs, due under said decree," and interest thereon from
its date; also the "sum of $4400, being the amount of weekly
alimony which has accrued since said decree in accordance with
the terms thereof," and interest thereon; also $80 a week from
the date of this decision "as and for permanent alimony,"
bearing interest until paid; that he give bond "in the sum of
$100,000 to secure payment of the several sums of money aforesaid;" and that, if the defendant fail to comply with this
decision, "a receiver be appointed, ancillary to the receiver
heretofore appointed by the Court of Chancery of New Jersey

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

as aforesaid, of the real and personal property of the defendant within the State of New York."
On appeal by the defendant to the Appellate Division, the
decree was modified so as to allow the plaintiff to recover only
$8840 alimony, the amount declared by the New Jersey court
as due and payable at the date of its decree. Thus modified,
the judgment of the Supreme Court was affirmed. 41 N. Y.
App. Div. 280.
From the judgment of the Appellate Division both parties
appealed to the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the judgment of the Appellate Division. 162 N. Y. 405. Each party
sued out a writ of error from this court.
.31r.George S. Ingrahan for Charles W. Lynde.
.Ab'. James TFesterveZt and -Y. .Xatthew C. Fleming for Mary
W. Lynde.
M. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The husband, as the record shows, having appeared generally
in answer to the petition for alimony in the Court of Chancery
in New Jersey, the decree of that court for alimony was binding upon him. 1aing v. Rigney, 160 U. S.531. The court of
New York having so ruled, thereby deciding in favor of the full
faith and credit claimed for that decree under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, its judgment on that question
cannot be reviewed by this court on writ of error. Gordon v.
Caldcleugh, 3 Cranch, 268; .zlfissouriv. Andriano, 138 U. S.
496. The husband having appeared and been heard in the
proceeding for alimony, there is no color for his present contention that he was deprived of his property without due
process of law. Nor does he appear to have made any such
contention in the courts of the State. His writ of error, therefore, must be dismissed.
By the Constitution and the act of Congress, requiring the
faith and credit to be given to a judgment of the court of an-

LYNDE v. LYNDE.
Opinion of the Court.

oLher State that it has in the State where it was rendered, it
was long ago declared by this court: "The judgment is made
a debt of record, not examinable upon its merits; but it does
not carry with it, into another State, the efficacy of a judgment upon property or persons, to be enforced by execution.
To give it the force of a judgment in another State, it must
be made a judgment there; and can only be executed in the
latter as its laws may permit." .XcElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Pet.
312, 325; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, 463; Wisconsin v. PelicanIns. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 292; Bullock v. Bullock,
6 Dickinson (51 N. J. Eq.) 444, and 7 Dickinson (52 N. J. Eq.)
561.
The decree of the Court of Chancery of New Jersey, on
which this suit is brought, provides, first, for the payment of
$7840 for alimony already due, and $1000 counsel fee; second,
for the payment of alimony since the date of the decree at the
rate of $80 per week; and third, for the giving of a bond to
secure the payment of these sums, and, on default of payment
or of giving bond, for leave to apply for a writ of sequestration, or a receiver and injunction.
The decree for the payment of $8840 was for a fixed sum
already due, and the judgment of the court below was properly restricted to that. The provision of the payment for alimony in the future was subject to the discretion of the Court
of Chancery of New Jersey, which might at any time alter it,
and was not a final judgment for a fixed sum. The provisions
for bond, sequestration, receiver and injunction, being in the
nature of execution, and not of judgment, could have no extraterritorial operation; but the action of the courts of New York
in these respects depended on the local statutes and practice of
the State, and involved no Federal question.
On the writ of error of the wife, therefore,
The judgment is aftirmed.

