INTERSTATE COM. v. CLYDE STEAMSHIP CO.

29

Counsel for Parties.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Aoppeale should be reversed
with costs and the case be remanded to the Circuit Court
with instructions to set aside its decree adjudging that the
order of the commission be enforced, and to dismiss the applicationmadefor thatpurTosewith costs, the whole to be withoat prejudice to the right of the co nmission to proceed upon
the evidence already introduced before it or upon, suchfurther _pleadings and evidence as it may allow to be made or
introduced, to hear and determine the matter in controversy
according to law.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CLYDE
STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
SAME v. WESTERN AND ATLANTIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. CLYDE STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
Nos. 68, G9,70.

Argued November 5, 6, 1900.-Decided April 8, 1901.

East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia R~ailway Company v. Interstate Comnerce Commission, ante 1, followed.
THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the

court.
Xfr. L. A. Shaver for appellants.
General Beck was on his brief.

.Mi'. Assistant Attorney

-Tl. Edward Baxter for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

These cases, with others of like character, originated in complaints brought before the Interstate Commerce Commission by
the Railroad Commission of the State of Georgia in the names
of the members of that body. Each complaint averred that
the defendant carriers were guilty of wrong in that they were
illegally charging a greater rate to certain shorter distance
points than they were asking to certain longer distance points,
in violation of the long and short haul clause of the fourth seetion of the act to regulate commerce, and, as ancillary to this
complaint, that the rates exacted by the defendant carriers were
unreasonable and amounted to both an undue preference and an
unjust discrimination.
In case No. 68 the complaint was that the rates charged by
the defendants for freight transportation, by continuous carriage, from the city of New York and other eastern seaboard
points to Greensboro, Madison, Social Circle, Covington, Conyers and Stone Mountain, towns and stations situated on the
line of the Georgia Railroad between Augusta, the eastern terminus of that road, and Atlanta, its western terminus, were
greater in each case than the amounts charged and received for
freight carried to the city of Atlanta, the longer distance point.
In case No. 69 the complaint was that the rates of freight
charged by the defendants for freight transportation, by continuous carriage, from the city of Cincinnati and other Ohio
River points to Marietta, Acworth, Cartersville, Kingston,
Adairsville and Calhoun, towns and stations situated on the
Western Atlantic Railroad between Chattanooga, the northern
terminus of that road, and Atlanta, the southern terminus, were
greater on each class than the amount charged and received for
freight carried to Atlanta, the longest distance point.
In case No. 70 the complaint was that the rates of freight
charged by the defendants for freight transportation by continuous carriage from the city of New York and other eastern
points to West Point, La Grange, Hlogansville, Grantile and
Newman-towns and stations on the Atlanta and West Point
Railroad, Atlanta being the eastern terminus of said road and
the town of West Point its western terminus-were greater on
each class than the amount charged and received for freight to

INTERSTATE CO1. v. CLYDE STEAMSHIP CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

a longer distance point, viz., the city of Opelika, situated further west on a connecting railroad known as the Western Railroad of Alabama.
After issues made by answers and hearing had upon evidence
introduced before the commission, that body entered an order
in each case, in substance commanding the defendants to cease
and desist from charging and receiving any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation of property
between the points of initial shipments mentioned in the complaint and the shorter distance points therein referred to than
was exacted to the more distant points specified in the various
complaints. The order, however, contained a proviso that it
should not be operative until a date designated to enable the
defendants to apply, under the fourth section of the act, to be
relieved from the operation of that section in respect to the prohibition therein contained against charging or receiving any
greater compensation for a lesser than for a longer haul, under
substantially similar circumstances and conditions. 5 I. C. C.
Rep. 326; 4 Inter. Com. Rep. 120.
The defendant carriers, not having availed of the permission
thus accorded, and refusing to obey, the commission, in due
time, began proceedings in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Georgia to enforce
obedience to its orders. In the Circuit Court additional testimony was taken. All the cases were considered and passed on
together. The court decided that the commission had erroneously construed the statute in holding that competition which
was actual and substantial in its effect upon rates, if resulting
from the action of other carriers who were- subject to the act
to regulate commerce, could not produce the dissimilarity of
circumstances and conditions provided in the fourth section of
the act, so as to enable a carrier in adjusting rates to take into
view such competition without the previous assent of the commission. It moreover found that the rates in controversy were
in and of themselves just and reasonable, and did not give rise
either to undue preference or unjust discrimination. The court,
therefore, declined to enforce the order of the commission. 88
Fed. IRep. 186. On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals the
decrees of the Circuit Court were affirmed. 93 Fed. Rep. 83.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

In deciding the Alabama .Midland case, 168 U. S. 144, 164,
we had occasion to refer to the opinion announced by the commission in the cases now under review, because the ruling of
the commission in the matter which was examined in the .Midland case was like the one made in the present cases. The
opinion by which the commission sustained the ruling by it made
in the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia case, which we
have just examined and decided to be erroneous, was also expressly predicated on the opinion which the commission bad
previously expressed in these cases. It follows that the error
committed by the commission, in interpreting the statute in
these cases, has been at least twice heretofore pointed out in
the decisions of this court, and hence further examination of the
subject is unnecessary. It will be seen from an inspection of
the able opinions of the courts below that they expounded the
statute in entire accord with the construction which we had
previously given to it, and which we have again applied in the
East Tennessee, Fi'giniaand Georgiacase. Despite, however,
the error of law which the commission committed in these
cases, and in consequence of which error it made no investigation of the facts but postponed the performance of its duty on
this subject until a further application was made for relief, it is
now urged that we should enter into an original investigation
of the facts for the purpose of considering a number of questions as to discrimination, as to preference, as to reasonableness
of rates, as to the relation which the rates at some places bore
to those at others, in order to discharge the duty which the
statute has expressly in the first instance declared should be
performed by the commission. In the East Tennessee, Viryinia
and Georgia case, just decided, following the ruling made in
-Louisville& NZashville Railroad v. Beinmer, 175 U. S. 648, 667,
and previous cases, we have held that, where the commission
by reason of its erroneous construction of the statute had in a
case to it presented declined to adequately find the facts, it was
the duty of the courts, on application being made to them, to
enforce the erroneous order of the commission not to proceed
to an original investigation of the facts which should have been
passed upon by the commission, but to correct the error of law

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COM.
Syllabus.

committed by that body, and after doing so to remand the case
to the commission so as to afford it the opportunity of examining the evidence and finding the facts as required by law. The
investigation which we have given the questions which arise in
these cases and the consideration which we have bestowed on
the issues which were involved in the case of the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad have served but to impress
upon us the necessity of adhering to that rule, in order that the
statute may be complied with both in letter and spirit. Acting
in accordance with this requirement, whilst affirming the decree
below which refused to enforce the order of the commission,
we shall do so without prejudice to the right of the commission,
if it so elects, to make an original investigation of the questions
presented in these records.
Tie decrees of the Circit Court of Appeals and of the Circuit Court must be modified by p)roviding that the dismissal
of the bills shall be without.,prJudice to the right of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, if it so elects, to make an
original investigation of the questions contained in the records pertinent to the complaints _presented to that body, and,
as so modified, said decrees must be afflrmed, and it is so
ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

HARLAN

dissented.

LOMBARD v. WEST CHICAGO PARK COMMISSIONERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMAE COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 160.

Argued January 31, 1901.-Decided April 8, 1901.

The question whether the benefit accruing to each particular tract of real
estate assessed by the park commissioners for the payment of the Douglas boulevard equalled the sum of the assessment placed thereon, was
foreclosed by the findings of fact of the trial court, to which the case was
submitted without the intervention of a jury.
VOL. CLXXXI-3

