OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

MARKS v. SHOUP.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATE S FOR THE
DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
No. 82. Submitted February 28, 1901.-Decided May 13, 1901.

Under the law of Oregon which was in force in Alaska when the seizure
and levy of the plaintiff's goods were made by the defendant as marshal
of Alaska under a writ of attachment, that officer could not, by virtue of
his writ, lawfully take the property from the possession of a third person,
in whose possession he found it.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
and .Mr. L. T. X.licener for plaintiff in
IF.
3 r. F TDudley
error. 3Mr. W E. Crews and lbr. J H. Cobb were on their
brief.
f'. S. X. Stockslager, .Ah,. George C. Heard and .Mr.Arthur
-. Delaney for defendant in error.
MRT. JUSTICE MOKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action for damages, brought by the plaintiff in
error, -who was also plaintiff in the court below, and we will
therefore so designate him, against the defendant, by virtue of
his office, caused by the taking from the possession of the plaintiff of a certain stock of goods, wares and merchandise.
The goods originally belonged to one Joe Levy, who sold
them to one Levine by verbal sale, and as a part of the consideration Levine assumed to pay a debt due to the plaintiff. Levine sold them to one Kendall, who assumed to pay the same
debt. Kendall sold and delivered them to plaintiff.
The defendant was at the time of the taking of the goods
marshal of Alaska, and he justified the taking under and by
virtue of attachments issued out of the District Court against
Levy, one in the case of Powers Dry Goods Co. v. levy, and the

MARKS v. SHOUP.
Opinion of the Court.

other in the West Coast Grocery Co. v. Levy, and claimed that
the transfers by Levy were in fraud of his creditors.
The plaintiff replied that he had bought the goods from third
persons for a valuable consideration, denied all fraud, and further pleaded that during all the time from prior to the commencement of the actions mentioned in defendant's answer
until and at the time of the taking, he was in the actual and
exclusive possession of the goods, and denied that defendant
ever made any levy whatever upon said goods.
Defendant filed a supplemental answer at the trial setting up
that the attachments had merged in judgments upon which
executions had issued, the goods soldand the judgments satisfied.
The case was tried before a jury, and resulted in a verdict
for the defendant.
Motion for a new trial was made and overruled, and judgment entered for defendant. This writ of error was then sued
out.
In the attachment suits against Levy summons was issued
but not served, and substituted service was afterward obtained
by publication. The affidavits for the attachments did not
mention the amount of indebtedness claimed, and the sufficiency of the substituted service and the validity of the judgment based upon it are attacked on that ground.
It is also contended that the levies of the attachments were
invalid ; and error is assigned on the admission of the testimony
and in giving instructions to the jury.
(1) The laws of Oregon were in force in Alaska at the time
of the attachments. Act of May 17, 1884, c. 53, 23 Stat. 24.
The provision for attachments was as follows:
"A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, whenever the plaintiff or
any one in his behalf shall make an affidavit showing:
"1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff (specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and above all legal
set-offs or counter-claims) upon a contract." 1 Hill's Code, Oregon, ed. 1887, ยง 145.
It is contended that these provisions were not complied with

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

and the attachments were therefore void, and, they being void,
there was no foundation for the judgments. This court has
ruled already as to that contention in the case of .fatt]hews v.
Densmore, 109 U. S. 216, and other cases. In 3fattiews v.
Densmore, the claim of a defect in the affidavit invalidating
the attachment was directly passed on, and of the attachment
it was said:
"It may be voidable. It may be avoided by proper proceedings in that court. but when in the hands of the officer
who is bound to obey it, with the seal of the court and everything else on its face to give it validity, if he did obey it, and is
guilty of no error in this act of obedience, it must stand as his
sufficient protection for that act in all other courts."
(2) The answer of the defendant alleged that the writs of attachment in the actions mentioned were placed in his hands
for service, and by virtue of them he "duly levied upon all of
the goods, wares and merchandise set forth in plaintiff's complaint herein, and ever since that time has held and now holds
the same as said United States marshal under and by virtue of
said writs."
His returns upon the writs were as follows:
"I hereby certify that I have executed the within writ of attachment by levying upon the personal property of the withinnamed defendant, to wit: All the goods, wares and merchandise situated in the one-story building one door south of B. N.
Behrends' bank, on Seward street between Second and Third
streets, in the town of Juneau, District of Alaska, by posting a
copy of said writ of attachment on the front door of said building; also, eleven (11) cases of boots and shoes consigned to the
within-named defendant, Joseph Levy, situated in the warehouses of the Pacific Coast Steamship Company, by delivering
a notice and copy of the within writ of attachment on II. F.
IRobinson, the agent of said Pacifie Coast Steamship Company,
and have all of the above-described personal property of the
above-named defendant now in my possession.
"Dated at Juneau, Alaska, May 14, 1898."
It will be observed that the returns are somewhat vague as
to whose possession the property was in at the time of levy. If

MARKS v. SHOUP.
Opinion of the Court.

the fact can be said to have been put in issue by the pleadings
the only evidence in the case was given by the plaintiff as follows:
"About the 10th day of Mlay, 1898, I was the owner and in
the possession of a stock of goods, wares and merchandise in
Juneau, Alaska. The goods were in the building on Seward
street, next to B. M. Behrends. On or about that date the
United States deputy marshal, W. D. Grant, came to the store
and took the goods out of my possession. I declined to surrender possession, but the deputy marshal forcibly put me out
of the building, took the key out of my pocket, and locked the
front door."
The truth of this was not questioned, andit must be accepted
as established that at the time of the levy the property was in
the possession of the plaintiff. What is the effect of it? In
other words, was the levy made, as described in the return of
the defendant, legal?
The statute provided as follows:
"The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay as follows: . . .
"2. Personal property, capable of manual delivery to the
sheriff, and not in the possession of a third person, shall be
attached by taking it into his custody.
"3. Other personal property shall be attached by leaving a
certified copy of the writ, and a notice specifying the property
attached, with the person having the possession of the same."
1 Hill's Code, Oregon ed. 1887, ยง 149, subs. 2 and 3.
These provisions were passed upon in 2paulding v. -ennedy,
6 Oregon, 208. The facts of the case as stated by the court
were as follows:
"Litchenthaler and Simpson were, on the ninth of November,
1875, the owners of a certain mare, the property in dispute,
upon which they executed a chattel mortgage of that date in
favor of the Granger Market Company. This mortgage was
duly recorded, and remained unsatisfied at the commencement
of this action. Subsequently Litchenthaler and Simpson delivered the mare to the plaintiff upon a second chattel mortgage

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

by them in his favor, executed subsequently to the one in favor
of the Granger Market Company.
"In March, 1876, one James Welch obtained a judgment
against the Granger Market Company, upon which an execution was issued, and placed in the hands of Kennedy, the appellant, who was a constable. Kennedy under this execution
levied, as it is claimed, upon the mare, as the property of the
Granger Market Company, by taking her from the possession
of one Stemme, the bailee of the plaintiff Spaulding. Spaulding brought this action to recover possession."
The court said:
"It was the object of the levy to subject the right of the
Granger Market Company to execution, and in order to do so,
and by a levy and sale, transfer this right to an execution purchaser, the officer must pursue the course pointed out by the
statute."
And after quoting the statute, said further:
"This property not being in the possession of the Granger
Market Company at the time of the levy, the officer could not,
by virtue of his writ, lawfully take it from the possession of a
third person in whose possession he found it, and he committed
a trespass in so doing. It is claimed that this statute is simply
intended to protect those in possession of property who may
have a lien on it by virtue of which they may be entitled to redeem it. This may be the object of the statute. The statute
provides that such persons, when summoned as garnishees, shall
answer and show by what title they hold the property; but the
sheriff, when he finds the property which he supposes belongs
to the judgment debtor in the possession of third persons, has
no right to determine the right of that possession, except in the
manner provided by law."
The same principle was expressed in Lewis v. Birdsley, 26
Pac. Rep. 632, and in Baclhellor v. Richardson, 21 Pac. Rep.
392.
The cases cited by defendant in error are not to the contrary.
Page et al. v. Grant, 9 Oregon, 116, was a direct attack, after
execution returned unsatisfied, upon a sale claimed to be fraudulent. Lyon v. Leaky, 15 Oregon, 8, and Philbricev. O'Connor,

LUHRS v. HANCOCK.
Counsel for Parties.

15 Oregon, 15, and Crawford v. Beard, 12 Oregon, 447, were
creditor's bills brought to set aside deeds for real estate after
return of execution unsatisfied. It follows that the levy was
invalid and could constitute no defence to the defendant, and
the jury should have been so instructed.
(3) The errors assigned on instructions not disposed of by the
above reasoning it is not necessary to consider. We may say,
however, that we have grave doubts of their correctness.
Judgment reversed with costs and cause reemanded with directions to grant a new trial.

LUHRS v. HANCOCK.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
No. 176. Argued and submitted March 7, 1901.-Decided May 13,1901.
By the provision in Act 68 of the Laws of the Territory of Arizona that
the common law of England, so far as it is consistent with and adapted
to the natural and physical condition of this Territory and the necessities
of the people thereof, and not repugnant to or inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States, or bill of rights, or laws of this Territory,
or established customs of the people of this Territory, is hereby adopted,
and shall be the rule of decision in all the courts of this Territory, the
common law was not made unqualifiedly the rule of decision, but that
law, as modified by the conditions of the Territory, and changes in the
common-law relation between husband and wife had been expressed in
statutes prior to the passage of the act of 1885.
By a conveyance from a husband to his wife, property does not lose its
homestead character.
The deed of a person alleged to be insane is not absolutely void; it is only
voidable, and may be confirmed or set aside.
The inquiry as to the insanity of Mrs. Hancock was not open to the appellant.

Tim case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. L. E. Payson, for appellant, submitted on his brief.

