HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. WARREN.

73

Statement of the Case.

HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. WARREN.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE ME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 196. Argued and submitted March 19, 1901.-Decided April 8,1901.

Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Waters-Pierce Company
v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28; New York Life Insurance Company v. Cravens, 178

U. S. 389, approved and affirmed.
Section 3625 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio dealing with the subject of
answers to interrogatories in applications for policies of life insurance,
applicable to all life insurance companies doing business in the State of
Ohio, and in force at the time the policy of insurance sued on in this case
was issued, was within the power of the State over corporations, and not
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.

THis action was brought in the Common Pleas Court of Delaware County, Ohio, on a policy of insurance issued September 27, 1895, by the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
Company on the life of George E. Warren and for the benefit
of William M. Warren. The insurance company resisted payment on the ground that the policy had been fraudulently obtained by the decedent, in that the answers made by him in
his application made a part of the policy, and which were expressly warranted to be complete and true, the policy providing
that if any of the statements were untrue it should be void, were
false, and that he made them for the purpose of defrauding the
insurance company, which would not have issued the policy had
it known of the falsity of the answers.
Section 3625 of the. Revised Statutes of Ohio provided that:
"No answer to any interrogatory made by an applicant, in his
or her application for a policy, shall bar the right to recover
upon any policy issued upon such application, or be used in evidence upon any trial to recover upon such policy, unless it be
clearly proved that such answer is wilfully false and was fraudulently made, that it is material, and induced the company to
issue the policy, and that but for such answer the policy would

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not have been issued; and, moreover, that the agent of the
company had no knowledge of the falsity or fraud of such answer." Rev. Stat. Ohio, 1898, p. 1900.
The trial judge charged the jury as follows: "This law being in force at the time this policy of insurance was taken out,
is applicable to the policy of insurance involved in this case.
And is applicable to the questions and answers in the application that by the terms of the policy are made express warranties as well as those that are not." The defendant duly excepted
to that portion of the charge, and to other portions of the same
purport. The defendant also requested the court to give the
jury the following instruction: "The policy or contract upon
which this action is based and the application made by George
E. Warren for the same, constitute a warranty that all answers
by said Warren contained therein are true, and if any one or
more of said answers is untrue, though made without actual
fraud, and under an innocent misapprehension of the purport of
the questions and answers, no contract of insurance is thereby
made, and the contract is void ab initio, and your verdict will
be for the defendant." The court declined to give this instruction, and defendant duly excepted.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, and judgment
was entered thereon, which was affirmed by the Circuit Court,
and finally by the Supreme Court of Ohio. The fohn 1ancock
.Tmutual Eife Insurance Company v. M-arren, 59 Ohio St. 45.
_Xr. George K. NYash, Mr. I. Z. Davis and 3fr. Louis G.
Addison for plaintiffs in error submitted on their brief.
.AXr. John S. Jones for defendant in error.
and M1[r. F. l. arriott were on his brief.
Ali.

CHIEr JusmcE FULLER,

Mr. IF. B. Jones,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
In State v. Ackerman, 51 Ohio St. 163, it was ruled that as
foreign insurance companies and associations, whether incorporated or not, before commencing business in the State, were

HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. v. WARREN.

75

Opinion of the Court.

required to obtain a certificate of authority to do so, which conferred on the company or association receiving it the right and
privilege of carrying on its business in the State, the privilege
so conferred was a franchise. In the course of the opinion the
court quoted with approval, from Spelling on Extraordinary
Relief, as follows: "Where, by statute, the legal exercise of a
right, which at common law was private, is made to depend
upon compliance with conditions interposed for the security
and protection of the public, the necessary inference is that it
is no longer private, but has become a matter of public concern, that is, a franchise, the assumption and exercise of which
without complying with the conditions prescribed would be a
usurpation of a public or sovereign function.

.

.

.

There

is no class of business, the transaction of which, as a matter of
private right, was better recognized at common law than that
of making contracts of insurance upon the lives of individuals.
But now, by statute, in almost, if not quite all the States, stringent requirements as to security of the persons dealing with insurers and the making and filing reports of public officers for
public information, are provided, and must be strictly observed
and complied with before any person, association or corporation
may make any contract of life insurance. The effect of such
statute is to make that a franchise which previously had been
a matter purely of private right."
In the present case the Supreme Court of Ohio sustained the
constitutionality of section 3625 of the Revised Statutes, which
was in force at the time this policy was issued, upon the ground
that the State had a right "to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which it grants such franchise, and the insurance
company, having accepted the franchise with its terms and
conditions, is bound thereby, and must accept the burdens with
the benefits." The legal effect was held to be the same "as if
the section was copied into and made a part of the policy."
And it was said that the statute had also been held constitutional in .National-Life Insurance Co. v. Brobst, 56 Ohio St.

728, where no opinion seems to have been delivered.
The section in question applies to all life insurance companies
doing business in the State of Ohio, and the State can certainly

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

do with foreign corporations what it may do with corporations
of its own creation.
In Orient Insurance Company v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, we
held that provisions in the Revised Statutes of Missouri, that
"in all suits upon policies of insurance against loss or damage
by fire, hereafter issued or renewed, the defendant shall not be
permitted to deny that the property insured thereby was worth
at the time of the issuing of the policy the full amount inserted
therein on said property," etc. ; and "that no condition of any
policy of insurance contrary to the provisions of this article
shall be legal or valid," were not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. And this was affirmed in -Yew York
Life Insurance Oompany v. C(am'ens, 178 U. S. 389.
In lVaters-Pierce Oil Company v. Texas, 177 U. S. 28, where
a statute of Texas was assailed on the ground that it took away
the liberty of contract, Mr. Justice McKenna, delivering the
opinion of the court, said: "The plaintiff in error is a foreign
corporation, and what right of contracting has it in the State
of Texas? This is the only inquiry, and it cannot find an answer in the rights of natural persons. It can only find an answer
in the rights of corporations and the power of the State over
them. What those rights are and what that power is, has often
been declared by this court. A corporation is the creature of
the law, and none of its powers are original. They are precisely what the incorporating act has made them, and can only
be exerted in the manner which that act authorizes. In other
words, the State prescribes the purposes of a corporation and
the means of executing those purposes. The purposes and means
are within the State's control. This is true as to domestic corporations. It has even a broader meaning to foreign corporations." And as the state court had held that the statute was a
condition imposed on the oil company on doing business within
the State, it was said of it that "whatever its limitations were
upon the power of contracting, whatever its discriminations
were, they became conditions of the permit and were accepted
with it." And see Tullis v. Railroad Company, 175 U. S. 348;
Equitable &o. Assurance Society v. Clements, 140 U. S. 226.
It was for the legislature of Ohio to define the public policy

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Syllabus.

of that State in respect of life insurance, and to impose such
conditions on the transaction of business by life insurance companies within the State as was deemed best. We do not perceive any arbitrary classification or unlawful discrimination in
this legislation, but, at all events, we cannot say that the Federal Constitution has been violated in the exercise in this regard
by the State of its undoubted power over corporations.
Judgment aj rned.

WHITNEY -v. HAY.
APPEAL FROMf THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 112. Argued November 15, 16, 1900.-Decided April 8, 1901.

Doctor and Mrs. Piper, each somewhat advanced in years, were without
children and had no kin to whom the husband wished to bequeath his
estate. They desired the comforts and happiness of a home in which they
could have the sympathy, attention and care of younger people, upon whom
they could look as their children. The property in question in this suit
was purchased by the Doctor, in execution of an agreement in parol between him and the appellee, whereby Piper and his wife were to become
members of Hay's household in Washington, and to be supported, maintained and cared for by Hay during their respective lives, in consideration of which Piper was to convey by will, or otherwise, to Hay all of his
property of every kind and wherever situated. In part execution of that
agreement Piper purchased the lots in question in this suit and built a
house thereon, and in further execution of it he put Hay in possession
of the lot and house to be occupied by Hay and his family in connection
with Piper and his wife. While Hay was in the actual occupancy of the
premises as his home, (which occupancy existed when this suit was
brought,) Piper, in violation of his agreement, put the title to the property in his niece, the plaintiff in error. The bill alleged the foregoing
facts, and that the transfer to the plaintiff in error was made solely for
the purpose of defrauding the defendant in error. Held:
(1) That the alleged agreement with Piper was proved to have been just
as stated by Hay;
(2) That the failure of Piper to invest Hay with the legal title was such
a wrong to the latter as entitled him to the protection which would

