OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Syllabus.

of the State of Idaho contemplating solely the protection of its
own sheep from the introduction among them of an infectious
disease, and providing for only such restraints upon the introduction of sheep from other States as in the judgment of the
State was absolutely necessary to prevent the spread of disease.
The act, therefore, is very different from the one presented in
Railroad Co. v. Husen, spra, and is fairly to be considered a
purely quarantine act, and containing within its provisions nothing which is not reasonably appropriate therefor. There being
no other Federal question in the case the judgment of the Supreme Court of Idaho is

-Affirmed.

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 148. Argued January 24, 25, 1901.-Decided April 15, 1901.

Section 5142 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, providing for the
increase of the capital stock of a national bank, and declaring that no
increase of capital stock shall be valid until the whole amount of the increase is paid in, and until the Comptroller of the Currency shall certify
that the amount of the proposed increase has been duly paid in as part of
the capital of such association, does not make roid a subscription or certificate of stock based upon capital stock actually paid in, simply because
the whole amount of any proposed or authorized increase has not in fact
been paid into the bank; certainly, the statute should not be so applied in
behalf of a person sought to be made liable as shareholder, when, as in the
present case, he held, at the time the bank suspended and was put into
the hands of a receiver, a certificate of the shares subscribed for by him;
enjoyed, by receivingand retaining dividends, the rights of a shareholder;
and appeared as a shareholder upon the books of the bank, which were
open to inspection, as of right, by creditors.
As between the bank and the defendant, the latter having paid the amount
of his subscription for shares in the proposed increase of capital was entitled to all the rights of a shareholder, and therefore, as between himself
and the creditors of the bank, became a shareholder to th extent of the
stock subscribed and paid for by him.
That the bank, after obtaining authority to increase its capital, issued certificates of stock without the knowledge or approval of the Comptroller
and proceeded to do business upon the basis of such increase before the

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.
whole amount of the proposed increase of capital had been paid in, was
a matter between it and the Government under whose laws it was organized, and did not render void subscriptions or certificates of stock based
upon capital actually paid in, nor have the effect to relieve a shareholder,
who became such by paying into the bank the amount subscribed by him,
from the individual liability imposed by section 5151.
Upon the failure of a national bank the rights of creditors attach under section 5151, and a shareholder who was such when the failure occurred cannot escape the individual liability prescribed by that section upon the
ground that the bank issued a certificate of stock before, strictly speaking, it had authority to do so.
If a subscriber to the stock of a national bank becomes a shareholder in consequence of frauds practiced upon him by others, whether they be officers
of the bank or officers of the Government, he must look to them for such
redress as the law authorizes, and is estopped, as against creditors, to
deny that he is a shareholder, within the meaning of section 5151, if at the
time the rights of creditors accrued he occupied and was accorded the
rights appertaining to that position.

TnE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Hiram F. Stevens for plaintiff in error. .Yr. C. -YV
Sterry, .Xr.Eugene Hagen and M1r. 1 . -Lambert by leave of
court filed a brief on that side.
.

. William S. Shirk for defendant in error.

MaR. JUSTICE HARLA.N, delivered the opinion of the court.
This case went off in the Circuit Court upon a motion for a
judgment in favor of the plaintiff upon the pleadings. The
motion was sustained and judgment was entered in accordance
with the prayer of the petition. That judgment was affirmed
in the Circuit Court of Appeals, Judge Sanborn dissenting. 89
Fed. Rep. 843, 856; 60 U. S. App. 720, 143. The case is here
upon writ of error sued out by the defendant Scott.
The case made by the petition is substantially as follows:
The First National Bank of Sedalia, Missouri, was organized
on the 30th of October, 1865, with a capital stock of $100,000
and thereafter, until the 24th day of October, 1885, continued
to do a banking business.
On the day last named the bank, pursuant to the provisions of

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the act of Congress approved July 12, 1882, 22 Stat. 162, c. 290,
extended the period of its succession for a term of twenty years
from and after the 30th of October, 1885; and on the 24th of
October, 1S85, the Comptroller of the Currencyissued his certificate stating that the bank had complied with the provisions of
the act of Congress in thus extending the period of its existence,
and was authorized to have succession until the close of business on the 30th of October, 1905.
On the 6th of September, 1890, the bank increased its capital stock in the sum of 0150,000; and on the 17th of January,
1891, the Comptroller of the Currency certified that it had increased its stock to the above extent in accordance with the
provisions of the act of May 1, 1886, 21 Stat. 18, c. 73, and
that such increase was approved; also, that the increase had
been duly paid in as part of the capital stock of the company.
The bank continued to do a banking business upon the basis
of a capital stock of $250,000 until the 4th day of May, 1894,
on which day it became insolvent, closed its doors, and ceased
to do business.
On the 10th of May, 1894, the original plaintiff, W. A. Latimer, was duty appointed receiver of the bank by the Comptroller of the Currency under the laws relating to national banking associations. The defendant in error Deweese was after
that date substituted in his place as receiver.
In winding up and settling the affairs of the bank the Comptroller of the Currency determined that it was necessary to enforce the individual liability of stockholders and to collect from
them an amount equal to 75 per cent of their stock at par value;
and on the 13th day of April, 1895, that officer made an assessment and requisition upon shareholders for the sum of $187,500,
to be paid by them ratably on or before the 15th day of May,
1895, and made demand upon the defendant Scott for $75 upon
every share of the capital stock of the bank held or owned by
him at the time of the failure of the bank as above stated, payable on or before the 15th day of May, 1895. The receiver was
directed to enforce against shareholders the payment of the
amounts assessed against them.
At the time of the failure and suspension of the bank the de-

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant Scott was the owner and holder of fifty shares of its
capital stock of the par value of $100 each. The amount ratably due by him as such shareholder under the above assessment
was $3750.
On the 17th day of April, 1895, the receiver of the bank notified the defendant of the assessment and requisition and demanded payment of the same; but he did not pay that sum or
any part thereof. Hence this action.
Judgment was asked for the sum of $3750, with interest from
May 15, 1895, as well as for costs of suit.
The defendant in his answer admitted the organization of the
bank and the extension of the period of its incorporation as alleged; also that the bank continued to do a banking business
as set out in the petition, and that it had become insolvent and
closed its doors. He also admitted the appointment and qualification of the receiver and the allegations of the petition as to
the order of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Further answering, he alleged, that on September 6, 1890, the
bank by a vote of the owners of two thirds of its capital stock,
voted to increase that stock in the sum of $150,000; that it notified the Comptroller that the whole amount of such increase
had been paid in; that on January 17, 1891, that officer-then
knowing that more than the entire capital of the bank was
loaned, directly and indirectly, to its president, and that the
amount so loaned had been steadily increased for several years
up to the date just named by adding the interest which was not
paid to the notes evidencing the loans or the renewals thereof,
and who based his action wholly upon the notification from the
bank-issued a certificate stating that the amount of the increase of capital was $150,000, that the same was paid in, and
that such increase was approved; that thereafter, until May 24,
1894, the bank continued to do business with a pretended capital of $250,000 ;
That "in September, 1890, the officers of said bank informed
and represented to defendant as follows: That said bank contemplated increasing its capital stock from one hundred thousand dollars to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars; that
said intended increase of capital was made desirable on account

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of the increasing business of said bank; that said bank was in
a flourishing condition and earning large dividends upon its
capital stock, and then had a surplus of fifty thousand dollars
over and above its capital stock and all liabilities; that from
said surplus such dividends would be declared as would make
each of the two thousand five hundred shares of stock worth
the sum of one hundred and eight dollars;"
That relying upon such representations the defendant-never
having held or owned any stock in the bank-subscribed for
fifty shares of the proposed increase of $150,000, and in October,
1890, deposited in the bank the sum of $5400;
That it was the understanding between the defendant and
the bank that that sum was to be held by it and applied in
payment of defendant's subscription for fifty shares, when all
of the proposed increase was subscribed and the money therefor
paid into the bank, "and the issues of the shares of said increase
could be legally made;"
That the bank gave to the defendant a receipt for said sum
of $5400, and about October 25, 1890, delivered to him a certificate for fifty shares of "its said pretended increase of capital ;" and,
That the "bank then, falsely and fraudulently and with intent
to deceive defendant, represented to defendant that the said
increase of capital had been lawfully made, and that the full
amount thereof had been subscribed for and paid in in full, and
defendant, deceived by said representations, and relying thereon,
accepted and retained said certificate, and that defendant held
and claimed as owner said certificate thereafter and until the
closing of said bank, and in the years 1891 and 1892 received
and retained alleged dividends aggregating eighteen per cent
of the par value of said certificate; that said alleged dividends
were paid out of the money paid as aforesaid by defendant to
said bank."
The defendant further alleged that in September, 1890, and
for many months prior thereto and afterwards, the bank was
in fact wholly insolvent, had no surplus whatever, and at the
time of the increase of the stock all of its capital had been lost
-its liabilities irrespective of its capital stock and alleged sur-

SCO T v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

plus exceeding its assets-and it was earning no dividends upon
its capital;
That said pretended increase of stock was never of any value
or validity whatever; that only about two thirdsof the increased
stock was ever paid; that the officers of the bank made false
entries in its books and records for the purpose of showing an
apparent surplus, and declaring a dividend to themselves therefrom, turning the dividends into the bank in pretended payment
for a large part of the increased stock;
That the whole transaction was a sham for the purpose of
bolstering up an insolvent institution by obtaining large sums
of money from the subscribers for the increased stock, and for
the further purpose of "watering" its capital stock and permitting its officers to appropriate to themselves, without paying
anything therefor, a large part of such pretended increase, of
all of which defendant had no knowledge whatever until long
after the bank had closed its doors on May 4, 1894, nor had defendant any information whatever that could in any way have
created a suspicion thereof ;
That the books and records of the bank during all the time
after October 25, 1890, had shown, and it had been made by
them to appear, that all of the pretended increase of capital
was paid in; and that from a time prior to the last-named date
until the bank closed its books and records were systematically,
skilfully and cunningly falsified by its officers, and so kept that
the defendant could not by the utmost diligence have ascertained
the true condition of the bank; and,
That as soon as he discovered that the increased stock was
not fully paid in, defendant disclaimed and denied that he was
or ever had been a stockholder of the bank.
Such being the case made by the pleadings, we are to inquire
whether there was error in giving judgment against the defendant.
By section 5151 of the Revised Statutes, "the shareholders
of every national banking association shall be held individually
responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another, for
all contracts, debts and engagements of such association, to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par value
thereof, in addition to the amount invested in such shares."
Within the meaning of that section, was the defendant, in
view of the facts stated in the pleadings, to be deemed a shareholder of the bank when it suspended and was put into the
hands of a receiver?
The defendant admits in his answer that he held, and for
three years and more previous to that date had held, a certificate for fifty shares of the bank's stock, and exercised the rights
of a shareholder by receiving dividends for the years 1891 and
1892 aggregating eighteen per cent of the par value of the stock
standing in his name on the book of the association. Ile thus
enjoyed the privileges of a shareholder.
The defendant, however, contends that although he may have
exercised the rights of a shareholder in holding a certificate of
shares and in receiving and retaining dividends, he was not a
shareholder within the meaning of section 5151 so as to become
individually liable, to the extent prescribed by that section, for
the contracts, debts and engagements of the bank.
That position is supposed to be justified by section 5142 of
the Revised Statutes declaring that "any association formed
under this Title may, by its articles of association, provide for
an increase of its capital from time to time, as may be deemed
expedient, subject to the limitations of this Title. But the
maximum of such increase to be provided in the articles of association shall be determined by the Comptroller of the Currency; and no increase of capital shall be valid until the whole
amount of such increase is paid in, and notice thereof has been
transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his certificate obtained specifying the amount of such increase of capital
stock, with his approval thereof, and that it has been duly paid
in as part of the capital of such association." That section was
modified, in some respects, by the act of Mfay 1, 1886, c. 73,
which provided "that any national banking association may,
with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, by the
vote of shareholders owning two thirds of the stock of such association, increase its capital stock, in accordance with existing
laws, to any sum approved by the said Comptroller, notwith-

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

standing the limit fixed in its original articles of association and
determined by said Comptroller; and no increase of the capital
stock of any national banking association either within or beyond the limit fixed in its original articles of association shall
be made except in the manner herein provided." Under this
last statute the bank proceeded when by the vote of two thirds
of its shareholders it determined to increase its stock by $150,000.
2- Stat. 18, ยง 1.
The defendant lays great stress on the words in section 5142,
"no increase of capital shall be valid until the whole amount of
such increase is paid in," and until the Comptroller shall certify
that the amount of the proposed increase "has been duly paid
in as part of the capital of such association." But does it follow that one who claimed to be a shareholder in respect of an
increase of the bank's capital, and who was recognized as such
by the bank, particularly if he held a formal certificate stating that he was a shareholder, can escape liability, under section 5151, by simply proving-after the bank has suspended and
has been placed into the hands of a receiver-that the whole
amount of the proposed increase was not in fact "paid in" as
required by section 5142, although the contrary was certified by
the Comptroller upon the bank's report to that officer? We
think not.
The literal construction insisted upon by the defendant might
produce results which we cannot suppose were ever contemplated by Congress. Referring to that construction the court
below well said: "If this contention is well founded, then, as
already said, it follows that if all the shares but one had been
subscribed and paid for, nevertheless the holders of the certificates for the full-paid shares could not be heard to assert that
they were the owners of valid shares, which would be a most
unjust result. If this is the true meaning of the statute, it is
made possible for parties in control of a national bank, with the
approval of the Comptroller, to authorize the increase of the
capital stock, to obtain subscription and payment in full for all
the shares but one or two, and then, if that be desirable, to deny
to the holders of these full-paid certificates, any participation in
the control of the bank, or in case the bank becomes insolvent,
VOL. CLXXXr-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to shield these holders of certificates from liability to creditors.
Certainly a construction of the statute having such results should
not be adopted unless the statute as a whole imperatively demands it."
The primary object of the provision that "no increase of
capital shall be valid until the whole amount of such increase
is paid in" was to prevent the "watering" of stock, that is,
prevent banking business being done upon the basis of an increased capital which did not in fact exist. If this prohibition be disregarded by a national bank, the conduct of its
business could no doubt be controlled by the representatives
of the Government so far as might be necessary to compel obedience to the law. Rev. Stat. ยง 5205. But the statute does not,
in terms, make void a subscription or certificate of stock based
upon increased capital stock actually paid in, simply because
the whole amount of any proposed or authorized increase has
not in fact been paid into the bank. Certainly, the statute
should not be so applied in behalf of a person sought to be
made liable as a shareholder, when, as, in the present case, he
held, at the time the bank suspended and was put into the
hands of a receiver, a certificate of the shares subscribed for
by him; enjoyed, by receiving and retaining dividends, the
rights of a shareholder; and appeared as a shareholder upon
the books of the bank which were open to inspection, as of
right, by creditors. Rev. Stat. ยง 5210. As between the bank
and the defendant, the latter having paid the amount of his
subscription for shares in the proposed increase of capital was
entitled to all the rights of a shareholder, and therefore, as between himself and creditors of the bank, became a shareholder
to the extent of the stock subscribed and paid for by him. That
the bank, after obtaining authority to increase its capital, issued
certificates of stock without the knowledge or approval of the
Comptroller and proceeded to do business upon the basis of
such increase before the whole amount of the proposed increase of capital had been paid in, was a matter between it
and the Government under whose laws it was organized, and
did not render void subscriptions or certificates of stock based
upon capital actually paid in, nor have the effect to relieve a

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

shareholder, who became such by paying into the bank the
amount subscribed by him, from the individual liability imposed by section 5151.
In National Bank v. Matthews, 98 U. S. 621, 629, it appeared
that a national bank had made a loan of money, the repayment
of which by the borrower was in part secured by a deed of trust
on real estate. The borrower insisted that the taking of the
deed of trust as security was in violation of the act of Congress. This court conceded that the statute by clear implication forbade a national bank from making a loan on real estate
security, but held that the violation of the statute by the bank
was a matter of which the borrower could not complain, saying: "We cannot believe it was meant that stockholders, and
perhaps depositors and other creditors, should be punished and
the borrower rewarded, by giving success to this defence whenever the offensive act shall occur. The impending danger of a
judgment of ouster and dissolution was, we think, the check,
and none other contemplated by Congress. That has been
always the punishment prescribed for the wanton violation of
a charter, and it may be made to follow whenever the proper
public authority shall see fit to invoke its application. A private
person cannot, directly or indirectly, usurp this function of the
Government." The doctrine of the .Eatthews case has been often
reaffirmed. Whitney v. Wyman, 101 U. S. 392, 397; Jones v.
Guaranty and Indemnity Co., 101 U. S. 622, 628; Fitts v.
Palmer, 132 U. S. 282, 291 ; L-ogan County Nat. Bank v. Townsend, 139 U. S. 67, 76; Thompson v. St. Nicholas Nat. Bank,
146 U. S. 240, 251.
By section 5201 of the Revised Statutes it is provided that
"no association shall make any loan or discount on the security
of the shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser or
holder of any such shares, unless such security or purchase
shall be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith; and stock so purchased or acquired shall,
within six months from the time of its purchase, be sold or disposed of at public or private sale; or, in default thereof, a
receiver may be appointed to close up the business of the association." "While this section," this court said in National

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Bank of ,eniV v. Stewart, 107 U. S. 676, 677, "in terms prohibits a banking association from making a loan upon the security of shares of its own stock, it imposes no penalty, either
upon the bank or borrower, if a loan upon such security be
made. If, therefore, the prohibition can be urged against the
validity of the transaction by any one except the Government,
it can only be done before the contract is executed, while the
security is still subsisting in the hands of the bank. It can,
then, if at all, be invoked to restrain or defeat the enforcement
of the security. When the contract has been executed, the
security sold, and the proceeds applied to the payment of the
debt, the courts will not interfere with the matter. Both bank
and borrower are in such case equally the subjects of legal censure, and they will be left by the courts where they have placed
themselves."
These principles are in our judgment applicable to the case
before us.
The defendant alleged that he subscribed for the fifty shares
of the proposed increase of the bank's capital and deposited in
the bank the amount necessary to pay for the stock, upon an
understanding with the bank that the amount so deposited
should be applied in payment of his subscription when all of
the proposed increase of capital had been subscribed for and
paid in, so that shares based upon such increase could be legally
issued. But this does not present the whole case. The defendant, having paid in the amount subscribed, subsequently accepted a certificate for the shares subscribed for by him,
knowing, as he must be conclusively presumed to have known,
that the money paid in by him was the basis of such certificate.
He assumed the position, and claimed and exercised the rights,
of a shareholder. He drew money from the bank as dividends
upon his stock. No understanding which the defendant may
have had with the officers of the bank prior to his completed
subscription of stock could, under the circumstances disclosed,
relieve him from the liability attaching to him as a shareholder,
after he had, in the most unequivocal manner, claimed and was
accorded by the bank the rights of a shareholder. It may bealthough upon this question we express no opinion-that the

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant, by proper proceedings instituted in good faith and
in due time before the suspension of the bank, could have had
his subscription cancelled upon the ground that the whole
amount of the proposed increase of capital had not in fact been
paid in, although according to the pleadings the contrary was
certified by the Comptroller. But immediately upon the failure of the bank the rights of creditors attached under section
5151, and a shareholder who was such when the failure occurred
could not escape the individual liability prescribed by that section upon the ground that the bank had issued to him a certificate of stock before, strictly speaking, it had authority to do so.
We concur with the Circuit Court of Appeals in holding that
under section 5142, as modified by the act of May 1, 1886,
each subscription for portions of increased capital "when paid
up in full becomes valid and binding until the maximum is
reached, and the statute does not incorporate into such subscriptions a condition that the subscriber paying such subscription in full cannot become a holder of valid stock unless the
maximum amount of the proposed increase is subscribed and
paid for." If this be a sound view, as we think it is, it follows
ihat one holding stock in a national bank which is so far valid
as to entitle him to enjoy, and who is accorded the right to enjoy,. the privileges of a shareholder, as against the bank, is a
shareholder upon whom assessments may be made in conformity with section 5151.
The present suit is primarily in the interest of creditors of the
bank. It is based upon a statute designed not only for their
protection but to give confidence to all dealing with national
banks in respect of their contracts, debts and engagements, as
well as to stockholders generally. If the subscriber became a
shareholder in consequence of frauds practised upon him by
others, whether they be officers of the bank or officers of the
Government, he must look to them for such redress as the law
authorizes, and is estopped, as against creditors, to deny that
he is a shareholder, within the meaning of section 5151, if at
the time the rights of creditors accrued he occupied and was
accorded the rights appertaining to that position.
Although this question has not arisen in any former case in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the precise form in which it is here presented, the views we
have expressed are in line with former adjudications.
In Aspinwall v. Butler, 133 U. S. 595, 607, 609, the principal
question was as to the liability under section 5151 of one who
had subscribed and paid for a part of an authorized increase of
the stock of a national bank, the whole amount of such increase
not having been taken up by subscriptions. Referring to a bylaw of the association relating to the power of the directors
when there was a deficiency in subscriptions arising from the
failure of some to take stock who had the privilege of doing so,
the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "There was
no express condition that the individual subscriptions should
be void if the whole $500,000 was not subscribed; and, in our
judgment, there was no implied condition in law to that effect.
Each subscriber, by paying the amount of his subscription,
thereby indicated that it was not made on any such condition.
It is not like the case of creditors signing a composition deed to
take a certain proportion of their claims in discharge of their
debtor. The fixed amount of capital stock in business corporations often remains unfilled, both as to the number of shares
subscribed, and as to payment of instalments; and the unsubscribed stock is issued from time to time as the exigencies of
the company may require. The fact that some of the stock
rem dns unsubscribed is not sufficient ground for a particular
stockholder to withdraw his capital. There may be cases in
which equity would interfere to protect subscribers to stock
where a large and material deficiency in the amount of capital contemplated has occurred. But such cases would stand on
their own circumstances. It could hardly be contended that
the present case, in which more than ninety-two per cent of the
contemplated increase of capital was actually subscribed and
paid in, would belong to that category. In Minor v. Xec/ianics'Bank of Alexandria,1 :Pet. 46, only $320,000 out of $500,000
of capital authorized by the charter was subscribed in good faith,
but the court did not regard this deficiency in the subscriptions
as at all affecting the status of the corporation, or the validity
of its operations. Some reliance is placed upon the words of
the act of Congress which authorizes an increase of capital within

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

the maximum prescribed in the articles of association. They
are found in section 5142 of the Revised Statutes, which declares
that any banking association may, by its articles, provide for
an increase of its capital from time to time, but adds, 'no increase of capital shall be valid until the whole amount of such
increase is paid in, and notice thereof has been transmitted to
the Comptroller of the Currency, and his certificate obtained
specifying the amount,' etc. This clause would have been violated by an issue of $500,000 of new stock, when only $461,300
was paid in; but not by an issue of the exact amount that
was paid in. The clause in question was intended to secure the
actual payment of the stock subscribed, and so as to prevent
what is called watering of stock. In the present case the statute
was strictly and honestly complied with. The argument of the
defendant asks too much. It would apply to the original capital of a company as well as to an increase of capital. And will
it do to say, after a company has been organized and gone into
business, and dealt with the public, that its stockholders may
withdraw their capital and be exempt from statutory liability
to creditors, if they can show that the capital stock of the company was not all subscribed? " Again: "The stock was lawfully created, the defendant subscribed for the shares in question
and paid for them, and received his certificate; and nothing
was afterwards done by the directors, the Comptroller of the
Currency, or the stockholders in meeting assembled, which they
had not a perfect right to do. The defendant became a stockholder; he held the shares in question when the bank finally
went into liquidation; and, of course, became liable under section 5151 of the Revised Statutes to pay an amount equal to
the stock by him so held."
In PaciP. National Bank v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 227, 233, 234,
the court, again speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley, said: "The
defendant in error was just as much bound by her subscription
to the new stock as if the whole $500,000 had been subscribed
and paid in. The only question to be considered, therefore, is
whether the fact that the defendant in error did not call for
and take her certificate of stock made any difference as to her
status as a stockholder. We cannot see how it could make the

OCTOBER TERM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

ier actually going or sending to the bank
slightest difference.
and electing to take her share of the new stock, and paying
for it in cash, and receiving a receipt for the same in the form
above set forth, are acts which are fully equivalent to a subscription to the stock in writing, and the payment of money
therefor. She then became a stockholder. She was properly
entered as such on the stock book of the company, and her certificate of stock was made out ready for her when she should
call for it. It was her certificate. She could have compelled
its delivery had it been refused. Whether she called for it or
not was a matter of no consequence whatever in reference to
her rights and duties. The case is not like that of a deed for
lands, which has no force, and is not a deed, and passes no
estate, until it is delivered. In that case everything depends
on the delivery. But with capital stock it is different. Without express regulation to the contrary, a person becomes a
stockholder by subscribing for stock, paying the amount to the
company or its proper officer, and being entered on the stock
book as a stockholder. He may take out a certificate or not,
as he sees fit. Millions of dollars of capital stock are held without any certificate; or, if certificates are made out, without
their ever being delivered. A certificate is authentic evidence
of title to stock; but it is not the stock itself, nor is it necessary
to the existence of the stock. It certifies to a fact which exists
independently of itself. An actual subscription is not necessary.
There may be a virtual subscription, deducible from the acts
and conduct of the party." To the same effect was Taycr v.
Butler, 141 U. S. 234.
It is supposed that ConcordFirst NationalBank v. H-rawkins,
174 U. S. 364, 372, is in opposition to the views herein expressed.
We do not think so. In the case referred to it appeared that
the bank, located at Concord, New Hampshire, purchased, for
purposes of investment, one hundred shares of the stock of the
Indianapolis National Bank, doing business at Indianapolis,
Indiana, and after such purchase appeared upon the books of
the latter bank as the owner and bolder of the shares so pur.
chased. The bank at Indianapolis suspended And was put into
the hands of a receiver. The question presented was whether,

SCOTT v. DEWEESE.
Opinion of the Court.

in respect of the stock standing in its name, the bank in New
Hampshire could be held as a shareholder in the other bank
under section 5151. This court, following the decisions in
prior cases, including California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S.
362, 367, held that a national bank had no power or authority
to invest its surplus funds in the stock of another national bank.
It was also adjudged that in the case of such a purchase the
purchasing bank could plead its want of power, and thereby
protect itself against the liability imposed upon shareholders
by section 5151. The court said: "If the previous reasoning
be sound, whereby the conclusion was reached that, by reason
of the limitations and provisions of the national banking statutes, it is not competent for an association organized thereunder
to take upon itself, for investment, ownership of such stock, no
intention can be reasonably imputed to Congress to subject the
stockholders and creditors thereof, for whose protection those
limitations and provisions were designed, to the same liability
by reason of a void act on the part of the officers of the bank,
as would have resulted from a lawful act. It is argued, on
behalf of the receiver, that the object of the statute was to
afford a speedy and effective remedy to the creditors of a failed
bank, and that this object would be defeated in a great many
cases if the Comptroller were obliged to inquire into the validity of all the contracts by which the registered shareholders
acquired their respective shares. The force of this objection is
not apparent. It is doubtless within the scope of the Comptroller's duty, when informed by the reports of the bank that
such an investment has been made, to direct that it be at once
disposed of, but the Comptroller's act in ordering an assessment, while conclusive as to the necessity for making it, involves no judgment by him as to the judicial rights of the
parties to be affected. While he, of course, assumes that there
are stockholders to respond to his order, it is not his function
to inquire or determine what, if any, stockholders are exempted."
The difference between that case and the present one is
apparent. In the case before us there was no want of power
in the defendant to subscribe for stock in the bank at Sedalia

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Syllabus.

and to assume the position of a shareholder. An individual
may become a shareholder in a national bank by his own voluntary act. He can, if he choose, so act as to be estopped from
saying that he is not a shareholder and liable as such for the
contracts, debts and engagements of the bank. But a national
bank is without authority to use its funds for the purchase of
the stock of another national bank merely for purposes of investment, and therefore, as held in the Hawkins case, it could
not under such circumstances become a shareholder within the
meaning of section 5151. Of the powers of a national bank
under the statutes providing for their creation every one must
take notice. Whether a national bank may not be deemed a
shareholder, within the meaning of section 5151, if it holds
shares of another bank as security for previous indebtedness, is
a question suggested in former cases, but not decided, and upon
which, in this case, no opinion need be expressed.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL NAVIGATION COMPANY v. FARR
AND BAILEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 193. Argued March 12, 13,1901.-Decided April 22,1901.
The Hiarter act, so-called, does not relieve the ship owner from liability
for damages caused by the unseaworthy condition of his ship at the commencement of her voyage.
Nor is the ship owner exempted from liability under that act, "1for damage
or loss resulting from faults or errors of navigation, or in the management of said vessel," unless it appears that she was actually seaworthy
when she started or that the owner had exercised due diligence to make
her so in all respects.
The mere fact that the owner provides a vessel properly constructed and
equipped is not conclusive that the owner has exercised due diligence
within the meaning of the act, for the diligence required is diligence on

