TONAWANDA v. LYON.
Statement of the Case.

TONAWANDA v. LYON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 214. Argued February 26,1901.-Decided April 29, 1901.
It was not the intention of the court in -Norwoodv. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, to
hold that the general and special taxing systems of the States, however
long existing and sustained as valid by their courts, have been subverted
by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
but the purpose of that amendment is to extend to the citizens and residents of the States the same protection against arbitrary state legislation,
affecting life, liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment
against similar legislation by Congress.

THIS was the case of a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York
on September 9, 1899, by James B. Lyon, a citizen of the State
of New York, against the town of Tonawanda, a municipal
corporation of that State, and John K. Patton, supervisor of
said town. The object of the bill was to restrain the defendants from enforcing payment of a certain assessment against
tracts or parcels of land belonging to the complainant, situated
in the town of Tonawanda, and abutting on Delaware street in
said town. The assessment was levied against said tracts of
land to meet the expense of grading and paving said street, in
pursuance of the provisions of statutes of the State of New York
and of an order of the town board of Tonawanda. The principal matter complained of was that the method of meeting the
expense of grading and paving the said street was by assessing
the same against the lots abutting on the street according to
frontage thereon, and that the statutes and proceedings thereunder, which provided for that method, were contrary to the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States, in that
thereby the land of the complainant would be taken for public
use without just compensation and he would be deprived of his
property without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Counsel for Parties.

The case came on for final hearing on bill, answer and a
stipulation of facts, and on January 17, 1900, the Circuit Court
decreed, among other things, as follows:
"That those parts of the acts of the legislature of the State
of N~ew York mentioned and set forth in plaintiff's bill of cornplaint, to wit, of chapter 550 of the laws of the State of New
York for the year 1893, and of chapter 816 of the laws of the
State of New York for the year 1895, which authorized and
required the town board of said town to levy the assessment
for the entire expense of paving said Delaware street, set forth
in the bill of complaint, upon the complainant's said parcels of
land described in said bill of complaint and the other lands
fronting on said Delaware street, and the acts of the said defendant, the town of Tonawanda, by its town board, mentioned
in said bill of complaint, in lev-ing said assessments upon said
lands according to the rule prescribed in said acts of said legislature, to wit, in the proportion which the number of front feet
of each of said lots and parcels of land bounding and fronting on
said Delaware street in front of which said improvement of
paving said street was made, and which are assessed therefor
in and by said assessment, bear and are to the aggregate number
of feet of frontage of all the lots of land so bounding on the
portion of said street in front of which said improvement was
made, was and were, and each and every of said provisions of
said acts of the legislature of the State of Nfew York and all
acts of said defendant, the town of Tonawanda, in levying said
assessment in the manner and form aforesaid, are wholly unconstitutional and void as being contrary to the provisions of
the Constitution of the United States."
And thereupon the town of Tonawanda and John K. Patton
as supervisor of said town were forever enjoined and restrained
"from in any manner collecting or enforcing payment of such
assessments against said complainant or his land or property."
98 Fed. Rep. 361.
On January 17, 1900, an appeal from said decree to this court
was prayed for and allowed.
.Ar. Tohn Cunneed for Tonawanda.

TONAWANDA v. LYON.
Opinion of the Court.

_Mr. Tracy C. Becker for Lyon.
M[. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The complainant in the court below did not put his claim for
equitable relief upon any allegation that, in the proceedings to
pave Delaware street and to assess the cost of the improvement
upon the abutting property, there had been any departure from
the provisions of the statute, or that there had been attempted
any discrimination against him or his property. Nor was it
denied that it is the settled law of the State of New York that
the method prescribed, of meeting the expense by apportioning
the entire cost of such an improvement upon the abutting land
according to the foot-front rule, is a valid exercise of legislative
power. The People v. Mayor &c., 4 N. Y. 419; Spencer v.
Mrerchant, 100 N. Y. 585.
What was claimed was that a state statute, which directs
municipalities to assess the whole expense of paving any highway therein upon the lands abutting upon the highway so improved in proportion to the feet frontage of such lands, without
providing for a judicial inquiry into the value of such lands and
the benefits actually to accrue to them by the proposed improvement, is unconstitutional and void. And it was held by
the court below that, notwithstanding the courts of the State
may have held otherwise, it was its duty to follow the decision
of this court in the case of Vorwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269,
which was regarded by the court below as establishing the
principle contended for, and accordingly the defendants were
enjoined from enforcing payment of the assessment. But we
think that, in so understanding and applying the decision in
NYorwood v. Baker, the learned judge extended the doctrine of
that case beyond its necessary meaning.
It was not the intention of the court, in that case, to hold
that the general and special taxing systems of the States, however long existing and sustained as valid by their courts, have
been subverted by the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The purpose of that amendment
is to extend to the citizens and residents of the States the same

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
JUSTICES ]HARLAIN, W ITE and MCKENNA, dissenting.

protection against arbitrary state legislation affecting life, liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment
against similar legislation by Congress. The case of NTor.wood
v. Baker presented, as the judge in the court in the present
case well said, "considerations of peculiar and extraordinary
hardships," amounting, in the opinion of a majority of the
judges of this court, to actual confiscation of private property
to public use, and bringing the case fairly within the reach of
the Fourteenth Amendment.
The facts disclosed by the present record do not show any
abuse of the law, nor that the burdens imposed on the property
of the complainant were other than those imposed upon that
of other persons in like circumstances; and it is obvious, from
expressions in the opinion of the trial judge, that he reached
his conclusion because constrained by what he understood to be
the principle established by the iYorwood case.
It is unnecessary to enter into an examination of the authorities on this subject, as that has recently been done in French v.
Barber Asphalt Paving Co., in error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Missouri, and in Wight v. Davidson, on appeal from
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, in the former
of which the effect of the Fourteenth, and, in the latter, that
of the Fifth Amendment, was considered. 181 U. S. 324, 371.
There were other questions passed upon in the trial court and
discussed in the briefs, but the conclusion we now reach renders
it unnecessary for us to consider them.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed and the cause is
remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the bill of
complaint.
nR.JUSTIcE llAR&N, (with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
WHiTF

and Mr.JUSTICE

cKENNA,)

dissenting.

My views touching the general questions arising in this case
have been expressed in French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Company and in Tight v. Davidson, just determined. I adhere
to those views, and therefore dissent from the judgment in this
case. As stated by the Circuit Court, the special assessment in
question was " in the proportion which the number of front feet

TONAWANDA v. LYON.
JUSTICES HARLAN, WHITE

and MICKENNA, dissenting.

of each of said lots and parcels of land bounding and fronting
on said Delaware street in front of which said improvement of
paving said street was made, and which are assessed therefor
in and by said assessment, bear and are to the aggregate number of feet of frontage of all the lots so bounding on the portion
of said street in front of which said improvement was made."
The case, therefore, is one in which, beyond question, private
property is specially assessed by the front foot, in the interest
of the whole public, for the entire cost of paving a highway,
without reference to any special benefits accruing to it, and without the owner of the property being permitted to show that such
cost amounts to the confiscation of his property to the extent
that it substantially exceeds special benefits, or that it exceeds
the value of the property assessed.
The court says that it was not the intention of this court in
.Norwood v. Baker, to hold "that the general and special taxing systems of the States, however long existing and sustained
as valid by their courts, have been subverted by the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States." The
contrary was not asserted by the learned judge of the Circuit
Court, nor has any one in this case contended that the Fourteenth
Amendment subverted the taxing systems of the States. But
it was contended, and such is my position, that nothing can be
done by or under the authority of a State in violation of that
Amendment. After that Amendment became part of the Constitution, the only provisions in the state taxing laws or systems
that ceased to have operation were those that were inconsistent
with the Amendment. No one, I assume, will dispute that proposition.
The court also says that the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment "is to extend to the citizens and residents of the States
the same protection against arbitrary state legislation affecting
life, liberty and property, as is afforded by the Fifth Amendment
against similar legislation by Congress." I assent most cordially to this view, and therefore, in another case, felt obliged
to express my objection to the intimation that possibly that
might be done by Congress under the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment which could not be done by a State under
the same clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.

