OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

termine to be just and proper, and not having offered, at last,
to pay the claims and liens adjudged to be just and proper, the
defendant company seems to us to have suffered no injustice.
However this may be, the case is before us only on the question whether the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to entertain the
said cause and render the decrees so appealed from, and this we
answer in the affirmative, and direct the appeal to be dismissed
with costs.
Let it be so certified.

UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY v. AMERICAN
OAIK LEATHER COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 150.

Argued January 25, 28, 1901.--Decided May 13, 1901.

The right of an insolvent debtor to prefer one creditor to another, exists in
the State of Illinois to its fullest extent, and the giving of judgment notes
is recognized as a legitimate method of preference.
In the absence of national bankrupt laws, if a remedy is sought in a court
of equity against fraudulent preferences, it must be on allegation and
proof of a design to defraud and to delay the complaining creditor.
While the policy of the law permits preferences, and such preferences as
are necessarily unknown to others than those concerned, it does not permit any device which prevents the debtor from giving a like advantage to
his other creditors, if he so wishes, unless such device is put in the form
of a mortgage, or other instrument, perpetually open to public inspection
upon the public record.
The present case is one in which the fundamental rule that equality is equity,
may properly be applied.

ON September 11, 1896, the American Oak Leather Company,
a corporation of the State of Ohio, filed, in the Circuit Court of

the United States for the Northern District of Illinois a bill of
complaint against C. I. Fargo & Company, a corporation of the
State of Illinois; the United States Rubber Company, a corporation of the State of New Jers~y; L. Caudee & Company,

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 435
Statement of the Case.

a corporation of the State of Connecticut; John W. Arnold,
United States Marshal for the Northern District of Illinois, and
the Metropolitan National Bank, a national banking association.
The bill alleged that the complainant was a judgment creditor of C. H. Fargo & Company, an insolvent corporation; that
judgments by confession against said C. H. Fargo & Company
had been entered in the Circuit Court of the United States on
August 6, 1896, for large amounts in favor of the United States
Rubber Company and L. Candee & Company; that, on the same
day, an assignment was made by C. H. Fargo & Company of
all its book accounts to said rubber companies; that a judgment
by confession had been entered on August 6, 1896, for a large
amount, in favor of the Metropolitan National Bank, and on
the same day deeds to said bank had been executed by Fargo
& Company, conveying its factory at Dixon, Illinois; that executions had been issued on said judgments and levied upon all
4the tangible assets of C. H. Fargo & Company; that said judgments were illegal because given and taken with intent to defraud the complainant and other creditors of C. H. Fargo &
Company. The bill prayed that the said judgments, executions,
assignment and deeds should be set aside, and that the assets
of C. H. Fargo & Company should be applied, through a receiver,
to the payment of its bonai#de creditors.
Subsequently other creditors to a large amount filed intervening petitions, and joined in the complainant's prayer for relief.
Answers were filed by the several defendants, denying the allegations of fraud; and thereupon the court referred the case to
Henry W. Bishop as a master in chancery, "to take proofs herein and report the same, together with his conclusions thereon,
as to the facts only." An order was also entered appointing
a receiver, and upon appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Seventh Circuit this order was affirmed. 82 Fed. Rep. 348.
On April 17, 1899, after taking a large amount of testimony,
and a protracted hearing, the master filed a report, of which
the important portions were as follows:
"There was due January 6, 1896, to Candee & Company,
upon the notes of C. H. Fargo & Company, (given in settlement in November, 1895,) the sum of $44,900, and on the same

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

date there was due from the Fargo Company to the United
States Rubber Company on open account for proceeds of sale
of consigned goods the sum of $111,537.13.
"It is shown by the testimony, and I so find, that about
January 2, 1896, the C. I. Fargo Company, anticipating difficulty in meeting its regular obligations maturing during that
month, applied to one Charles L. Johnson, who represented
both the Candee Company and the United States Rubber Company, for a loan of $50,000, representing that the Fargo Company was perfectly solvent, and that this accommodation would
relieve it from its temporary embarrassments and enable it to
go on with its business.
"This application was granted, and on January 6, 1896,
Johnson agreed, acting for L. Candee Company, to lend the
Fargo Company the sum of $50,000 for six months, upon the
understanding that this loan and the indebtedness of $44,900
upon the notes previously given as aforesaid and the balance
due the United States Rubber Company, and which might become due it, should be secured in such a way as might be satisfactory to their counsel, Mr. Beale, of the law firm of Isham,
Lincoln & Beale.
"The proposition was accepted on the 6th day of January,
1896, and it was agreed and arranged between the parties as
follows:
"First. That the $50,000 should be advanced to the Fargo
Company by L. Candee & Company, partly on that date and
during the succeeding two weeks.
"Second. That the Fargo Company should that day execute
and deliver its three judgment notes, one for $45,000, payable
on demand to the order of L. Candee & Company, to secure
that company with respect to its liability as endorser or guarantor upon the notes for $44,900 given previous to January,
1896; one for $51,500, payable on demand to L. Candee &
Company, as collateral security to plain notes of the Fargo
Company, which were given as evidence of the advance of
$50,000 then to be made, and one for $140,000, payable on
demand to the order of the United States Rubber Company, as
collateral security to the then existing and to any future in-

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 437
Statement of the Case.

debtedness of the Fargo Company to the United States Rubber
Company as aforesaid.
"Third. That in case the Fargo Company should at any
time find it necessary to suspend business, it would assign as
additional security all its accounts and bills receivable; that
it should not give any judgment notes to other creditors which
would impair the security to the rubber companies, and that
the $50,000 advance should be used by the Fargo Company in
reduction of its general indebtedness as it matured; and
"Fourth. That the four employ4s of the Fargo Company
who were on the board of directors, and also E. A. Fargo,
should retire from the board and there should be elected in
their places by the stockholders of the company five persons,
to be nominated by said Beale, in whom he had confidence,
one of whom should become secretary and treasurer, and that
the directors so to be elected at Beale's nomination should not
hamper or interfere with the proper carrying on of the ordinary business of the company.
"I find that the attention of the general creditors was never
called to this arrangement and they had no knowledge of it.
The Metropolitan National Bank first learned of it at or about
the time a judgment note was given it to secure the payment of
its claim of $50,000 as hereinafter stated.
"I find that in pursuance of this arrangement, and on January 6, 1896, a meeting of the board of directors of the C. H.
Fargo & Company was had before any change in said board,
when a resolution was passed authorizing the borrowing of the
$50,000, the giving of judgment notes, as in said agreement
provided for, and assignment of the accounts, bills and choses
in action upon the contingencies agreed upon; and upon the
same day the three judgment notes referred to wdre executed
and delivered by Charles E. Fargo, president of the company;
Frank M. Fargo, vice president and treasurer, and E. A. Fargo,
secretary, and the loan of $50,000 was perfected, $10,000 being
advanced at the time and the balance of $40,000 during the
succeeding two weeks.
"This action was ratified on the 8th day of January, 1896,

OCTOBER TERAE, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

by the unanimous vote of the stockholders of C. H. Fargo &
Company, all the shares being represented.
"I find that in pursuance also of said arrangement, and as a
part of it, at a meeting of the stockholders of C. U. Fargo &
Company, held January 9, 1896, George C. Madison, Tiffany
Blake, Buell McKeever, Frederick B. Fuller, Gilbert E. Porter,
Charles E. Fargo and F. M. Fargo were duly elected directors
for the ensuing year.
"The first live, except Blake, were enployos in the office of
William G. Beale, and said Blake was assistant corporation
counsel of the city of Chicago, of which William G. Beale was
then corporation counsel, and all five were elected by the stockholders at the suggestion of said Beale. Subsequently, at a
meeting of the newly constituted board, at which Charles E.
Fargo was re~lected president of the company, Frank A. Fargo
was re~lected vice president of the company and Buell McKeever was elected secretary and treasurer of the company,
the by-laws of the company were amended providing against
the giving of judgment notes or preferential security without
special authorization of the board of directors.
"I also find that the change of the board of directors and
officers, and the changes of the by-laws of said company and
the resolution thereof authorizing judgment notes and assignments of accounts if necessary, were all for the purpose of giving preferential security to the rubber companies, and the matter was kept secret in order to allow the Fargo Company an
opportunity of getting through embarrassments apparently temporary but not with a fraudulent intent as to the other creditors
of the company. The only purpose and object of changing the
board of directors as aforesaid and of amending the by-laws
was to protect the rubber companies against the giving by the
Fargo Company of preferential security or judgment notes to
other of its creditors which should be superior to the security
of the rubber companies.
"I further find that the arrangement as made was carried
out in good faith by the parties, and that the directors elected
at the suggestion of said Beale took no part in the active management of the Fargo Company after their election, and that

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 439
Statement of the Case.

no stockholders' or directors' meetings of the Fargo Company

were held after January 9, 1896, until August 5, 1896.
"I find that on January 9, 1896, which was the date of the
meeting of the new directors, the authorized capital stock of the
said corporation of C. H. Fargo & Company, was $400,000, and
the debts of the corporation on January 6, 1896, as follows:
Amount owing United States Rubber Com$141,531 13

pany

Amount owing Candee & Company
Amount owing Metropolitan National Bank
Amount owing other creditors
Total

.

44,900 00
50,000 00
210,216 20
$446,653 33

"I find that the value of the assets of C. H. Fargo & Company at that time had not been definitely ascertained, but I find,
as a matter of fact, as the results of efforts since made in collecting the same in liquidation and from other sources of information disclosed by the testimony, that on the 6th day of
January, 1896, the assets of said company were not sufficient
to discharge its indebtedness, of which fact the defendants, the
rubber companies, are shown to have been ignorant, relying
upon the representation of the Fargos that there was a large
excess of assets over liabilities. The fact that Johnson, representing the rubber companies, made no detailed examination of
the assets of the company, but consented to advance the money
which was applied for, is evidence to my mind that he believed
in the assurances which were given him by the Fargos of the
condition of their company.
"I further find that between January 6, 1896, and August 6,
1896, the new liabilities incurred by said corporation to creditors
other than the rubber companies and the bank were $246,660.54,
(of which there was due and unpaid on August 6, 1896,
$142,690.95,) and that during the same period the Fargo Company paid out more than $300,000 to its general creditors in
the regular course of business, paying substantially all of the
indebtedness of January 6, 1896, which was largely to the same
persons who are now creditors.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"I further find that between January 6 and August 6, 1896,
the Fargo Company continued its business as before, reducing
its general indebtedness to a considerable extent with its general creditors; that during said time it paid Candee & Company $44,900, the amount of its indebtedness prior to January 6,
1896, and $13,410 on account of the advance of $50,000 as
aforesaid; that during said time it paid to the United States
Rubber Company $15,000 on account of the indebtedness to
that company existing January 6, but it also sold consigned
goods of that company to the amount of $24,534.0-, of which
it remitted only $5495.40; and that on August 6, 1896, there
was due to the United States IRubber Company the sum of
$142,424.81, and to L. Candee & Company the sum of $36,530.
"I further find from the testimony that the indebtedness of
the Fargo Company, which was incurred after January 9,1896,
up to the time of the entry of judgment upon the judgment
notes referred to, was incurred in ignorance of the giving of
the judgment notes and the change of directors, and of the
change of officers, and of the arrangement existing between the
rubber companies and the Fargo Company, and that the amount
of the claims that were thus contracted and is still unpaid exceeded $110,000.
"I find that while Johnson and Sadler, representing the rubber companies, were here from January 2 to January 6, 1896,
that it was then agreed that separate books showing sales of
consigned goods should be kept, and the proceeds of the sales
thereof should be kept in a separate bank account, which was
done.
"I find that the advance of $50,000 on January 6, 1896, and
the giving of the judgment notes and security referred to, was
the result of an evident feeling upon the part of all the parties
to the transaction, and was in the belief and expectation on
their part, that through the assistance which was in this way
afforded the Fargo Company it would be enabled to continue
its business successfully and become ultimately relieved of its
financial embarrassment, and that said arrangement was entered
into in good faith and without any fraudulent intent.
"I find that the testimony does not show that the parties

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 441
Statement of the Case.

were influenced in making the arrangement aforesaid upon a
belief of the insolvency of the Fargo Company at that time,
and the conduct of the corporation afterwards and until about
the time of the entering up of the judgment notes, in my judgment, clearly indicated the hope and expectation that the Fargo
Company would be finally relieved of its troubles.
"In support of this conclusion I find that in the meantime and
between January 6, 1896, and August, 1896, in the regular
course of its business the Fargo Company reduced, to a large
extent, the indebtedness which existed on .January 1, 1896, increasing the capacity of their manufacturing business, reducing
its stock and discharging, to a large extent, its general liabilities,
except with the United States Rubber Company and the Metropolitan National Bank, with an evident purpose and expectation of continuing its business; during which time nothing is
shown to have occurred with these parties inconsistent with
this theory.
,I find that during this period the general creditors were
substantially the same as before, with the exception of the Eagle
Tanning Works of Chicago, whose claim of $2500.24: has been
established, for the goods purchased on credit between April 1,
1896, and July 15, 1896, and Wilder & Company, and the Pfister
& Vogel Leather Company, hereafter mentioned.
"And I also find that during this time upon the letterheads
of the C. H. Fargo Company the printed names of the Fargos,
treasurer and secretary, appeared as before, without anything
to show any change in the construction or management of said
corporation, nor were such changes in any way mentioned, or
their real condition disclosed.
"I further find that during many years prior to January 6,
1896, the C. I-I. Fargo Company had been doing business with
the Metropolitan National Bank of this city, its bankers, resulting in the creation from time to time of a large indebtedness
to said bank, which was finally reduced, in the usual course of
business, so that on the fifth day of August, 1896, said indebtedness amounted to the sum of $40,000.

OCTOBER TERI,

1900.

Statement of the Case.

That the Metropolitan National Bank, during the summer of
1896, applied to C. H. Fargo & Company to reduce its indebtedness to it and to finally discharge it by the month of November
following.
"I further find that at the same time said bank gave the C. I.
Fargo Company said notice, and down to about the 3d or 4th
day of August, A. D. 1896, it had no knowledge of any transactions which occurred between it and the rubber companies in
the previous month of January, and that it did not know of the
change in the board of directors of said C. H. Fargo & Company, or that it had given the rubber companies judgment notes
for an indebtedness owing by it to said rubber companies, or of
the agreement which had been entered into in respect to the
same between it and the rubber companies, or of the action
which had been taken by the newly constituted board in pursuance of this agreement.
"I further find that on or about Monday, the 3d day of August, A. D. 1896, Charles E. Fargo, president of the said C. I.
Fargo & Company, called at the Metropolitan National Bank,
and while there applied to the bank for an additional loan of
$10,000.
"I find that during this interview, or shortly thereafter, the
said Charles E. Fargo informed the president of said bank that
the said C. I. Fargo & Company had given the rubber companies judgment notes for the amount of its indebtedness to
them, and while said C. E. Fargo insisted that the assets of his
company were at that time largely in excess of its indebtedness
and ample to meet the entire amount thereof, that, owing to
the difficulty in making its collections as rapidly as its outstanding paper matured, his company would be obliged to fail unless
it received some assistance.
"I find that at the time of said interviews the said C. E. Fargo
represented to the president of said bank that the said C. -.
Fargo & Company was indebted to him and his brothers for
money exceeding $10,000 which they had borrowed upon their
notes for the benefit of the company, and which they had paid
over to the company for use in its business, and that said Fargo
brothers had put up some bank stock that they owned as col-

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 443
Statement of the Case.

lateral to said notes, and C. E. Fargo thereupon proposed to
said bank that if it would loan said C. H. Fargo & Company
$10,000 in addition to its then existing loan, so that said company could reimburse him and his brothers and enable them to
take up said notes, be would procure from the said C. H1. Fargo
& Company judgment notes for said bank, both for said sum so
advanced as aforesaid, and also for notes then remaining due
said bank to the amount of $40,000.
"I further find that said bank acceded to said proposition, and
loaned said C. H. Fargo & Company said additional sum of
$10,000, receiving two judgment notes of the Fargo Company
for the sum of $25,000 each, crediting to the account of said
0. H. Fargo & Company in said bank said sum of $10,000.
"I further find that at the time of the completion of this arrangement with said bank neither the bank nor its officers nor
attorneys had any knowledge of the change of the board of
directors of the said C. H. Fargo & Company, or of its by-laws,
but the bank did know that the rubber companies, as a part of
the final arrangements made, were entitled equally with themselves to enter judgment upon the judgment notes which had
been given.
"I further find that neither the complainants herein nor any
of the other creditors of the said C. H. Fargo & Company were
led to give credit to said company by reason of the transactions
had between it and the bank, nor did any of the said parties
sell any goods to said C. H. Fargo & Company subsequent to
the time when said bank made said $10,000 loan aforesaid to
0. H. Fargo & Company, nor did the said bank in any way participate in or have any knowledge of the change in the by-laws
of said C. H. Fargo & Company as aforesaid.
"I further find that from about the time when the said judgment notes were given to said bank, as aforesaid, the said bank
entered into a stipulation with the rubber companies by which
it was agreed that they should unite their efforts to collect their
respective claims against the said C. H. Fargo & Company and
should share pro 'atain whatever proceeds should be derived
therefrom.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

"I further find upon the testimony submitted to and taken
before me in connection with this branch of the case that the
defendant, the Metropolitan National Bank, is not shown to
have been guilty of any actual fraud as against the complainants or the other creditors of C. H. Fargo & Company by reason of any of its transactions with the said defendants, C. I.
Fargo & Company or the said rubber companies.
"I further find that August 6, 1896, before entry of the judgments in favor of the rubber companies as set forth in the pleadings, C. H. Fargo & Company, by its president, C. E. Fargo,
duly assigned to the United States Rubber Company all the accounts and bills receivable of the Fargo Company as further
security for the indebtedness to the rubber companies, pursuant
to and in accordance with the agreement made in January, 1896.
"I find nothing in the testimony which has been taken before
me upon this reference which so changes the record which was
before the court upon the hearing of the application for the
appointment of a receiver as to lead me to a conclusion different from that announced by the court at that time; indeed, the
effect of the testimony, in my judgment, is to explain and
strengthen the conclusion then expressed by the court, that
there was no fraud in fact or want of good faith shown in the
conduct of any of the defendants in respect to the transactions
complained of; and upon a careful examination of the whole
record and testimony I so find and report."
Exceptions filed by the respondents were overruled, and the
report was in all respects confirmed.
On May 4, 1899, the Circuit Court, per Circuit Judge Grosscup, entered a decree setting aside the preferences complained
of in the bill, as "fraudulent in law, (although not at the time
believed by the parties to be such, but, on the contrary, believed to have been within their rights,) as against the other
creditors of C. H. Fargo & Company ;" and directing the assets
in the hands of the receiver, amounting to about $111,000, to
be distributed pro 'ata among the creditors, including the defendants. An appeal and a cross appeal were taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and that court, on October 3, 1899, reversed the decree of the Circuit Court in so far as it permitted

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 445
Opinion of the Court.

the rubber companies and bank, defendants, to share equally
with other creditors in the fund to be distributed.
Thereupon this court, upon the petition of the rubber companies and the Metropolitan National Bank and the cross petition of the complaining creditors, allowed a writ of certiorari
to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit.
Xr.Henry S. Robbins for petitioners. it1r. George A. Follansbee and Xr. Edward S. Isham were on his brief.
.71r. FrederickA. Smith and Mr. Jacob Newman for respondents. X.. Tilliam J. ffanning and -Yr'. Horace -ent Tenne
were on Mr. Smith's brief. Ar.George W. Horthrup, Xr. S.
0. levinsom and .,r. Benjamin V.Becker were on Mr. Newman's brief.
MR. JUSTICE SHmIAS, after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
This was a case in which the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Illinois, sitting in chancery,
was called upon to administer and distribute the assets of an insolvent corporation. The jurisdiction of the court was invoked
by a bill of complaint filed on behalf of unsecured creditors seeking to set aside as fraudulent certain preferences held by the defendants. Pending that controversy, a receiver was appointed,
and ultimately a fund was realized for distribution amounting
to about $111,000.
The contested questions raised by the bill, intervening petitions, and answers were referred to a master to take proofs and
report the same "together with his conclusions thereon as to
the facts only."
After stating his findings of facts, the master thus stated his
conclusions thereon:
"I find nothing in the testimony which has been taken before
me upon this reference which so changes the record which was
before the court upon the hearing of the application for the appointment of a receiver as to lead me to a conclusion different

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

from that announced by the court at that time; indeed, the
effect of the testimony, in my judgment, is to explain and
strengthen the conclusion then expressed by the court, that there
was no fraud in fact or want of good faith shown in the conduct of any of the defendants in respect to the transactions complained of ; and upon a careful examination of the whole record
and testimony I so find and report."
The Circuit Court overruled exceptions taken to the findings
and conclusion of the master, and confirmed his report.
The conclusions of the Circuit Court were thus expressed in
the opinion of Circuit Judge Grosscup:
"After as careful an examination of the evidence as I have
been able to give to it, I have come to the following conclusions:
"First. That the intervening creditors have not clearly proven
that the rubber company and the Caudee Company had any intention to commit a fraud upon the other creditors at the time
of the arrangement of January, 1896; on the contrary, I think
the weight of proof shows that both these companies believed
that, with the help they were about to give Fargo & Company,
that company would be able to weather the storm. I am, therefore, of the conclusion that there was no intentional fraud committed.
"Second. The proof on the part of the intervenors has not
clearly shown that the ten thousand dollars borrowed from the
M[etropolitan National Bank upon which the Fargos were personally liable as indorsers did not go into the business of and
to the benefit of the Fargo Company ; on the contrary, the proof
clearly shows that, so far as the Metropolitan National Bank
knew, the money had gone to the company. Under these circumstances I see no reason why the Metropolitan National Bank
had not a right to advance the ten thousand dollars additional
money. .
"Fourth. . . . Candee & Company, the rubber company
and the bank would, undoubtedly, in January or in August,
have had the rightful power to have obtained the judgment
notes actually taken. had they taken judgment thereon, there
can be no doubt but that their preference would have been
sustained. The vice in the conduct of the rubber company

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 447
Opinion of the Court.

and the Candee Company consisted in their attempting to tie
up the corporation against the power to give like preferences
in favor of others. It was, in a ertain sense, a new attempt;
it was in the line of efforts of creditors to secure themselves;
it was, on the whole, not ungenerous to Fargo & Company;
and did not, considering their rights to have taken judgment
notes, and the fact that none of the other creditors attempted
to obtain such notes, or any other preference, before the general crash, do any actual injury to the other creditors.
"On the whole, I think the interests of justice will be best
subserved by placing them in the class with the other creditors,
and compelling them to pay the general costs of this litigation."
In the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals there does
not appear to have been made any serious attempt to overrule
or substantially modify the master's findings of facts; but the
conclusion of the Circuit Court permitting the defendants to
participate in a pro rata distribution of the fund was not approved, and the decree in that particular was reversed by a
majority of the court.
In his dissenting opinion Mr. Justice Brown thus expressed
his views on the questions of fact:
"I find no testimony to satisfy me that an actual fraud upon
the general creditors was intended. . . . The evidence satisfies me that there was a bona fide effort to assist the Fargo
Company in continuing its business, with the hope of ultimately
pulling it through, and that if this attempt had been successful,
it would have redounded greatly to the interest of the general
creditors. It was natural, at least, that in making this attempt
the rubber companies should have endeavored to secure themselves, not only for their immediate outlay of $50,000, but for
their prior debts. In palliation of the secrecy which was held
to make this constructively fraudulent, it may be said that publicity doubtless would have destroyed the entire scheme of raising money to carry on the business."
Nor has our own examination of the evidence led us to disapprove of the findings of facts by the master, confirmed and
adopted by the Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

What judgment, then, ought a court of equity to render upon
such an ascertained state of facts?
The view of the majority pf the Court of Appeals was that
the defendants in the court below should not be allowed to
participate in the fund until all the other creditors had been
paid in full. The result in the present case and in most similar
cases would be that the defendants would get nothing, as the
fund would not reach them. This would be a striking exercise
of power by a court of equity. Thereby the advantages obtained by remedies on the law side of the court would be transferred to the complainants on its equity side; the preferred
would become the unpreferred creditors, and the unpreferred
become the preferred creditors.
The common law recognizes in every man the right to dispose
of his property as he pleases. If he becomes insolvent, he may
pay one creditor, and leave another unpaid. He may secure
one and not another by a transfer of assets. Such a condition
of things, when left uncontrolled, naturally resulted in great
abuses. Under cover or pretence of paying or securing one set
of creditors, property actually procured from another would be
withdrawn from the reach of the latter. Yet the only remedy
afforded by the common law was in the principles of the statute
of 13 Elizabeth, c. 5, which have been substantially reenacted
in the various states of the Union. Under those principles a
collusive transfer, placing the property of a debtor out of the
reach of his creditors, while securing to him its beneficial enjoyment, would be invalid. But an insolvent debtor may prefer a
creditor, even though the latter has knowledge of such insolvency and the effect of the preference be to delay or disappoint
his other creditors. Crawford v. -Areal, 144 U. S. 585; .Davis
v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631.
The right of an insolvent debtor to prefer one creditor to
another exists in the State of Illinois to its fullest extent, and
the giving of judgment notes is recognized as a legitimate
method of preference. Tomlinson v. ilfatthews, 98 Illinois, 178;
F-ield v. 1?idgely, 116 Illinois, 424.
The abuses which are possible in such a state of affairs were
among the causes that led to the enactment of bankrupt laws

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 449
Opinion of the Court.

forbidding preferences by insolvent debtors. But, in the absence of such laws, as in the present case, if a remedy is sought
in a court of equity against fraudulent preferences, it must be
on allegation and proof of a design to defraud and delay the
complaining creditor. It does not suffice to show a mere case
of a preference intended by an insolvent debtor in paying or
securing a bona fide creditor, even though the latter was well
aware that the natural effect of the preference could work a
detriment to other creditors. This was well known to the
learned counsel who drew the bill of complaint in the present
case, and accordingly we find therein charges that C. I. Fargo
& Company, the United States Rubber Company and L. Candee
& Company entered into a fraudulent agreement, in and by
which it was provided that said foreign corporations should be
immediately placed in control of said C. H. Fargo & Company,
and have sole and exclusive power and authority to manage,
control and direct the business and affairs of C. I. Fargo &
Company; that said transfer of control should be effectuated
secretly, and to be kept secret, so as to enable C. H. Fargo
& Company to continue apparently doing business for a limited
time, and that said C. I. Fargo & Company should continue
during said period to purchase merchandise on credit, and should
turn the same or the proceeds thereof over to the said foreign
corporations, and should secure and prefer said foreign corporations out of the assets and property then owned by C. H.
Fargo & Company, and out of the property and merchandise
which should be thereafter purchased by C. H. Fargo & Company, to the exclusion of the other creditors, and to defraud,
hinder and delay the other creditors; and that it was not intended that C. H. Fargo & Company should bonafide continue
business, but, on the contrary, it was intended that they should
continue in business for a limited time only, and only for the
purpose of consummating said fraudulent agreement. The bill
further alleges that said agreement was carried out; that a
large amount of merchandise was purchased on credit from
other creditors, and that, finally, by means of judgment notes
and transfers of accounts, the entire assets of C. H. Fargo &
Company were levied on for the benefit of the secured credvoL,. CLXXx-i-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

itors; that the claims of the said rubber companies and of the
Metropolitan National Bank were considerably less than the
amount for which judgments were severally confessed in their
favor, and that therefore said judgments so confessed were absolutely null and void, etc.
Without pursuing in further detail the allegations of the bill,
it may be conceded that, if satisfactorily sustained by evidence,
they would have justified the conclusion that the transactions
between C. I. Fargo & Company and the defendants constituted, not an agreement for the purpose of securing bona fide
creditors, but a conspiracy to hinder, delay and defraud the
unsecured creditors of C. IH. Fargo & Company. But, as already stated, and as found by the master and the Circuit Court,
these incriminating allegations were not sustained, and the conclusion of the master, of the Circuit Court and of the dissenting justice of the Circuit Court of Appeals was that no fraud
upon the general creditors was intended or actually carried into
effect.
The theory of the Court of Appeals, as forcibly expressed in
the opinion of Circuit Judge Woods, would seem to be an
application to the facts of the case of the principles of the bankrupt law, with its feature of forbidding preferences. It overlooks, as we think, the legal right of creditors to secure themselves by legal remedies, even though they may result in
hardship and loss to others. In stating that the rubber companies were guilty of fraud in fact, we think the Circuit Court
of Appeals was not borne out by the findings of the master
and of the Circuit Court, nor by the facts as they appear to
us; and in holding that, as against other creditors, they and
the Metropolitan National Bank should not be allowed to share
in the fund for distribution, there was error.
If, in the agreement between C. IH. Fargo & Company and
the preferred creditors, and the giving and taking of the preferences, there was no actual fraud upon the other creditors intended, it may not be easy to clearly state the grounds on
which a court of equity may deprive the defendants in the bill
of the legal advantages thus obtained.
Still, it has often been held that permitting personal property,

U. S. RUBBER CO. v. AMERICAN OAK LEATHER CO. 451
Opinion of the Court.

like a stock of goods, to remain in the possession of an insolvent merchant as a basis for credit, however rightfully intended,
is forbidden by the policy of the law. And we adopt the view
of the Circuit Court, that "while the policy of the law permits
preferences and such preferences as are necessarily unknown to
others than those concerned, it does not permit any device
which prevents the debtor from giving a like advantage to his
other creditors, if he so wishes, unless such device is put in the
form of a mortgage or other instrument perpetually open to
public inspection upon the public record.

.

.

.

The device

resorted to accomplished for the Fargos and the favored creditors all that a secret chattel mortgage, with possession and
power of sale remaining in the mortgagee, could have accomplished, and must therefore be treated in equity, upon all considerations of justice and reason, as such a mortgage would be
treated.

.

.

.

The judgment notes themselves would not

have been a fraud in law; the assignment of the accounts or of
the plant at Dixon would not themselves have been a fraud in
law; but connected, as they were, with the other advantages
obtained-namely, deprivation of the Fargos of all further
power and permission to retain possession of the goods and
reap the profits of their trade, a scheme on the whole under
which a dishonest trader could effectually shelter himself-they
are, in my judgment, within the plain prohibitions of the law,"
citing Robinson v. Elliott, 22 Wall. 513.
The decree of the Circuit Court, while depriving the rubber
companies and the Metropolitan National Bank of the prior
liens created by the confessed judgments and assignments, placed
them in the class with the other creditors, and entitled to share
ratably in the distribution of the fund in court.
Mr. Justice Brown, in his dissenting opinion in the Circuit
Court of Appeals, thus expressed the same view:
"Upon the whole it does not seem to me that such a case of
fraud is made out as authorizes the court to postpone the claims
of the preferred creditors to those of the general creditors, and
thereby practically to confiscate them; and there is no sound
reason for departing from the general rule laid down in the
Supreme Court in White v. Cotzhausen, 129 U. S. 329, and in

OCTOBER TERMl, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Streeter v. eferson County Bank, 1417 U. S. 36, wherein the
preferred creditors were permitted, after their security had
been set aside, to stand upon an equality with the general creditors."
The case of TFkte v. otzhausen arose under the voluntary
assignment act of the State of Illinois, and it was held that
creditors who had attempted to secure an illegal preference of
their debts by means of a conveyance to them of the property
of their debtor when insolvent, to the exclusion of other creditors, were not thereby debarred, under the operation of the
statute, from participating in a distribution, under that act, of
all the debtor's property, including that illegally conveyed to
them. The Circuit Court held that such illegally preferred
creditors should be postponed in the distribution, but this court
said, per Mr. Justice Harlan:
"We are not able to assent to this determination of the rights
of the parties; for the mother, sisters and brother of Alexander
White, Jr., were his creditors, and, so far as the record discloses, they only sought to obtain a preference over the other
creditors. But their attempt to obtain such illegal preference
ought not to have the effect of depriving them of their interest,
under the statute in the proceeds of the property in question,
or justify a decree giving a prior right to the appellee. It was
not intended by the statute to give priority of right to the creditors who are not preferred. All that the appellee can claim is
to participate in such proceeds upon terms of equality with other
creditors."
A similar view prevailed in Streeter v. Jefferson. County Bank,
and it was held that where a creditor of a bankrupt caused execution to be levied, before the bankruptcy, on goods of the
bankrupt to satisfy the debt, and the levy was afterwards set
aside as an illegal preference within the purview of the bankrupt act, in consequence of knowledge of the debtor's condition
by the plaintiff's attorney, that the creditor was not thereby precluded from proving his debt against the bankrupt.
There is a wide difference between the case of a fraud ab initio, such, for instance, as a scheme to enforce a false or pretended indebtedness, so as to remove the assets of an alleged

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CAMDEN IRON WORKS.

453

Syllabus.

debtor from the reach of his bona fide creditors, and the case of
an attempt by bonafide creditors to secure preferences for themselves, but using methods forbidden by statute or by the policy
of law. In the former case, undoubtedly, a court of equity will
refuse to permit the guilty parties to derive any profit or advantage from the fraudulent arrangement. In the latter case a
court of equity will not declare a forfeiture of just debts, or, by
postponing them till all other creditors are satisfied, practically confiscate them, but will, while defeating the attempt to
obtain a forbidden preference, leave such creditors to use and
enjoy the same rights and remedies possessed by other creditors.
We think the present case is one in which the fundamental
rule, that equality is equity, may properly be applied, and that
will result in avoiding the attempted preferences and in permitting all the creditors to share ratably in the distribution of
the fund in the hands of the receiver.
T/ie decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed with
costs, and that of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN did not take part in the decision of the
case.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. CAMDEN IRON WORKS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 172. Submitted March 7, 1901.-Decided May 13, 1901.
Any seal may be used and adopted by a corporation as well as an individual, and the same general principles respecting seals apply to municipal
as well as private corporations.
It was for the Commissioners of the District of Columbia to determine
whether the interests of the District required the contract in this case to
be sealed. And the contract having been executed as and for the District, the seals of the Commissioners are to be assumed to have been
affixed as the seal of the corporation.
Where work is to be completed within a specified number of days from
the date of the execution of a contract, parol evidence that the contract
was executed and delivered subsequent to its date, is admissible.

