ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Statement of the Case.

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 17. Argued December 15, 1899.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A husband and wife had their matrimonial domicil in Kentucky, which was
the domicil of the husband. She left him there, and returned to her
mother's at Clinton in the State of New York. He filed a petition against
her in a court of Kentucky for a divorce from the bond of matrimony for
her abandonment, which was a cause of divorce by the laws of Kentucky;
and alleged on oath, as required by the statutes of Kentucky, that she
might be found at Clinton, and that Clinton was the post-office nearest
the place where she might be found. The clerk, as required by those
statutes, entered a warning order to the wife to appear in sixty days, and
appointed an attorney at law for her. The attorney wrote to her at
Clinton, advising her of the object of the petition, and enclosing a copy
thereof, in a letter addressed to her by mail at that place, and having on
the envelope a direction to return it to him, if not delivered in ten days.
A month later, the attorney, having received no answer, made his report
to the court. Five weeks afterwards, the court, after taking evidence,
granted the husband an absolute decree of divorce for the wife's abandonment of him. Held, that this decree was a bar to the wife's petition for
a divorce in Now York.

THis was a suit brought January 11, 1893, in the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, by Mary G. Atherton against
Peter Lee Atherton, for a divorce from bed and board, for the
custody of the child of the parties, and for the support of the
plaintiff and the child, on the ground of cruel and abusive treatment of the plaintiff by the defendant. The defendant appeared
in the case; and at a trial by the court without a jury at June
term, 1893, the court found the following facts:
On October 17, 1888, the parties were married at Clinton,
Oneida County, New York, the plaintiff being a resident of
that place, and the defendant a resident of Louisville, Kentucky.
Immediately after the marriage, the parties went to and resided
at Louisville, in the house with the defendant's parents, had a
child born to them on January 8, 1890, and there continued to
reside as husband and wife until October 3, 1891. Then, owing

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

to his cruel and abusive treatment, without fault on her part,
she left him, taking the child with her, and in a few days thereafter, returned to her mother at Clinton, and has ever since
resided there with her mother, and is a resident and domiciled
in the State of New York, and has not lived or cohabited with
the defendant. When she so left him and went to Clinton, she
did so with the purpose and intention of not returning to the
State of Kentucky, but of permanently residing in the State of
New York; and this purpose and intention were understood by
the defendant at the time, and were contemplated and evidenced
by an agreement entered into, at Louisville, October 10, 1891,
by the parties and one Henry P. Goodenowv, under advice of
counsel, which is copied in the margin.1 The defendant con1 The undersigned, Peter Lee Atherton, and his wife, Mary G. Atherton,
having ceased to live together as man and wife, without in any way acknowledging upon whom is the fault, or condoning the conduct of the one
or the other which has led to the existing state of affairs, or preventing
any consequence which may follow, or right which may arise to either
party if such status shall continue, desire to provide for the best interest
of their child, Mary Valeria Atherton. With this view they have entered
into tie following agreement:
Peter Lee Atherton contracting with Henry P. Goodenow as trustee for
Mary G. Atherton, and said trustee contracting with Peter Lee Atherton
on behalf and jointly with Mary G. Atherton.
1. The child is hereby committed for its nurture, education and control
to the joint custody and guardianship of her mother, Mary G. Atherton,
and her paternal grandmother, Maria B. Atherton, on the following basis:
The domicil of the child is to be the State of Kentucky. The mother is
to have the child until January 1, 1892. During the years 1892, 1893 and
1894 the grandmother is to have the child and control its abode, travel and
custody from January 1st to the first week in May; and the mother from
the first week in May to December 31st. After that period, during the existence of tbis arrangement, the grandmother's custody, control, etc., is to
exist during the first four and last two months of tile year; that of the
mother during the other months of the year.
2. During that part of each year in which the child is under the control
of the mother, Peter Lee Atherton is to pay into te hands of Mary G.
Atherton $500 in instalments of equal amounts at the beginning of each of
the months of said control, for the comfortable maintenance of the child.
During the rest of each year, he is to himself at his sole expense provide
for the support of the child. The expense of conveying the child, with a
proper attendant in the journey, to the mother, Mary G. Atherton, is to be

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Statement of the Case.

tinued to reside in Louisville, and is a resident of the State of
Kentucky.
The defendant, in his answer, besides denying the cruelty
charged, set up a decree of divorce from the bond of matrimony,
obtained by him against his wife March 14, 1893, in a court of
Jefferson County in the State of Kentucky, empowered to grant
divorces, by which "This action having come on to be heard
upon the pleadings, report of attorney for the absent defendant,
and the evidence and the court being advised, it is considered
borne by the father, Peter Lee Atherton, and the like expense, on the journey back to the grandmother, is to come out of the sum provided for the
child's support.
3. Peter Lee Atherton is to pay into the hands of Mary G. Atherton for
her support $125 at the beginning of each month, until this agreement does
by its own terms end. This is to be taken in lieu of alimony and dowable
and distributable share in his estate.
4. The following provisions are made for the termination of this agreement, and for the contingency of various events that may happen in the
future; among others, divorce and second marriage of Peter Lee Atherton
or Mary G. Atherton.
a. This agreement as to the child is to terminate on her arrival at fourteen years of age, it being recognized that she will then be old enough to
choose for herself. It shall, of course, in like manner terminate at her
death.
b. This agreement as to the support of Mary G. Atherton is to end at her
death, or upon her again marrying, and in any event on the 8th day of
January, 1904.
c. If Mary G. Atherton shall marry again or die, the person then being
joint guardian with her of the child shall become its sole guardian. If
Maria B. Atherton shall die while she is joint guardian, Peter Lee Atherton, if alive, or if he be dead, his father, John M. Atherton, shall choose a
successor in the joint guardianship; and if Mary G. Atherton objects to
the person so nominated, the senior (in years) judge of the Jefferson circuit court shall decide the question of fitness,'and confirm or reject such
nomination.
d. A successor to said successor may under similar circumstances be in
like manner chosen.
e. If, during the existence of this agreement, Mary G. Atherton being
then joint guardian, John M. Atherton and Maria B. Atherton shall die,
and Peter Lee Atherton die or be or become married, the sole guardianship
shall rest in said Mary G. Atherton.
f. If, during the lives of Peter Lee Atherton and Mary G. Atherton, a
sole guardianship shall have resulted under the terms of this agreement,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

by the court that the plaintiff, Peter Lee Atherton, has resided
in Jefferson County, Kentucky, continuously for ten years last
past; and that he and the defendant, Mary G. Atherton, were
married on the 17th day of October, 1888; that from the date
of said marriage the said plaintiff and defendant resided in Jefferson County, Kentucky; that while the plaintiff and defendant were thus residing in Jefferson County, Kentucky, to wit,
in the month of October, 1891, the defendant, Mary G. Atherton, without fault upon the part of the plaintiff, abandoned
him, and that said abandonment has continued without interruption from that time to this, and at the filing of the petition
herein had existed for more than one year; that the defendant,
Mary G. Atherton, had, at the filing of the petition herein, been
absent from this State for more than four months; that therefore it is further considered and adjudged by the court that the
plaintiff, Peter Lee Atherton, is entitled to the decree of divorce
prayed for in this petition, and that the bonds of matrimony
between the said plaintiff, Peter Lee Atherton, and the said
defendant, Mary G. Atherton, be and they are hereby dissolved."
By the record of that decree, duly verified, the following
appeared: On December 28, 1892, the plaintiff filed a petition
under oath, containing the same statements as the decree, and
also stating " that the said defendant may be found in Clinton,
State of New York, and that in said Clinton is kept the postoffice which is nearest to the place where the defendant may
be found." On the same day, pursuant to the requirements of
the statutes of Kentucky, the clerk made an order, warning
the defendant to appear within sixty days and answer the petieach parent shall have reasonable access to and right of visitation from the
child, notwithstanding such parent may have again married.
g. If a divorce shall be granted, this agreement, so far as it concerns
provision for Mary G. Attherton, shall be carried into the decree, as in full
satisfaction of all claim for alimony, and so far as concerns provision for
and custody of the child, reserving to the court the usual power to provide against events and contingencies not covered by this agreement.
Witness the signatures of all the parties this October 10th, 1891.
HENRY P. GooDENOw.
MARY G. ATIIERTON.
PETER LEE ATHERTON.

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Statement of the Case.

tion, and appointing John C. Walker, an attorney of the court,
to defend for her and in her behalf, and to inform her of the
nature and pendency of the suit. On February 6, 1893, Walker
filed his report, in which he stated: "On this, the 5th day of
January, 1893, I wrote to said defendant, Mary G. Atherton,
at Clinton, in the State of New York, fully advising her of the
objects and purposes of this action, stating therein a substantial
copy of the petition, &c., plainly directed said letter to her at
said place, paid the postage, had printed on the envelope en' If not delivered in ten days return to Jno. C. Walker,
closing it,
law, No. 516 West Jefferson street, Louisville, Ky.'
at
attorney
has not been returned to me. I have received no
letter
Said
answer thereto from said defendant or any one else for her,
and do not know nor am I advised of any defence to make for
her, and make none, only that which the law in such cases
makes for non-resident defendants." The agreement of October 10, 1891, before mentioned, and certain depositions, set
forth in full, taken at various dates from February 23 to
March 3, 1893, were filed in the cause in Kentucky before the
hearing.
It was agreed that either party might refer to any statute of
the State of Kentucky, or decision of its courts.
The Supreme Court of New York found that the wife "was
not personally served with process within the State of Kentucky, or at all, nor did she in any manner appear, or authorize an appearance for her, in the said action and proceeding;"
and that before the commencement of that suit, and ever since,
she had ceased to be a resident of Kentucky, and had become
and was a resident of the State of New York, domiciled and
residing in Clinton, with her child.
The court decided that the decree in Kentucky was inoperative and void as against the wife, and no bar to this action;
and gave judgment in her favor for a divorce from bed and
board, and for the custody of the child, and for the support of
herself and the child.
That judgment was affirmed by the general term of the Supreme Court of New York, and by the Court of Appeals of
the State. 82 Hun, 179; 155 N. Y. 129.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant sued out this writ of error, on the ground
that the judgment did not give full faith and credit to the decree of the court in Kentucky, as required by the Constitution
and laws of the United States.
Xr.Alexander Pope Humphrey for plaintiff in error.
George XA.-Daviewas on his brief.

AXr.

.71k. William JKernan for defendant in error.
G.AY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE

The first section of the fourth article of the Constitution of
the United States is as follows: "Full faith and credit shall
be given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial
proceedings of every other.State. And the Congress may, by
general laws, prescribe the manner in which such acts, records
and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof." This
section was intended to give the same conclusive effect to the
judgments of all the States, so as to promote certainty and uniformity in the rule among them. And Congress, in the exercise
of the power so conferred, besides prescribing the manner in
which the records and judicial proceedings of any State may
be authenticated, has defined the effect thereof, by enacting
that "the said records and judicial proceedings, so authenticated,
shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court
within the United States as they have by law or usage in the
courts of the State from which they are taken." Rev. Stat.
§ 905, reenacting act of Mlay 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122; hluntington v. Attrill, (1892) 146 U. S.657, 684.
By the General Statutes of Kentucky of 1873, c. 52, art. 3,
courts of equity may grant a divorce for abandonment by one
party of the other for one year; petitions for divorce must be
brought in the county where the wife usually resides if she has
an actual residence in the State; if not, then in the county of
the husband's residence; and shall not be taken for confessed,

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

or be sustained by confessions of the defendant alone, but must
be supported by other proofs.
By the Civil Code of Practice of Kentucky of 18'16, tit. 4,
c. 2, art. 2, if a defendant has been absent from the State four
months, and the plaintiff files an affidavit stating in what country the defendant resides or may be found and the name of the
place wherein a post-office is kept nearest to the place where
the defendant resides or may be found, the clerk may make an
order warning the defendant to defend the action within sixty
days; and shall at the same time appoint, as attorney for the
defendant, a regular practising attorney of the court, whose
duty it shall be to make diligent efforts to inform the defendant
by mail concerning the pendency and nature of the action
against him, and to report to the court the result of his efforts;
and a defendant against whom a warning order is made, and
for whom an attorney is appointed, is deemed to have been constructively summoned on the thirtieth day thereafter, and the
action may proceed accordingly.
In accordance with these statutes, on December 28, 1892, the
husband filed in a proper court of Kentucky a petition, under
oath, for a divorce from the bond of matrimony, alleging his
wife's abandonment of him ever since October, 1891, and that
she had been absent from the State for more than four months,
and might be found at Clinton in the State of New York, and
that in Clinton was kept the post-office nearest the place where
she might be found; and the clerk entered a warning order,
and appointed an attorney at law for the defendant. On January 5, 1893, that attorney wrote to the wife at Clinton, fully
advising her of the object of the petition for divorce, and enclosing a copy thereof, in a letter addressed to her by nail at that
place, and having printed on the envelope a direction to return
it to him, if not delivered within ten days. On February 6,
1893, the attorney, not having received that letter again, or any
answer from the defendant, or in her behalf, made his report
to the court. And on March 14, 1893, the court, after taking
evidence, including an agreement made by the parties in Kentucky, October 10, 1891, as to the domicil, custody and support
VOL. OLXXXI-1I

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of their child, granted to the husband an absolute divorce for
his wife's abandonment of him.
There can be no doubt that this decree was by law and usage
entitled to full faith and credit as an absolute decree of divorce
in the State of Kentucky. The Court of Appeals of that State
has held that, under its statutes, a wife residing in the State was
entitled to obtain a decree of divorce against a husband who
had left the State, or who had never been within it; and Chief
Justice Robertson said: "It would be a reproach to our legislation if a faithless husband in Kentucky could, by leaving the
State, deprive his abandoned wife of a power of obtaining a
divorce at home." Rhyms v. ]Piyrns,(1870)'7 Bush, 316; Perzel
v. Perzel, (1891) 91 Kentucky, 634. That court has recognized
that the regulation of divorce belongs to the legislature of the
domicil of the parties. Xiaguire v. fJfaguire, (1838) 7 Dana,
181, 185-187. And the same court, where husband and wife
had lived together in Kentucky, and she abandoned him, and he
became a bona fide citizen of Indiana, held that a divorce from
the bonds of matrimony, obtained by him against the wife in
that State, by proceedings on constructive service, and according to the laws of that State, determined the status of the
parties in Kentucky. Hawkins v. Bagsdale, (1882) 80 Kentucky, 353.
There is a weight of authority in accord with the views
maintained by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, although
there are some decisions of learned courts to the contrary.
The purpose and effect of a decree of divorce from the bond
of matrimony, by a court of competent jurisdiction, are to
change the existing status or domestic relation of husband and
wife, and to free them both from the bond. The marriage tie,
when thus severed as to one party, ceases to bind either. A
husband without a wife, or a wife without a husband, is unknown to the law. When the law provides, in the nature of a
penalty, that the guilty party shall not marry again, that party,
as well as the other, is still absolutely freed from the bond of the
former marriage.
The rule as to the notice necessary to give full effect to a

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

decree of divorce is different from that which is required in
suits in

ersonamr.

In Pennoyer v. Neff, (1877) 95 U. S. 714, 734, ,this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Field, while deciding that a judgment
of a state court on a debt could not be supported without personal service on the defendant within the State or his appearance
in the cause, took occasion to say: "To prevent any misapplication of the views expressed in this opinion, it is proper to observe
that we do not mean to assert, by anything we have said, that
a State may not authorize proceedings to determine the status
of one of its citizens towards a non-resident, which would be
binding within the State, though made without service of process or personal notice to the non-resident. The jurisdiction
which every State possesses to determine the civil status and
capacities of all its inhabitants involves authority to prescribe
the conditions on which the proceedings affecting them may be
commenced and carried on within its territory. The State, for
example, has absolute right to prescribe the conditions upon
which the marriage relation between its own citizens shall be
created, and the causes for which it may be dissolved. One of
the parties, guilty of acts for which, by the law of the State, a
dissolution may be granted, may have removed to a State where
no dissolution is permitted. The complaining party would therefore fail if a divorce were sought in the State of the defendant;
and if application could not be made to the tribunals of the
complainant's domicil in such case, and proceedings be there
instituted without personal service of process or personal notice
to the offending party, the injured citizen would be without
redress. 2 Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, § 156."
In Cheeley v. (layton, (1884) 110 U. S. 701, which involved
the validity of a decree of divorce, obtained in Colorado by a
husband domiciled there, against his wife for unjustifiably refusing to live with him, this court said: "The courts of the
State of the domicil of the parties doubtless have jurisdiction
to decree a divorce in accordance with its laws, for any cause
allowed by those laws, without regard to the place of the marriage, or to that of the commission of the offence for which the
divorce is granted; and a divorce so obtained is valid everywhere.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

Story, Conflict of Laws, § 230a; Ckeever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108;
11arvey v. Farnie, 8 App. Cas. 43. If a wife is living apart
from her husband without sufficient cause, his domicil is in law
her domicil; and in the absence of any proof of fraud or misconduct on his part, a divorce obtained by him in the State of
his domicil, after reasonable notice to her, either by personal
service or by publication in accordance with its laws, is valid,
although she never in fact resided in that State. Burlen v.
Shannon, 115 Mass. 438; Hmnt v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 218. But
in order to make the divorce valid, either in the State in which
it is granted or in another State, there must, unless the defendant appeared in the suit, have been such notice to her as the
law of the first State requires." 110 U. S. '05. In that case
the decree of divorce was held void, because the notice required
by the laws of the State had not been given; and the finding
of the court below that the wife, at the time of the proceedings
for divorce, was a citizen and resident of the State of Illinois,
was given no weight, because, as this court said, it was hard to
see how, if she unjustifiably refused to live with her husband
in Colorado, she could lawfully acquire in his lifetime a separate domicil in another State; or how, if the Colorado court had
jurisdiction to render the decree of divorce, and did render it
upon the ground of her unlawful absence from him, the finding
of the court below could consist with the fact so adjudged in
the decree of divorce. 110 U. S.709.
In Hiardingv. Alden, (1832) 9 Greenl. 140, the husband and
wife lived together in Maine. ie deserted her, and took up a
residence in North Carolina, and there married and lived with
another woman. The first wife then moved to and resided in
Providence, Rhode Island, and there filed a libel in the Supreme Judicial Court for an absolute divorce against him for
his desertion and adultery; and the court, after service of a
citation on him, and two continuances of the cause, decreed
a divorce as prayed for. The husband was never an inhabitant
of Rhode Island. The wife afterwards married another man.
The Supreme Judicial Court of Maine, in an opinion delivered
by Mr. Justice Weston, held that the divorce in Rhode Island
dissolved the bond of marriage between the parties; and said:

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

"If we refuse to give full faith and credit to the decree of the
Supreme Judicial Court of Rhode Island, because the party
libelled had his domicil in another State, and was not within
their jurisdiction, we refuse to accord to the decrees of that
court the efficacy we claim for our own, when liable to the same
objection. In the case before us, it is agreed that the party injured was at the time an inhabitant of Rhode Island, residing
in Providence, and this fact is recited in the decree. It appears
that by order of the court a citation was served upon the defendant in person; and that a continuance was twice granted,
to give him an opportunity to appear in defence. This shows
a due regard to that principle of justice, which gives to the
party accused the right to be heard. The decree was rendered
by the highest judicial tribunal in that State. As it belongs to
that tribunal to declare, authoritatively and definitively, what
the law of the State is, we are bound to infer that by that law
the bonds of matrimony, previously existing between the libellant and her former husband, were thereby dissolved; and that
such is the effect of the decree within the State of Rhode Island." 9 Greenl. 148. "There would be great inconvenience
in holding that a divorce decreed in the State where the injured party resided might not be held valid through the
Union, where the right of citizenship is common, where the
party accused had established his domicil in another State,
and there committed adultery. And this is the only objection
to the efficacy of the decree in question; it being insisted
that the court had no jurisdiction over the absent party. As
has been before intimated, it would apply with equal force
to many divorces decreed in this State. It would require that
the wife, abandoned and dishonored, should seek the new domicil of the guilty husband, animo manendli, before she could
claim the benefit of the law to be relieved from his control.
In giving effect here to the divorce decreed in Rhode Island,
we would wish to be understood, that the ground upon which
we place our decision is limited to the dissolution of the marriage. In the libel, alimony was prayed for; and certain personal property, then in the possession of the wife, was decreed
to her. Had the court awarded her a gross sum, or a weekly

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

or an annual allowance, to be paid by the husband, and the
courts of this or any other State had been resorted to to enforce
it, a different question would be presented." 9 Greenl. 151.
Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, says of that case that
it was there held "that a decree of divorce did not fall within
the rule that a judgment rendered against one not within the
State, nor bound by its laws, nor amendable to its jurisdiction,
was not entitled to credit against the defendant in another
State; and that divorces pronounced according to the law of
one jurisdiction, and the new relations thereupon formed, ought
to be recognized, in the absence of all fraud, as operative and
binding everywhere, so far as Telated to the dissolution of tMe
marriage,though not as to other parts of the decree, such as
an order for the payment of money by the husband." And the
Chancellor adds, "This is an important and valuable decision."
2 Kent Com. 110, note.
In Ditson v. Ditson, (1856) 4 Rhode Island, 87, (of which
Judge Cooley, in his Treatise on Constitutional Limitations,
403, note, says there is no case in the books more full and satisfactory upon the whole subject of jurisdiction in divorce suits,)
the Supreme Court of Rhode Island, in an elaborate opinion by
Chief Justice Ames, affirmed its jurisdiction, upon constructive
notice by publication, to grant a divorce to a wife domiciled in
Rhode Island against a husband who had never been in Rhode
Island, and whose place of residence was unknown; and said:
"It is obvious that marriage, as a domestic relation, emerged
from the contract which created it, is known and recognized as
such throughout the civilized world; that it gives rights and
imposes duties and restrictions upon the parties to it, affecting
their social and moral condition, of the measure of which every
civilized State, and certainly every State of this Union, is the
sole judge so far as its own citizens or subjects are concerned,
and should be so deemed by other civilized, and especially sister States; that a State cannot be deprived, directly or indirectly, of its sovereign power to regulate the status of its own
domiciled subjects and citizens, by the fact that the subjects and
citizens of other States, as related to them, are interested in that
status; and in such a matter has a right, under the general law,

ATHERTON v. ATBERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

judicially to deal with and modify or dissolve this relation, binding both parties to it by the decree, by virtue of its inherent power
over its own citizens and subjects, and to enable it to answer their
obligatory demands for justice; and finally, that in the exercise
of this judicial power, and in order to the validity of a decree of
divorce, whether a rnensa et tho'o or a vinculo rnatrimonii,the
general law does not deprive a State of its proper jurisdiction
over the condition of its own citizens, because non-residents,
foreigners or domiciled inhabitants of other States have not or
will not become, and cannot be made to become, personally subject to the jurisdiction of its courts; but upon the most familiar
principles, and as illustrated by the most familiar analogies of general law, its courts may and can act conclusively in such a matter upon the rights and interests of such persons, giving to them
such notice, actual or constructive, as the nature of the case
admits of, and the practice of courts in similar cases sanctions."
4 Rhode Island, 105, 106.
The statutes of Massachusetts provided as follows: "When
an inhabitant of this State goes into another State or country
to obtain a divorce for any cause occurring here, and whilst the
parties resided here, or for any cause which would not authorize
a divorce by the laws of this State, a divorce so obtained shall
be of no force or effect in this State. In all other cases, a divorce decreed in any other State or country according to the
laws thereof, by a court having jurisdiction of the cause and
both the parties, shall be valid and effectual in this State."
That provision made no change in the law, but, in the words of
the Commissioners upon whose advice it was first enacted, "is
founded on the rule established by the comity of all civilized
nations; and is proposed merely that no doubt should arise on
a question so interesting and important as this may sometimes
be." Gen. Stat. of 1860, c. 107, §§ 54, 55; iRev. Stat. of 1836,
c. 76, § 39, 40, and note of Commissioners; Ross v. Ross, 129
Mass. 243, 24:8.
In food v. h-ood, (1865) 11 Allen, 196, the husband and wife,
after living together in Massachusetts, removed to Illinois, and
there lived together; the wife, "under circumstances as to
which there was no evidence," and afterwards the husband,

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

came back to Massachusetts, and, while they were living there
in his brother-in-law's house for a few weeks, he signed an agreement, reciting that they had separated, and promising to pay
her a certain weekly sum so long as she should remain single.
She continued to reside in Massachusetts; and he obtained in
Illinois a decree of divorce from her for her desertion, upon such
notice as the laws of Illinois authorized in the case of an absent
defendant. It was held by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in an opinion delivered by Mr. Justice Hoar, that
both parties had their domicil in Illinois, and were subject to
the jurisdiction of its courts ; and that the fact of desertion by
the wife was conclusively settled between the parties by the
decree in Illinois, and it was not competent for the wife to contradict it on a libel afterwards filed by her in Massachusetts;
and her libel was dismissed. And in Hood v. Hood, (1872) 110
Mass. 463, it appearing that such dismissal was upon the ground
of the validity of the previous decree of divorce in Illinois, it
was adjudged that that decree could not be impeached by the
wife in a writ of dower by her against third persons, the court
saying: "The decree in favor of her husband, dismissing her
libel, was then forever conclusive against her, as between themselves. It severed the relation between them; or rather estopped her from averring anything to the contrary of the decree
in Illinois which purported to sever that relation. The general
rule, however, in regard to estoppels of record, is that they are
good only between the parties of record and their privies. They
cannot be set up in collateral proceedings between one of those
parties and third persons. But the effect of the judgment in
this case was to determine the status of the demandant. So far
as it did that, it is a judgment that is operative and conclusive
as to all the world."
The like view has been affirmed by courts of other States.
Thomwpson v. State, (1856) 28 Alabama, 13; leitd v. Zeith,
(1859) 39 N. H. 20, 39-43; Shwfer v. Bushnell, (1869) 24 Wisconsin, 372; Gould v. Crow, (1874) 57 Missouri, 200; Tan Orsdal v. Van Orsdal, (1885) 67 Iowa, 35; Smith v. Smith, (1891)
43 La. Ann. 1140; _z 'e James, (1893) 99 California, 374; Dunham v. Dunham, (1896) 162 Illinois, 589, 607-610.

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

In ..
haw v. Sliaw, (1867) 98 Mass. 158, the husband and wife,
domiciled in Massachusetts, left the State to take up their residence in Colorado. In Pennsylvania, on the journey, he treated
her with extreme cruelty, and she left him and returned to Massachusetts, and continued to reside there. It was held that while
they were in Pennsylvania the domicil of both parties remained
in Massachusetts, and that the wife might maintain a libel in
Massachusetts for the cause occurring in Pennsylvania, although
the husband before it occurred had left Massachusetts with the
intention of never returning, and never did in fact return, and
therefore no notice was or could be served upon him in Massachusetts.
In a very recent case, the Court of Errors of New Jersey
maintained the validity of a divorce obtained in the State of
Utah by a husband, having his bona f-de domicil there, against
a wife whose domicil was in New Jersey, after publication of
the process and complaint in accordance with the statutes of
Utah, and personal service upon the wife in New Jersey in
time to enable her to make defence, if she wished to do so.
Mr. Justice Gummere, speaking for the Court of Errors, said
that, at least, "interstate comity requires that a decree of divorce, pronounced by a court of the State in which the complainant is domiciled, and which has jurisdiction of the subject-matter
of the suit, shall, in the absence of fraud, be given full force
and effect within the jurisdiction of a sister State, notwithstanding that the defendant does not reside within the jurisdiction
of the court which pronounced the decree, and has not been
served with process therein; provided that a substituted service has been made in accordance with the provisions of the
statute of that State, and that actual notice of the pendency
of the suit has been given to the defendant, and a reasonable
opportunity afforded to put in a defence thereto; and provided,
further, that theground upon which the decree rests is one which
the public policy of the State in which it is sought to be enforced
recognizes as a sufficient cause for divorce." Feltv. Felt, (1899)
14 Dickinson (59 N. J. Eq.).
In New York, North Carolina and South Carolina, the opposite view has prevailed, either upon the ground that the rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

as to notice is the same in suits for divorce as in ordinary suits
inpersonam,or upon the ground that, in the absence of actual
notice or appearance, the decree, while it may release the libellant, cannot release the libellee, from the bond of matrimony.
People v. Baker, (1879) 76 N. Y. 78; O'Dea v. O'Dea, (1885)
101 N. Y. 23; - 'e Kimball, (1898) 155 N. Y. 62; Irby v.
Wilson, (1837) 1 Dev. & Bat. Eq. 568; MeCreery v. Davis,
(18941) 44 So. Car. 195.
In People v. Baker, 76 N. Y. 78, upon which the subsequent
decisions in New York are based, the defendant was married
to a woman in the State of Ohio; they afterwards lived together in the State of New York; the wife, upon notice by
publication, and without personal appearance of the husband,
he being in New York, obtained a decree of divorce against
him in Ohio; and he afterwards married another woman in
New York, and was convicted of bigamy there. The conviction was affirmed by the Court of Appeals, without a suggestion that the first wife was not domiciled in Ohio at the time
of the divorce, but stating the question in the case to be: "Can
a court, in another State, adjudge to be dissolved and at an end
the matrimonial relation of a citizen of this State, domiciled
and actually abiding here throughout the pendency of the judicial proceedings there, without a voluntary appearance by
him therein, and with no actual notice to him thereof, and
without personal service of process on him in that State?"
The court admitted that "if one party to a proceeding is domiciled in a State, the status of that party, as affected by the
matrimonial relation, may be adjudged upon and confirmed or
changed, in accordance with the laws of that State;" but held
that, without personal appearance or actual notice, the decree
could not affect the matrimonial relation of the defendant in
another State. The court recognized that the law was settled
otherwise in some States, and said: "It remains for the Supreme Court of the United States, as the final arbiter, to determine how far a judgment rendered in such a case, upon such
substituted service of process, shall be operative without the
territorial jurisdiction of the tribunal giving it."
The authorities above cited show the wide diversity of opin-

ATHERTON v. ATHERTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ion existing upon this important subject, and admonish us to
confine our decision to the exact case before us.
This case does not involve the validity of a divorce granted,
on constructive service, by the court of a State in which only
one of the parties ever had a domicil; nor the question to what
extent the good faith of the domicil may be afterwards inquired
into. In this case, the divorce in Kentucky was by the court
of the State which had always been the undoubted domicil of
the husband, and which was the only matrimonial domicil of
the husband and wife. The single question to be decided is the
validity of that divorce, granted after such notice had been
given as was required by the statutes of Kentucky.
The husband always had his domicil in Kentucky, and the
matrimonial domicil of the parties was in Kentucky. On December 28, 1892, the husband filed his petition for a divorce in
the court of appropriate jurisdicti6n in Kentucky, alleging an
abandonment of him by the wife in Kentucky, and a continuance of that abandonment for a year, which was a cause of
divorce by the laws of Kentucky. His petition truly stated,
upon oath, as required by the statutes of Kentucky, that the
wife might be found at Clinton in the State of New York, and
that at Clinton was the post-office nearest the place where she
might be found. As required by the statutes of Kentucky, the
clerk thereupon entered a warning order to the wife to appear
in sixty days, and appointed an attorney at law to represent
her. The attorney, on January 5, 1893, wrote to the wife at
Clinton, fully advising her of the object of the petition for divorce, and enclosing a copy thereof, in a letter addressed to her
by mail at Clinton, and having printed on the envelope a direction to return it to him, if not delivered in ten days. There is
a presumption of fact, though not of law, that a letter, put into
the post-office, and properly addressed, is received by the person
to whom it is addressed. Rosenthal v. l'alker, (1884) 111 U. S.
185. On February 6, 1893, the attorney, having received no
answer, made his report to the court. And on March 14, 1893,
the court, after taking evidence, granted the husband an absosolute decree of divorce for his wife's abandonment of him.
The court of New York has indeed found that the wife "was

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

not personally served with process within the State of Kentucky, or at all." It may be doubted whether this negatives
her having received, or had knowledge of, the letter sent to her
by the attorney in Kentucky, January 5, 1893, six days before
she began her suit in New York. But assuming that it does,
the question in this case is not whether she had actual notice of
the proceedings for divorce, but whether such reasonable steps
had been taken to give her notice, as to bind her by the decree
in the State of the domicil.
The court in New York found that the wife left the husband
and went to Clinton with the purpose and intention of not returning to the State of Kentucky, but of permanently residing
in the State of New York; and that this purpose and intention
were understood by the husband at the time, and were contemplated and evidenced by the agreement executed by the parties
in Kentucky, October 10,1891. But that agreement was among
the proofs submitted to the court in Kentucky, and may well
have been considered by that court, as the preamble to the
agreement states, as simply intended to provide for the interest
of their child, recognizing that the parties had ceased to live
together as husband and wife, but "without in any way acknowledging upon whom is the faul-t, or condoning the conduct
of the one or the other which has led to the existing state of
affairs, or preventing any consequence which may follow, or
right which may arise to either party if such status shall continue." The agreement contains no mention of the domicil of
either husband or wife, but declares that the domicil of the
child is to be the State of Kentucky, and is taken up with providing that its custody shall be half of each year with the
mother, and the other half with the paternal grandmother, and
with providing for the support and custody of the child, in various future contingencies, including the divorce and second marriage of the husband or of the wife.
We are of opinion that the undisputed facts show that such
efforts were required by the statutes of Kentucky, and were
actually made, to give the wife actual notice of the suit in Kentucky, as to make the decree of the court there, granting a divorce upon the ground that she had abandoned her husband,

ATHERTON v. AHERTON.
MRi. JUSTICE PECKHAM and THE CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

as binding on her as if she had been served with notice in Kentucky, or had voluntarily appeared in the suit. Binding her to
that full extent, it established, beyond contradiction, that she
had abandoned her husband, and precludes her from asserting
that she left him on account of his cruel treatment.
To hold otherwise would make it difficult, if not impossible,
for the husband to obtain a divorce for the cause alleged, if it
actually existed. The wife not being within the State of Kentucky, if constructive notice, with all the precautions prescribed
by the statutes of that State, were insufficient to bind her by a
decree dissolving the bond of matrimony, the husband could
only get a divorce by suing in the State in which she was found;
and by the very fact of suing her there he would admit that
she had acquired a separate domicil, (which he denied,) and
would disprove his own ground of action that she had abandoned him in Kentucky.
The result is that the courts of New York have not given to
the Kentucky decree of divorce the faith and credit which it
had by law in Kentucky, and that therefore their
Judgments must be re'versed, and the case 'emanded to the
Supreme Court of New York for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, with whom
curred, dissenting.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE con-

I think this case was rightly decided by the Court of Appeals
of New York, and I therefore dissent from the judgment and
the opinion of the court herein.
I think if the husband had, at his domicil in Kentucky, been
guilty of such misconduct and cruelty towards his wife as entitled her to a divorce, she had a legal right for that reason to
leave him and to acquire a separate domicil, even in another
State. If, under suah circumstances, she did leave him, and
did acquire a separate domicil in New York.State, the Kentucky
court did not obtain jurisdiction over her as an absent defendant, by publication of process or sending a copy thereof through
the mail to her address in New York.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM and T'IE CHIEF JUSTICE, dissenting.

It has long been held that the wife upon such facts could
acquire a separate domicil. In Okeever v. Jilson, 9 Wall. 108,
123, 124, it was so decided, and the case of Ditson v. .Dilson, 4
li. I. 87, was therein cited with approval upon that proposition.
It was said in the Rhode Island case that "Although as a general doctrine the domicil of the husband is by law that of the
wife, yet when he commits an offence, or is guilty of such dereliction of duty in the relation as entitled her to have the marriage either partially or totally dissolved, she not only may but
must, to avoid condonation, establish a separate domicil of her
own. This she may establish, nay, when deserted, or compelled
to leave her husband, necessity frequently compels her to establish it in a different judicial or state jurisdiction than that of her
husband, according to the residence of her family or friends.
Under such circumstances she gains, and is entitled to gain, for
the purposes of jurisdiction, a domicil of her own." This is also
held in Hunt v. Hunt, 72 N. Y. 217, where many of the authorities are collected.
By the statute of INew York in force at the time the parties
were therein married, the court had jurisdiction to grant a
limited divorce on the complaint of a married woman, where
the marriage had been solemnized in the State and the wife was
an actual resident therein at the time of exhibiting her complaint. By virtue of this statute and of the wife's residence in
New York at the time of exhibiting her complaint, (if such residence were legally acquired, as already stated,) the court in that
State had jurisdiction of an action for divorce against her husband, and jurisdiction over the husband was complete when he
appeared in the suit. Having the right to acquire a residence
in the State, it was open to her to prove in the divorce case
which she instituted in New York the facts which justified her
leaving her husband's home in Kentucky and in acquiring a
separate domicil in New York, and the decision of the Kentucky
court, that it had jurisdiction over her in her husband's suit, was
not conclusive against her upon that question. The New York
court entered upon the inquiry and found the fact that she was
justified by her husband's acts in leaving his home and in acquiring a new domicil for herself, and that the Kentucky court

BELL v. BELL.
Statement of the Case.

therefore obtained no jurisdiction over her. It also found the
facts necessary to warrant it in granting to her a divorce under
the laws of New York, and it granted one accordingly. This
I think the New York court had jurisdiction to do, and it did
not thereby refuse the constitutional full faith to the Kentucky
judgment.
That a husband can drive his wife from his home by conduct
which entitles her to a divorce, and thus force her to find another
domicil, and then commence proceedings in a court of his own
domicil, for a divorce, which court obtains jurisdiction over her
only by a service of process in the State of her new domicil,
through the mail, and that on such service he can obtain a
judgment of divorce which shall be conclusive against her in
her action in the court of her own donicil, seems to me to be at
war with sound principle and the adjudged cases. The doctrine
of status, even as announced in the opinion of the court, does
not reach the case of a husband by his misconduct rendering it
necessary for the wife to leave him. I therefore dissent.
I am authorized to state that the CHIEF JUSTICE concurs in
this dissent.

BELL v. BELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 39. Axgued April 25, 26, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A decree of divorce from the bond of matrimony, obtained in the State of
Pennsylvania, in which neither party is domiciled, upon service by publication and in another State, is entitled to no faith and credit in that
State.
A decree for a divorce and alimony may be affirmed nunc pro tunc in case
of death of the husband after argument in this court.

THIS was an action brought December 22, 1894, in the Supreme Court for the county of Erie and State of New York, by
Mary G. Bell against Frederick A. Bell, for a divorce from the
bond of matrimony for his adultery at Buffalo in the county of
Erie in April and May, 1890, and for alimony.

