OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

WEBSTER v. FARGO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA.
No. 378. Argued and submitted February 27, 1901.-Decided April 29, 1901.
It is within the power of the legislature of a State to create special taxing
districts, and to charge the cost of local improvement, in whole or in part,
upon the property in said districts, either according to valuation, or superficial area, or frontage; and it was not the intention of this court, in
Norivood v. Baker, 172 U. S.269, to hold otherwise.

THIs was an action brought by Mortimer Webster in the district court in and for the county of Cass and State of North
Dakota, against the city of Fargo; James M. Fargo, as auditor
of said city; D. C. Ross, as treasurer, and G. J. Olson, as auditor, of Cass County, in which the plaintiff sought to enjoin
the defendant from enforcing an assessment for grading and
paving against certain lots or pieces of land belonging to the
plaintiff, and abutting on the streets of the city of Fargo.
It was admitted, and, indeed, alleged, in the complaint, that
"each and every of the acts and proceedings required to be done
and taken by the statutes of said State of North Dakota in making and return of said assessment, as aforesaid, were duly taken
and done," but it was alleged that the state statutes, under
which the work was done and the assessment made, were in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States, in that they prescribed for paying for grading and paving the streets, by an assessment upon abutting lots
by the foot-front rule.
The defendants demurred to the complaint upon the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The trial court sustained the demurrer, and, as the plaintiff declined to amend, entered a judgment dismissing the complaint. From this judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State of North Dakota, which court affirmed the
judgment of the district court dismissing the complaint. A writ

WEBSTER v. FARGO.
JUSTICES HARLAN, WHITE and M KENNA, dissenting.

of error from this court was thereupon allowed by the Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of North Dakota.
.Mr. Seth Newman for plaintiff in error.
Spalding was on his brief.

.r.

Burleigh F.

A'. S. B. Pinney, -Mr.John E. Greene and -M'.H F. )l.iller
submitted on their brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

SInIAs delivered the opinion of the court.

It is conceded, in this record, that the plaintiff in error has
no ground to complain of any discrimination attempted against
him, either in the statutes of the State or in the proceedings
thereunder, whereby the tax in question was assessed against
his property. The sole contention on his behalf is that, under
the decision of this court in the case of HYorwood v. Baker, 172
U. S. 269, all special assessments upon the basis of frontage are
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States, in that they may result in the taking of
property without due process of law.
But we agree with the Supreme Court of North Dakota in
holding that it is within the power of the legislature of the State
to create special taxing districts, and to charge the cost of a
local improvement, in whole or in part, upon the property in
said districts, either according to valuation, or superficial area,
or frontage, and that it was not the intention of this court, in
-Norwoodv. Baker, to hold otherwise.
It is unnecessary to enter upon an examination of the authorities, as that has recently been done in the case of French v.
Barber Asphalt Company, ante, 324; and, upon the authority of that case, the judgment of the Supreme Court of North
Dakota is
AJfirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE HARLAN,

WHITE and AIR.

(with whom concurred MR.

JUSTICE MOKCENNA,)

JUSTICE

dissenting.

The controlling question in this case is the same as is presented

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in F ench v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., ante, 324, TFight v.
.Davidson, ante, 371, and Tonawanda v. Lyon, ante, 389, all just
decided. For the reasons stated in my opinions in those cases,
I dissent from the opinion and judgment of the court in this
case.

CASS FARM COM2PANY v. DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 508. Argued February 25, 26,27, 1901. - Decided April 29, 1901.

The court holds and adheres to its decisions in Frenchv. Asphalt Paving,Co.,
Tonawanda v. Lyon, ante, 371, and WVight v. Davidson, ante, 389, and
finds nothing in the record to show that the complainants have entitled
themselves to its interference.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.JM. Henry X. Campbell for plaintiff in error.
Xr. Timothy E. Tarsney and _31r. C. 1).
MR. JUSTICE SHI

oslyn for Detroit.

S delivered the opinion of the court.

A bill in equity was filed in September, 1898, in the circuit
court for the county of Wayne, State of Mlichigan, by the Cass
Farm Company, Limited, and others, owners of lands lying and
abutting upon Second avenue in the city of Detroit, against
said city, the board of public works, and the Alcatraz Asphalt
Paving Company, whereby it was sought to enjoin the city of
Detroit from paving a portion of Second avenue, and to have
the proceedings taken with reference to said paving declared
void.
There was a decree in the circuit court in favor of complainants, and thereupon the case was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State of Michigan, where the decree of the trial court

