WHITNEY v. HAY.
Syllabus.

of that State in respect of life insurance, and to impose such
conditions on the transaction of business by life insurance companies within the State as was deemed best. We do not perceive any arbitrary classification or unlawful discrimination in
this legislation, but, at all events, we cannot say that the Federal Constitution has been violated in the exercise in this regard
by the State of its undoubted power over corporations.
Judgment aj rned.

WHITNEY -v. HAY.
APPEAL FROMf THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 112. Argued November 15, 16, 1900.-Decided April 8, 1901.

Doctor and Mrs. Piper, each somewhat advanced in years, were without
children and had no kin to whom the husband wished to bequeath his
estate. They desired the comforts and happiness of a home in which they
could have the sympathy, attention and care of younger people, upon whom
they could look as their children. The property in question in this suit
was purchased by the Doctor, in execution of an agreement in parol between him and the appellee, whereby Piper and his wife were to become
members of Hay's household in Washington, and to be supported, maintained and cared for by Hay during their respective lives, in consideration of which Piper was to convey by will, or otherwise, to Hay all of his
property of every kind and wherever situated. In part execution of that
agreement Piper purchased the lots in question in this suit and built a
house thereon, and in further execution of it he put Hay in possession
of the lot and house to be occupied by Hay and his family in connection
with Piper and his wife. While Hay was in the actual occupancy of the
premises as his home, (which occupancy existed when this suit was
brought,) Piper, in violation of his agreement, put the title to the property in his niece, the plaintiff in error. The bill alleged the foregoing
facts, and that the transfer to the plaintiff in error was made solely for
the purpose of defrauding the defendant in error. Held:
(1) That the alleged agreement with Piper was proved to have been just
as stated by Hay;
(2) That the failure of Piper to invest Hay with the legal title was such
a wrong to the latter as entitled him to the protection which would

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
be given by a decree specifically declaring that the defendant holds
the title in trust for him;
(3) That such relief is consistent with the objects intended to be subserved by the Statute of Frauds;
(4) That the alleged agreement, being one which a court of equity would
specifically enforce, if it had been in writing, and it having been
partly performed by Hay in reliance of performance by Piper, and
Hay being ready and willing to do what, under the agreement, remained to be done by him during the lives of Doctor and Mrs. Piper,
he was entitled to the decree of the court below in his favor.

THIs suit was brought to obtain a decree declaring that the
defendant Whitney held in trust for the plaintiff Hay the title
to certain lots, with the building thereon, situate on Corcoran
street in the city of Washington.
By a final decree in the Supreme Court of the District the
relief asked was given-that court adjudging that the defendant Whitney, within a time named, make, execute and acknowledge a deed of conveyance of the premises to the plaintiff Hay,
and that in default thereof the decree should have the same
effect as if such conveyance had been made.
Upon appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District the
decree of the Supreme Court was affirmed, an elaborate opinion
on behalf of the appellate court being delivered by Mr. Justice
Shepard. 15 App. D. C. 164, l'13.
The principal facts upon which the plaintiff relies in support
of his suit will appear from the following statement based upon
the record:
Circumstances not necessary to be detailed brought Piper and
flay into each other's society while the latter was in the West.,
with the result that Doctor and Mrs. Piper conceived and expressed the warmest affection for Mr. and Mrs. Hay and in
many ways indicated that they wished the latter to stand in
the relation to them of son and daughter.
As early as May 27, 1883, Hay and wife received a letter
written by MNrs. Piper for herself and husband, which was addressed "Dear Son Edwin and Daughter Florence." It closed
with these words: "Do be careful Daughter Florence. As
ever most affectionately, Father and Mother Piper." These
relations continued during 1883, 1884 and 1885. And on the

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Statement of the Case.

23d day of December, 1885, Doctor Piper wrote to Hay, addressing him as "Miy Dear Boy." After referring to Hay's
then recent sickness, he said: "I wish that we were in Washington to look after you a little-perhaps we could help you
some in that direction. By the way, what do you think of our
looking to your city as a residence for the few years still perhaps left to us? Suppose I could command, say twenty-five
thousand dollars certainly, and perhaps nearly as much more,
what would you think it? We have no relations or friends
to whom we owe anything as to the final disposition of our
property." That letter thus closed: "Good night, with much
love to you all son, daughter, grandchildren and all."
Under date of January 11, 1886, Piper again wrote Hay, addressing him as "Dear Son, Ned." And on the 14th of January,
1886 another letter, signed "Father and Mother Piper," and
addressed to "Darling Edwin and Florence," was written as
Piper and wife were about to leave Chicago for San Francisco,
in which city the Doctor was to appear as an expert witness in
the matter of handwriting. In that letter, which was written
by Airs. Piper for herself and husband, Hay and wife were informed that a will had been prepared and left in the custody
of Judge Charles H. Wood of Chicago, by which "we bequeath
to you the whole of our property with the exception of a few
legacies amounting to about five hundred dollars." In the
same letter it was said: "In case of Dr.'s death Edwin and I
are appointed executors of the Dr.'s will. In case of our death
by accident on the journey, Edwin will attend to all business
connected with all property left by us, which with the exception
of the legacies goes to Edwin as above stated. He will of
course find the will deposited as above said with Judge Wood,
and with it a schedule of property, and also a key to box in
safe deposit vault of First National Bank, containing property
as set forth in schedule above noticed. Edwin will look after
this matter as soon after our death as possible, as there are
some things in the papers and the will which will need immediate attention." The following postscript was added: "In case
we are killed on our journey, going or returning, Edwin will

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

find in connection with the will what we would desire to have
done with our remains."
Under date of June 6, 1886, they wrote to "Dear Son Edwin and Daughter Florence" about the case upon which the
Doctor had been engaged as an expert in handwriting, saying:
"He has been very busy with a case which I wrote you about
in my last, for this, which required an immense amount of
work, he received $5000; of course this is not to be mentioned
to anybody but our child'ren. The case was won." That
letter closed with these words: "Good night from us both dear
children. May heaven's choicest blessing be showered upon
you. As ever affectionately, Mother and Father Piper."
Two days later, June 8, 1886, they wrote another letter addressed to "Dear Son Edwin and Daughter Florence," in which
they said: "And now dear children I need not tell you how
much we want to see you and the darling children.
When we meet, which we shall do some time if nothing providential prevents, when I trust all can be arranged to the satisMr.
faction of you our dear children and ourselves....
Hyde, to whom we introduced you, is an excellent man, knows
nothing of the relation we bear to each other particularly; only
of course we tell him as we do everybody that you and yours are
very dear to us, and that we look upon you as our children;
we did not enter into further particulars." That letter closed
with these words: "We both send you oceans of love dear ones,
let us hear soon, and believe us to be now and ever, on this
side and the other if permitted, your affectionate, father and
mother, IR.U. and E. F. Piper."
Other letters of like character were written during August
and September, 1886. Under date of October 5, 1886, Piper and
wife wrote to Hay, saying: "We rejoice to hear that you are
all well, and thank you again dear, dear children for your loving
words, which we well know come from your loving hearts;
we fully appreciate them all, I cannot tell you in words how
much.

.

.

. We shall be most happy to come to Washington,

when it is convenient all round, more of that dear Edwin and
Florence, if we reach Chicago in safety. Write us when you
can, it is always a joyful event to us to receive your dear letters.

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Statement of the Case.

We long to see you all, and if we live shall come when you are
ready; in the meantime may heaven shower upon you and yours
its choicest blessings. Dr. always reiterates all Isay. I write
all letters for him as that helps a little. As ever most affectionately, Father and Mother Piper." "We know you and
Florence are truly happy in each other, dear Edwin, and that
is one reason why we love you both so much. As ever affectionately, Mother and Father Piper."
Hay received another letter under date of November 7, 1886,
addressed to him as "Dear Son Edwin," in which it was said:
"The Dr. sends you the duplicate of a draft. The Dr. says:
My legal friends here tell me that it would be evidence of property in the hands of an administrator in case of my death,
and of course you would know how to collect it." Upon the
back of that letter was the following endorsement: "The draft
is for $5300, fifty-three hundred dollars. We have also with us
four trunks, containing clothes, and valise, microscope in box,
and two valises."
Under date of November 19, 1886, Hay and wife received another letter addressed " Dear Daughter and Son," in which these
passages occurred: "Dr. is anticipating great enjoyment from
rides with Edwin, Jr. Now from Dr. He wishes me to say:
We have now, in safety deposit vaults, twenty thousand dollars
in cash, besides as you know the house built two years since
which is worth ten thousand dollars. Dr. is anxious about investment and wishes you were here to consult him about it.
Would you think it best to invest more here? Please write on
receipt of this what you think of the matter, or is best to wait
until we come to W. and then invest? Please answer at once.
As ever dear children, Father and Mother Piper."
Shortly after that letter was written a girl was born to Hay
and wife, and was named for Mrs. Piper. Under date of December 15, 1886, Mrs. Piper, addressing Hay and wife as " Dear,
Dear Children," on behalf of "Father and Mother Piper," wrote:
"We are both much pleased with your kind thoughtfulness in
naming the dear little one for us both, the Piper for Dr. and the
Elizabeth for me.

.

.

Would you both not rather call her

Elizabeth Frances Piper Hay, you could then call the darling
VOL. OLXXXI-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

Frances, rather than by the perhaps old-fashioned name of Elizabeth." This request of Mrs. Piper was complied with, and the
baby was named Elizabeth Frances Piper Hay. Later, January 17,1887, Mrs. Piper wrote: "Dr. has for several weeks called
me grandma, and I am very proud of the title; I forget sometimes to call him grandpa, but shall soon become accustomed to
doing so."

According to the evidence of Ifay several letters followed in
relation to Doctor and Mrs. Piper coming to Washington.
The result was that Hay and his wife consented to their coming
to Washington. Under date of March 11, 1887, Mrs. Piper
wrote to Hay: "I feel, however, that the Dr. must go somewhere before that time, and if it is not perfectly convenient for
us to come to Washington at present, we will wait and take a
short trip to Colorado or somewhere else. Now my dear son
and daughter, tell us the exact truth with regard to this matter,
as there should surely be no te.sitation in stating facts between

us. Our best love to darling Florence, and the babies, and a
large share from us both for yourself. As ever affectionately,
Father and Mother Piper."
This was followed by another letter, dated March 18, 1887,
in which it was said: "I feel very anxious about him, I am
still; and as physicians and friends all insisted that a change
was better for him than anything else, and he is so much attached to you all, that I ventured to press the matter to our
children, so I am sure you will appreciate. If we live and Dr.
is able, I think we will start for W. some time next week, today being Friday the 18th. I would not come now as you are
situated did I not feel so anxious about the Dr., and I cannot
get him started for any other place now, although he did think
he would go to Colorado, but he dreads going among strangers.
As ever affectionately, Father and Mother Piper."
Doctor and Mrs. Piper arrived at Washington on the 25th
of March, 1887, stopping at Hay's residence. Being asked under what conditions or arrangements they came to his home,
IHay testified: "1Pursuantto the conversations we had had and
the communications that had passed between us prior to their
arrival, they came to live with us as a mother and father would

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Statement of the Case.

come to live with children, and their dwelling with us was conditioned upon a covenant and agreement entered into that in
consideration of permitting them to reside with us in this relationship during the balance of their lives and the services and
care to be given to them that he would build a house in the
city of Washington, District of Columbia, in which we should
live together, and that at his death, not only the house, but all
of his property should be willed to me." Hay further testified:
"And Dr. Piper further stated that should I be taken away he
would provide for Mrs. Hay and the children as if they were
his grandchildren and she his daughter, and that should both
of us be taken away during his lifetime he would likewise provide for the children, and that he would rear and raise them,
and upon this Mrs. Piper and Doctor Piper, Mrs. Hay and myself shook hands, and the Doctor himself called upon Heaven
to witness the sincerity of the agreement." Being asked
whether it was part of any agreement with Doctor and Mrs.
Piper that they were to pay board at his house, Hay testified:
"No; such a thing as board was absolutely never considered
for a moment, nor, in fact, did the Doctor ever, for himself or
his wife, pay one cent of money to me or Mrs. Hay for anything, but especially for board. Such was not the condition
nor the agreement nor the understanding, as we were not
breaking up our family and our family relations to take boardThe
ers, as there was no necessity to do such a thing.
Doctor paid nothing whatever toward the running expenses of
my house in any way whatever or for anything, except, it occurs to me, at one time while we were away during a few weeks
in the summer he asked if the hired manservant might return
to wait upon him; and, if so, he would pay to him the sum of
$10 per month. I don't know how much the Doctor paid, but
it was not more than two months' wages."
Believing that the arrangement with Dr. Piper and his wife
was to last during their lives, and desiring to make home as
pleasant and agreeable as possible, Hay incurred considerable
expense in furnishing proper apartments for them. The painting and papering were renewed. Rooms were set apart for
their exclusive use, toward the furnishing of which the Doctor

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

paid nothing. In expectation of their coming to his house as
their permanent home, Hay had a bay window constructed on
the front of his house, and erected a back building, so as to give
an additional and larger dining room, a sleeping room, and a
hall and bath room. The situation of Piper and wife in their
new home was thus described by Hay in his deposition: "Doctor and -Mrs. Piper were taken into our family just the same as
if they had been our own father and mother; if anything, they
were treated better than blood relations could possibly have
been treated, as it was the constant desire of both Mrs. Hay
and myself to make life as pleasant for them as it possibly could
be under any circumstances, and so we put ourselves out in
order to do so, notwithstanding that in prior communications
they insisted that there should be no change in the relationship
in our family and their family affairs."
Being asked what change, if any, was caused by the presence
of Piper and wife in his home, Hay said: "The daily care of
their rooms, the additional preparation and provision of food,
and the especial manner of cooking it necessary to satisfy the
Doctor, he being exacting in this particular. . . . There
were certain meats that the Doctor did not eat, steak being the
favorite meat for himself, and it having always to be provided
for him ; the cooking of a number of other dishes, different
from what we had been accustomed, entailing additional and
extra labor upon the cook." lie further testified: "Everything
was done for the pleasure of Doctor and Mrs. Piper. We were
at home in the evenings, and brought in friends whom we
thought would be congenial to the Doctor in his peculiar tastes.
Doctor Piper, being a universally well read man, was ready to
Originally be
converse upon almost every subject....
graduated as a doctor of medicine and surgery, and in his early
lays was the author of a wonderful book in its time, entitled
'Piper's Surgery.' Being an artist, he was the first among the
etchers in our country, and this book contains upwards of
eighteen hundred illustrations, produced entirely with his pen.
This book was used during the war in the army. Since that
time he has illustrated a book upon ' Trees,' and has done very
much fine microscopic work, and so he became interested in

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Statement of the Case.

everything that could come under it, and finally got into handwriting, the use of the camera lucida being his method of examination. Since that time he had lost all other occupations, except that of being an expert in handwriting, and also a microscopic for the examination of food and of blood, and has been
engaged in many cases that are recorded in the books.
As the letters indicated, the Doctor did not seem to be well,
but he has always been complaining. . . . He required
constant and particular attention, so much so that a physician
was called in regularly and constantly for the purpose of frequently looking the Doctor over, and he continued his attentions to Dr. Piper during the years he was with us. . .
They were perfectly contented and happy, and when a few
weeks afterwards, to wit, in August, 1887, we were away at
the seashore, many, many affectionate letters were written by
them. The following is from one dated August 8, 1887, speaking of the Doctor: ' He says, tell the dear children with much
love that he rejoices in their happiness, and I assure you that
he will do everything possible to promote it, and be assured I
will second all his efforts."' This last letter was addressed to
"Dear Daughter Florence and Son Edwin" and was signed,
"As ever affectionately, Father and Mother Piper."
The circumstances under which the lots in question were
purchased and a house erected thereon may be thus summarized:
Shortly after Dr. Piper reached Washington he insisted upon
the purchase of a lot and the building of a house upon it to be
occupied by the Hay family, in connection with himself and
wife. His avowed purpose was to have a house in which all
could live, and in which everything would be according to their
liking. After looking at many lots, the one on Corcoran street
was purchased, and attention was at once given to the preparation of plans for a residence. Hay drew the plans and submitted them to Dr. Piper before engaging the service of an
architect. They were not revised by the Doctor, he saying
that "whatever Mrs. Hay wanted was satisfactory to him," and
that everything should be done as she desired. The plans were
such as to give a double house, with a hall through the center.
The sitting room, parlor, and the dining room, as an "assem-

OCTOBER TER9, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

bly" place for the whole family, were to be on the first floor.
On the second floor it was arranged that upon the left of the
hall, fronting north, the Doctor should have a sitting room;
back of that a sleeping room and a bath room, all of which
were for their exclusive use, apart from the rest of the house.
As soon as the lot was purchased and paid for by Doctor
Piper's check, and the plans for building were completed, and
the ground broken for the house to be built, Piper insisted upon
employing an attorney to write a will that would cover this and
all other property owned by him. In the presence of Hay and
the attorney engaged to write the proposed will, Mr. W. A.
Cook, the Doctor referred to a former will made by him and
deposited with Mr. Wood in Chicago, and stated "that as ho
had acquired additional property in the District of Columbia
since that time and wishing everything to be exactly right in
the matter that he would make another will, so he instructed
Mr. Cook, in my presence, to make a will, including this property in the District of Columbia, No. 1512 Corcoran street and
the lots upon which it stands, and all of his property wherever
situated, especially naming that in Chicago, and devising all
the same to me, in trust for his wife, and at her death to belong
to myself, my heirs and assigns forever." Subsequently to this
interview with the attorney, the Doctor informed Hay that
the will had been prepared and witnessed by three persons, and
that he had "deposited it in the safe deposit company on the
Avenue." Hay did not know what became of that will.
The statements of IHay in reference to the making of that
will are sustained by the testimony of Mr. Cook, who stated in
his deposition that he had prepared for Dr. Piper a will, which
was duly signed, acknowledged and attested by witnesses, and
by which the property in dispute on Corcoran street was devised to Hay. Dr. Piper stated to Mr. Cook "that the house
[on P street] belonging to Mr. Hay was not a sufficient house,
and that he ought to have a better and larger house, and he
proposed to buy a lot, to which I have referred [on Corcoran
street], and have a house erected on it suitable for Mr. Hay,
and for his own accommodation, and one that would exist absolutely in Mr. lay when completed." Again, the same wit-

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Counsel for Parties.

ness: "He, Doctor Piper, said he was exceedingly pleased
with the disposition that he had made of the house in giving it
to Mr. Hay; that he had no regret in doing so; that his comforts and enjoyments had been greater after the giving of the
house and after it was occupied by Mr. Hay than his comforts
and enjoyments had been previously, and that if he had it to
repeat he would make the same will and the same disposition
of the property."
The work upon the house was watched with great interest by
Doctor Piper and his wife. Quite a number of changes were
made during its progress. They were made, Hay testified, "at
the request of Mrs. Hay-the Doctor acceded to her wishes as
he said be wished to have everything as Mrs. Hay desired it,
because the house was being built for us and it should be in accordance with our ideas." The original intention was to have
the house heated by furnace. But that was changed to steam
heat at an expense of $1000, of which Hay paid $700.
The house having been completed possession was delivered by
Doctor and Mrs. Piper to Hay and wife. The latter moved
into it on th6 first day of August, 1888, and have been in possession ever since. Hay furnished the house completely with the
exception of Dr. Piper's sitting room which was fitted up by the
latter with furniture brought from Chicago. In addition to the
furniture taken from the P street house, Hay was compelled to
supply other furniture to the amount of about $1200. He also
paid for gas fixtures and mantels throughout the house; also
for chandeliers. Going from the P street house into the house
on Corcoran street necessitated the employment by Hay of two
additional servants. Substantially, the entire expense arising
from the occupancy of the new house was met by Hay.
Mr. A. S. lo thington for appellant.
was on his brief.

Xr. B. F. Leighton

Air. Jeremiah M. Wilson and -Y'. A. A. Hoehling, Jr., for
appellee. Ar. E. B. Hfay was on their brief.
MR. JUSTICE; HARLAN, after stating the facts as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from this statement that Doctor and Mrs. Piper,
each somewhat advanced in years, were without children and
had no kin to whom the husband desired to bequeath his estate.
They longed for the comforts and happiness of a home in which
they would have the sympathy, attention and care of younger
pieople upon whom they could look as their children.
The bill alleged that the property in question was purchased
by Doctor Piper in execution of an agreement in parol between
him and Hay, whereby Piper and his wife were to become members of Hay's household in Washington and to be supported,
maintained and cared for by Hay during their respective lives,
in consideration of which Piper was to convey by will or otherwise to Hay all of his property of every kind and wherever
situated; that in part execution of that agreement Piper purchased the lots in question and built a house thereon; that in
further execution of it Piper put Hay in possession of the lot
and house to be occupied as a home by the latter and his family
in connection with Piper and his wife; and that while the plaintiff was in actual occupancy of the premises as his home-and
he was still in such occupancy when this suit was broughtPiper, in violation of his agreement and for the purpose solely
of defrauding the plaintiff, put the title to the property in his
niece, the defendant Whitney.
Was there any such agreement between Piper and Hay? If
so, was there such part performance of it as entitled the plaintiff to a conveyance from Piper, had he lived until the decree
was passed? These are the questions for determination in this
case.
In the allegations of his bill and in every essential fact Hay
is so thoroughly sustained by witnesses that we do not hesitate
to declare that the agreement with Piper is proved to have been
just as stated by him. There can be no reasonable doubt as to
its subject-matter, or its terms. There was no element of fraud
or misrepresentation on the part of Hay. The terms of the
agreement between him and Piper were clear and definite;
its provisions fair, just and reasonable; the consideration mutual and entirely adequate. What Hay asked was not in any
sense inequitable. That which he undertook to do in execu-

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the agreement was done by him promptly and in such
way as to give no cause for complaint or objection by Piper.
And all that he did had reference to and was consistent with the
agreement, and can be referred to nothing else. His plans of
life were materially altered in order that he might take care of
Piper and wife during their respective lives. Piper put Hay in
actual possession of the premises in question in execution of his
agreement with Hay. But he failed to do that which was vital
to Hay, namely, to put the absolute title to the property in him.
Under all the circumstances, the failure of Piper to invest Hay
with the legal title was such a wrong to the latter as entitled
him, under the established principles of equity, to the protection which would be given by a decree specifically declaring
that the defendant holds the title in trust for him. We are of
opinion that such relief is consistent with the objects intended
to be subserved by the Statute of Frauds; for the decree in
favor of Hay does not charge Piper upon his parol contract
with him, but rests upon the equities arising out of the acts
and conduct of the parties subsequent to the maling of the
original agreement.
Referring to the Statute of Frauds and to the mischiefs intended to be reached by it, Mr. Justice Story says: "It is
obvious that courts of equity are bound, as much as courts of
law, by the provisions of this statute; and therefore they are
not at liberty to disregard them. That they do, however, interfere in some cases within the reach of the statute is equally
certain. But they do so, not upon any notion of any right to
dispense with it, but for the purpose of administering equities
subservient to its true objects, or collateral to it, and independentofit." A case of such interference is when a court of equity
enforces the specific performance "of a contract within the statute, where the parol agreement has been partly carried into execution. The distinct ground upon which courts of equity
interfere in cases of this sort is, that otherwise one party would
be enabled to practice a fraud upon the other; and it could never
be the intention of the statute to enable any party to commit
such a fraud with impunity. Indeed, fraud in all cases constitutes an answer to the most solemn acts and conveyances, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the objects of the statute are promoted, instead of being obstructed, by such a jurisdiction for discovery and relief. And
where one party has executed his part of the agreement, in the
confidence that the other party would do the same, it is obvious,
if the latter should refuse, it would be a fraud upon the former
to suffer this refusal to work to his prejudice." 1 Story's Eq.
Juris. §§ 754, 759.
This rule finds illustration in cases in this court; in Neale v.
.Aeales, 9 Wall. 1, 9, where it was said that" the statute of frauds
requires a contract concerning real estate to be in writing, but
courts of equity, whether wisely or not it is too late now to inquire, have stepped in and relaxed the rigidity of this rule, and
hold that a part performance removes the bar of the statute,
on the ground that it is a fraud for the vendor to insist on the
absence of a written instrument, when he had permitted the
contract to be partly executed;" in Brown v. Sutton, 129 U.S.
238-9, which was a suit to enforce the specific performance of
an oral engagement to convey certain real estate to the promisee, in consideration of her taldng care of the promisor during
the remainder of his life, as she had done in the past, the court
holding that there had been such "part performance in its execution" as to bring the case within the exception made by that
doctrine in the requirement of the Statute of Frauds that the
sale of the lands must be in writing; and in Townsen(7 v. TFanderwerker, 160 U. S. 171, 184, where it was said that "the general principle to be extracted from the authorities is that if the
plaintiff, with the knowledge and consent of the promisor, does
acts pursuant to and in obvious reliance upon a verbal agreement, which so changed the relations of the parties as to render a restoration of their former condition impracticable, it is a
virtual fraud upon the part of the promisor to set up the statute
in defence, and thus to receive to himself the benefit of the acts
done by the plaintiff, while the latter is left to the chance of a suit
at law for the reimbursement of his outlays, or to an action upon
aquantum meruit for the value of his services." "Courts of
equity," said Lord Cottenham, "exercise their jurisdiction in
decreeing specific performance of verbal agreements, whert,
there has been part performance, for the purpose of preventing

WHITNEY v. HAY.
Opinion of the Court.

the great injustice which would arise from permitting a party
to escape from the engagements he has entered into, upon the
ground of the Statute of Frauds, after the other party to the
contract has, upon the faith of such engagement, expended his
money or otherwise acted in execution of the agreement.
Under such circumstances, the court will struggle to prevent
such injustice from being effected ; and, with that object, it has,
at the hearing, when the plaintiff has failed to establish the
precise terms of the agreement, endeavored to collect, if it can,
what the terms of it really were. It is not necessary, in this
case, to adopt any such course of proceeding; for I think an
agreement for a lease sufficiently proved, and that acts of part
performance are proved, so as to take the case out of the Statute of Frauds; and I think the defences set up have wholly
failed." Afundy v. Jolli~fe, 5 My. & Or.167, 177.
To the like effect are numerous other American and English
cases which are familiar to the profession and need not be cited.
They all proceed upon the ground that, although in a suit to
enforce the specific performance of a parol agreement in reference to land the defendant cannot be directly charged upon the
alleged contract itself, he may be held-the evidence clearly
showing part performance, in substantial particulars, of such
agreement-to do what justice requires to be done under the
equities arising from acts done after the making of the agreement and in execution of its provisions. To refuse under some
circumstances to compel the full execution of an agreement of
that kind which has been partly performed would make the
statute an instrument of fraud, and that a court of equity will
not permit. "It is not arbitrary or unreasonable," said the
Lord Chancellor in faddison v. Alderson, L. R. 8 App. Cas.
467, 476, "to hold that when the statute says that no action is
to be brought to charge any person upon a contract concerning
land, it has in view the simple case in which he is charged upon
the contract only, and not that in which there are equities resulting from res gest3 subsequent to and arising out of the
contract."
The alleged agreement being one which a court of equity
would specifically enforce if it had been in writing, and it hay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

ing been partly performed by Hay in reliance upon performance
by Piper, and Hay being ready and willing to do what, under
the agreement, remained to be done by him during the lives of
Doctor and Mrs. Piper, he was entitled to the decree rendered
in his favor; and it is
Afflrned.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. CALL
PUBLISHING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 117. Argued and submitted December 4, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
Where there is dissimilarity in the services rendered by a telegraph company
to different persons, a difference in charges is proper, and no recovery
can be had unless it is shown, not merely that there is a difference in the
charges, but that the difference is so great as, under dissimilar conditions
of service, to show an unjust discrimination; and the recovery must be
limited to the amount of the unreasonable discrimination.
There is no body of Federal common law, separate and distinct from the
common law existing in the several States, in the sense that there is a
body of statute law enacted by Congress separate and distinct from the
body of statutes enacted by the several States.
The principles of the common law are operative upon all interstate commercial transactions, except so far as they are modified by Congressional
enactment.
Questions of fact, when once settled in the courts of a State, are not subject to review in this court.

Tins was an action commenced on April 29, 1891, in the district court of Lancaster County, Nebraska, by the Call Publishing Company to recover sums alleged to have been wrongfully
charged and collected from it by the defendant, now plaintiff
in error, for telegraphic services rendered. According to the
petition the plaintiff had been engaged in publishing a daily
newspaper in Lincoln, Nebraska, called The Lincoln Daily Call.
The Nebraska State Journal was another newspaper published
at the same time in the same city, by the State Journal Com.

