OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY 'v. UNITED
STATES.
AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. UITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND

CIRCUIT.
Nop. 225, 236. Argued April 12, 1901.-Decided May 20, 1901.

These cases, argued and submitted together, involve the appraisement of
sugars imported from Brazil. The sugars were shipped "green," that is,
contained moisture, a certain portion of which drained on the voyage,
whereby they became more valuable. Duties were levied and collected
by the collector upon the increased valuation, against the protest of the
importers. Held that the appraisement so made was legal.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.A[h. H. B. Closson for the Sugar Refining Company.
John F. Parsons was on his brief.

.r.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for the United States.
MR. JUSTmE McKENNA

delivered the opinion of the court.

These two cases were argued and submitted together. They
involve the appraisement of certain sugars imported from Brazil. The sugars were shipped "green," that is, contained moisture. A certain per cent of this moisture drained on the voyages, and the sugars became thereby more valuable. In other
words, as the sugars diminished in weight they increased in
value, being worth as much here as the original quantity shipped
in Brazil. This is always true of Brazilian sugars, and is recognized by the trade and is made a basis of settlement between
vendor and vendee. The "settlement test" was used by the
appraisers in ascertaining the value of the sugars in Brazil in

AMERICA

SUGAR REF. CO. v. UNITED STATES. 611
Opinion of the Court.

the condition they arrived here. Mr. Sharretts, a member of
the general board of appraisers, testified in No. 236 (and there
was no opposing testimony) as follows:
"The price paid for sugars of this description from Brazil is
a conditional one, the stipulation being that they will give a
certain price, with a proviso that the decrease or loss of weight
in decreased moisture shall not exceed a certain point. Therefore, in determining what the real price to be paid for that
sugar was, it was necessary to determine what the test was in the United States. By an agreement between the board of
general appraisers and the government on the one side and the
importers on the other, we accepted in all cases the settlement
test as controlling ; that is, the test upon which the commercial
transaction was made was the test which we accepted as the
controlling one in determining the quantity or percentage of
sugar on which duty was to be paid. In this particular case
the board found or the board made a return upon the settlement test. On that settlement test they made the report and
found the value to be equal to 11s. ld. per 100 kilos or per ton,
the equivalent for this sugar of the same test as that which arrived in the United States, in the country of exportation. In
other words, they held that the diminished quantity of sugar
arriving in the United States was worth just as much as they
paid for the original quantity as shipped from Brazil. We therefore found it on the basis of the settlement test to be 11s. ld."
Duties were levied by the collector upon the increased valuation of the sugars. The importers protested, claiming that the
duties were illegally exacted. The action of the collector was
affirmed by the board of general appraisers, and successively
by the Circuit Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
cases were then brought here.
Under section 1821 of the tariff act of 1894 the rate of duty
was fixed at forty per cent; but upon what valuation? Counsel for petitioner says:
"In each of these importations the appraiser ascertained that
the market value of the sugar when shipped was a certain amount
per hundredweight. To this valuation, in each case, he made
an addition of a certain further amount per hundredweight

OCTOBER TERM.

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

to represent a supposed increase of its value during the voyage
owing to drainage. Duty was accordingly assessed at forty per
cent, not of the value of the sugar per hundredweight ' at the time
of the exportation to the United States,' 'on the day of actual
shipment,' and ' in the condition in which such merchandise is
there bought and sold for exportation to the United States,' but
at forty per cent of its greater value per hundredweight in its
condition when landed."
It is apparent that the increase in value offsets the decrease
in weight-that is, the total value of the invoice was not increased. Where then was there injury to petitioner? The
claim is that duties should have been levied according to the
condition in which the sugars had been bought in Brazil, but
the claim ignores one element of that condition-the very element which made the condition-and ignoring it the claim is
attempted to be justified by section 19 of the customs administrative act of 1890. The section provides as follows:
"That whenever imported merchandise is subject to ad valorem rate of duty, or to a duty based upon or regulated in any
manner by the value thereof, the duty shall be assessed upon
the actual market or wholesale price of such merchandise as
bought and sold in usual wholesale quantities, at the time of
exportation to the United States, in the principal markets of
the country from whence imported, and in the condition in
which such merchandise is there bought and sold for exportation to the United States, or consigned to the United States
for sale. . . . That the words 'value' or 'actual market
value' whenever used in this act or in any law relating to the
appraisement of imported merchandise shall be construed to
mean the actual value or wholesale price as defined in this section."
We do not think the statute is very obscure. Passing by the
consideration of section 23, (inserted in the margin,)' we may
say, as was decided in il[arriott v. Brune, 9 How. 619, and
1
SE0. 23. "No allowance for damage to goods, wares and merchandise
imported into the United States shall hereafter be made in the estimation
and liquidation of duties thereon. But the importer thereof may, within
ten days after the entry, abandon to the United States all or any portion of

AMRICAN SUGAR REF. CO. v. UNrPED STATES. 612
Opinion of the Court.

UnitedStates v. Southmayd, 9 Hlow. 637, imported merchandise is that which arrives in this country, and it is upon that
duties are to be paid. Those cases passed on imports of sugars
which had lost weight by drainage on the voyages. The controversy was whether duties should be levied upon the weight
of the sugars when shipped, or upon their weight when they
arrived, which was less on account of drainage and waste to
the extent of five per cent, than when they were shipped.
The court sustained'the latter view, saying: "The general principle applicable to such a case would seem to be, that revenue
should be collected only from the quantity or weight which arrives here. That is what is imported-for nothing is imported
until it comes within the limits of the port." The evidence in
those cases also showed that the quality'of the sugars was less
on account of the drainage. "Nor is his sugar improved in
quality," the court said, "by the drainage, so as to raise any
equity against him (the importer) by it."
The evidence in the case at bar is that the sugars had improved in quality-becoming a higher grade of sugar, and necessarily under the principle of the cited cases it was that grade
which was imported. Why then should they not have paid
duty according to that grade? It was that grade, to use the
language of Xfarriott v. Brune, which went "into the consumption of the country "-it was that grade which went "into competition with our domestic manufactures."
But, it is contended, that was not their condition when shipped.
In one sense it was not, nor did the importers seek to pay duty
on the sugars in the condition in which they were shipped. An
element of that condition escaped, and it was calculated that it
would escape, and the price to the importer was to be adjusted
by it. With no decrease in the value of its sugars, petitioner
claims a decrease of duties which the law fixes by value. The
petitioner wants the benefit of the weight of the old condition
and the benefit of the quality of the new.
goods, wares and merchandise included in any invoice, and be relieved
from the payment of the duties of the portion so abandoned, provided the
portion so abandoned amounts to ten per ceutum or over of the total value
or quantity of the invoice."

OCTOBER TERMT,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

To dwell upon the relative conditions of the sugars is misleading. They are really not the same articles, and it is upon
the imported article the duty must be laid. This is the purpose
of the statute. It is "such merchandise" which is imported
and which is subject to an ad valorem duty according to its
market value from whence it has come. And the practical
justness of the rule is illustrated by this case. It is true that a
witness testifying generally as to drainage from sugar cargoes
said "it (the drainage) might be worth more and it might not
be worth much." But what it was worth in the present case
was not testified to. Whatever it was worth, it was petitioner's
property, and whether it was worth reclamation was for petitioner to judge. Besides the ultimate valuation of the appraisers
is not contested. Their authority is to make it. As the Court
of Appeals said, "the legality of the appraisement is questioned,
not its accuracy or its equity." We have no doubt about its
legality, and the
Judgments are a.ffrmed.

