CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUP-REME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.

EAST TENNESSEE, VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA RAILWAY COMPANY v. INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 175.

Argued February 26, 27, 1900.-Decided April 8, 1901.

Although the Interstate Commerce Commission found as a fact that the
competition at Nashville, which forms the basis of the contention in this
case, was of such a preponderating nature that the carriers must either
continue to charge a lesser rate for a longer haul to Nashville than was
asked for the shorter haul to Chattanooga, or to abandon all Nashville
traffic, nevertheless they were forbidden by tile Act of February 4, 1887,
c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, to make the lesser charge for the longer haul; but
since that ruling of the commission was made it has been settled by this
court in Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company v. ZBehlmer, 175 U. S. 648,
and other cases cited, that competition which is controlling on traffic and
rates produces in and of itself tile dissimilarity of circumstance and condition described in the statute, and that where this condition exists a carrier has a right of his own motion to take it into view in fixing rates to
the competitive point; and it follows that the construction affixed by the
commission to the statute upon which its entire action in this case was
predicated was wrong.
The only principle by which it is possible to enforce the whole statute is the
construction adopted by the previous opinions of this court; that is, that
VOL. CLXXXI-1
(1)

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.
a competition which is real and substantial, and exercises a potential influence on rates to a particular point, brings into play the dissimilarity
of circumstance and condition provided by the statute, and justifies the
lesser charge to the more distant and competitive point than to the nearer
and non-competitive place, and that this right is not destroyed by the
mere fact that, incidentally, the lesser charge to the competitive point
may seemingly give a preference to that point, and the greater rate to the
non-competitive point may apparently engender a discrimination against
it.
It is plain that all the premises of fact upon which the propositions of law
decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals rest, are at variance with the propositions of fact found by the commission, in so far as that body passed
upon the facts, and this court accordingly reversed the decree of that
court, and ordered the case remanded to the Circuit Court with instructions to set aside its decree adjudging that the order of the commission
be enforced, and to dismiss the application made for that purpose with
costs, the whole to be without prejudice to the right of the commission
to proceed upon the evidence already introduced before it, or upon such
further pleadings and evidence as it may allow to be made or introduced
and to hear and determine the controversy according to law.

Tnn Board of Trade of Chattanooga, Tennessee, a chartered
corporation, petitioned the Interstate Commerce Commission
for relief under the act to regulate commerce. The defendants, the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railway, and
numerous other rail and steamship companies, were alleged to
be common carriers subject to the act to regulate commerce,
and engaged in the transportation of passengers and freight by
all rail or partly by rail and water from Boston, New York,
Philadelphia, Baltimore and other places on the eastern seaboard to Chattanooga, Nashville and Memphis in the State of
Tennessee.
It was alleged that the defendants conveyed freight from
the eastern seaboard through and beyond Chattanooga to the
cities of Nashville and Memphis for a lesser rate to such long
distance points than was charged by them for like freight to
Chattanooga, the shorter distance. This it was averred was a
violation of section 4 of the act, prohibiting a greater charge
for the shorter than for the longer haul, under substantially
similar circumstances and conditions. And the disregard of
the statute in the particular just stated, it was asserted, necessarily gave rise to violations of other provisions of the act to

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

3

Counsel for Parties.
regulate commerce, viz., of section 1, which forbids unjust and
unreasonable charges, and of section 3, making unlawful the
giving of undue or unreasonable preferences.
It is unnecessary to consider the complaint of the lesser
charge to Memphis, the longer, than to Chattanooga, the
shorter, distance, since this grievance was in effect held by the
commission to be without substantial merit; and its conclusion
on this subject was not reviewed by either of the courts below,
and it is not now seriously, if at all, questioned. After hearing, the commission made elaborate findings of fact, and stated
the legal conclusions which were deduced therefrom. 4 Inters.
Com. Rep. 213; 5 I. C. C. Rep. 546. An order was made forbidding the defendant carriers from charging a greater compensation for the transportation for the shorter distance to
Chattanooga than was demanded to Nashville, the longer distance. The execution, however, of this order, was suspended
until a date named, so that the carriers might have opportunity
to apply to the commission to be relieved from the operation
of the order. No application to be exempted having been made,
and the carriers not having conformed to the behests of the
commission, this proceeding to compel obedience was commenced
in the Circuit Court. In that court additional testimony was
taken, but it was all merely cumulative of that which had been
adduced before the commission. The Circuit Court, 85 Fed.
Rep. 107, whilst not approving the reasoning by which the
commission had sustained the order by it entered, nevertheless
on other grounds affirmed the command of the commission.
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, to which
the case was taken, whilst it held that the commission had misapplied the law, and although it did not approve of the reasoning given by the Circuit Court for its decree, nevertheless affirmed the action of that court. 99 Fed. Rep. 52.
.

. Edward Baxter for appellant.

Xr6. L. A. Shaver for appellee.
eral Boyd was on his brief.

.Mr. A8sistant Attorney Gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

mR. TUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement
of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.

To comprehend the contentions which are made on this record
it is essential to give a summary of the condition as depicted in
the findings of the commission, and upon which the relief which
it granted was based.
The state of affairs was as follows: Freight from the eastern
seaboard to Cincinnati and other western points, north of the
Ohio River, was controlled by the classification and tariff of rates
prevailing in what was denominated as the northern or Trunk
Line territory. On the other hand, the area south of the Ohio
River, which was denominated the southern territory, was governed by the classification and tariff of rates prevailing in that
territory; such classification and tariff giving rise in most instances to a higher charge than that which prevailed in the
northern territory. This general difference between the rates
in the northern and those in the southern territory the commission found arose from inherent causes, and although they might
in some aspects disadvantageously influence traffic in the southern territory, were yet the result of such essentially normal
conditions as to give rise to no just cause of complaint. On
this subject the commission said:
"There may be some disadvantage to Chattanooga from this
circumstance, since an article of a given class under the firstnamed system may be in a lower class under the other system,
but the injury, if any, resulting from differences of that character is not believed to be serious.
"The general range of rates in the territory covered by the
Southern Railway and Steamship Association is materially
higher than in the territory of the Trunk Line Association, the
difference resulting mainly from the much greater volume of
traffic in the latter section; and it is inevitable that difficulties
should exist and complaints arise along the line of division between varying systems of classification and like methods of
traffic construction."
The grievance alleged arose in this wise: Where freight destined to a point in the southern territory instead of being sent

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

5

Opinion of the Court.

by the southern route was shipped from the eastern seaboard,
by the northern or trunk line, via Cincinnati or other trunk
line points north of the Ohio River, it would be classified and
charged for according to the northern trunk line rates. But
such freight thus shipped through the trunk line or northern
route bound for Chattanooga or other southern points on leaving Cincinnati and on entering the southern area, for the purpose of completing the transit, became subject to the southern
classification and rates. Thus, irrespective of the mere form
and considering the substance of things, the charge on freight
shipped in this way was made according to the northern classification and rate for the transportation in the northern territory to points on the Ohio River, plus the southern classification
and rates from those points to the place in the southern territory to which the freight was ultimately destined, this being
equivalent to the rate which the merchandise would have borne
had it been shipped so as to subject it wholly to the southern
territory rates.
This was, however, not universally the case. The single exception (eliminating Memphis from view) was this: The Louisville and Nashville Railroad, operating from Cincinnati to
Nashville, instead of causing the merchandise shipped from the
eastern seaboard through Cincinnati to Nashville to bear the
southern territory classification and rate from Cincinnati to
Nashville, submitted the traffic between Cincinnati and Nashville to the northern instead of to the southern territory rates.
It hence followed that merchandise shipped from the eastern
seaboard to Nashville through the northern territory bore a less
charge than it would have borne if shipped to Nashville through
the southern territory.
To compete with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad for
Nashville traffic, the carriers in the southern territory fixed
their rate to Nashville so as to make it as low as that charged
to that point by the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. It
hence came to pass that freight shipped from the eastern seaboard to Chattanooga paid the southern rate, whilst freight
shipped to Nashville, although it passed through Chattanooga,
went on to Nashville at the lower rate there prevailing, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

lower rate was caused by the action of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad in exceptionally reducing its charge to Nashville.
We say, by the action of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad,
because the findings of the commission expressly establish that
the exceptional rate to Nashville, which was established by the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad, was not caused by water
competition at Nashville, but was exclusively the result of the
action of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad in exceptionally
charging a lower rate to Nashville different from that which it
demanded for traffic to other points through the southern territory. That the other carriers through the southern territory,
including those operating from Chattanooga to Nashville, were,
in consequence of this condition at Nashville, compelled either
to adjust their rates to Nashville to meet the competition or
abandon all freight traffic to Nashville, was found by the commission to be beyond dispute. On both these subjects the
commission said, p. 219:
"There might, of course, be such an advance in rail rates that
shipments from the east would take the water route from Cincinnati. What amount of difference would produce that result
it is impossible to determine from the testimony; but we find
that such difference might be substantially greater than it is
at present without important effect upon the railroad tonnage
from the east, and that the through rate to Nashville is in no
sense controlled by water competition at that point, either
actually encountered or seriously apprehended.
"The lower rates accepted by the carriers engaged in the
transportation of eastern merchandise to Nashville via Chattanooga are not forced upon them by any water competition at
the former place. In performing this service for the compensation fixed by the present tariffs, these carriers are not affected
by the circumstance that water communication exists between
Cincinnati and Nashville. The Nashville rate is independent
of the lines operating through Chattanooga, and those lines have
no voice in determining its amount. That rate is made by the
all-rail carriers via Cincinnati, and their action is uncontrolled
by the defendant lines. The competition which the latter meet

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

'i

Opinion of the Court.

at Nashville is distinctly the competition of the trunk lines and
the Louisville and Nashville system whose northern termini
are at points on the Ohio River which receive trunk-line rates
on eastern shipments. The competitors of the defendants for
this Nashville traffic, therefore, are the railroads from the Atlantic seaboard reaching Nashville by way of Cincinnati, etc.,
all of which are interstate carriers subject to the act to regulate
commerce. These carriers established rates and united in joint
tariffs from eastern points to Nashville long before the lines
through Chattanooga engaged in the Nashville business. Acceptance of the rates so fixed by the rail lines via Cincinnati
was the necessary condition upon which the lines via Chattanooga could compete for Nashville traffic."
Although the commission thus found that the competitive
conditions at Nashville rendered it absolutely necessary for the
other roads to adjust their charges, so as to meet the competition, if they wished to engage in freight traffic to Nashville, it
nevertheless held that the carriers had no lawful right to consider the competition at Nashville in adjusting their rates to
that place. This was predicated solely upon the fact that the
competition existing at Nashville was caused by carriers who
were subject to the act to regulate commerce, and under the
view which the commission entertained of the law to regulate
commerce, competition of that character could not be availed
of by a carrier as establishing substantially dissimilar circumstances and conditions, without a prior application by the carrier
to the commission, for the purpose of obtaining its sanction to
taking such competitive conditions into consideration for the
purpose of fixing rates to the competitive point. The commission, in support of this construction of the statute, referred to a
previous opinion by it announced in the case of the Georgia
Railroad Coramssion v. Clyde Steamship Company et al., 4
Inters. Com. Rep. 120; 5 1. C. C. Rep. 324. The proposition
decided in the case cited, which it was held governed the case
at bar, was thus stated:
"'The carrier has the right to judge in the first instance
whether it is justified in making the greater charge for the
shorter distance under the fourth section in all cases where the

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances and conditions arise wholly upon its own line or
through competition for the same traffic with carriers not subject to regalation under the act to regulate commerce. In other
cases under the fourth section the circumstances and conditions
are not presumptively dissimilar, and carriers must not charge
less for the longer distance except upon the order of this commission.'
Applying this proposition, the commission said:
"We must hold that the lower rates accorded by the defendants on shipments to Nashville are without warrant of law, and
that the higher charges exacted on shipments to Chattanooga
cannot be sanctioned in this proceeding."
The order entered by the commission was confined solely to
the greater charge to Chattanooga, the shorter, than to Nashville, the longer, distance. Omitting mere recitals, it was adjudged that certain named defendants, "or such of them as are
or may be engaged in the transportation of property from New
York and other Atlantic seaboard points to Chattanooga or
through Chattanooga to Nashville, in the State of Tennessee, be
and they severally are hereby required to cease and desist from
charging or receiving any greater compensation in the aggregate for the transportation of like kind of property from New
York, Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, or other Atlantic seaboard cities, for the shorter distance to Chattanooga than for
the longer distance over the same line in the same direction to
Nashville. That for the purpose of enabling said defendants
to apply to the commission for relief under the proviso clause
of the fourth section of the act to regulate commerce, this order
is hereby suspended until the first day of February, 1893; but
the same will take effect and be in force from and after that
date unless such application be made prior thereto. In case such
relief shall be applied for within the time mentioned the question of further suspending this order until the hearing and determination of such application will be duly considered."
The record makes it clear that in allowing this order the commission thought that its literal enforcement would bring about
an injustice, and therefore that the order was entered solely
because it was deemed that the technical requirements of the

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

9

Opinion of the Court.

statute must be complied with. It is also patent from the reasons given by the commission for allowing the order that the
commission refrained from considering or passing on any other
question arising, either expressly or by implication, from the
complaint, such as the reasonableness _er se of the rates in controversy or the discrimination which might be produced by
them. And it also obviously appears that the examination of
the issues was thus confined solely to the alleged violation
of the long, and short haul clause, because it was deemed that
all questions as to reasonableness of rates yer se or discrimination arising therefrom could more properly be considered by
the commission when application was made by the carriers to
be relieved from the restraints of the long and short haul clause
within the time and in accordance with the permission granted
by the order, which was rendered. The commission on these
subjects said:
"In justice to the various parties in interest, however, it should
be added that this disposition of the case is not intended to preclude the defendants from applying to the commission for relief
from the restrictions imposed by the fourth section of the act,
on the ground that the situation in which they are placed with
reference to this Nashville traffic constitutes one of the 'special
cases' to which the proviso clause of that section should be
applied.
"It is stated in the foregoing findings that the present Nashville rate is prescribed by the rail lines reaching that point ia
Cincinnati, and that the defendant lines through Chattanooga
have no voice or influence in determining its amount. These
lines are under compulsion, therefore, to meet the rates which
other carriers have established, or leave those carriers in undisturbed possession of the entire traffic. They have no alternative
but to accept the measure of compensation dictated by independent rivals, or abandon the large percentage of Nashville
business which they now secure. In addition to this, the geographical position of these two cities, the diverse character and
divergent courses of the several groups of lines which connect
them with the Atlantic seaboard, the varying systems of classifications by which they are severally affected, and the greater

OCTOBER TER-M, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

volume of traffic at the lower rates prevailing in the trunk-line
territory, are existing conditions which govern, to some degree
at least, the transportation in question. For these conditions
the carriers complained of do not appear chiefly responsible, because the lower rate to Nashville is beyond their control, and
the allowance of the same rate to the shorter-distance point
might reduce their revenues below the limits of fair compensation. Without in any sense prejudging the case, we hold that
the defendants may invoke its consideration in an appropriate
proceeding.
"Any such intimation, however, should not be understood as
covering an implied indorsement of the present disparity of rates
as between Chattanooga and Nashville, for no such inference is
intended. The suggestion here made goes no further than the
propriety of an unprejudiced investigation when permission to
deviate from the general rule of the statute is applied for by
these carriers on account of the special circumstances by which
they are surrounded. It seems improbable that the discrimination complained of can be made less oppressive by any increase
in the Nashville rate, and on that assumption the only practical
relief is a reduction in rates to Chattanooga. We are aware of
the difficulties attending a readjustment upon that basis, but we
cannot regard then as insuperable.
"We entertain little doubt, therefore, that equity between
shipper and carrier requires some reduction in the rates now
enforced on Chattanooga traffic from Atlantic points, and are
convinced of the necessity for such a reduction to secure relative justice between that town and Nashville. We refrain from
further statement of the reasons which have induced this conclusion, as the amount to which the Chattanooga rate should
be reduced will not now be decided. If the carriers engaged
in Nashville transportation through Chattanooga act upon the
suggestion above made, and apply for relief from the restrictive
rule laid down in the fourth section, the subject can be morb
fully considered in disposing of that application."
After reciting the fact that the case had been on both sides
presented to the commission under the assumption that the

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

11

Opinion of the Court.

rights of the parties could be adequately adjusted by determining only the controversy arising from the long and short haul
clause of the act, the commission added:
"The questions which may arise if permission is sought to
depart from the general rule relating to long and short hauls
was not specially discussed. On this ground, also, it would
seem suitable to allow opportunity for a further hearing before
fixing maximum rates on shipments to Chattanooga."
Taking into view the terms of the order and the reasons
given by the commission for considering only one aspect of the
controversy and excluding all others, it is obvious that that
body construed the act to regulate commerce as meaning that,
however controlling competition might be on rates to any given
place, if it arose from the action of one or more carriers who
were subject to the law to regulate commerce, the dissimilarity
of circumstance and condition provided in the fourth section
could not be produced by such competition unless the previous
assent of the commission was given to the taking by the carrier
of such competition into view in fixing rates to the competitive
point. This in effect was to say that the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition prescribed in the law was not the criterion by which to determine the right of a carrier to charge a
lesser rate for the longer than for the shorter distance unless
the assent of the commission was asked and given. This in
substance but decided that the dissimilarity of circumstances
and conditions prescribed in the law was not the rule by which
to detormine the right of a carrier to charge a lesser rate for
the longer than for the shorter distance, but that such right
solely sprang from the assent of the commission. In other
words, that the dissimilarity of circumstances and conditions
became a factor only in consequence of an act of grace or of a
discretion flowing from or exercised by the commission. This
logical result of the construction of the statute adopted by the
commission was well illustrated by the facts found by it and to
which the theory announced was in this case applied. Thus,
although the commission found as a fact that the competition
at Nashville was of such a preponderating nature that the carriers must either continue to charge a lesser rate for a longer

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

haul to Nashville than was asked for the shorter haul to Chattanooga or to abandon all Nashville traffic, nevertheless they
were forbidden to make the lesser charge for the longer haul.
In other words, they were ordered to desist from all Nashville
traffic, unless they applied to the commission for the privilege
of continuing such traffic by obtaining its assent to meet the
dominant rate prevailing at Nashville. But since the ruling of
the commission was made in this case, it has been settled by
this court that competition which is controlling on traffic and
rates produces in and of itself the dissimilarity of circumstance
and condition described in the statute, and that where this condition exists a carrier has a right of his own motion to take it
into view in fixing rates to the competitive point. That is to
say, that the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition pointed
out by the statute which relieves from the long and short haul
clause arises from the command of the statute and not from
the assent of the commission; the law, and not the discretion
of the commission, determining the rights of the parties. It
follows that the construction affixed by the commission to the
statute upon which its entire action was predicated was wrong.
Texas & _Pacific Railway Co. v. nterdlate Commeree Comnmission, 162 U. S. 197; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama 2Xidland By. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 164; Louisville & Vashville Railroad Company v. Behlner, 175 U. S. 648, 654, 655.
Although it thus appears that the commission erred in its
construction of the statute, nevertheless, it is insisted that the
action of the commission should be affirmed. This contention
is supported by propositions which are stated in argument in
many different forms, but are really all reducible to the following summary:
Granting that the commission wrongfully held that the carriers had no right of their own motion to avail of the "competition at Nashville as producing the dissimilarity of circumstance
and condition provided in the statute, nevertheless the order
made by the commission was right, because as there was a difference between the rate charged to Nashville and that exacted
to Chattanooga, there necessarily resulted an undue preference
in favor of Nashville and a discrimination against Chattanooga,

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

13

Opinion of the Court.

falling within the inhibition of the third section of the act to
regulate commerce. And, it is argued, even conceding this to
be erroneous, as it was established by the proof that the Nashville rates were adequate, the Chattanooga rates were consequently unreasonably high, and hence were per se unreasonable.
Assuming this proposition to be without foundation, it is insisted, as Chattanooga was a point at which various railroads
centered, it was therefore in a position where, if competition
had been allowed full play, it would have a rate at least as low
as that at Nashville; and as the proof showed that the higher
rate prevailing at Chattanooga was fixed by consent or agreement among the carriers, therefore Chattanooga by the effect
of such agreement was deprived of the benefits of competition;
the deduction being that the carriers who thus by agreement
prevented the normal forces of competition from exerting their
proper influence at Chattanooga, should not be allowed to avail
of the competition at Nashville to charge a lesser rate to that
point than they did to Chattanooga. Besides, it is urged that
as it was shown that the lower rate at Nashville was caused by
the conduct of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad in exceptionally making lower charges from Cincinnati to Nashville
that road should not be permitted to give a preference to
Nashville and then avail itself of the preference thus given to
discriminate against Chattanooga, which would be the case if
the difference of rates on freight passing through Chattanooga
to Nashville were allowed to continue. This proposition being
predicated on the assertion that it was established by proof that
the line between Chattanooga and Nashville over which the
traffic via the southern territory, passing through Chattanooga
from the Atlantic seaboard, moved to Nashville was in legal
effect to be considered the Louisville and Nashville Railroad,
since that corporation was the owner of a majority of the stock
of such line between Chattanooga and Nashville, and, therefore, in effect, controlled it.
Pausing for a moment to generally consider the foregoing
contentions, it becomes manifest that in so far as they embody
propositions of law, they concede the error of the legal construction applied by the commission and yet invoke a seemingly

OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

different construction by which the erroneous rule of the coimission is to be in substance upheld. It is also clear that the
propositions of fact which they embody cover the field of inquiry which the commission excluded fromn view, and which
that body held could not be ascertained from the record before
it, but must be developed from the new inquiry which it was
proposed to make when leave to depart from the restrictions of
the long and short haul clause was invoked by the carriers at
the hands of the commission. Indeed, it is substantially accurate to say that the propositions of fact now asserted not only
do this, but in effect are repugnant to the conclusions of fact
found by the commission on the branch of the controversy to
which the commission actually extended the inquiry by it made.
It might well suffice to allow the result just stated to which the
propositions necessarily lead to serve as a demonstration of their
unsoundness. Inasmuch, however, as the legal contention embodied in the propositions was in substance adopted by the
Circuit Court upon the assumption that its action in so doing
was in accord with the decision of this court in the case of
fizterstate Commerce Commission v. Alabama .lfidland Railway Co., 168 U. S. 144, and as some of the propositions of
fact received the sanction of the Circuit Court of Appeals and
were made the basis of its decree enforcing the order of the
commission, we will proceed to analyze them to the extent necessary to determine our duty in relation to them.
Coming to do so, it is at once apparent that the contentions
divide themselves into two classes, the first, a proposition of law
involving the construction of the act to regulate commerce and
the others embracing ultimate deductions from the facts proven.
The legal proposition is this, that where in consequence of coinpetitive conditions existing at a particular point, the dissimilarity of circumstance provided in the fourth section of the act
arises, it cannot justify a carrier on his own motion in charging
a lesser rate for the longer haul to the competitive point than
is asked for the shorter haul to the non-competitive point, if in
doing so a preference in favor of the competitive point arises or
a discrimination against the non-competitive point is produced.
That is to say, it is insisted that the provision as to substan-

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

15

Opinion of the Court.

tially dissimilar circumstances and conditions of the fourth section and the commands of the third section as to discrimination
and undue preference being found in the one statute must be
construed together, so that the dissimilarity of circumstance and
condition cannot be availed of if either discrimination or preference will arise from doing so. We quote the exact language in
which this proposition is stated by counsel, reproducing the
italics by which the import of the contention is emphasized:
"Fifth. That the injury or prejudice to Chattanooga, shown
by the proof to be the effect of the discriminations practiced
against Chattanooga and in favor of Nashville, brings the case
within the evil which the act to regulate commerce was designed
to remedy, and that competition, no matter how forceful, should
not be held to nullify the law itself-in.other words, should not
be held to justify the very wrongs which the law was enacted to

remedy."
It is argued that this proposition is sustained by the opinions
in the Alabama fidland case, 168.U. S. 144, and in Louisville
& -Nashville Railroad Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648, in both
of which cases, as we have seen, the right of the carrier to take
into view on his own motion competition which substantially
affected traffic and rates as the producing cause of dissimilarity
of circumstance and condition was upheld.
The portion of the opinion relied upon in the Alabama Xidland case is found on page 167, and is as follows:
"In order further to guard against any misapprehension of
the scope of our decision, it may be well to observe that we do
not hold that the mere fact of competition, no matter what its
character or extent, necessarily relieves the carrier from the restraints of the third and fourth sections, but only that these
sections are not so stringent and imperative as to exclude in all
cases the matter of competition from consideration in determining the questions of ' undue or unreasonable preference or advantage,' or what are 'substantially similar circumstances and
conditions.' The competition may in some cases be such as,
having due regard to the interests of the public and of the carrier, ought justly to have effect upon the rates, and in such cases

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

there is no absolute rule which prevents the commission or the
courts from taking that matter into consideration."
The expressions in the Bel hner case which are relied upon
are found on page 6741 of the opinion in that case, and are as
follows:
"It follows that whilst the carrier may take into consideration
the existence of competition as the producing cause of dissimilar
circumstances and conditions, his right to do so is governed by
the following principles: First, the absolute command of the
statute that all rates shall be just and reasonable and that no
undue discrimination be brought about, though, inthe nature
of things, this latter consideration may, in many cases, be involved in the determination of whether competition was such
as created a substantial dissimilarity of condition; second, that
the competition relied upon be not artificial or merely conjectural, but material and substantial, thereby operating on the
question of traffic and rate making, the right in every event to
be only enjoyed with a due regard to the interest of the public,
after giving full weight to the benefits to be conferred on the
place from whence the traffic moved as well as those to be derived by the locality to which it is to be delivered."
The reasoning which we have thus quoted in the opinions in
question, it is insisted, maintains the doctrine that although conpetition of the character therein described may serve to engender
dissimilarity of circumstance and condition which a carrier can
avail of of its own motion, it does not necessarily do so. Whether
it can be allowed to produce this effect, it is argued, must depend upon all the surrounding circumstances, such as the preference or discrimination which may arise from allowing it to be
done and the degree to which the interests of the public may
be injuriously affected by permitting it to do so. To support
this view, it is argued, "that to hold otherwise would be placing Congress in the absurd position of laying down a rule and
then providing that the rule should not be enforced in the only
cases in which violations of the rule were known to exist. in
other words, enacting a law and providing at the same time
that it should be of no effect."
But in substance this reasoning only amounts to the assertion

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

17

Opinion of the Court.

that the settled constructionof the statute, by which it has been
held that real and substantial competition gives rise to the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition, pointed out in the
fourth section, is wrong, and should be overruled. The language of the opinions which is relied upon must be read in connection with its context, and must be construed by the light of
the issue which was in controversy in the cases and which was
decided; that is, the right of the carrier to take the competitive
conditions into consideration as creating dissimilarity of circumstance and condition. The right of a carrier to do so could
not have been sustained if the proposition now asserted had not
necessarily been decided to be unsound. The summing up or
grouping of the various provisions of the act which was made in
the passages relied upon but served to point out that the provisions of the statute allowing competition to become the cause of
dissimilarity of circumstance and condition could operate no injurious effect in view of the other provisions of the act protecting
against discrimination and preference; that is, the undue preference and unjust discrimination against which the other provisions of the statute were aimed. True it is that all of the
provisions of the statute must be interpreted together, and because this is the elementary rule the argument now pressed
upon our attention is unsound. If it were adopted, it would
follow of necessity that competition could never create such a
dissimilarity of circumstance and condition as would justify the
lesser charge to the competitive point than was made to the
non-competitive point. This would be the inevitable consequence, since under the view which the argument assumes it
would be impossible for the lesser rate to prevail to the competitive point without creating a preference in favor of that
point, and without giving rise to a discrimination against the
non-competitive point to which the higher rate was asked. Thus
the reasoning conduces to the deduction which it is advanced
to refute; that is, the assumption that the statute at one and
the same time expressly confers a right, and yet specifically
destroys it. This is plainly the consequence flowing from the
argument that competition, "however forceful" it may be, cannot produce dissimilarity of circumstance and condition if disVOL. CLXXXI-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

crimination and preference is held to necessarily arise from the
charging of the lesser rate to the longer distance competitive
point.
It is not difficult to perceive the origin of the fallacy upon
which the contention rests. It is found in blending the third
and fourth sections in such a manner as necessarily to destroy
one by the other instead of construing them so as to cause them
to operate harmoniously. In a supposed case when, in the first
instance, upon an issue as to a violation of the fourth section of
the act, it is conceded or established that the rates charged to
the shorter distance point are just and reasonable in and of
themselves, and it is also shown that the lesser rate charged
for the longer haul is not wholly unremunerative and has been
forced upon the carriers by competition at the longer distance
point, it must result that a discrimination springing alone from
a disparity in rates cannot be held, in legal effect, to be the
voluntary act of the defendant carriers, and as a consequence
the provisions of the third section of the act forbidding the
making or giving of an undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage will not apply. The prohibition of the third section,
when that section is considered in its proper relation, is directed
against unjust discrimination or undue preference arising from
the voluntary and wrongful act of the carriers complained of
as having given undue preference, and does not relate to acts
the result of conditions wholly beyond the control of such carriers. And special attention was directed to this view in the
Beidmer case, in the passage which we have previously excerpted. To otherwise construe the statute would involve a
departure from its plain language, and would be to confound
cause with effect. For, if the preference occasioned in favor
of a particular place by competition there gives rise to the
right to charge the lesser rate to that point, it cannot be that
the availing of this right is the cause of the preference, and
especially is this made clear in the case supposed, since it is
manifest that forbidding the carrier to meet the competition
would not remove the discrimination.
The only principle by which it is possible to enforce the
whole statute is the construction adopted by the previous opin-

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE C031.

19

Opinion of the Court.

ions of this court; that is, that competition which is real and
substantial, and exercises a potential influence on rates to a
particular point, brings into play the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition provided by the statute, and justifies the
lesser charge to the more distant and competitive point than to
the nearer and non-competitive place, and that this right is not
destroyed by the mere fact that incidentally the lesser charge
to the competitive point may seemingly give a preference to
that point, and the greater rate to the non-competitive point
may apparently engender a discrimination against it. We say
seemingly on the one hand and apparently on the other, because in the supposed cases the preference is not "undue" or
the discrimination "unjust." This is clearly so, when it is considered that the lesser charge upon which both the assumption
of preference and discrimination is predicated is sanctioned by
the statute, which causes the competition to give rise to the
right to make such lesser charge. Indeed, the findings of fact
made by the commission in this case leave no room for the
contention that either undue preference in favor of Nashville
or unjust discrimination against Chattanooga arose merely from
the act of the carriers in meeting the competition existing at
Nashville. The commission found that if the defendant carriers had not adjusted their rates to meet the competitive condition at Nashville, the only consequence would have been to
deflect the traffic at the reduced rates over other lines. From
this it follows that, even although the defendant carriers had not
taken the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition into view,
and had continued their rates to Nashville just as if there had
been no dissimilarity of circumstance and condition, the preference in favor of Nashville growing out of the conditions there
existing would have remained in force and hence the discrimination which thereby arose against Chattanooga would have
likewise continued to exist. In other words, both Nashville
and Chattanooga would have been exactly in the same position
if the long and short haul clause had not been brought into
play.
That, as indicated in the previous opinions of this court, there
may be cases where the carrier cannot be allowed to avail of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

the competitive condition because of the public interests and
the other provisions of the statute, is of course clear. What
particular environment may in every case produce this result
cannot be in advance indicated. But the suggestion of an obvious case is not inappropriate. Take a case where the carrier
cannot meet the competitive rate to a given point without
transporting the merchandise at less than the cost of transportation, and therefore without bringing about a deficiency, which
would have to be met by increased charges upon other business. Clearly, in such a case, the engaging in such competitive
traffic would both bring about an unjust discrimination and a
disregard of the public interest, since a tendency towards
unreasonable rates on other business would arise from the
carriage of traffic at less than the cost of transportation to particular places. But no condition of this character is here in
question, since the commission find as follows:
"There is a conceded margin of profit in the rates now in
force to Nashville and Memphis, with reference to the additional
expense incurred in carrying eastern traffic to those destinations, but whether that margin affords reasonable compensation
for the services thus rendered cannot be determined from the
evidence."
And the fact thus established was not controverted either in
the opinion of the Circuit Court or in that of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and is not now denied. Applying the principle to
which we have adverted to the condition as above stated, it is
apparent that if the carrier was prevented under the circumstances from meeting the competitive rate at Nashville, when
it could be done at a margin of profit over the cost of transportation, it would produce the very discrimination which would
spring from allowing the carrier to meet a competitive rate
where the traffic must be carried at an actual loss. To compel
the carriers to desist from all Nashville traffic under the circumstances stated would simply result in deflecting the tralic to
Nashville to other routes, and thus entail upon the carriers who
were inhibited from meeting the competition, although they
could do so at a margin of profit, the loss which would arise
from the disappearance of such business, without any wise benefiting the public.

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

21

Opinion of the Court.

The Circuit Court in enforcing the order of the commission
did not seemingly adopt the full scope of the proposition which
we have just considered, but applied it in a modified form.
Thus, it concluded that although the charge of the lesser rate
to the longer point, in some instances, might be justified by the
dissimilarity of circumstance and condition arising from competition, and therefore would not per se necessarily produce a
preference, it would do so if by comparison between the dissimilarity of circumstance and condition and the dissimilarity
of charge it was found that the one was disproportionate to the
other.
After referring to the previous rulings of the commission
maintaining that competition by carriers subject to the act
could not be taken into view by a carrier in fixing rates to the
competitive points without the previous assent of the commission, the court (85 Fed. Rep. 117) quoted the following statement of the commission in an opinion announced on December 31,
1897:
"Since then, however, the Supreme Court of the United
States, by its decision in the case, Interstate Gommerce Comnission v. Alabama Mlfidland Railway Company, (decided Nov. 8,

1897,) 168 U. S.144, has determined that this view of the law
is erroneous, and that railway competition may create such dissimilar circumstances and conditions as exempt the carrier from
an observance of the long and short haul provision. Under
this interpretation of the law, as applied to the facts found in
this case, we are of the opinion that the charging of the higher
rate to the intermediate points, as set forth, is not obnoxious to
the fourth section. The section declares that the carrier shall
not make the higher charge to the nearer point under 'substantially similar circumstances and conditions.' If the conditions and circumstances are not substantially similar, then
the section does not apply, and the carrier is not bound to regard it in the making of its tariffs."
The court thereupon said:
"Now, I do not understand that such a conclusion follows
from that decision. On the contrary, I suppose that when a
violation of the long and short haul provision is charged, con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

petition is one of the elements which enter into the determination whether the conditions are similar, and if a dissimilarity is
found, then the farther question arises whether the dissimilarity
is so great as to justify the discrimination which is complained
of. The language of the act ought not to be tied up by such
literal construction. If it were, then if it should be found that
the dissimilarity of conditions is really in favor of the locality
discriminated against, the provision would not apply, a result
contrary to the manifest intent. In other words, my opinion
is that the restraint of section 4 is to be applied upon the scale
of comparison between the dissimilarity of conditions and the
disparity of rates, and that it is competent under that section
to restrain the exaction of the greater charge for the shorter
haul, although there may be a substantial dissimilarity of conditions, provided the dissimilarity is not so great as to justify
the discrimination made. But the long and short haul clause
is only one of the specific provisions employed for the general
purpose of the act. The third section underlies the fourth and
supplies the principles on which it rests; so that, if the literal
construction referred to be put upon the fourth section, the case
would still be exposed to the third section, which forbids undue
preference to one locality or the subjection of another to any
undue disadvantage."
But this reasoning, whilst it does not apparently wholly rest
on the erroneous view which we have previously refuted, in
substance but applies it. Indeed, it not only does this, but it
more markedly destroys one provision of the statute by the
other, since it in effect declares that the greater the competition
at any given point the lesser power has this fact to produce the
dissimilarity of circumstance and condition provided in the
statute. That such is the conclusion to which the reasoning
resolves itself must be the case, when it is considered that the
more active competition is at a particular point the lesser the
rate will be to that point, and the greater, therefore, the disparity between the charge to the competitive point than that
made to the non-competitive one. The proposition then is
this, that the greater and more potential is the influence of
competition on rates and traffic, the less will be its force to en-

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COA.

23

Opinion of the Court.

gender dissimilarity of circumstance and condition; that is to
say, that the causes specified in the statute are to be allowed to
produce their influence in inverse ratio to their strength and
importance.
As the Circuit Court only affirmed the order of the commission, which directed the carriers to desist from charging a
greater compensation for the shorter haul to Chattanooga than
for the longer haul to Nashville, there is no room for the conclusion that it found affirmatively that independently of the
charge to Nashville the rate to Chattanooga was _per oeunreasonable. For, of course, a decree which ordered the carriers
to desist from charging a greater compensation for the lesser
than for the longer haul, would be in no way responsive to
the conclusion that the rate for the lesser distance was unreasonable in and of itself. Such a decree would in effect authorize
the carrier to continue to charge at its election a rate which
was in itself unreasonable to the shorter point. Indeed, it cannot be held that the order rested upon the unreasonableness per
se of the rate to Chattanooga, without implying that the court
directed and commanded the carrier to bring about a preference and discrimination by charging the same price for the
carriage of traffic to Nashville, the much more distant point,
than was exacted for the carriage to Chattanooga.
Coming then to the propositions of fact, we repeat that each
and every one of them either involve considerations which
were wholly excluded from view by the commission, under
the construction of the statute which was applied, because it
was deemed that they would present themselves for consideration when the carrier petitioned the commission to be relieved from the restrictions of the long and short haul clause,
and moreover that these propositions of fact are not in harmony
with the findings made by the commission on the particular
subject which it passed on. That the propositions of fact referred to are amenable to the considerations we have just stated
is indisputable, when it is considered that taken together they
assert the existence of conditions which the commission decided could not be ascertained in the state of the record before
it, but could only be arrived at by a further unprejudiced ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

amination, which, under the view taken, it was unnecessary to
make until a future time. And that the facts now relied on
are irreconcilable with what was found by the commission on
the subject which it passed on is likewise clear. Thus, the contention that the rate to Chattanooga is shown to have been
absolutely fixed by agreement, and therefore to be abnormally
high, is necessarily repugnant to the express finding of the
commission that the rates in the southern territory, whilst
originally the offspring of agreement, were also the result of
the volume of business in that territory, and although they
might give rise to some disadvantage, (lid not do so to the extent of making the rates in and of themselves a just subject of
complaint. So, also, the insistence that it is shown that Chattanooga by its position was entitled to at least an equality of
rates with Nashville is repugnant to the finding of the commission, that whilst it was shown that some reduction would be
just at Chattanooga, the degree of that reduction could not be
determined without a further investigation embracing the relation of Chattanooga to other points and without a careful readjustment of the rates to such points. Again, the assertion that the road from Chattanooga to Nashville growing out
of the stock ownership was in legal effect the Louisville and
Nashville Railroad, is necessarily antagonistic to the express
fin~ling of the commission, that the carriers through Chattanooga to Nashville were placed in a position where they must
either meet the Gompetition at Nashville or abandon all traffic
to that point. The question which then arises is, shall this
court now pass upon all the issues which the commission excluded from view, because of a mistake in law committed by
that body, and in doing so not only overthrow the findings of
fact made by the commission, but also adopt new findings antagnostic to those which the commission made, and this for the
purpose, not of affirming the order entered by that body, but
to enable us to reach a result which the commission itself dedared could only be justly arrived at after a further and unprejudiced investigation by it of the situation which the controversy involves 2
True, it is insisted that such original action is not required at

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COM.

25

Opinion of the Court.

our hands, because, it is asserted, the Circuit Court of Appeals
considered and passed on the propositions, relied upon, and the
action of that court relieves this court from the duty of entering upon an original investigation of the whole evidence to determine the entire field of controversy.
It requires only, however, a brief reference to the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals to show that this contention is
unfounded. In substance, that court stated in its opinion that
it considered that the rates to Chattanooga, which was in the
southern territory, had been fixed by agredment of the carriers
as had been the other rates in that territory; that as Nashville,
which was also in the southern territory, was given a low rate,
because of the action of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
in exceptionally lowering its rates from Cincinnati to that point,
the situation at Chattanooga entitled it to the same rates. The
court, moreover, thought that the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad, which owned the line from Cincinnati to Nashville,
was in no position, as the owner of a majority of the stock in
the road from Chattanooga to Nashville, to avail of the competition at Nashville as a basis for charging the lesser rate for the
longer haul through Chattanooga to Nashville. It was besides
concluded that where a rate to a particular point was the product of agreement, which stifled competition, such rate could
not become the basis upon which to predicate the right of a
carrier to charge a lesser sum for the carriage of freight passing
through that point to a more distant place, because of the competition at such more distant place. The court summed up its
conclusions as follows (99 Fed. IRep. 63):
"We are pressed with the argument that to reduce the rates
to Chattanooga will upset the whole southern schedule of rates,
and create the greatest confusion; that for a decade Chattanooga has been grouped with towns to the south and west of
her, shown in the diagram; and that her rates have been the
key to the southern situation. The length of time which an
abuse has continued does not justify it. It was because time
had not corrected abuses of discrimination that the interstate
commerce act was passed. The group in which Chattanooga
is placed, shown by the diagram above, puts her on an equality

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

in respect to eastern rates with towns and cities of much less
size and business, and much further removed from the region
of trunk-line rates, and with much fewer natural competitive
advantages. If taking Chattanooga out of this group and putting it with Nashville requires a readjustment of rates in the
south, this is no ground for refusing to do justice to Chatta-

nooga. The truth is, that Chattanooga is too advantageously
situated with respect to her railway connections to the north
and east to be made the first city of importance to bear the
heavier burden of southern rates, when Nashville, her natural
competitor, is given northern rates. The line of division between northern and southern rates ought not to be drawn so
as to put her to the south of it, if Nashville is to be put to the
north of it. And we feel convinced from a close examination
of the evidence that, but for the restriction of normal competition by the Southern Traffic Association, her situation would
win for her certainly the same rates as Nashville. It may be
that the difficulty of readjusting rates on a new basis is what
has delayed justice to Chattanooga. It may well be so formidable as to furnish a motive for maintaining an old abuse."
The decree which was entered, however, did not declare the
rates charged to Chattanooga to be unreasonable, but simply
affirmed the order of the commission directing that no greater
sum be charged for the carriage of freight to Chattanooga, the
shorter, than was exacted to Nashville, the longer, distance.
As we have already shown, such a decree is not responsive to
the conclusion that the rates to Chattanooga were in and of
themselves unreasonable, since the right to continue to exact
them was sanctioned, provided the traffic to Nashville was
either abandoned or the rate to Chattanooga made the same as
to Nashville.
Without taking at all into view the legal propositions announced by the Circuit Court of Appeals in its opinion, and
conceding, without passing upon such questions, that they were
all correctly decided, it is plain that all the premises of facu
upon which the propositions of law decided by the Circuit Court
of Appeals rest are at variance with the propositions of fact
found by the commission, in so far as that body passed upon

EAST TENN. &c. RY. CO. v. INTERSTATE COIAL

27

Opinion of the Court.

the facts. From this it results that to decide the case in the
aspect in which it is now presented we would be obliged to go
into the whole evidence, as a matter of original impression, in
order to determine the complex questions which the case presents. Among those which of necessity would arise for decision
would be whether the original agreement fixing rates to the
southern territory, made long since and acted on consecutively
for years, was of such a nature as to cause those rates to be
illegal, although they might be found to be just and reasonable
in and of themselves. If not, whether Chattanooga was from
its situation properly embraced in the southern territory, and,
if not, whether the Louisville and Nashville Railroad had violated the law by exceptionally reducing its rates to Nashville.
If it had not, did it follow, because the condition at Nashville
gave that city an exceptionally low rate, that Chattanooga was
in a position to be entitled, as a matter of right, to as low or a
lesser rate?
To state these issues is at once to demonstrate that their
decision, as a matter of first impression, properly belonged to
the commission, since upon that body the law has specially imposed the duty of considering them. Whilst the court has in
the discharge of its duty been at times constrained to correct
erroneous constructions which have been put by the commission
upon the statute, it has steadily refused, because of the fact just
stated, to assume to exert its original judgment on the facts,
where, under the statute, it was entitled, before approaching
the facts, to the aid which must necessarily be afforded by the
previous enlightened judgment of the commission upon such subjects. This rule is aptly illustrated by the opinion in louisville
& Nashville Railr'oad Co. v. Behlmer, (1900) 175 U. S. 648, in
which case, after pointing out the same error of construction
adopted and applied by the commission in the present case, the
court declined to undertake an original investigation of the facts,
saying (p. 675):
"If, then, we were to undertake the duty of weighing the
evidence in this record, we would be called upon, as a matter of
original action, to investigate all these serious considerations
which were shut out from view by the commission, and were

OCTOBER TERAM, 1900.
Opinion of tho Court.

not weighed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, because both the
commission and the court erroneously construed the statute.
But the law attributes _rimacfacieeffect to the findings of fact
made by the commission, and that body, from the nature of its
origanization and the duties imposed upon it by the statute, is
peculiarly competent to pass upon questions of fact of the character here arising. In Texas & iPacifie Railway v. Interstate
Commerce Commission,ubi sipra,the court found the fact to be

that the commission had failed to consider and give weight to
the proof in the record, affecting the question before it, on a
mistaken -view taken by it of the law, and that on review of the
action of the commission the Circuit Court of Appeals, whilst
considering that the legal conclusion of the commission was
wrong, nevertheless proceeded as a matter of original investigation to weigh the testimony and determine the facts flowing
from it. The court said (p. 238):
"' If the Circuit Court of Appeals was of opinion that the
commission in making its order had misconceived the extent of
its powers, and if the Circuit Court had erred in affirming the
validity of an order made under such misconception, the duty of
the Circuit Court of Appeals was to reverse the decree, set aside
the order and remand the cause to the commission in order that
it might, if it saw fit, proceed therein according to law. The
defendant was entitled to have its defence considered, in the
first instance at least, by the commission upon a full consideration of all the circumstances and conditions upon which a legitimate order could be founded. The question whether certain
charges were reasonable or otherwise, whether certain discriminations were due or undue, were questions of fact, to be passed
upon by the commission in the light of all the facts duly alleged
and supported by competent evidence, and it did not comport
with the true scheme of the statute that the Circuit Court of
Appeals should undertake, of its own motion, to find and pass
upon such questions of fact in a case in the position in which
the present one was.'
"We think these views should be applied in the case now under review."

INTERSTATE COM. v. CLYDE STEAMSHIP CO.

29

Counsel for Parties.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Aoppeale should be reversed
with costs and the case be remanded to the Circuit Court
with instructions to set aside its decree adjudging that the
order of the commission be enforced, and to dismiss the applicationmadefor thatpurTosewith costs, the whole to be withoat prejudice to the right of the co nmission to proceed upon
the evidence already introduced before it or upon, suchfurther _pleadings and evidence as it may allow to be made or
introduced, to hear and determine the matter in controversy
according to law.
MIR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v. CLYDE
STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
SAME v. WESTERN AND ATLANTIC RAILROAD COMPANY.
SAME v. CLYDE STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
Nos. 68, G9,70.

Argued November 5, 6, 1900.-Decided April 8, 1901.

East Tennessee, Virginia & Georgia R~ailway Company v. Interstate Comnerce Commission, ante 1, followed.
THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of the

court.
Xfr. L. A. Shaver for appellants.
General Beck was on his brief.

.Mi'. Assistant Attorney

-Tl. Edward Baxter for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

