CODLIN v. KOtILHAUSEN.
Counsel for Parties.

up by it in the pleadings," said: "We think the judgment of
the court did give effect to that act." And the soundness of
this conclusion the opinion then proceeded to demonstrate, it
being apparent that the legislative act of impairment which
the court found had been given effect to by the state decision
was not a mere denial of liability, but amounted to an impairment of the substantial rights conferred by the contract.
As it is apparent from the foregoing considerations that, even
conceding the contract to be as contended for, no legislative act
is shown to exist, from the enforcement of which an impairment
of the obligations of the contract-within the purview of the
Constitution-did or could result, it follows that the record involves solely an interpretation of the contract, and, therefore,
presents no controversy within the jurisdiction of this court.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

CODLIN v. KOHLHAUSEN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO.
No. 234.

Argued and submitted April 11, 1901.-Decided April 15, 1901.

Judgment awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus directing the execution of certain county bonds for the construction of a courthouse and
jail having been rendered in October, 1897, the case taken on error to the
appellate tribunal in 1898, and affirmed in 1899, and the bonds having
been, in the mean time, issued and sold and the building constructed, and
the county officials, who were the original respondents below, and are
appellants here, having gone out of office before this appeal was taken,
the court is of opinion that the rule approved in Mills v. Green, 159
U. S. 651, and in cases there cited, should be applied.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
Yr.
[ Andrieus A. Jones for the motion.
_31r. fl. E Twitchell opposing, submitted on his brief.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.
Trin CHIEF JUSTICE: This was a petition filed by appellees in
the District Court for Colfax County, New Mlexico, praying
for a writ of mandamus directed to Codlin, chairman, and Salazar, clerk, of the Board of County Commissioners of the
county of Colfax, commanding them to officially sign and execute certain bonds and deliver them to the designated agent of
the county for sale, for the construction of a courthouse and
jail.
The alternative writ of mandamus was issued and due return
made, whereupon, and after hearing, the District Court ordered the peremptory writ to issue, which was done, and the
writ served, October 23, 1897.
The case was carried on error to the Supreme Court of the
Territory in June, 1898, and it appears from an affidavit in that
court that the mandate of the District Court was obeyed and
the bonds issued and sold; and from an affidavit in this court
that the proceeds were used in the construction of the courthouse and jail, which were completed on or about January 1,
1899. That affidavit also states that Codlin ceased to be chairman or a member of the Board of County Commissioners in
January, 1899, and that Salazar ceased to be clerk during or
prior to March, 1899.
The Territorial Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the
District Court, August 28, 1899. 9 N. Mex. 565. An appeal
from the judgment of affirmance to this court was allowed
January 2, 1900, and the record filed here MKarch 28.
We think the cause comes within the rule applied in -Mills v.
Green, 159 U. S. 651, 653, and cases cited, and the order must
be
._peal dismissed without costs to eitherparty.

