STREITWOLF v. STREITWOLF.
Statement of the Case.

while this court has held the case under advisement, and may
be preserved by entering judgment nune pro tune, as of the
day when it was argued. Downer v. Howard, (1878) 41 Wisconsin, 82; T.ancis v. Francis, (1879) 31 Grattan, 283; Danforth v. Danforth, (1884) 111 Illinois, 236; XJitchell v. Over-

man, (1880) 103 U. S. 62.
Judgment acffirmed nune pro tune, as of April 26, 1900.

STREITWOLF v. STREITWOLF.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
NEW JERSEY.
No. 109. Argued and submitted November 14, 15, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A decree of divorce from the bond of matrimony, obtained in the State of
North Dakota, in which neither party is domiciled, upon service by publication and in another State, is entitled to no faith and credit in that
State.
AUGUST Streitwolf and Elizabeth Streitwolf were married at
New Brunswick in New Jersey on June 3, 1877, and lived there
as husband and wife until August 3, 1896. On August 17,
1896, the wife filed against the husband in the Court of Chancery in the State of New Jersey a bill for divorce for his extreme cruelty, and for alimony; a subpoena returnable August 29, 1896, was served upon the husband personally in New
Jersey; and in November, 1896, after a hearing, an order was
made for the payment of alimony pendente lite.
On August 9, 1897, the husband filed against the wife in the
district court of the Sixth Judicial District of the State of North

Dakota a suit for a divorce from the bond of matrimony for
her extreme cruelty and habitual intemperance; and caused to
be personally served on her in New Jersey on August 17, 1897,
a copy of the summons and complaint therein, directing her to

OCTOBER 'T'ERAI, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

answer within thirty days after service of the summons upon
her, or be defaulted.
On August 19, 1897, the husband filed in the suit in New
Jersey an answer denying the allegations of the wife's bill, but
saying nothing of the suit in North Dakota.
On September 7, 1897, the wife filed in the suit in New Jersey
a petition, supported by affidavits, for an injunction against the
suit in North Dakota, denying the husband's allegations in that
suit, alleging that the domicil of both parties was still in New
Jersey, and that his pretended residence in North Dakota was
wholly fictitious and fraudulent, and intended only to give a
colorable jurisdiction to the court of North Dakota for the purpose of the suit therein; and further alleging that the wife. had
not in anywise appeared in that suit, and that a decree against
her in that suit would be a bar to her suit in New Jersey, and
that the practical effect, and doubtless the object of the proceedin g, would be to withdraw the adjudication and settlement of
her marital rights from the court of New Jersey and transfer the
same to the court of North Dakota. On September 8, 1897, a
temporary injunction was issued accordingly, to continue until
the husband should have fully answered the bill and until the
further order of the court.
On October 7, 1897, the husband submitted to the judge of
the court in North Dakota his own exfparte deposition, and the
exparte depositions of other witnesses taken in the city of New
York on October 4, 1897; and obtained from that court a decree of divorce from the bond of matrimony for his wife's cruelty
and habitual intemperance, which recited that "the plaintiff
now is and for more than ninety days prior to the commencement
of this action has been in good faith a resident of the State of
North Dakota," and that "the court has full power and jurisdiction, both of the subject-matter of the action, and the parties plaintiff and defendant therein."
On January 11, 1898, the wife filed against the husband in the
Court of Chancery of New Jersey a supplemental bill, repeating the allegations of her petition for an injunction, and alleging
the granting of the injunction, and its service upon the husband's
counsel in New Jersey and in North Dakota on the 13th and

STREITWOLF v. STREITWOLF.
Statement of the Case.

15th of September, 1897, and that the decree in North Dakota
was void for want of jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of
the wife as a party, and was procured by fraud and in contempt
of the Court of Chancery of New Jersey.
In April, 1898, the husband filed an answer to the supplemental bill, alleging that at and for more than ninety days preceding the commencement of his suit in North Dakota, he was
a resident and citizen and domiciled in good faith in that State;
setting forth §§ 2737, 2742, 2743, 2755-2757 of the Civil Code of
North Dakota of 1895 ;. and insisting that the decree in North
Dakota was a valid judgment, rendered with full jurisdiction
over the subject-matter and the parties, and was entitled to full
faith and credit under the Constitution and laws of the United
States.
The wife filed a general replication to the answer. The evidence tended to show, and the Court of Chancery of New Jersey found, the following facts:
In November, 1896, the husband sold out his business in New
Brunswick, rented the building and furniture to the grantee of
the business, and went to New York and boarded there for a
while, and then went to Europe on a pleasure tour, and returned
to New York in the following March, and remained there until
May 5, 1897. In April, 1897, negotiations were going on between him and his wife for a settlement of their difficulties,
which entirely, failed before the 1st of May. About that time
he became acquainted with a firm of lawyers, Hoggatt & Caruthers, who had an office in New York, and were attorneys engaged
in the business of procuring divorces; and he talked with them,
and found that they had an office and a representative in Mandan, North Dakota. Streitwolf had never been in Mandan,
knew nobody there, and had no connections, directly or indirectly, with Mandan, or with anybody in North Dakota.. On
May 6, 1897, without informing anybody where he was going,
or that he intended to change his residence, he left New York
and went to Mandan; arrived there on Sunday morning, May 9,
and in the afternoon of the same day was introduced by a travelling companion to one Voss, who represented Hoggatt & Caruthers in Mandan. He took board at a boarding-house, stayed

OCTOBER TERAL, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

there a few weeks, and then went to the Yellowstone Park. Re
wrote to nobody that he was at Mandan, dated no letters there,
and gave no notice to anybody of his residence there. But
while in the Yellowstone Park he wrote to his son that he was
taking a trip through that country. In July he came back to
New York, and was there a week or more; and sought and obtained an interview with his son, who was then living with his
mother in Jersey City and working in New York city; and in
that interview stated that he was going to Germany to get a
legacy that had been left to him, and invited his son to go with
him, and his son promised to give him an answer on the evening of July 30. The son went to the rendezvous on that evening, and his father was not there. About that time Streitwolf
went to Mandan, and neither his son nor any other person, as
far as appears, had the slightest idea that he had been away
from home with a view to changing his residence, or adopting
a new home. He arrived at iMandan in August, and on August 9, three days from his arrival, commenced his-suit against
his wife for divorce, and took measures to have the papers served
upon her in New Jersey.
The court held that the husband had no bona fide domicil in
North Dakota, that the judgment there was obtained by fraud
and imposition on the court, and that the court there had no
jurisdiction; and issued a perpetual injunction against setting
up that judgment.
The decree was affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals
of the State of New Jersey. 13 Dickinson (58 N. J. Eq.) 563.
The husband sued out this writ of error.
.Ar. Alan H. Strong for defendant in error.
.Mr. Willard P. VFoorhees and Xr. Robert Adrain for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
IMR. JUSrME GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
This case must follow Bell v. Bell, ante, 175.

The law of

LYNDE v. LYNDE.
Statement of the Case.

North Dakota requires a domicil in good faith of the libellant
for ninety days as a prerequisite to jurisdiction of a case of divorce. Smith v. Smith, I North Dakota, 404, 413. The facts
in evidence warranted, and indeed required, the finding that the
husband had no bonatjidedomicil in the State of North Dakota,
when he obtained a divorce there, and it is not pretended that
the wife had an independent domicil in North Dakota, or was
ever in that State. The court of that State, therefore, had no
jurisdiction.
Judgment apwaed.

LYNDE v. LYNDE.
LYNDE v. LYNDE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 305, 369. Submitted November 5, 1900.-Decided April 15, 1901.
A decree of the highest court of a State, giving full faith and credit to a
decree in another State for alimony, cannot be reviewed by this court on
writ of error sued out by the defendant.
The refusal of the highest court of a State to give effect to so much of a
decree in another State, as awards alimony in the future, and requires a
bond, sequestration, a receiver and injunction, to secure payment of past
and future alimony, presents no Federal question for the review of this
court.

Tnis was an action brought May 26, 1898, in the Supreme
Court for the county and State of New York, on a decree of
the Court of Chancery of New Jersey of December 28, 1897,
by which it was ordered that the plaintiff was entitled to recover of the defendant the sum of $7840 for alimony at the rate
of $80 per week from February 11, 1896, to the date of the
decree, and the further sum of $80 per week permanent alimony
from the date of the decre, the said weekly payments to be
valid liens on the defendant's real estate; that the defendant
give bond to the plaintiff in the sum of $10,000 to secure the

