GERMAN NATIONAL BANK v. SPECKERT.
Opinion of the Court.

a

GERMAN NATIONAL BANK ve. SPECKERT.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF

APPEALS

FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 192. Argued March 12, 1901.-Decided May 13, 1901.

No appeal lies to this court, under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 6, from
a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing the Circuit Courtof
the United States to remand a case to the state court.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.X,. Alexander Pope Humphrey for appellants. _Xr. John
XSmith were on his brief.
G. Carlileand .hr. William .AL.
XMr. John L. Dodd for appellees. _Xr. Aaron Kohn, .' .
SF.
and Xr. J C. Dodd were
David IF. Baird,ffr. T. 8pindle
on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity, commenced in a court of the State
of Kentucky, and removed, on petition of the defendant, into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky. The Circuit Court of the United States denied a motion to remand the case to the state court, 85 Fed. Rep. 12,
and afterwards dismissed the bill upon its merits. The plaintiff
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the
decree and ordered the Circuit Court to remand the case to the
state court. 98 Fed. Rep. 151; 38 C. 0. A. 682. From the
order of the Circuit Court of Appeals the plaintiffs appealed to
this court.
In Railroad Co v. Wiswall, (1874) 23 Wall. 507, a case was
removed from a state court into a Circuit Court of the United
States; the Circuit Court, being satisfied that it had no jurisdiction, ordered the case to be remanded to the state court; and

OCTOBER TERMUp 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

a writ of error to review the order remanding it was dismissed
by this court, upon the ground that "the order of the Circuit
Court remanding the cause to the state court is not a' final
judgment' in the action, but a refusal to hear and decide. The
remedy in such a case is by mandamus to compel action, and not
by writ of error to review what has been done."
By the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, ยง 5, it was provided that
an order of the Circuit Court, dismissing or remanding a cause
to the state court, should be reviewable by this court on writ of
error or appeal. IS Stat. 472. Under that statute, many cases
were brought to this court by appeal or writ of error for the review of such orders.
But by section 6 of the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, as reenacted by the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, that provision
was expressly repealed; and by section 2 it was enacted that
whenever the Circuit Court of the United States should decide
that a cause had been improperly removed, and order it to be
remanded to the state court from which it came, "such remand
shall be immediately carried into execution, and no appeal or
writ of error from the decision of the Circuit Court so remanding such cause shall be allowed." 2-4 Stat. 553, 555; 25 Stat.
435, 436.
Under that statute, it has been constantly held that this court
has no power to review by appeal or writ of error an order of
a, Circuit Court of the United States remanding a case to a state
court.
In the first case Chief Justice Waite said: "It is difficult to
see what more could be done to make the action of the Circuit
Court final, for all the purposes of the removal, and not the subject of review in this court. First, it is declared that there shall
be no appeal or writ of error in such a case, and then, to make
the matter doubly sure, the only statute which ever gave the
right of such an appeal or writ of error is repealed." Morey v.
Lock7iart, (1887) 123 U. S. 56. And it was held 'that the act
prohibited a writ of error after that statute took effect to review an order of remand made while the act of 1875 was in
force. Shernan v. Grinnell, (1887) 123 U. S. 679.
By the act of February 25, 18S9, c. 236, it is provided that

GERMAN NATIONAL BANK v. SPECKEIr.
Opinion of the Court.

"in all cases where a final judgment or decree shall be rendered
in a Circuit Court of the United States, in which there shall
have been a question involving the jurisdiction of the court,"
the losing party should be entitled to an appeal or writ of error
to this court, without reference to the amount of the judgment,
but limited, when that amount did not exceed $5000, to the
question of jurisdiction. 25 Stat. 693. It was held that this
act did not authorize an appeal from an order of the Circuit
Court of the United States remanding a case to the state court
for want of jurisdiction, because "the words ' a final judgment
or decree,' in this act, are manifestly used in the same sense as
in the prior statutes which have received interpretation, and
these orders to remand were not final judgments or decrees,
whatever the ground upon which the Circuit Court proceeded."
Richmond & Danville Railroadv. Thouron (1890) 134 U. S.
45. A similar decision was made in Gurnee v. Patrick County,

(1890) 137 U. S. 141.
In the case of In 'e Pennsylvania Co., (1890) 137 U. S. 451,
it was held that the acts of 1887 and 1888 took away the remedy
by mandamus, as well as that by writ of error or appeal, in the
case of an order of remand; and Mr. Justice Bradley, in delivering judgment, after quoting section 2 of those acts, said:
"In terms, it only abolishes appeals and writs of error, it is
true, and does not mention writs of mandamus ; and it is unquestionably a general rule, that the abrogation of one remedy
does not affect another. But in this case we think it was the
intention of Congress to make the judgment of the Circuit
Court remanding a cause to the state court final and conclusive.
The general object of the act is to contract the jurisdiction of
the Federal courts. The abrogation of the writ of error and
appeal would have had little effect in putting an end to the
question of removal, if the writ of mandamus could still have
been sued out in this court. It is true that the general supervisory power of this court over inferior jurisdictions is of great
moment in a public point of view, and should not, upon light
grounds, be deemed to be taken away in any case. Still, although the writ of mandamus is not mentioned in the section,
yet the use of the words 'such remand shall be immediately

OCTOBER TERAI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court

carried into execution,' in addition to the prohibition of appeal
and writ of error, is strongly indicative of an intent to suppress
further prolongation of the controversy by whatever process.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the act has the effect of taking away the remedy by mandamus as well as that of appeal
and writ of error." 137 U. S. 454.
In chicago Railway v. Roberts, (1891) 141 U. S. 690, the
cases of Morey v. lockhart and Richmond & Danville Railroad v. Thourom were followed; and it was held that section 5
of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, giving a writ of
error from this court "in any case in which the jurisdiction of
the court is in issue," does not authorize a writ of error to review
an order of the Circuit Court, remanding a case for want of
jurisdiction, because such order is not a final judgment.
In -MissouriPacific Railway v. Fitzgerald,(1896) 160 U. S.
556, 580-583, in a careful opinion of the Chief Justice, reviewing the statutes and decisions, it was again stated, as well settled,
that an order of the Circuit Court of the United States ordering a suit to be remanded to the state court was not a final
judgment or decree; and that such an order could not be reviewed in this court by any direct proceeding for that purpose;
and it was also held that "as under the statute a remanding
order of the Circuit Court is not reviewable by this court on
appeal or writ of error from or to that court, so it would seem
to follow that it cannot be reviewed on writ of error to a state
court, the prohibition being that 'no appeal or writ of error
from the decision of the Circuit Court remanding such cause
shall be allowed.' And it is entirely clear that a writ of error
cannot be maintained under section 709, in respect of such an
order, where the state court has rendered no decision against
a Federal right, but simply accepted the conclusion of the Circuit Court."
In the present case, the remand to the state court was denied
by the Circuit Court of the United States, but, on appeal from
its decree dismissing the bill, was ordered by the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
If the Circuit Court had ordered the case to be remanded,
its order could not, according to the decisions above cited, have

PUT-IN-HAY WATERWORKS &c. CO. v. *RYAN. 409
Syllabus.

been reviewed by this court, in any manner, either by appeal
from that court, or by mandamus to that court, or by writ of
error to the state court.
It would be an extraordinary result if, while an order of remand by the Circuit Court, of its own motion, is not subject to
review in any form, an order of remand by that court, by direction of the Circuit Court of Appeals, were subject to a further
appeal to this court.
The appeal in this case is taken under the last paragraph of
section 6 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, by which "in all
cases not hereinbefore in this section made final," and when
the matter in controversy exceeds $1000, there is of right a
review of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals by this
court on appeal or writ of error.
Such appeal or writ of error, of course, can only be taken
from a final judgment. But an order of remand is not a final
judgment, according to the cases above cited, especially Railroad Co. v. Wiswall, Richmond & Danville Railroad v. TEtoWron, Chicago Railway v. Roberts, and .Xissouri Paci~ft Railway
v. Fitzgerald. Therefore no appeal lies from the order of remand.
Apeal dismissed for want ofjurisdiction.

PUT-IN-BAY WATERWORKS &c. COMPANY v. RYAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
OHIO.
No. 332.

SubmittedFebruary 25,1901.-Decided AIay 13, 1901.

The property and franchises, which are the subject matter of this suit,
were not in the possession of the state court, when the Federal court
appointed its receiver.
Within the letter of the statute there was a controversy between citizens
of different States, in which the matter in dispute was over the sum of
or value of two thousand dollars.

