OCTOBER TERMI,

1900.

Syllabus.

never took title to the strip of land ninety feet wide on each
side of the route of the canal through the public lands, so far
as related to the sections reserved to the United States by the
act of 1827, of which section ten herein involved was one.
It is not a question of forfeiture of the grant under the act
of 1822. There was no forfeiture; it was a mutual abandonment of that act for the act of 1827. Taking all the facts into
consideration, the State never acquired an absolute title to the
ninety feet strip, as by the language of the act of 1822 the use
only was granted, and it required a subsequent filing of a map
as provided for in that act before the right to the use was acquired and made definite and fixed as to any particular land,
and before that time arrived the act of 1827 was passed, which
was to a certain extent inconsistent with the former act, and
the State in fact thenceforth proceeded under the later act and
filed its map thereunder and constructed the canal with reference thereto.
We think the judgment of the Supreme Court of Illinois was
right, and it is therefore
Affirned.

ST. PAUL GAS LIGHT CO. v. ST. PAUL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MINNESOTA.
No. 183. Argued March 21, 1901.-Decided April 15,1901.

A by-law or ordinance of a municipal corporation may be such an exercise
of legislative power, delegated by the legislature as a political subdivision of the State, having all the force of law within the limits of the
municipality, that it may properly be considered as a law, within the
meaning of the Constitution of the United States.
In this case, as no legislative act is shown to exist, from the enforcement
of which an impairment of the obligations of such a contract did or could
result, it follows that the record involves solely an interpretation of the
contract, and therefore presents no controversy within the jurisdiction
of this court.

ST. PAUL GAS LIGHT CO. v. ST. PAUL.
Statement of the Case.

THE charter of the St. Paul Gas Light Company was granted
in 1856, and it expires in 1901. The corporation was empowered to construct a plant to supply the city of St. Paul and
its inhabitants with illuminating gas. It may be assumed, for
the purposes of the question arising on this record, that the
corporation discharged its duties properly under its charter,
and that from the time the charter became operative the company has lighted the city in accordance with the contracts
made for that purpose from time to time with the municipal
authorities. The charter did not purport to engage permanently with the company for lighting the city, but provided
for agreements to be entered into on that subject with the city
for successive periods, and from the beginning of the charter
the parties did so stipulate for a specified time, a new contract
supervening upon the termination of an expired one. It may
also be assumed for the purposes of this case that the rights
which the corporation asserts on this record were not foreclosed
by any of the contracts which it made, at different periods,
with the city. The question which here arises concerns only
section 9 of the charter, which is as follows:
"SEc. 9. That it shall be the duty of the St. Paul Gas Light
Company to prosecute the works necessary to the lighting the
the whole city and suburbs with gas, and to lay their pipes in
every and all directions, whenever the board of directors shall
be satisfied that the expenses thereon shall be counterbalanced
by the income accruing from the sales of gas. It shall also be
their duty to put the gas works into successful operation as
soon as practicable: Provided, That whenever the corporation
of the city of St. Paul shall, by resolution of the board of aldermen, direct lamps to be erected and lighted in the streets of
the city, the company shall make contract therefor, and furnish
and provide, lay, set up and keep in good repair, at their own
proper expense and charge, the street posts and lamps, and
their pipes and meters, all to be of the best quality of work
and material now in use. In consideration whereof, the said
corporation of the city shall pay quarterly to the St. Paul
Gas Light Company an interest of eight per centum per annum
on the amount of the sum of the original cost of said street

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

lamps and lamp posts, gas meters and gas pipes, and the cost
of laying and erecting the same. But said company shall not
be bound to lay every pipe in such places where the proceeds
from the sale of gas light would not be sufficient to defray the
expenses of furnishing the same."
Under the foregoing section the gas company, by direction
of the city, constructed street lamps, and up to January 1, 1897,
they numbered 3362. The interest on the cost of these lamps,
at the rate fixed by section 9, was regularly paid by the city
up to January 1, 1897. About, or shortly after that date, in
certain portions of the city, the use of electricity for lighting
the streets was by direction of the municipality substituted for
gas, and hence the street gas lamps in those portions of the city
which were lighted by electricity were no longer used. It is
fairly to be deduced from the record that either by its original
charter or by amendments thereto the gas company was empowered to supply electricity as well as gas, and in virtue of
this power it constructed an electrical plant and contracted
with the city to supply the electric lights in those portions of
the city where the use of gas had been dispensed with. The
gas company asserted its right to recover from the city the interest on the cost of placing in position the lamps, the use
of which had been discontinued under the circumstances just
above stated. The city denied its obligation to pay interest on
account of the cost of these lamps. As the result of this disagreement the city, in 1897, passed the following ordinance:
"Resolved, That the St. Paul Gas Light Company be and it
is hereby required forthwith to remove the gas street lamp
posts in that portion of the city now lighted by electric light
under contract with said company, and which said lamps have
been discontinued by order of the board of public works.
":Resolved, further, That the board of public works is hereby
required to transmit to the city comptroller a statement showing the number and location of said gas street lamp posts not
now in service in said electric light district above referred to,
and that from and after the passage of this resolution no interest be paid by the city of St. Paul to said St. Paul Gas Light

ST. PAUL GAS LIGHT CO. v. ST. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

Company on account of the cost of the purchase and equipment
of said gas street lamp posts."
Thereupon the gas company commenced this suit to recover
the interest on the cost of the construction of the lamps referred
to in the ordinance. Without going into unnecessary detail it
is adequate to say that the complaint alleged that the city was
obliged by section 9 of the charter of the company to pay the
interest on the cost of the lamps, although they were no longer
in use for lighting purposes. The ordinance of the city which
we have reproduced was expressly referred to in the complaint,
and it was therein alleged that the ordinance in legal purview
amounted to action by the State impairing the obligations of
the contract, embodied in section 9 of the charter, and was
hence void because repugnant- to the Constitution of the United
States. After answer and due proceedings the case was decided by the trial court in favor of the gas company. On appeal the judgment of the trial court was reversed by the Supreme
Court of Minnesota, and a final judgment was ordered against
the gas company. To this judgment of the Supreme Court of
the State this writ of error is prosecuted.
Air. F. V . f Cutcheon for plaintiff in error. .Afr. George

C. Squires was on his brief.
.Xr. James E. Mlarkham for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTICE WHrrI,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota held that the charter of the
gas company did not impose on the city the obligation to pay
the interest on the cost of constructing the lamps not used. Construing the whole charter, the court decided that, as it provided
for contracts between the parties from time to time for the
supply of lights, the sole obligation imposed was that the interest on the cost of the construction of the lamps should be
paid by the city only during the time it was agreed that the
lamps should be used and not during the life of the charter. We
VOL. CLXXXI-1O

OCTOBER TERI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

excerpt in the margin an extract from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota which more fully expresses the reasoning by
which the court sustained the construction of the contract which
was expounded. 1
1 "It seems to us that it would be unreasonable to hold that if at the inception of the fifty years which this charter was to run the city had ordered
such street lamps to be erected, had used them ten years under a contract
for lighting the streets which expired at the end of that time, and then, on
account of some such contingency, had ceased to light the streets with gas,
the city would be bound to pay such compensation for maintaining and
keeping in repair the street lamps, lamp posts, connecting pipes and meters
for forty years more, and to permit them to incumber the streets for that
length of time, although the city had not a particle of use for such street
lamps during all of that time. Again, it would be unreasonablo to hold
that the city council might, under section 9, compel the gas company to
erect street lamps, and then, after using them a mouth or a year, abandon
the use of gas for street lighting purposes, and thereby avoid all liability
to pay any other compensation for the erection and use of the street lamps
than eight per cent per annum, during such use, on the cost of erecting the
same.
"But we are of the opinion that section 9 does not give the council the
right in its discretion to compel the erection of street lamps regardless of
how long the city may use them, and without protecting tle as company
by stipulating a length of time during which the city shall use them.
"Section 9 provides that whenever the city 'by resolution of its board of
aldermen directs lamps to be erected and lighted in the streets of the city,'
the gas company shall erect the same and keep them in repair; but, as we
have seen, the city has no power under the charter to compel the streets to
be lighted except by making for that purpose a contract voluntary as to
both parties. When making such a contract the gas company can refuse to
contract for lighting any street lamps except those already erected, and before the city can compel the erection of more lamps it must first make a
contract for lighting them. In making such a contract, the gas company
can protect itself by insisting that such contract for lighting such new laips
shall cover a period of time of sufficient length that the eight per cent per
annum to be paid during that time will renumerate the gas company for
erecting the lamps. We are of the opinion that under these circumstances
the charter does not require the city to pay such compensation for street
lamps which it is not under any contract to pay.
"This, in our opinion, is the more reasonable and proper construction of
the provision of the charter, and the one which should be adopted. We
therefore hold that the city is not liable for such compensation for street
lamps after it has ceased the use of the same and abandoned the use of gas
in lighting its streets."

ST. PAUL GAS LIGHT CO. v. ST. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

Because the Supreme Court of Minnesota decided the controversy solely upon its appreciation of the meaning of the original
contract, it does not necessarily follow that no Federal question
is presented for decision. Where subsequent state legislation
is asserted to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States because such legislation impairs the obligations of a contract, the power to determine whether there be such impairment
imposes also on this court the duty, when necessary, to ascertain
whether there was a contract and its import. And this, though
it be in a given case, the state court has decided that there
was no impairment either because the contract had never existed
or because from an interpretation of its provisions it was found
that the obligations which it is asserted were impaired, never
arose. Houston & Texas Central Rd. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66,
77, and cases cited. In cases of this nature, therefore, the questions to be considered are these: Was there a contract, and if
yes, what obligations arose from it? and, Has there been state
Abstractly
legislation impairing the contract obligations?
speaking, the duty would be first in order to determine whether
the contract existed and its true meaning, before ascertaining
whether any obligations of the contract had been impaired by
subsequent legislation. As, however, the authority to review
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Minnesota in this case,
and in doing so to interpret the contract and enforce its obligations, arises solely because of the assertion that the obligations
of the contract have been impaired by subsequent legislation,
we will first consider whether, under any view which may be
taken of the contract, there is shown on this record any act of
state legislation which can be properly said to have impaired
the obligations of the contract in the constitutional import of
these words. That is to say, we propose first to consider, even
although it be conceded arguendo that the Supreme Court of the
State of Minnesota erroneously decided that the contract relied
upon did not impose the duty on the city to pay interest on the
cost of construction of the unused gas lamps, whether there has
been any state legislation impairing the obligation of such contract. Whilst it is not pretended that there is any law of the
State of Minnesota by which the obligation of the contract was

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

impaired, it is asserted that such consequence results from the
ordinance adopted by the municipal council of the city of
St. Paul, the text of which ordinance has been reproduced in the
statement of the case.
It is no longer open to question that "a by-law or ordinance
of a municipal corporation may be such an exercise of legislative
power delegated by the legislature to the corporation as a political subdivision of the State, having all the force of law within
the limits of the municipality, that it may properly be considered as a law, within the meaning of the article of the Constitution of the United States." New Orleans lraterworks Co. v.
Louisiana Sugar Refining Company, 125 U. S. 18, 31; Hamilton
Gas Liqld & Coke Company v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S.258;
Walla Walla v. Tfalla W~alla Water Company, 172 U. S.1.
Referring to the ordinance in question from the provisions of
which it is alone contended the impairment of the contract arose,
it will be seen that only two subjects are therein referred to,
the first, a command by the city to the gas company to "forthwith remove the gas street lamp posts in that portion of the city
now lighted by electric light under contract with the said company, which said lamps have been discontinued by order of the
board of public works;" and, second, a declaration on the part
of the municipal council of St. Paul of its intention not thereafter to pay the gas company interest on the cost of construction of the lamps so directed to be removed. If then there be
any subsequent legislation impairing the obligation of the contract, it must arise from one or both of the provisions just referred to. Now, it is apparent that the command given by the
city to the gas company to remove the unused gas lamp posts
from the streets in no way even tended to impair the obligation,
if any, resting on the city to pay interest on the cost of the construction of the lamp posts which were ordered to be removed,
since in any event, if the contract imposed the obligation to
make such payment, the duty of the city to do so was left absolutely unaffected by the order to remove. That is to say, if the
duty to pay was created by the contract, such obligation remained wholly untouched by the order of removal. This being
true, it results that the order to remove the unused lamp posts

ST. PAUL GAS LIGHT CO. v. ST. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

cannot be treated as an impairment of the obligations of the
contract without saying that such obligations were destroyed,
although they were absolutely unaffected by the act which it is
asserted brought about the impairment. And it will become at
once manifest from a consideration of the remaining provision
of the ordinance that the same result must follow. The other
provision in question created no new right or imposed no new
duty substantially antagonistic to the obligations of the contract,
but simply expressed the purpose of the city not in the future
to pay the interest on the cost of construction of the lamp posts
which were ordered to be removed. That is to say, it was but
a denial by the city of its obligation to pay, and a notice of its
purpose to challenge in the future the existence of the duty to
make such payment. This denial, whilst embodied in an ordinance, was no more efficacious than if it had been expressed
in any other form, such as by way of answer filed on behalf of
the city in a suit brought by the company against the city to
enforce what it conceived to be its rights under the contract.
When the substantial scope of this provision of the ordinance is
thus clearly understood, it is seen that the contention here advanced of impairment of the obligations of the contract arising
from this provision of the ordinance reduces itself at once to
the proposition that wherever it is asserted on the one hand that
a municipality is bound by a contract to perform a particular
act and the municipality denies that it is liable under the contract to do so, thereby an impairment of the obligations of the
contract arises in violation of the Constitution of the United
States. But this amounts only to the contention that every
case involving a controversy concerning a municipal contract is
one of Federal cognizance, determinable ultimately in this court.
Thus to reduce the proposition to its ultimate conception is to
demonstrate its error.
It is argued, however, that, as under the charter of the city
of St. Paul the comptroller of the city was empowered to
audit the claims of the gas company as a prerequisite to the
appropriation by the city council of the necessary money to
pay such claims, therefore the ordinance, to the extent that it
deprived the comptroller of the power to audit, divested him

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

of an attribute which he could otherwise have exercised on behalf of the claim if he favored its payment, and hence the
ordinance impaired the contract obligations. But it is not pretended that the effect of the auditing by the comptroller would
have been to authorize the payment of the claim, or indeed that
it was anything but advisory; since even after he had audited,
the payment could not have been procured without the passage
of an appropriation by the council for that purpose. A large
number of cases were cited in the argument at bar, under the
assumption that they sustain the proposition that wherever a
mere denial of contract liability is made by a municipality,
such denial is an impairment of the obligations of the contract,
since it is a refusal to comply with the contract and hence is a
disregard of the obligations which the contract created. We
do not stop to refer to all these cases thus relied upon, because
we think it results from the statement of the proposition that
it is without foundation. However, we briefly advert to a few
of the cases to show how inapposite they are to the proposition
which they are cited to maintain. Thus, in .Murray v. Charleston, 96 U. S. 432, the decision which was under review had given
effect to an ordinance of the city of Charleston deducting a sum
of taxation from the bonds held by the complainant. In T'alla
]falla v. JValla Wallca Mater Con pany, 172 U. S. 1, the decision
of the state court gave effect to a municipal ordinance which
provided for the construction by the city of a new waterworks
plant which was to become a competitor with the contracting
company. In 3fCullough v. Firginia,172 U. S. 102, it was
expressly held, although the state court had rested its decision
on the ground that there was no contract, in view of the previous decisions of this court and of the state court, relating to
the contract which was under consideration, that the necessary
effect of the ruling was in substance to give effect to an act of
the legislature of Virginia, passed subsequent to the contract,
and which impaired its obligations. In Houston & Texas entral Railroad Co. v. Texa", 177 U. S. 66, 74, this court, after noticing the fact that the state courthad decided the case "without
reference to the act of 1870 which the plaintiff in error [the railroad company] alleges to be an impairment of the contract set

CODLIN v. KOtILHAUSEN.
Counsel for Parties.

up by it in the pleadings," said: "We think the judgment of
the court did give effect to that act." And the soundness of
this conclusion the opinion then proceeded to demonstrate, it
being apparent that the legislative act of impairment which
the court found had been given effect to by the state decision
was not a mere denial of liability, but amounted to an impairment of the substantial rights conferred by the contract.
As it is apparent from the foregoing considerations that, even
conceding the contract to be as contended for, no legislative act
is shown to exist, from the enforcement of which an impairment
of the obligations of the contract-within the purview of the
Constitution-did or could result, it follows that the record involves solely an interpretation of the contract, and, therefore,
presents no controversy within the jurisdiction of this court.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

CODLIN v. KOHLHAUSEN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW MEXICO.
No. 234.

Argued and submitted April 11, 1901.-Decided April 15, 1901.

Judgment awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus directing the execution of certain county bonds for the construction of a courthouse and
jail having been rendered in October, 1897, the case taken on error to the
appellate tribunal in 1898, and affirmed in 1899, and the bonds having
been, in the mean time, issued and sold and the building constructed, and
the county officials, who were the original respondents below, and are
appellants here, having gone out of office before this appeal was taken,
the court is of opinion that the rule approved in Mills v. Green, 159
U. S. 651, and in cases there cited, should be applied.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
Yr.
[ Andrieus A. Jones for the motion.
_31r. fl. E Twitchell opposing, submitted on his brief.

