OCTOBER "'ERMI, 1900.
Syllabus.

the amount to be paid by the husband, where he is in arrears in
payments required under the decree. Hence such alimony cannot be regarded as a debt owing from the husband to the wife,
and, not being so, cannot be discharged by an order in the bankruptcy court."
In England, it seems to be the law that alimony is neither
discharged nor provable in bankruptcy. -Linton,v. Linton,,
(1885) 15 Q. B. D. 239; Hawkins v. Hlawkins, (1894) 1 Q. B.
25; Watkins v. Watkins, (1896) Prob. 222; -Yerr v. err,(1897)
2. Q. B. 439.
The only cases brought to our notice, which tend to support
the decision below, are recent decisions of District Courts, in
which the authorities above cited are not referred to. In ?-e
Houston, 9- Fed. Rep. 119; 1n 9.eVan Orden, 96 Fed. IRep. 86;
in 7-e C]halloner, 98 Fed. Rep. 82.
The result is that neither the alimony in arrear at the time
of the adjudication in bankruptcy, nor alimony accruing since
that adjudication, was provable in bankruptcy, or barred by the
discharge.
The ordergranting a dischargecovering arreasqf alimony is
9'eversed, and the case rernan(ledforfurtherpoceedingsconsistent with the opinion of this court.

YAZOO AND MISSISSIPPI VALLEY RAILROAD COM-

PANY v. ADAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

MISSISSIPPI.

No. 35. Leave to file petition for rehearing granted February 25, 1901.-Decided May 20,
1901.

The railroad company filed a bill to enjoin the collection of certain state
taxes from 1892 to 1897 inclusive. This court held that a new corporation was formed by a consolidation of certain prior corporations made
October 24, 1892, and that the taxes having accrued subsequent to that
date were legally assessed under the state constitution of 1890, (180

YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VAL. R'D CO. v. ADAMS.

581

Opinion of the Court.
U. S. 1). The railroad company moved for a rehearing with respect to
the taxes of 1892 upon the ground that they accrued prior to the consolidation of October 24. Held: That as the Supreme Court of Mississippi
had decided that all the taxes had accrued after the consolidation of
October 24, and the company bad thereby lost its exemption; and as this
was a construction of the general tax laws of the State, which were complex and difficult of interpretation, this court would accept that construction and deny the petition for a rehearing.

THis was a petition for a rehearing of the case reported in
180 U. S. 1, upon the ground that the taxes for the year 1892
were separable from taxes for the succeeding years, inasmuch
as the taxes for that year had been completely levied and assessed on September 22, 1892, and that the claim of the State,
if any, had fully accrued at least one month before the articles
of consolidation were executed, (October 24, 1892,) and that
the judgment therefore gave to the consolidation a retrospective effect.
.Jf,. William D. G'Wdh'ie, i '. J. ... Dickinson, .X2'. Edward
Mayes and .Xi'..Noel Gale,for the Railroad Company, petitioner.
.r. F. A. Critz, .br. Mfarcellus Green and Xi%.R. C. Beceett, for Adams, opposing.
MR. IuSTICE BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The decision of this case was based upon the theory that all
the taxes involved in the case, from 1892 to 1897, accrued subsequent to the consolidation of October 24, 1892, which was
held by this court to create a new corporation, subject to existing laws, and particularly to that provision of the constitution
of 1890, "that every new grant of corporate franchise shall be
subject to the provisions of the constitution." No suggestion
was made, in the argument or briefs of the railroad company,
of any distinction in respect to the liability of the company
between the taxes of the year 1892 and those of subsequent
years, and none such was recognized by the court in its opinion; but we are now asked to hold that the taxes for the year
1892 accrued before the consolidation of October 24, and were

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

consequently unaffected by that consolidation, and that with
respect to such taxes the right of commutation or exemption,
contained in section 21 of the charter of the Mobile and Northwestern 1Railway Company, attached and operated to exempt
the company from the payment of taxes for the year 1892.
We have not found it necessary to decide whether a party,
upon a petition for a rehearing in this court, may avail himself
of a point not taken in the court of original jurisdiction, or
upon either one of two appeals to the Supreme Court, nor in
the assignment of errors in this court, nor even called to our
attention in the briefs or arguments of counsel, as we are of
opinion that upon the merits the petition must be denied.
Whatever force we might be disposed to give to prior adjudications of the Supreme Court of Mississippi upholding these
exemptions, there can be no doubt that that court has expressly
held that the taxes for the year 1892 did not accrue until after
the consolidation of October 24 of that year, and hence that
this case does not fall within those adjudications. We quote
the following from the opinion of the court of February 20,
1899, upon a second appeal to that court: "So far as concerns
the argument that the appellants relied on the case of Dfississ4pi Mills v. Cook, (56 Miss.,) and that, if the overruling of
that case is correct, nevertheless the appellants should be protected from taxation accruing before the overruling of that case,
it is enough to say that question is not material here, since all
the taxes here sued for accrued after the consolidation of October 24, 1892, and the appellants were expressly held to have
lost their exemption, if any they had, by their own voluntary
act of consolidation. That was the first and main ground on
which our former opinion was distinctly rested. It must be
too clear for serious disputation, in this view, that all discussion
of the case of Mississippi .Mills v. Cook is wholly unavailing
as to these taxes." '[7 Mississippi, 194, 316.
Whether this opinion be conclusive upon us in view of the
argument that a contract has been impaired in violation of the
Constitution, we do not feel called upon to decide. The statutes of the State of Mississippi necessary to be considered for
the purpose of ascertaining whether the taxes for the year 1892

YAZOO & MISSISSIPPI VAL. R'D CO. v. ADAMS. 583
Opinion of the Court.

accrued prior to October 24 of that year, are complex and difficult of interpretation. Assuming that we may exercise an
independent judgment respecting their construction, the examination we have given them leaves us in great doubt whether
the argument that the taxes had accrued prior to the consolidation is a sound one. The right asserted depends upon a comparison and construction of such statutes; and the settled rule
of this court is that, even in a case where we may exercise an
independent judgment, any reasonable doubt will be resolved
in favor of that construction of the state statute which has
been adopted by the court of last resort in that State. Burgess
v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20; Flash v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, 379;
Clark v. B ever, 139 U. S. 96; Board of Liquidation v. Louisiana, 179 U. S. 622.
Had the opinion above cited involved the construction of section 21 of the Mobile and Northwestern charter-that is, the
contract for commutation or exemption-it would have directly
involved a Federal question; but it did not. It was an opinion
as to when, under the general laws of the State of Mississippi,
a claim for taxes accrued, and a distinct ruling that such taxes
did not accrue until after a certain date. Raymond's Lessee v.
Longworth, 14 How. 76, 79; Bailey v. Magwire, 22 Wall. 215.
For the reasons above stated we accept the views of the Supreme Court of Mississippi as to the proper construction of these
laws.
The petition for a rehearing must therefore be
Denied.

