OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. EDMOINDSTON.
APPEAL FROMI THE COURT OF CLADIS.
No. 353.Submitted April 8, 1901.-Decided May 13, 1901.
One who pays to government officers, entitled to receive money for public

lands, more than the law required him to pay for it cannot recover that
excess in an action against the government in the Court of Claims.

Tis was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims
in favor of the appellee and against the United States for $200,
being the amount he was overcharged in the purchase of a
quarter section of land. The evidence disclosed the following
facts: The claimant on Alarch 11, 1891, filed in the local land
office at Ashland, Wis., a statement, under the pre~mption laws,
of his intention to preempt a tract of 160 acres. On September 16, 1891, he gave public notice, as required by law, of his
purpose to make final proof, and, in pursuance of such notice,
on November 9, 1891, proved up before the register and receiver of the land office the necessary settlement and improvement.
Findings 2, 3, 4 and 5 are as follows:
'II. The claimant having established his right to the said
land, on November 11, 1891, was required to pay for the same
to the United States the sum of $400, being at the rate of $2.50
per acre for 160 acres, and he did pay the United States that
amount for the land.
"III. The land inhabited and improved by the claimant, and
paid for by him on the 11th of November, 1891, had been raised
in price to $2.50 per acre, and put in the market prior to January, 1861, by reason of the grant of alternate sections to aid
in the construction of railroads, and was of an alternate section
reserved to the United States along the line of a railroad within
the limits granted to the State of Wisconsin by the act approved
June 3, 1856, 11 Stat. 20, to aid in the construction of railroads in that State, now known as the grant to the Chicago,

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaho Railway Company, and it
was never alternate reserved land to the United States along
the line of railroads within the limits granted by any other act
of Congress to any other railway company.
"IV. At the time said cash entry was made and said money
paid to the receiver at the local land office at Ashland, Wisconsin, it does not appear that the claimant made any protest or
objection to said payment, nor asserted any right to purchase the
land at a less price than that which he was called upon to pay
for said land.
"1V. Said land had been raised to $2.50 per acre and put on
the market prior to January, 1861, by reason of the grant of
alternate sections for railroad purposes, said land having been
thus offered on June 14, 1856."
It also appeared that the claimant applied to the land office
for the repayment of half of the purchase money, which was
refused.
Mr. George Hines Gorman and Mr. Assistant Attorney Gen,
era P!radt for the United States.
.Xr. Harvey Spalding and .Mr. E. IF Spalding for Edmondston.
MR. JusTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
On June 16, 1880, an act was passed, 21 Stat. 287, c. 244, in
section 2 of which is the following clause:
"And in all cases where parties have paid double minimum
price for land which has afterwards been found not to be within
the limits of a railroad land grant, the excess of one dollar and
twenty-five cents per acre shall, in like manner, be repaid to
the purchaser thereof, or to his heirs or assigns."
Another act passed the day before, June 15, 1880, 21 Stat.
237, c. 227, contained this provision:
"The price of lands now subject to entry which were raised
to two dollars and fifty cents per acre and put in market prior

OCTOBER TERMT, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

to January, 1861, by reason of the grant of alternate sections
for railroad purposes, is hereby reduced to one dollar and
twenty-five cents per acre."
.Medblry v. United States, 173 U. S. 492, arose under the
clause first quoted, and it was held that it did not apply to
lands which were in fact within the limits of a land grant, but
which had been forfeited on account of the failure of the railroad company to build its road, but only to cases in which there
had been a mistake in the first instance as to the location of
the land, the court saying (p. 500):
"That act plainly referred to the case of a mistake in location at the time when the entry was made. Where the parties
supposed that the land entered was within the limits of the land
grant, and where subsequently it is discovered that the lands
were not within those limits, that a mistake had been made,
and that the party had not obtained the lands which he thought
he was obtaining by virtue of his entry, then the act of 1880
applies.
"Here no mistake whatever has been made. The lands were
within the limits of the land grant at the time of the entry, and
so remained for many years and up to the time of the act of
forfeiture by Congress."
The act of June 16, 1880, may, therefore, be put out of consideration. By the act of June 15, however, the price of this
tract was reduced from $.50 to $1.25 per acre. The claimant
paid the $2.50 without protest or question. He paid more
than the law required him to pay. Can he recover the excess
in this action in the Court of Claims?
The question thus presented is one of difficulty. If the
parties to the transaction were both private individuals, it would
clearly be a case of voluntary payment, and the amount overpaid would not be recoverable. If, for instance, the owner of
a large body of land placed certain prices on different tracts
thereof, and his agent, dealing with a purchaser of one of those
tracts, charged him more than the price fixed by the principal,
the purchaser paying the extra price without protest, and the
principal accepting such payment, the transaction would not
thereafter be open to inquiry in the courts, and the purchaser

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

could not recover the extra sum which he had paid to the agent.
But it is insisted that the relations between the government
and its purchaser are not like those between two individualsthat there is a constraining power in the government, a species
of force or compulsion in its action, which makes the payment
of money by one purchasing land from it through its officers a
payment not voluntary but an exaction, and therefore enables
the purchaser to recover any excess in the price.
We may not enter into any discussion of the mere equities
of this transaction or the extent of the moral obligation resting
on the government to repay a purchaser an excess in the price
charged to and received from him. Our inquiry is limited to
the question whether, in the statutes conferring jurisdiction on
the Court of Claims, Congress has intended to acknowledge the
liability of the government to every individual who has paid to
any one of its officers a sum in excess of the legal charge for
property or services and given to that court the power to render judgment against it for such excess.
The consequences of such a conclusion are far-reaching. The
administrative affairs of the government are carried on by many
thousands of officers. The fees for their services are generally
prescribed. The sums which are to be paid for property obtained from the government are in like manner fixed by statute.
Can it be that every individual who pays for services rendered
by any of the administrative officers of the government, or for
property which he obtains through the action of such officers,
may come into the Court of Claims, and have an inquiry whether
he has paid more than the statutory fee or price, and if he has,
obtain judgment for the excess? Suppose, for instance, the
statutory fee for a certificate from a certain official is twentyfive cents, and a party applying for such certificate is charged
and pays fifty cents, has Congress by its legislation in respect
to the Court of Claims provided that he can go into that court
and recover from the government the extra twenty-five cents?
It may be said that this is an extreme case, and that the fee is
for the personal services of the officer; but under the present
provisions of the statutes, generally speaking, all fees for the
services of officers belong to the government, and are available

OCTOBER TERI,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

only in payment so far as they go of their salaries. It may
also be said that no one would go to the trouble of suing for
such a trifle as twenty-five cents, but if there are 10,000 cases of
that kind the aggregate is no inconsiderable sum. But whether
the aggregate of these claims be large or small, the inquiry is
fairly presented whether Congress by its legislation intended to
commit to the courts a supervision of all the charges for services
and all the prices for property which administrative officers collect and receive, and empowered them to render judgment
against the government in every case of excess therein. Of
course, if such was its purpose the courts cannot decline jurisdiction, and must act in compliance therewith. But before so holding it seems to us that that purpose should be clearly manifested,
and that a doubt in respect thereto should be resolved in favor
of the government.
By 2- Stat. 505, c. 359,,ยง 1, jurisdiction is given to the Court
of Claims over actions against the United States for"All claims founded upon the Constitution of the United
States or any law of Congress, except for pensions, or upon any
regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract,
expressed or implied, with the government of the United States,
or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in cases not sounding in tort."
One contention is that there is an implied contract by the
government to return to the payor any sum in excess of that
which is legally due as the price of property, although the payment was made without any question, protest or notice.
No one can read the findings without recognizing that the
transaction between the officials of the land office and the claimant was at the time acceptable to both and without any complaint on the part of the petitioner. Some stress is placed by
counsel on the word "required" in the second finding, but we
think that it means simply that the government officials charged
him four hundred dollars. To that charge he made no objection. Take any case in which application is made to an official
for services or for the purchase of property; when he names
the fee or the price the applicant ordinarily without question
pays it. In a certain sense the applicant is required to pay;

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

that is, the sum which he pays is the sum demanded of him.
It may be a rightful or a wrongful demand. When it is demanded it is required. If he pays without objection, notice or
protest it is simply in response to the call upon him for the particular sum, and, as we have heretofore said, between individuals it would be regarded as a voluntary payment.
Our attention has been called by counsel to certain opinions of this court, and some expressions therein, disconnected
from the facts, doubtless lend countenance to their contention.
Those cases may be placed in two classes: First, those in which
something was purchased from the government which the purchaser wanted or must have; and, second, those in which some
official of the government was called upon to return moneys he
had received by virtue of his office. Swift Company v. United
States, 111 U. S. 22, is an illustration of the first class. In that case
the Swift Company sued to recover certain commissions alleged
to be due on the purchase of proprietary stamps under the internal revenue law. It appeared that the company had settled
with the internal revenue department from time to time, and it
was held that such settlements did not bar it from its right to
recover, although in making the settlements in controversy there
was at the times thereof no distinct objection, notice or protest.
It was contended by the government that the matter was closed
by the voluntary action of the parties, but this court decided
otherwise, predicating its decision upon the fact that there had
been long-continued rulings of the department in respect to the
basis of settlement, and that among those who had theretofore
made frequent protests was William H. Swift, who upon the
organization of the claimant company became one of its large
stockholders and treasurer. It was held that the company was
not compelled-in view of these repeated rulings, and after protests made by others engaged in the same business, including
among the number one who was largely identified in interest
with itself-to continue those protests at each settlement. In
other words, the thought was that there was no magic in the
mere formality of an objection at the time of each settlement;
that when it appeared that parties engaged in like business had
presented the question to the department and frequently pro.

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

tested against its rulings, and that among them was one who
was largely instrumental in the organization of the company,
one of its large stockholders and its treasurer, it was a work of
supererogation to every time repeat the formal protest. But
the very line of argument pursued by the court implied the fact
that there must have been some action by the party paying, or
those connected with it in business; that the attention of the
department had been called to the matter again and again, its
action protested against, and still it insisted upon the ruling
which it had made. The claimant in the case was held to be
so far identified with the parties who had made protests as to
be entitled to avail itself of the benefit of such protests. The
language found in the opinion as to the difference in the position occupied by the government and a party dealing with it
must be understood in connection with those facts. If taken
otherwise, and in the broad sense which counsel desire, and as
carrying with it the suggestion that there can be no voluntary
payment in a dealing between the government and an individual
in respect to the purchase of property from the government,
we must decline to accede to it.
We quote from the opinion in that case, pages 27 and following, that which shows the facts as understood by the court, and
the language upon which the contention is here made:
"It appears that prior to June 30, 1866, the leading manufacturers of matches, among whom was William A. Swift, who,
upon the organization of the claimant corporation in 1870, became one of its largest stockholders and treasurer, made repeated protests to the officers of the Internal Revenue Bureau
against its method of computing commissions for proprietary
stamps sold to those who furnished their own dies and designs;
although it did not appear that any one in behalf of the claimant corporation ever, after its organization, made any such
protest or objection, or any claim on account thereof, until
January 8, 1879. On that date the appellant caused a letter
to be written to the commissioner, asserting its claim for the
amount, afterwards sued for, as due on account of commissions
on stamps purchased. To this, on January 16, 1879, the commissioner replied, saying that the appellant had received all

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

commissions upon stamps to which it was entitled, 'provided
the method of computing commissions, which was inaugurated
with the first issue of private die proprietary stamps and has
been continued by each of my predecessors, is correct. I have
heretofore decided to adhere to the long established practice of
the office in.this regard until there shall be some legislation or
a judicial decision to change it.' And the claim was, therefore,
rejected.
"From this statement it clearly appears that the Internal
Revenue Bureau had at the beginning deliberately adopted the
construction of the law, upon which it acted through its successive commissioners, requiring all persons purchasing such
proprietary stamps to receive their statutory commissions in
stamps at their face value, instead of in money; that it regulated all its forms, modes of business, receipts, accounts and returns upon that interpretation of the law; that it refused on
application, prior to 1866 and subsequently, to modify its decision; that all who dealt with it in purchasing these stamps
were informed of its adherence to this ruling; and, finally, that
conformity to it on their part was made a condition without
which they would not be permitted to purchase stamps at all.
This was in effect to say to appellant that unless it complied
with the exaction it should not continue its business; for it
could not continue its business without stamps and it could not
purchase stamps except upon the terms prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The question is, whether the
receipts, agreements, accounts and settlements made in pursuance of that demand and necessity were voluntary in such sense
as to preclude the appellant from subsequently insisting on its
statutory right.
"We cannot hesitate to answer that question in the negative.
The parties were not on equal terms. The appellant had no
choice. The only alternative was to submit to an illegal exaction or discontinue its business. It was in the power of the
officers of the law, and could only do as they required. Money
paid or other value parted with under such pressure has never
been regarded as a voluntary act within the meaning of the
maxim, Volenti non fit injuia."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196, is not in point. The
question there was as to the necessity of a tender on the day
of sale in order to prevent the issue of a valid tax deed. The
property was the Arlington estate, title to which was at the
time in Mrs. Lee, and in respect thereto it was said (p. 2041):
"It is proper to observe that there was evidence, uncontradicted, to show that Fendall appeared before the commissioners in due time and on the part of Mrs. Lee, in whom the title
then was, offered to pay the taxes, interest and costs, and was
told that the commissioners could receive the money from no
one but the owner of the land in person."
It also appeared that the commissioners had laid down a rule
to the same effect, and the court held, under those circumstances, that no further tender was necessary, quoting the general rule laid down in Hills v. Exchange Bank, 105 U. S. 319,
as follows (p. 202):
"it is a general rule that when the tender of performance of
an act is necessary to the establishment of any right against
another party, this tender or offer to perform is waived or
becomes unnecessary when it is reasonably certain that the
offer will be refused."
Of course, this decision bears only remotely on what is or
what is not a voluntary payment, and not at all upon the question whether there be any right of recovery in case of a voluntary payment.
The Bank of the United States v. The Bank of TFashington,
6 Pet. 8, is even less in point. There it appeared that a judgment had been rendered against the Bank of Washington; that
it sued out a writ of error, and ultimately obtained a reversal
of the judgment; but that before it sued out such writ of error,
and while the judgment was in full force, it paid the amount
thereof to one having in his possession an execution, notifying
him at the same time that it intended to take proceedings to
reverse the judgment. It was held that notwithstanding such
notice no recovery could be had by the Bank of Washington
from the party who had the execution, he holding not as owner
of the judgment but simply as agent to collect; that while upon
reversal a recovery might be had from the judgment creditor, a

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

payment to this third party created no cause of action against
the party so receiving.
On the other hand, in Lamborn v. County Commissioners, 97
U. S. 181, Lamborn, trustee for a land company, whose lands
had been sold for taxes to the county of Dickinson, paid the
amount of taxes to the county and took an assignment of the
tax sale certificates. It was subsequently decided that the taxes
were illegal, and thereupon he brought this action to recover
the amount he had paid. When he made the payment and took
the assignment he made no protest, and it was held that he
could not recover, the payment having been voluntary, and
made simply under a mistake of law. Many cases are cited in
the opinion sustaining that proposition. To the same effect is
Railroad Company v. Commissioners, 98 U. S. 541.
The other class of cases is illustrated by United States v.
Lawson, 101 U. S. 164, and United States v. _Ellsworth, 101 U. S.
170. In each of those cases it appeared that a collector had
received certain fees, some of which he was entitled to retain,
but all of which he paid into the United States Treasury upon
the peremptory order of the Commissioner of Customs. This
was held not to be a voluntary payment or sufficient to prevent
a recovery of the moneys actually due him, the court saying, in
the second of these cases (p. 173):
"You will bear in mind, said the commissioner, that all moneys
of every description, not received by warrant on the Treasury,
must be actually deposited. Had he added, if you fail to coinply, the law will be enforced, his meaning could not be misunderstood, as the act of Congress provides that the gross amount
of all moneys received from whatever source for the use of the
United States, with an exception immaterial in this case, shall
be paid by the officer or agent receiving the same into the
Treasury at as early a day as practicable, without any abatement, etc. Rev. Stat. sec. 3617.
"1Penalties are prescribed for noncompliance with that requirement, as follows: Every officer or agent who neglects or
refuses to comply with that provision shall be subject to be removed from office and to forfeit any part or share of the moneys

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

withheld, to which he might otherwise be entitled. 141 Stat.
187; Rev. Stat. sec. 3619.
"Viewed in the light of these penal provisions, the payments
in question made under the peremptory order of the commissioner cannot be regarded as voluntary in the sense that the
party making them is thereby precluded from maintaining an
action to recover back so much of the money paid as he was
entitled to retain."
On the other hand, in United States v. Wilson, 168 U. S. 273,
it appeared that a consul for the United States, in his regular
accounts and settlements with the Secretary of the Treasurr,
charged himself with certain fees, received by him as consul,
which he was not obliged to account for, and paid the same
into the Treasury, retiring from office upon a final settlement
without making any claim or protest concerning them, and it
was held that he could not recover them, as they were voluntarily paid into the Treasury, the court saying (p. 276):
"There is no pretence that he paid the fees into the Treasury
to avoid a controversy with any department of the government,
or that he ever made any objection or protest against the fees
being charged to him as official fees. The Court of Claims so
finds in substance. If a voluntary payment can be made to the
govermnent, it seems to us that this is such a case, and unless
it be declared that the law of voluntary payments is not applicable to the case of a payment by an official to the government, we think the payments made by the original claimant
were voluntary. This is not a case of an order or direction
for the payment of these moneys, given to Mr. Van Buren by
the officers of the Treasury or State Departments; nor is it a
case where the failure to pay the moneys might be regarded as
a disobedience to the peremptory order of a superior officer;
nor a payment under duress. The facts show nothing but a
voluntary payment of money to the government without claim
of any right to retain one penny of it."
It is clear from these references that this court has distinctly
and constantly recognized the doctrine that where there has
been a voluntary payment of money, using that term in its
customary legal sense, the money so paid cannot be recovered,

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

and also that that doctrine applies to cases in which one of the
parties is the government, and that money thus voluntarily paid
to the government cannot be recovered.
We now proceed to notice some special objections of counsel
for the appellee. One is that the defence of voluntary payment
made in this case is exceptional and opposed to the entire policy of the government. Yet confessedly in all customs cases
protest is necessary-made so by express statute. Counsel refer to Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Pet. 137, 153, in which a reason
for the necessity of protest was given as follows:
"To make the collector answerable, after he -had paid over
the money without any intimation having been given that the
duty was not legally charged, cannot be sustained upon any
sound principles of policy or of law. There can be no hardship
in requiring the party to give notice to the collector that he
considers the duty claimed illegal, and put him on his guard by
requiring him not to pay over the money. The collector would
then be placed in a situation to claim an indemnity from the
government. But if the party is entirely silent, and there is no
intimation of an intention to seek a repayment of the money,
there can be no ground upon which the collector can retain the
money, or call upon the government to indemnify him against
the suit."
And upon that say:
"It is evident that customs cases are a class by themselves,
and that the reasons which make a protest absolutely necessary in such cases have no application to other cases. The
questions arising in the administration of the customs laws are
so delicate, with such subtle shades of difference, that it is absolutely necessary that the Treasury have notice when one of
its rulings is to be disputed, in order that the evidence may be
preserved. This necessity has crystallized into positive law,
regulating the form and time for filing protests, and creating a
separate jurisdiction for the trial of such causes apart from
other claims against the government."
But Elliott v. Swartwout was decided before there was a
Court of Claims, and the specific reason stated in the quotation
would not apply to an action brought directly against the gov-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

eminent in such court, and yet the necessity of protest is still
affirmed by statute. So it cannot be said that the defence of
voluntary payment is opposed to the entire policy of the government.
Passing from customs cases counsel refer to several instances
in which the Interior Department has repaid money received
under a mistake. Thus, in .21 F. Soto, 6 Pub. Land Dec. 383,
Secretary Lamar ordered, in respect to a series of cases, a return of the excess of moneys charged and received by the local
land officers and paid into the Treasury of the United States.
An examination of that decision shows that it was made under
the act of June 16, 1880, heretofore referred to, which, in section 2, directed the repayment, and, in section 3, provided
that"The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make the
payments herein provided for, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated."
So, Congress having directed a repayment under conditions
named in the statute, and authorized the Secretary of the Interior to make that repayment, the Secretary simply enforced
the mandate of Congress.
Z7n re Thomas Kiearney, 7 Pub. Land Dec. 29, is to the same
effect. It may be that the Secretary of the Interior misconstrued the law of June 16, 1880, as seems probable from our
decision in JXedbury v. United States, supra, but whether he
did or no, his action was based upon that law. The same may
be said of the case of 7acob A. Gilford, 8 Pub. Land Dec. 583.
In 'e Fr'ank A. WTite, 17 Pub. Land Dec. 339, a case of desert land entry, is a decision that no repayment can be ordered
in the absence of an express direction by Congress.
The ease of Albert irelson, 28 Pub. Land Dec. 248, referred
to by counsel, is significant. In that case it was held that the
repayment provisions of the act of June 16, 1880, did not authorize the Secretary of the Interior to draw his warrant upon
the Treasury for double minimum excess erroneously charged
for lands reduced in price by section 3 of the act of June 15,
1880, but that where the consideration received for the lands
was in the form of scrip, still in the custody of the Land Depart-

UNITED STATES v. EDMONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, the error might be corrected by that department by a
return of scrip equal in amount to the excess. That means
simply that when a sale has not been closed by the payment of
the consideration into the Treasury of the United States, and
while the transaction is in process of administration and the
consideration is still in the hands of the department charged
with the duty of making the sale, it can correct a mistake in
the amount of the consideration received, and that it is not
necessary to turn the entire amount into the Treasury and -leave
the party to some other remedy directly against the government.
But it does not follow therefrom that when the consideration
has been paid into the Treasury and the power of the Secretary
of the Interior to make any correction has ceased, a claimant
may ignore the question of a voluntary payment, and maintain
an action to recover the excess.
The conclusion we draw from these cases (and no others in
respect to the ruling of the land department are referred to) is
different from that drawn by counsel. That Congress has power
in all cases to waive the question of voluntary payment and provide that any mistake shall be corrected and any excess of payment refunded by the officer receiving it, or recovered by an
action in the Court of Claims, is undoubted; that, as shown by
these references, it has made provision in certain cases for a refunding by the department which has received the money is
obvious; and provided for such refunding irrespective of the
question of voluntary payment. Now, counsel would draw the
inference that the question of voluntary payment has been
waived by Congress in all cases of transactions between the
government through its administrative officers and private individuals except in customs cases, and that if there be no specific
provision for refunding by the department in which the mistake
has occurred, the party may come into the Court of Claims and
enforce his right to recover. Our conclusion is directly to the
contrary, and that Congress, recognizing the rule of voluntary
payment, believed that in certain instances it ought not to be
enforced, and that the department which received money in excess of the legal charge or price should refund, and so legislated,
intending to leave all other cases subject to express statutory
VOL. cLxxxI-33

OCTOBER TIRM,

1900.

Opinion of the Court.

requirement of protest or to the ordinary and well-established
rule as to the effect of voluntary payment.
While the consequences of a construction are not conclusive,
yet sometimes they are worthy of notice. If the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims is limited to cases in which the several
departments have failed to recognize the direct mandates of
Congress in respect to refunding, comparatively few cases will
be brought into that court. It is to be assumed that the departmental officers will recognize all legislation of Congress,
and carry it into effect in accordance with its terms, and, therefore, the only matters for judicial cognizance will be questions
arising as to alleged misconstruction by such officers of its command, and the only judgments rendered against the government will be those in affirmance thereof; whereas, if the other
construction is accepted, then, irrespective of any ruling by the
department, without any mandate from Congress to refund,
upon the mere fact of a supposed mistake in the fees charged
or the price collected, although such fees or price were paid
without question, the court will have jurisdiction of all actions
to recover any alleged excess, and will be flooded with a multitude thereof. We know that even now that court is loaded
with a volume of cases, prophetic of long delay, and if the
door is to be opened so that all charges made by the government, through its officers, for fees or prices, irrespective of the
question of voluntary payment, may be litigated therein, it is
obvious that its docket will be so burdened that determination
within ordinary limits of time cannot be expected.
Finally, we pass to a consideration of the question whether
there is anything in the record to show that which is tantamount to objection and protest. We have not pursued the
order of argument followed by counsel in their brief, but that
which seems to us most natural to develop the questions involved
herein.

As indicated in the opinion in Swift Co. v. United

States, supra,there are cases in which the formality of a protest
or objection is unnecessary; some things may be taken as equivalent thereto or as sufficient in lieu thereof.
But we fail to see anything in the record which brings this
case within the scope of that decision. It does not appear that

UNITED STATES v. EDM1ONDSTON.
Opinion of the Court.

there was any continued or even a single ruling of the land
department to the effect that land situated as was this was
subject to the price of $2.50 per acre, and, of course, if there
had been no ruling to that effect there had been no objection
or protest by any one. Nor is there anything to show that the
$2.50 was paid on any supposition that it was an excessive
charge, or paid simply for the purpose of protecting a property
right which he had acquired. It is said that as he had already
gone upon the land and made improvements, that he paid $400
to protect his right to his settlement and improvements, and
that he paid it because such price was exacted from him; but
there is nothing in the record to indicate that he did not go
upon the land in the first instance supposing that the price was
$400, or that he did not file his declaratory statement, make
his settlement and improvements-all with the expectation of
paying the sum which he did thereafter pay. Under those circumstances it cannot be said that he paid a sum which was
exacted from him-not because he believed it was the proper
charge, but because he felt that it was necessary to protect his
rights. In short, and to sum it up in a word, so far as we can
see from this record the transaction was purely voluntary on
his part, and that while there was a mistake it was mutual and
one of law-a mistake on his part not induced by any attempt to deceive or misrepresentation by the government officials. It is a case of a voluntary payment, and as such the
claimant's remedy is by appeal to the discretion of Congress
and not by an action in the Court of Claims.
The judgment is reversed, and the case remanded with instructions to enterjudgment for the Government.

