SPEED v. McCARTHY.
Statement of the Case.

ments to sell. The power of Congress in this direction is unlimited. It does not come within the province of this court to
consider why agreements to sell shall be subject to stamp duty
and agreements to buy not. It is enough that Congress in this
legislation has imposed a stamp duty upon the one and not upon
the other.
In conclusion, we may say that the language of the statute
seems to us clear. It imposes a stamp duty on agreements to
sell. "Calls" are agreements to sell. We see nothing in the
surroundings which justifies us in limiting the power of Congress or denying to its language its ordinary meaning.
Therefore we answer the question submitted to us by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the aSrmative, and hold that a
"call" is an agreement to sell, and taxable as such.

SPEED v. McCARTHY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF PENNINGTON COUNTY, SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 230. Argued April 10, 11, 1901.-Decided April 29, 1901.
As against the purchaser of interests in mining claims after the location
certificates were recorded, the original locators were held by the state
court estopped to deny the validity of the locations. The question of
estoppel is not a Federal question.
The state court further held that where the annual assessment work had
not been done on certain mining claims, a co-tenant could not, on the
general principles applicable to co-tenancy, obtain title against his co-tenants by relocating the claims.
This was also not a Federal question in itself, and the contention that the
state court necessarily decided the original mining claims to be in existence at the time of the relocation, in contravention of provisions of the
Revised Statutes properly interpreted, could not be availed of under section 709, as no right or title given or secured by the act of Congress in
this regard was specially set up or claimed.

PATRIox B. McCarthy commenced this action in the Circuit
Court of Pennington County, South Dakota, against William

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Statement of the Case.

B. Franklin and others, to determine their adverse claims in
and to certain mining property. Before the trial William B.
Franklin died, and his heirs and his administrator, Edward W.
Speed, were substituted.
The Circuit Court filed findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and entered judgment for defendants on the facts so found.
The facts found by the trial court are thus stated in the opinion of the Supreme Court:
"On September 16, 1882, Jacob F. Reed and William Franklin located a portion of the ground in controversy as the Reed
placer mining claim. From the date of location until 1892,
Reed and Franklin were in actual, notorious and peaceable possession of the claim, were acknowledged and reputed to be its
owners, and during each year performed the required development work. They applied for patent November 23, 1892.
Final entry was made March 13, 1893. There was no application for a lode on the placer site aside from the placer claim.
The boundaries of the claim as patented coincide with its boundaries as staked upon the ground at time of location. January 25, 1888, Reed, Franklin, Thomas 0.Blair and Frank Eaton
marked the boundaries of Tin Bar No. 1 claim upon the ground
with stakes, as required by law, posted a discovery or location
notice thereon, and within sixty days thereafter recorded a location certificate, but did no other act of location at that time.
The location or discovery notice of this claim was posted inside
the boundaries of the Reed placer claim, and the point claimed
as discovery on the Tin Bar No. 1 is the same point at which
the notice was posted. No labor has been performed or improvement made upon the claim, except about four days' work
in 1889 and about four days' work in 1891; such work not exceeding $14 in each of those years. There was no agreement
on the part of defendants Blair or Franklin with plaintiff to
perform labor or make improvements on Tin Bar No. 1 in 1893
or 1894, and no contractual relation existed between them in
regard to such claim when the Holy Terror lode claim was located. January 25, 1888, Blair and Eaton did the same acts of
location with respect to Tin Bar No. 2 that were done in respect
to Tin Bar No. 1. No labor has been performed, or improve-

SPEED v. McCARTHY.

Statement of the Case.

ment made, upon Tin Bar No. 2, except about four days' work
in 1891, of value not exceeding $14. There was no agreement
on the part of defendants Franklin or Blair with plaintiff to
perform labor or make improvements upon Tin Bar No. 2 in
1892, 1893 or 1894, and there was no contractual relation existing between them in regard to such claim during those years.
Defendant Franklin located the lode claims Holy Terror and
Keystone No. 4 on June 28, 1894, and September 20, 1894, respectively, and the law has been complied with, so far as it relates to those claims, since the date of each. Defendants are the
owners of the Holy Terror and Keystone No. 4, save for the
rights of the plaintiff in this action. No adverse claim was filed
by plaintiff or other owners of either Tin Bar No. 1 or 2 to the
application for patent to the Reed placer claim. At and prior
to the time of the application for patent to the placer claim
there was no known lode or vein thereon within the boundaries
of either Tin Bar claim of such character as to render the ground
more valuable because of its presence, or to justify the expenditure of money for either exploitation or development. There
was no application for patent to any lode or vein included in
the placer claim in the application for patent to the placer claim.
The Holy Terror embraces 1.62 acres of the ground covered by
Tin Bar No. 1, and Keystone No. 4 embraces 2.71 acres of the
ground covered by Tin Bar No. 2. In 1888, Eaton conveyed
an undivided one-fourth interest in Tin Bar No. 1 and Tin Bar
No. 2 to one George Williams, who, in the same year, conveyed
the same interest to plaintiff and one Michael McGuire. On
April 22, 1890, Eaton conveyed an undivided one-fourth interest in Tin Bar No. 2 to defendant Franklin, and Blair conveyed
a like interest therein to Jacob F. Reed. When this action
was commenced, Franklin since deceased and defendants Blair,
Fayel and Amsbury each owned an undivided one-fourth interest in the Holy Terror claim and an undivided seven-thirtysixths interest in Keystone No. 4. Blair acquired his interest
in the Holy Terror claim with full knowledge of whatever
rights the plaintiff bad, if any. During 1891, Blair and Franklin discovered a well defined ledge of mineral-bearing rock in
place, carrying gold, upon Tin Bar No. 2, the point of discov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

ery being outside the limits of Reed placer claim. The loca.
tion notice on Tin Bar No. 1 was posted upon a well defined
ledge of rock carrying tin, but plaintiff and defendants had no
knowledge of the existence of tin or other valuable deposits
therein until during the trial of this action in the court below."
Plaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court of South Dakota
from the judgment and from an order denying a new trial, and
the judgment was reversed and a new trial ordered. 11 S. D.
362. Subsequently a rehearing was had, and judgment was directed to be entered below for plaintiff on the findings of fact
for one-eighth interest in and to so much of the ground covered
by the Holy Terror claim and the Keystone No. 4 claim as was
embraced by Tin Bar No. 1 and Tin Bar No. 2. 12 S. D. 7.
This was accordingly done by the Circuit Court, and this writ
of error was thereupon allowed.
.Xb. George Zines for plaintiff in error. b'. James W. .Fowler,
Mf. Fr1'ederick H. Wiofeld, -fYr. Charles Quarles and M/fr. Joseph 1. Quarles were on his brief.
for defendant in error. -Yr. Clarles
-Y. TV. . eI-Taughlin
T. Brown and .Mr..Daniel.Mecaugldinwere on his brief.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLEP. delivered the opinion of the court.

It is objected that jurisdiction of this writ of error cannot be
maintained because no title or right was specially set up or
claimed within section 709 of the Revised Statutes. But plaintiffs in error contend that, while they admit that they made
no specific reference to the statutes of the United States, their
pleading, nevertheless, showed that they asserted title through
valid mining claims duly located, and denied the title of defendant in error on the ground that the locations under which
he claimed had become forfeited and abandoned, and that
that was a sufficient compliance with the requirements of section 709.
We cannot concede that this is so in view of the rule expounded in Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S.648, and

SPEED v. McCARTHY.
Opinion of the Court.

many other cases, and are the less disposed to that conclusion,
as the case might well be held to have been decided on grounds
independent of Federal questions.
Counsel for plaintiffs in error assert in their printed brief
that the following questions were presented by the findings of
fact:
"First. Whether Tin Bar No. 1 claim, in its entirety, was
extinguished and lost to the owners thereof by the patenting of
the Reed placer claim.
"Second. Whether the Tin Bar No. 2, claim, to the extent
that it conflicted with the Reed placer, was extinguished and
lost to the owners thereof by the patenting of the placer claim.
"Third. Whether, notwithstanding the failure of the owners
of the Tin Bar claims to perform thereon the work required by
section 2324, Rev. Stat., those claims continued to be valid and
subsisting claims, and the locators thereof or their grantees cotenants in respect thereto; so that one of such locators or grantees could not make a new location, for his own benefit solely,
and include therein a portion of the ground covered by said Tin
Bar claims although, by reason of such failure to work, said
claims had become 'open to relocation in the same manner as if
no location of the same had ever been made.'"
And they insist that these questions could only have been determined by the application of the provisions of chapter six of
Title XXXII of the Revised Statutes correctly interpreted,
particularly of section 2324.1
1 1,SEc. 2324. The miners of each mining district may make regulations
not in conflict with the laws of the United States, or with the laws of the
State or Territory in which the district is situated, governing the location,
manner of recording, amount of work necessary to hold possession of a mining claim, subject to the following requirements: The location must be distinctly marked on the ground so that its boundaries can be readily traced.
All records of mining claims hereafter made shall contain the name or
names of the locators, the date of the location, and such a description of
the claim or claims located by reference to some natural object or permanent monument as will identify the claim. On each claim located after the
tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two, and until a patent
has been issued therefor, not less than one hundred dollars' worth of labor
shall be performed or improvements made during each year. On all claims
VOL. oLxxxx-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

But the Supreme Court of South Dakota held that plaintiffs

in error, defendants below, were not in a position to allege or
prove against defendant in error, plaintiff below, that the declarations contained in the recorded location certificates were

false.
In its first opinion, after saying that there was "certainly
no reason for holding that the owner of an unpatented placer
claim cannot locate a lode claim, or consent to such a location
being made by others, within the boundaries of his placer claim;"
and also that "if the Tin Bar claims were located when application for patent to the placer was made, they were not
affected thereby, no application for lodes having been included
in the application for the placer patents;" the court proceeded
to hold that the conduct of the original locators was such as
to induce "persons who might examine the records to believe
that they were the owners of properly located mining claims,"
and that the rights of defendant in error in this action depended "upon the facts which the conduct of the locators induced him to believe existed when his interest in the claims
was acquired. It would be a travesty on justice to permit the
locators to now impair such rights by asserting that their relocated prior to the tenth day of May, eighteen hundred and seventy-two,
ten dollars' worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made by the
tenth day of June, eighteen hundred and seventy-four, and each year thereafter, for each one hundred feet in length along the vein until a patent has
been issued therefor; but where such claims are held in common, such expenditure may be made upon any one claim; and upon a failure to comply
with these conditions, the claim or mine upon which such failure occurred
shall be open to relocation in the same manner as if no location of the same
had ever been made, provided that the original locators, their heirs, assigns,
or legal representatives, have not resumed work upon the claim after failure and before such location. Upon the failure of any one of several coowners to contribute his proportion of the expenditures required hereby,
the co6wners who have performed the labor or made the improvements
may, at the expiration of the year, give such delinquent cobiwner personal
notice in writing or notice by publication in the newspaper published nearest the claim, for at least once a week for ninety days, and if at the expiration of ninety days after such notice in writing or by publication such
delinquent should fail or refuse to contribute his proportion of the expenditure required by this section, his interest in the claim shall become the
property of his cobwners who have made the required expenditures."

SPEED v. McCARTHY.
Opinion of the Court.

corded representations were false. Neither of the defendants
is in any better position than the original locators, and all are
estopped from denying the validity of the Tin Bar locations."
In the opinion on rehearing the court said that the findings
of the Circuit Court showed "that Reed, Franklin, Blair and
Eaton recorded a location certificate for Tin Bar No. 1, and
that Blair and Eaton recorded a location certificate for Tin
Bar No. 2, in the office of register of deeds in the proper county,
before plaintiff purchased his interest in such claims; that
neither defendant is in any better position than the original locators; and, whether or not plaintiff examined and relied upon
the records, we think defendants are estopped from denying
the validity of these locations."
If, as thus held, defendants below could not deny the validity
of these locations, the estoppel covered the objection to the right
to locate a lode claim within a placer claim previously located,
and the objection based on the supposed effect of the patenting
of the placer claim, as raised on this record. And whether a
party is estopped or not is not a Federal question. Gillis v.
Stinclfteld, 159 U. S. 658; Pittsburgh 1'on Co. v. Cleveland
Iron Xining Co., 178 U. S. 270.
Having determined that for the purposes of this action the
Tin Bar claims were to be regarded as valid in their inception,
the Supreme Court considered the controversy as to the right
of a co-tenant to relocate a mining claim when the annual assessment work has not been done, and obtain title as against his
co-tenants.
The court held that the relation of co-tenant existed between
McCarthy and Franklin when Franklin located the Holy Terror
and Keystone claims; that original locators may resume work
at any time before relocation; that Franklin's acts of relocation
did not terminate the fiduciary relation between himself and
McCarthy, and said: "We think the Circuit Court should have
adjudged the defendants to be trustees, and have enforced the
trust. This conclusion is not precluded by the language of the
Federal statutes. They provide that upon a failure to comply
with required conditions as to labor or improvements 'the claim
or mine upon which such failure occurred shall be open to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1900.
Opinion of the Court.

location in the same manner as if no location of the same had
ever been made.' Rev. Stat. U. S. ยง 2324. It is contended
that, if Congress intended to have the relocator regarded as a
trustee under any circumstances, such intention would have
been expressed in the statute. The contention is not tenable.
The trust results from the fiduciary relation of the parties, and
not from the operation of the statute."
The state court thus disposed of this branch of the case upon
general principles of law, and its decision did not rest on the
disposition of a Federal question.
Counsel argue, however, that the court, before reaching the
question of co-tenancy, was compelled to hold and did hold that
the Tin Bar claims existed at the time of the location of the
Holy Terror and Keystone claims, and that in so holding the
court necessarily decided against the contention of plaintiffs in
error that the Tin Bar claims had absolutely ceased to exist by
virtue of the statute properly interpreted.
But was that contention so put forward as to constitute the
special assertion of a right given or protected by the act of
Congress? The only approach to such an assertion was the
statement of plaintiffs in error in their amended answer, that
defendant in error intended to set up certain rights under the
Tin Bar claims, and that these claims were abandoned and forfeited before the Holy Terror and Keystone claims were located.
We think these general allegations fall short of that definite
claim of a right or title under a statute of the United States,
which section 709 requires. And that, as the record stands,
this court would not be justified in holding that the state court
denied a right or title specially set up as secured by the statute,
when it determined this particular question on the general principles of law recognized as prevailing in South Dakota.
Writ of error dismissed.

