. 444.
1819.
e
.M'lver

V.

CASES: IN THE SUPREME COURT

sion, or has worked upon it without taking possession, he is not". deemed a privileged creditor,_ having
any claim upon the ship itself.
Without, therefore, entering into a discussion of
the particular circumstances of this case, we are of.
opinion, that here there was not, by the principies of
law, any lien upon the ship; and, consequently, the
*decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed.
Decree reversed.'
a Vide Ante, vol. 1. p. 96. 103, The Aurora, in which
case a lien of material men on foreign ships, was recognized
by this Court. The common, law is the municipal law of most
of the States, be to supplies furnished to domestic ships But
the legislature of New-York has, by statute, given a lien to'
shipwrights, material men, and suppliers of ships, for the'
amount of their debts, whether the ships are owned ,within
the State or not. A~ts.of 22d sess. c. I., and 40th sess' c. 59 .
%'This lien, existing by the local law, may consequently be en.
forced, ipon the principle of the above cage in the text,, by a
suit in rem in the Admiralty.

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'IvER's Lessee v. WALKIERet al.
Ifthere is nothing in a patent to control the call for course and distance, the land must be bounded by the'courses and distances of
the patent, according to the magnetic meridian. .But its a general'.
principle, that the course and distance must yield to natural objects
calledfor in the patent.
An lands are supposed to be actually. surveyed,: and the. intention of
the grant is to convey the land acoording to the actual. surrey;

OF THE UNITED STATES.
consequently, distances must be. lengthened or shortened, and
courses varied, so as to conform to the natural
If'a patent refer to a plat annexed, and it in that
be laid down as running through the land, the
veyed as to include the water course, and to

objects called for..
plat, a water course
tract must be so surconform as nearly as

.445
1819.
. MIver
v.
Walker.

may be to the plat, although the lines, thus run, do not correspond with the coursds and distances mentioned in the patent; and
although neither the certificate of survey nor the patent calls for
that water course.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
East Tennesee. This was an ejectment brought
in that Court by the plaintiff in error against the defendants. Upon the first trial of the cause, a judgment was rendered in the Circuit Court in favour of
the defendants, and upon that judgment a writ of
error was taken out, and the judgment reversed by
this Court, at February-Term, 1815; and the cause
was sent back to be tried according to certain directions prescribed by this Court.
As the opinion given by this Court upon the reversal of the first judgment contains a statement of the
facts given in evidence upon the first trial, it is deemed proper to insert the opinion in this place. It is as
follows: On the trial of this cause, the plaintiff produced two patents for 5,900 acres each, from the
State of. North Carolina, granting to Stokely Donelon, (from whom the plaintiff derived his title,) two
several tracts of lane lying on Crow creek, the one
No. ,12. beginning at a box elder standing on a ridge
corner t6-No. 11. &c. as, by the plat hereunto annex-

ed will appear. The plat and certificate of survey
were, annexed to 'the grant. The plaintiff proved
•ihat there were eleven other grants of the same date

Feb.Wk..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
' M'Iver

V,.

Walker.

for 5,000 acres each, issued from the State of, North
Carolina, designated as a chain of surveys joining
each other from No. 1. to No. 11. inclusive'. each
calling for land on Crow creek as a general call, and
the courses and distances of which, as described in
the grants, are the same with the grants produced tq
the jury. It was also proved'that the beginning of
the first grant was marked and intended as the beginning corner of No. 1. but no other tree was marked, nor was any survey ever made, but the plat was
made out at Raleigh, and does not express on its face
that the lines were run by the true meridian. It was
also proved that the beginning corner of No. 1. stood
on the north west side of Crow creek, and the line
running thence down the creek, called for in the plat
and patent, is south forty degrees west. It fijrther
appeared that Crow creek runs through a valley of
good land, which is on an average about three miles
wide, between mountains unfit for cultivation, and
which extends from the beginning of survey No. 1.
in the said chain of surveys, until: it reaches- below
survey No. 13. in nearly a straight -line, the course
of which is nearly south thirty-five degrees west by
the needle, and south forty Odegrees west by the true
meridian, that in- the- face of the plats annexed- to the
grants, the creek is-represented as running througr
and across each grant. The lines in the certificate
of survey do not expressly ca-ll for crossing the creek ,
but each certificate and grant calls generally for land
lying on Crow creek. If the lines of.the tracts
herein before mentioned, No. 12. and 1. in the said
chain of surveys, be run. according to the course, of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

447

1819.
not
the needle and the distances called for, they will
i'.
include Crow creek, or any part of it, and will not M'Iver
include the land in possession of the defendants. If Mv.
they be run according to the true meridian, or so as Walker
to include Crow creek, they will include the lands in
possession of the defendants. Whereupon, the counsel for the plaintiffs moved the Court to instruct the
jury, 1st. That the lines of the said lands ought to be
run according to the true meridian, and not according
to the needle. .d. That-the lines-ought to be run so
as to include Crow creek and the lands in possession
of the defendants.
The Court overruled both these motions, and instructed the jury that the said grant must be run according to the course of the needle and the distances
called-for in the said grants, and thatthe same could not
legally be run so as to include Crow creek, and that
the said grants did not include the lands in possession
of the defendants. To this opinion an exception
was taken by the plaintiffs counsel. A verdict and
judgment were rendered for the defendants, and that
judgment)is now before this Court on a writ of error.
It is undoubtedly the practice of surveyors, and
the practice was proved in this cause, to express in
their plats and certificates of survey, the courses
which are designated by the needle; and if nothing
exists to control the call for course and distance, the
land must be bounded by the courses and distances
of the patent, according. to the magnetic meridian.
But it is a general principle, that the course and distance must yield to'natural objects called for in the
patent. All lands are supposed to be actually sur-

."B i819.
'-v"

V.,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

veyed, and the intention of the grant is to convey the
land according to that actual survey; consequently,
if marked trees and marked corners be found, conformably to the calls of the patent, or if water courses
be called for in the patent, or mountains, or any other
natural objects, distances must be lengthened or short.ened, and courses varied so as to conform to those objects. The reason of the rule is, that it is the intention of the grant to convey the land actually surveyed, and mistakes in' courses or. distances are more
prol able, and more frequent, dian in marked trees,
mountains, rivers, or othernatural objects capable of
being clearly designated, and accurately described.
Had the survey in this 6ase been actually made, and
the lines had called to cross Crow creek, the courses
and distances might have been precisely what they
:.are, it might have been impracticable to-find corner,
or other marked trees, and ,yet the land must have
been so surveyed as to include Crow creek. The call
in the lines of the patent to cross Crow creek, would
be one to which course and distance must necessarily
yield. This material call is omitted, and from its
omission arises the great difficulty of the cause.
That the lands should not be described as lying 'on
both sides of Crow creek, nor tho lines, call for

crossing that creek, are such extraordinary omissions
as to create considerable doubt with the 'Court in deciding whether there is any other description given
in the patent, of sufficient strength'to control the call
for course and distance. The majority of the,'Court
is of opinion, that there is such a'description.: The

4M9

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

patent closes its description of the land granted by a

1819.

reference to the plat which is annexed.

M'Iver

The laws of

the State require this annexation. In this plat thus
annexed to the patent, and thus referred to as describing the land granted, Crow creek is laid down as
passing through ,the tract. Every person having
knowledge of the grant, would also have knowledge
of the plat, and would by .that'plat be instructed, that
the lands lay on both sides the creek. There would
,be nothing to lead to a different conclusionbut a difference of about five degrees in the course, should he
run out the whole chain of surveys in order to find
the beginning of No. 12.; and he would know that
such an error in the course would be corrected by
such a great natural object as a creek laid down by
the surveyor in the middle of his plat. This would
prove notwithstanding the error in the course, that,
the lands on both sides of Crow creek were intended
to be included in the survey, and intended to be granted by the patent.
It is the opinion of the majority of this Court, that
there is error in the opinion of the Circuit Court for
the district of East Tennesee, in this, that the said
Court instructed the jury that the grant under which
the plaintiff claimed, could not be legally run so'as to
include Crow creek; instead of directing. the jury
that the said grant must be so run as to include
Crow creek, and to conform as near as may be
to the plat annexed to the said grant ; wherefore, it
it is considered by this Court that the said judgment
be reCersed and annulled, and the cause be remanded
VOL. IV.

57

V.

•Walker.

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
M'Ver

Walker.

to the said Circuit Court, that a new trial may be had
according to law.a
Upon this cause being remanded to the Circuit
Court for a new trial, the plaintiff gave in substance
the same eviden,;e which he gave upon the first trial,
and proved, or offered to prove, these additional facts
-That it was the express and declared intention of
the surveyor to locate the land upon Crow creekThat his field notes called for crossing Crow creek,
and that he supposed the courses inserted in the
grants would place the lands upon Crow creek. Upon
the former trial it was proved, and admitted by the
parties, that the beginning of lot No. 1. was marked
as a corner, but that nosurvey had ever been made of
that lot or of the lots of land in dispute. Upon the
last trial the witness- gave the same testimony, and
further, stated that a corner was marked for the beginning of lot No. 1. That the compass was set at
this corner, and a chain Or two might have been
stretched upon the first course of the grant ; but of
this he was not certain. During the lhst trial various
objections were made by the defendants to the testimony offered by the plaintiff; especially to that
which tended to prove that it was the intention of
the surveyor to locate the land upon Crow creek, and
that his field notes called for crossing Crow creek.
These objections were sustained by'the Court, and
the testimony declared inadmissable.
Upon the evidence given in the cause, various instructions were prayed by the plaintiff, all of Which
the Court refused to give; but charged the jury that
a S. C. 9 Cranch, 173.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
if, from the testimony then adduced, they should find
that M'Coy, the deputy surveyor, when he went M'Iver
v.
upon the ground to survey the land, did mark the be- Walker.
ginning corner of lot No. . upon two poplars, and
set his compass a given course, and that the chain
carriers stretched one or two chains upon that course,
and that M'Coy made his field notes in conformity
thereto, and that those field notes were transmitted
to James W. Lach'ey, the surveyor, who made out the
plats annexed to the grants, and that he made out the
said plats in conformity with the said field notes, and
that he marked down Crow creek by guess upon the
plats, that this was so much of a legal and actual
survey, as to show that the surveyor committed. no
mistake in what he did upon the ground, notwithstanding it might not be according-to what he wished
or intended in his own mind ; and, in that case, the
lessor of the plaintiff would be barred by the courses
and distances called for in the grant.
Under this instruction of the Court, a verdict was
found for the defendants, and judgment rendered accordingly, upon which the cause was again brought to
this Court by writ of error.
This cause was argued. 't the last term, by Mr.
Swann and Mr. Campbell, for the plaintiff in error,
and by Mr. Williams, for the defendants in error, and
was re-argued at the present term, by Mr. Swann -March 1st.
.for the plaintiffs in-errot, and by Mr. Jones and Mr.
Williams, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Chief Justice MARS-lALL delivered the opi- Alarck11,
nion of the Court.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
"M'Iver

v.
Walker.

The Court has re-examined the opinion which it
Sgave,
when this cause was formerly' before it, and
has not perceived any reason for changing that opinion. Nor do the new facts introduced into the
cause, in any material degree, vary it. If there had
been a settled course of decisions in Tennessee upon
their local laws, different from the judgment pronounced by this Court, we should not hesitate to follow those decisions. But, upon an examination of
the cases cited at the bar, we do not perceive that
such is the fact. The judgment of the' Circuit Court
is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded for
farther proceedings.
cause came on to be heard on
the transcript of the record, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this Court, that the Circuit Court erred in the
instructions given to the jury : it is, therefore. Adjudged and Ordered, that the judgment of the Circuit Court for the District of East Tennessee, in this
cause, be, and the same is, hereby reversed and annulled. And it is further ordered, that the said cause
be remanded to the said Circuit Court for farther
proceedings to be had therein, according to law.
JUDGMENT.-This

