CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

466
1819.
Astor

(CHAKCER V-

V.

LOCAL LAW.)

Wells.

ASTOR v. WELLS

et al.

Under the registry act of Ohio. which provides, that certain deeds
"shall be recorded, in the county in which the lands, tenements,
and bereditaments, so conveyed or affected, shall be situate, within
one year after the day on whiuh such deed or conveyance was executed; and, unless recorded in the manner and within the time
aforesaid, shall be deemed fraudulent against any subsequent bona
fide purchaser without knowledge of the existence of such former
deed of conveyance:" lands lying in Jefferson county were convdyed by deed ; and a new county, called Tuscarawas county, was
erected, partly from Jefferson, after the execution, and before the
recording of the deed, in which new county the lands were included ; and the deed was recorded in Jefferson. Held, that this registry was not sufficient either to preserve its legal priority, or to
give it the equity resulting from constructive notice to a subsequent
purchaser.
Notice of a prior incumbrance to an agent is notice to the principal.
Under the statute of fraudulent conveyances of Ohio, which provides,
that "every gift, grant, or conveyance of lands, tenements, hereditaments, &c. made or obtained with intent to defraud creditors
of their just and lawful debts or damages, or to defraud or deceive
the person or persons who shall purchase such lands, &c. shall be
deemed utterly void, and of no effect:" Held, that a bena jide pur-,
chaser, without notice, could not be affected by the intent of the
grantor. to defraud creditors.

from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
The bill in equity filed in this cause states, that Arnold Henry Dorhman, in 1806, became indebted to
the United States, in the sum of 6,615 dollars and
10 cents, for duties upon the importation of certain
goods payable at the custom-house in the city of
New-York. The plaintiff, Henry Astor, became
*APPEAL

OF THE UNITED STATES.

bound with Dorhman for the payment of those duto secure Astor, exties; and, thereupon, Dorhman,
"
ecuted and delivered the mortage deed of the 14 h
of August, 1806, in the bill mentioned, for the 13th
township, in 7th range, then lying in Jefferson
county, in the State of Ohio: and Dorhman became further indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of
2,700 dollars, to secure which, upon said township,
he afterwards, on the 25th of August, 1807, executed another mortgage deed Of the same premises.
Both the deeds were recorded in the county of Jefferson, on the 2d of October, 1810, and in Tuscarawas on the 21st of October, 1812, which county
was erected in part from Jefferson, after the execution, and before the recording therein of said deeds.
On the 26th of August, 1807, the plaintiff released
to Dorhman one fourth of said township, by deed recorded in Tuscarawas county on the 9th of March,
1813. On the 24th of October, 1810, Dorhman
gave the defendant Wells a deed of trust of the three
fourths of said-township not released, to secure the
payment of 5,000 dollars, for which the defendant
Wells bad become liable for Dorhman, by endorsing
his paper at the bank of Seubenville, which was recorded in Tuscarawas, the 13th of January, 1811.
On the 12th of February, 1813,the defendant Wells
took another deed from Dorhman for the quarter or
sections which had been released, which was recorded in Tuscarawas county on the 10th of March,
1813, to secure 3,000 dollars, for farther endorsements
byWells for Dorhman. The bill then charges the defendant Wells with notice of the plaintiff's deeds and

1819.
Astor

V.
Wells.

468
.1819.

%or
Astom
V.
wells.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lien upon said lands, before his deeds, end&sements,
any payments made by him; and that he accepted the deeds, made the endorsements, and payments,, if a ny, with knowledge, &c. ; charges a secret understanding, that the released sections,. conveyed to Wells, by the last mentioned deed, were to.
enu'e to Dorhman or his family; and that neither
transaction between Wells and Dorhman was bona
fide. Dorhman died on the 21st of February, 1813,
nine days after his last deed' to Wells, who commenced a suit against the heirs Of Dorhman on the
27th of Augpst following; and obtained a decree of
sale, under which he purchased the premises; all
which is charged to be fraudulent. The widow and
heirs of Dorhman, by their answer, admit all the
deeds, and answer, generally, that they know nothing
of the Other transactions. The answer of Wells admits the plaintiff's deeds ; states his own deeds to
be bona fide, and denies notice and fraud. Obadiah
Jennings, who was examined as a witness in the
cause, testified, that he prepared the first deed to
Wells, and saw it executed, but says that Dorhman
employed him, and he considered himself exclusively
employed by Dorhman, and not as the agent or attbrney.of Wells, in that transaction ; that it was probable he had held some conversation with Wells as
to his liabilities for Dorhman, and the nature of the
security to be given before Dorhman applied.to ' him
to draw the deed; and that Wells sent the deed to.
him in -a letter, to carry to be recorded in Tuscara'was county. Dorhman informed him that Astor's.
agent had brought Astor's deeds and put them on

OF THE UNITED STATES.

record; and Dorhman wished to give Wells. the preference, and consulted him how it could be done.
The witness examined the record, and knew of Astor's deeds and lien on those lands. He advised
Dorhman to give Wells a deed, which, if recorded
in Tusearawas, would give him the preference; but
never gave Wells any information respecting Astor's
deeds.

469
s19.
Astor

v.

• Wells.

Mr. Brush, for the appellant and plaintiff, argued March U .
1. That the defendant's (Wells') deed was void under
the second section of the statute of Ohio, entitled an
" act for the prevention of frauds," &c. which declares "that every gift, grant, or conveyance of lands,
*tenements, hereditaments, kc. made or obtained with
intent to defraud creditors of theirjust and lawful debts
or damages, or to defraud or deceive the person or persons. who shall purchase such lands, -c. shall be
deemed utterly 'void, and of no effect."a The bill
shows Astor to be a creditor.; the answer'admits it;
and Jennings proves that Dorhman informed him
such was the fact. The debt bing secured, by mort_,age upon the lands in controversy only makes the
fraud more palpable. Still he was and is a creditor;
and it is manifest Dorhman made the deed to'Wells to.
defraud Astor, his creditor. 2. The recording of
Astor's deeds in Jefferson County vas notice to the
defendant, Wells. During all the time given for recording, the lands lay in that county; it was therefore the proper place for recording those, deeds, and
a Rev. Laws of. Oio, 321.

470
1819.

t
Astor
V.
wells.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the recording afterwards must have relation to the
time when and the place where they ought to have
been recorded ; considering the township as part of
the county for that purnose.a And the recording
ought to be considered as nunc pro tunc, yet not so
as to affectany deed made and recorded prior to the
making this record: and as to all subsequent, no inconvenience or injustice could be complained of, inasmuch as every purchaser would be bound to search
those records for all deeds there recorded prior to the
division. Using such diligence as he was bound to
use, knowing the lands originally lay in that county,
he would have discovered Astor's deed there recorded,
before any deed made to him; and ought,, therefore,
to be charged with notice. To what time does the
act of assembly relate, when it says the deed shall be
"recorded in the county in which such lands shall be
situate ?,,b To the time of making and delivery of

the deed, or to the time of recording? The latter
would make the deed take effect from the recording,
not from the delivery, as is the law. The case of Taylor v. M'Donald's heirs, is not analogous, as there the
lands 'did not lie in the county where the deed was
recorded; and the question was upon the effect of the
deed at law. 3. By accepting the deed prepared by
Jennings, the defendant, Wells, has made Jennings
his agent by legal implication; and notice to him iq
notice to his principal. Jennings acted. in the transaction; advised Dorhman how to give Wells the prea Heath v. Rose, 12 Johns. Rep. 140.
Vin, .Abr. tit. Relation, 288.
b Rev. 'Laws of Ohio, 318.

1 Johns. Cas. 85.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ference; prepared the deed; saw it executed, and at
the request of Wells. carried it to be recorded; and
had some previous conversation with Wells as to his
liabilities for Dorhman, and the nature of the seeuiity to be given. In Leneve v. Leneve,G the defendant "denied notice of the first articles and settlement till six months after the marriage ; and denied
that Norton was employed as her solicitor, though she
put confidence in him, because he was concerned for
her husband, and recommended by him, who assured
her he (Norton) would make a handsome provision
for her; and Norton assured her he had taken care
to .secure her an annuity of 1501. a year, and did not
then, or any time before, -give her any notice of any
former settlement ' Although the defendant here has
not been as candid as the defendant was in that case,
yet by his artful taciturnity and scanty pleading upon
the most important subject, much is to be inferred
against him. In the case of Jennings v. Moore,b Blincorne acted the very part Jennings has in this transaction, so far as the conduct of either is material to affect
the purchaser; and so far as there, is any difference,
it would seem the case at bar presents much the
strongest ground of equity, to set aside the subsequent incumbrancer or purchaser. Moore had completed his purchase by paying the money; Wells had
not.. Blincorne was a bona fide creditor, and had
an interest in the estate of Whitlatch, the vendor,
and his object was to secure an honest debt; but
Wells' purchase, and the sale to him, was made to
Am
~bt. 438.

b 2 Vern. 609.

1819.
Astor

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Astor

v.

Wells.

defraud and defeat a bona fide creditor. Moore was
charged upon the naked fact of acceptance; but in
this case, strong circumstances and inferences, beside
that, implicate Wells. He most undoubtedly knew
the hand writing of Jennings, his friend, and was
bound to inquiry; but Jennings was careful not to
mention it to him in any way! So was Blincorne,
and so Norton.; and the care which all have taken
for the purchaser implicates him with their agency,
if he will accept, they having notice, and contriving
to conceal from him, is the ground of mala fides,
and the foundation for the charge of notice against
the purchaser. Brotherton v. Hatt,, maintains the
same principle, and is called by Lord Hardwicke
"a clear authority." The same scriveners were Witnesses, and engrossed all the securities' and were
quasi agents for all the lenders. Not that the fact
of agency was otherwise established than by the fact
of accepting or receiving the securities, engrossed by
the same scriveners, who had notice; the concealiment of which by them, if the law could tolerate it,
would make frauds practicable, without the means of
detection. In the latter case abov'e cited, it does not
appear that.Mrs. Hatt, the thi'd mortgagee, had'any
better knowledge who the 'scriveners were than
Wells in this case. If such had been the fact, that
she knew who engrossed the deed for her, and such.
fact deemed important, it would have been noticed
in the report.. AW *it is not mentioned'as a fact, or
material, in the case of Leneve. v. Leneve, where
a $Vern.1$74.

475

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
the case is cited with approbation by the. Lord Chancellor; but in all these cases they seem to have gone •Astor
v.
muchupon the ground of the fraud of those third
Wells.
fraud,
such
sanctioning
of
persons, and the danger
by deciding stricti juris, tfpon the mere ground of
the laches of the first-purchaser in not recording his
deed within the time prescribed, or not before the
second deed. And although these cases profess to
g9 upon the ground of an agency, yet it i§ manifest
such agency was presumed in eah, and that the decision rested virtually upon the fraud which was established against persons not concerned in interest,
thereby fixing the sting of" disability upon the femp-,
tation to commit fraud, by whatever motive prompted
or encouraged. 4. The defendant, Wells, has not
shown the time of his payment, nor denied notice
at or before the same, and 'is, therefore, chargeable
with notice before his purchase was completed.1 After notice, Wells ought to have compelled Dorhman
to make payment, by applying the other quarter.
township, instead of endorsing more, and securing
that also, thereby taking all hope from Astor. His
.Conscience was affected before the first arrangement
was completed, while he had time and opportunity
to save himself, and he was bound to that course,
.5. The defendant has 'not denied notice indirectly by'
implication, or noticeto one whom the law will consider his agent. .His answer is stiff and foriral, especially with respect to the first deed to him; care-

a Tourvikle v. Nsh, 3 P4r:e Wim. 307.

Windsor, 94tk. 63O.
VOL. IV.

69

Story vL eord,

474

CASES IN' THE SUPREME COURT

managed; and,
of this case, it
must be considered as a declaration that he had no
actual knowledge, of Astor's deeds, not having received positive information that such were in existence, 6. Can the defendant, Wells, maintain a title,
or claim the benefit of an interest, derived to him
through the fraud of Dorhman and Jennings ? If
he can, the doctrineand principle of many cases are
overturned, and we have a new law upon the subject of
frauds. What is said in Leneve v. Leneve, is quite
applicable. But in a late decision, this doctrine is fully
recognised in a case like the present, though with
fewer circunstanees of fraud to justify its application.b
The cases cited to the third point are considered as
applicable.here; th mala fides of the actors in those
cases were the ground of considering them agents by
relation; the purchaser accepting his deed from pol-:
luted hands, makes their acts and knowledge his
own. Sir Samuel Romilly, (arguendo) in Huguenin
v. Baselyc says, , "though no direct authority is produced, your Lordship, dispensing justice by the same
role s your predecessors, upon such a subject, not
confined within the narrow limits of precedent, will,
as a newrelation appears, look into :the principles
that govern the human heart, and decide in a casd far
the strongest that has yet occurred upon this ground:
alone, from its infinite importance to cdmmunity.".

ful not to say how that matter was
1819.
.all the circumstances
.
•
Aotor "Sconsidering
.

o ./mbl. 447.

b Hildreth v' Sands, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 35. and the caseathere.
cited,

c 14, Vu. 288.

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

,475

1819.1
And the Chaincellor thereupon lays dowd the doeby
gained
interests
"that
established,
trine as well
Astbr
.,r.
maintained."
be
cannot
persons,
other
of
the fraud
It Would be infinitely mischievous if they-could, and
as there said, "-would be almost impossible ever to
reach a case'of fraud." The genus, or kind of
fraud, seem s not to be so much regaided as that such'
is the character of the transaction.
Mr. Doddridge,contra. 1. The registry act, and
whatever other-statutory regulations, each sovereign
society may adopt! for the transfer of titles to real
property, are. matters. of positive institution the
English registry act and statute of inrolments, however, have furnished. precedents which in one way
or another have been followed up ii each State;
and the decisions upon them have ,been so uniform,,
as to have become quite familiar. The attempt here
to impeach a deed innocently obtained, on the ground
that it wasfraudulently intended by the grantor, is
is novel. I
quite novel, -and as 8langerous as it
proceeds on- the ground that: the clause in .'-the
State law:is to be expounded in the disjunctive, and that ".orr is not to be exponided so as;
to mean ',and." The first, objection to this inter retation is, that it supposes the, word "made7"
can be satisfied by the act of a vendor alone;:'ahd
the W'ord "obtatied," in like. manner, by the single
act of.the vendee, which is impossible. No deed
can be. made without the asseiit of two persons, at
least. Deeds take effect upon 'deliyery-;- whichis
uever effected without the concurrence of the person'
who receives. The second objection is, that it puts

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

476
1812.
Astor

v.

to.hazard the interest of ev'ry purchaser; as.every
purchaser must depend for. his security, not upon his
own innocence, but upon the continual integrity of
tWell,.
he vendor:; who, if at, any time, and for any reason,

he can be brought to confess his own fraudulent intentions, in answer to a bill against him and his yendee, can ruin the latter. A third and decisive objection is, that the statute of frauds, if.
it is susceptible
of the complainant's interpretation, repeals the registry act, which is not pretended. The registry act
then in force in Ohio, provided, that all deeds executed 'out of the State "should be recorded in the
county in which the lands, tenements, and heredit6ments, so conveyed or affected, shall be situate, within
one year after the day on.which such 'de'ed or conveyance was executed; and unless recorded in the..
wanner, and within the time aforesaid; shall be deemrd fraudulent against any subsequent bonafide purchaser, without knowledge of the existence of such
former deed of conveyance.", Now, if the act of
his first deed to Wells- is fraudulethman -iingiming
lenit as'heing made withintent to postpone Astor to
him, and for that "reason.is void, then the registry.
,pct is effectually done away ; because no man, under
any circumstances, can make a second sale by concealing a former one, without being guilty of as much
fraud as Dorhman'at the least. His case wasa hard
one; he had two creditors, one of whom must suffer,
and his wishes were to piefer one of them. He
soughtno benefit by this act to himself, nor .can his
conduct be as censurable as'if he were selling to put
money into. his own pocket. If the plaintiff be right,

OF THE UNITED STATES..

.he parties toa first and second sale stand as at the com-, Isvg.
mon law. 2. The doctrine of c6nstructive notice, is
r dd..
.Astor r
.
. exp .
...
e t mn
entirely exploded. The term never did convey the true
meaning of the Courts. There is something almost Wells.
absurd in the idea of proceeding Upon a question of
fraud by construction. The cases upon this subject
only proceed upon two principles: first, actual notic;e
to the party and, second, to the agent of the party.
The notice arising from a suit pending; a registry
or any public record, is not a matter of construction.
The lis pendens, the register or record, furnish such
irrresistible evidence of notice in fact, that the party
is not.at liberty to.urge the contrary ; and the relief
is granted on the ground of notice in fact. ,Nor is
this an arbitrary rule : all men are parties to the publie proceedings of the Courts of justice, and pre,
sumed to be present at them; and, also, parties to
every legal registry, or other public record; what
the laws require to be done, and is done acc~ording to
those laws, they are, in like. manner, parties to,
.and are supposed to be acquainted with ; and because the laws have provided those public documents for the security of every man, it is his fault
if he sees them not,'and, therefore, he is'adjudged,
to have seen them in fact. But this reason can
lave no application to the proceedings of a Court
not of competent jurisdiction, nor to registries anid
records not made according .to law. In respect to
pro6ceedings in Courts of incompetent jurisdiction,
.or irregular records, they are only notice, if in fact,
they have been hear4d or seen by the party, . a~s.to

478
1819'

.V,
wells.'

CASES-IN THE SUPREME COURT

puithim upon inquiry.a It is believed that no decisions have been had upon this statute; hut the
statutes of Kentucky and of Pennsylvania are like
that of Ohio: and in the case of Taylor v. M 'Donald's
heirs;- ' the Court in KentuckY dceide 'that a record
*made, not in the proper county is not of itself notice.
The Court gay,

*"

the law requires the deed shall

be recorded, 'not only within the limited time, in
order to be valid against a subsequent purchaser
witlhout notice, but also in the, county where the
land lies. This provision is obviously intended to
:enablepersons to trace the legal title with the industry and attention essential to a compliance with the
act." Thatcase is strodger than isnecessary for our
purpose ; because in that, the deed was recorded in
time, but in'the wrong county 4and in ours, the party
has failed in respect of both time and 'place. The
case ,of_fleister'S. 'lessee v-.Furtnerc is 'an authority
to the .same effect; and. also that a record made:
"within the time, and within the proper county, is
void,,'if made !'upon less'proof than the law requires.
An illegal registry, then, is not proof of notice. Nor
does :,the .doctrine of' relation apply. Alftthe casr,
cited:on the stubject"of relation prove, that the adt by
which a transaction: is completed has relation to the
beginning; as,'for instance, the, presentation of a
Copyhold, to the:.surrender but that this relation
is a'iegal fiction, .6eraiing'between the parties only,
and without any! effect upon third persons or their
a 8 gd.. Vend. 470., and the cases there cited.
1 2 Bibb,42O,

'

'

'c2 Binney, 10.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rights. But the use made of this fiction, whereby
an illegal registry is made so to relate,• either to. the
date of the execution, or' proper time of registering
a deed, as to affect the estate of a third person, -is an
invention of such modern date, as to have acquired, as
yet, very little authority in this country. If the obvious
policy of the law, and the authority of the decisions re-.
ferred to, aresatisfactory, then the case 6f .Wells is the
very strongest that can be imagined. Suppose he had
gone to the registry to look for the record of any conveyance of the'lands in question, who could suppose
he would examine the entries upon it after the date
of the separation of the' counties, for a conveyance
of lands in Tuscarawas ? 3. Itis said that Wells does
not show himself to be a complete purchaser without,
notice, because he had not made ful payment. The
law is admitted to be as stated in respect of a purchase and sale; but the reason given for it has no
aplilication here. The reason is, that when the seCon d- purchaser receives notice of the first he should
stay his hand-rfuse a deed, or Withhold payment;
and because this is in his power, it is his moral duty to
do it. But in the case of Wells it was otherwise: he
was already accountable toithe bank for the whole'
amount. This point has been determined in a case
of precisely the same nature as to a bank endorsement. a The tule,- that. notice to an agent is notice
to his principal, arid, consequently, his fraud affects
his principal as much as if committed by himself, is
not disputed. But the rule is explained and qualified,
a Lyle v. JDucomb, 5 Binney, 585.

479
1819.
Ator

'.

M80

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT

in, order to, give security to the party affected by it.
The agent must be einployed:
•Astor
by the
the
t h.
ag party-in
n is
ot ufi
,. .same transaction. Notice to the agent is not suficient, unless acquiried by him, in the course of the
transaction in which he .is employed ; inotice othetwise acquired will not affect his principal A general
agency is not sufficient: it must be in the particular
case; and the employment must be to purchase, or to
make or treat of terms-not merely to draw a deed.
If the agent is employed by one of the parties, no-'
tice to him, shall affect that Party only ; where both
employ him, his fraud shall attachto both.0 And it
is only.necessary to deny the agency, and all circumstances from which fraud may be inferred, where
those matters are charged in the bill.'. The propriety
of the application of the general rule as to agents, in
the cases of Brotherton v. Hatt,c Jennings v. Moore,'
Leneve v. Leneve, has been questioned. In each
of these cases, the fact of agency is charged with
all -the circumstances of the transaction, from which
that fact could be inferred. As those three. cases
contain nearly. the whole' law upon' the subject
of notice to an agent, it is only necessary to
sho'W, that neither 'of them furnish a precedentto
affect Wells. In! Leneve and Leneve, the agent was
d fendant, and he denied. his agency, and admitted
notice. The other only denied'notice to herself; and '
the ground of decision is, that sheadmits enough,ig:
igio.

'a Lowther v. Cirlton,.2
'3

Atk.-

13.

Warwiok.i

Warwick,

ik. 291. 294.

b Newman v. Wallace, 2 Bro. Ch. i43.
c 2 Vernon; 574. "
d /b. 609.

e 2 4mb. 436.

441

OF THE UNITED STATES.

'her answer to make Norton her agent.

In J ennings
v. Moore, one person was treating
• . • of a purchase , for
'

2819.
A stor

notice;
himself, and during
.
.. the transaction received
..
and perfected the contract in the name of a third

person, who accepted of it without notice. The authority of this decision has been doubted, but with
very little reason. In Brotherton v. Hatt, the agents
were scriveners. They kept an office, and their profession was to drive bargains; effect loans, and perfect'
securities. The Court adjudge them to be agents,
and that notice to them was notice to their principals; not because one of the parties had consulted
them, and procured them merely to write a deed which
another accepted. By the term " scrivener," something more is meant than a conveyancer. The reason
for the decision is, that all the loans were effected by
them, at their office, and all the securities also ; and
4from the nature of their employment, the Court decided them to be the agents of each party in effecting
the loans and the securities; but whether the Court
decided these facts upon proper testimony or not, is
immaterial. The, principle is,- that notice to him who
is employed by both parties, to effect a loan, and prepare a security, is notice to both parties. The -relation of agent and principal, cannot exist without the
consent of the principal. In every case cited, and in
all others, the fraud is charged, as it happened, either
to the principal: or his agent, and in the latter case
the agent is made a defendant. Agency or not, is a
fact which, if stated and denied, must, like every
other fact, be proved. In our case, all that is charged
is denied, and no part of it is proved.
'VOL. IV.

61

W e ll s.

-

.482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

A stor

1.

Wells.

Mr. Brush, in reply, insisted, that the construction
of the act of fraudulent conveyances, contended for
on the part of the defendants, could not be supported.
It was undoubtedly competent for the legislature to
say, such instruments should be void for fraud, whether the donee or grantee be party in the fraud or not,
and they have so said. Taking the entire section together, it is sensible only as it reads ; but by altering
"or" to "and , " a new meaning is interpolated. The
rule upon the subject is, that such construction shall
be given, as will give effect to every word, if possible,
that'none may have been employed t6 no purpose.
The construction, moreover, is arbitrary; contrary to
a very plain text ; substituting one word for another,
in a law which is neither ambiguous-nor doubtful ; not
-for the purpose of suppressing fraud, and advancing
the remedies, but for the purpose of restraining the
operation of'a remedial act.- A deed void for fraud,
is not protected by the registry act, which relates
only to purchasers, and never was intended to affect
creditors. It has never received such a construction
in the State, or elsewhere, nor' will the language war'rant it. Speaking of the deed of a prior purchaser,
it says, '" unless recorded in the manner, and within
the time aforesaid, shall be deemed fraudulent against
any subsequent bona fide purchaser, without knowledge of the existence of such former deed of conveyance." There cannot be a subsequent purchaser,
unless there had been a former one. Besides, the
registry act was passed in 1806. The statute Of
'Yauds and perjuries, protecting creditors against the
fiaus of their debtors, in 1810, five years afterwards;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and must be considered' as repealing so much of 'the
former act as comes within its provisions. If it did
repealed.;
affect creditors in -any way, quo.ad
' "
..hoc .it is.
upon a
purchasers,
leaving it to operate as between
first and'second sale, the first not a creditor. Another
pretension set up for Wells is, that he also is, or was,
a creditor, and that Dorhman might prefer which he
would. If this be so, that provision in favour of
creditors in the statute of frauds is defeated, as it
would be in the power of a debtor to evade it at
pleasure. If it be law, which we feel no disposition
to controvert, that in some cases, a debtor may give
one creditor a preference overanother, yet this privilege no longer remained with Dorhman. He had exercised it. He had made his election to give Astorthe prewas comference, by conveying the lands to him
4 , as it
petent for him to do, most assuredly, when it does not
appear that at that time, he owed any one else. This
privilege must be exercised fairly,by giving that which
is his own, not that which belongs to another, and
which he may happen to hold in trust for that other.
There is no law which authorizes a trustee thus to
give away the trust estate, by advancing or preferring
one creditor to another. But Wells, at that time, did
not stand in the relation of creditor to Dorhman. He
had endorsed, but it does not appear he had paid any
money, or thqt there would have been any necessity
for him to pay, if, after express notice,,he had not
extended his endorsements, and involved the whole
of Dorhman's estate, as if with the design which
Dorhman had already manifested, of cutting Astor off

i819:
v.

W ells .

484

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

altogether. As is said in, Tourville v.,Naish,i hs
% should have filed his bill quia-timet against Dorhman,
Astor
V.
and pursued his remedy upon the other quarter township, released by Astor, and whaiever other'property
c4iuld'be found. There is'nothing inthe casei.,which
shows that Dorhman had recei-ved tiel whole 5,000
dollars, before notice to Wells, nor what part he had
received. It lies upon Wells to make this appear
clearly, for if any part remained unpaid, it might have
been:stopped, and the payment enjoined. It is said,
"if the plaintiff be right, parties to a first and second
sale, stand as at common law." But ,this is not a
case merely between purchasers at a first and second
sale. To thispoint, the plaintiff is considered acreditor ; and it stands as a case between a creditor and
purchaser of the debtor. At common law, such a
conveyance would be avoided. The statute of Elizabeth is in aid of the common law, extending the
,remedy to subsequent creditors, superadding the
.sanction of penalties. It declares " deeds made in
fraud of creditors void." And although it inflicts.
penalties, still, in England, it is viewed as remedial,
nmade against frauds, for the public good, and to be
taken by equity."' Even if the doctrine of constructive notice were admitted to be no longer a rule'
of equity, Still this admission would only raise
a ,dispute. upon an abstract proposition; whether
the notice we rely on be actual or constructive?
It is, therefore, a disagreement, as to the name.
1819.

a 3 Peere Wins. 307.
6 5 Co. Rep. a. Gooch's case, I Fonbl. Eq. 270. 282.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Under what denomination have the law, writers
classed it ? is the-question. If actual, then we say
Wells had actual notice. If constructive, then he
show
had only_ constructive notice. We have only to
Wells had such notice as the law charges him with,
to avoid the danger of sanctioning fraud, and to close
the avenues of injustice, and fraudulent speculation.
According to the opposite argument, a suit pending,
or a register of a deed, are notice in fact. They are.
facts of record, and notice to all persons in the same
community; but we must be permitted to disbelieve
that every person has seen them in fact, and, therefore, knows what they contain. Yet every person is
bound by this knowledge, because they are made
public, and accessible to all : constructive knowledge
or notice, being by the law charged upon the party,
because he might have known the law having done
its part by makingsuch public record, and declaring
all persons bound by it, whether they know it or not.
It is a well established principle, that the defendant
must unequivocally deny alfnotice, even though it
be not charged, and every 'ict and circumstance from
which it caii be inferred, in order to be considered a
bonafide purchaser.o This the defendant, Wells, has
ffdt donb. The case of Taylor v. M'Donald's heirs,'
is not analogeus; as there the lands never were included in the county where the deed was recorded;
and the question was upon the effect of the deed at.
law.
Frost -T.,
a Frost v. Beekman, I Johns. Ch. Rep. 302.
155.
Ch.
Rep..
v.
Finster,
2
Johns.
566.
Alurray
Beekman, lb.
b 2 Bibb, 420.

485
1819.
Astor

v.

Wells.

6CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT
1819.
A
Wells.

,farck

I0tA.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion ,.ofthe
Court. The questions in this case are partly-of law,

partly-of fact. The bill charges the defendant with
express notice of the complainant's previous' mortgage, and with holding ,the land purchased under a

secret trust for the legal representatives of Dorhman,
the mortgagor. Both these facts the answer de,hies; and as there is no evidence to sustain them,.they must be put out of tie case.
The bill then proposes to affect the defendant,
Wells, with constructive notice; and if it fails there,
then to set aside the deed to Wells as absolutely void
under the express provision of a law of the State of
Ohio.
Obadiah Jennings, who drew the mortgage from
Dorhman to Wells, was fully apprised of the existence of Astor's mortgage, and acted in conceit with
Dorhman expressly to defeat Asior's prior lien, and
give precedence to Wells. The advantage of which
they proposed to avail themselves for this purpose,
was a supposed- mistake committed by Astor as to
the legal office for recording his deed. The land
was originally comprised within the limits of Jefferson county. But before the recording of the deed,
the county of Tuscarawas was taken off from Jefferson, and the land lay in that part of Jefferson which
thus became Tuscarawas county. The law of
Ohio requires that the recording shall take place in
The recorA-the County in which the land lies.
e a recording un 7
The first question
ded
in Jefferq e t o is, was this a legal
did
so county
not preserveit
priori- der
itslegal
t, or give
equty
reconstructive.
Vtotice.

the laws of Ohio, so as to preserve the priority

Which dates gave to Astor ? The office of Jefferson

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ia.
county was the legal office at the time of executing
the deed: did it continue to be so at the time of reV.
cording it ? This can only be decided by considerWells.
to
notice
give
to
was
It
law.'
the
*of
object
ing the
subsequent, purchasers-to place at their command
the means of investigation, to which, if they did not
resort, they had only to blame their own indolence
or folly. But no one in search of such information
respecting lands situate in 'uscarawas county, would
be expected to search the records of Jefferson subsequent to the. date of the separation. He would naturally refer to the records of the new county to its
origin, and from that time pursue his inquiries among,
the records of the county in which it was originally
comprised. And, therefore, we are of opinion, that
the recording of Astor's deed was not sufficient,
either to preserve its legal priority, or give it the equity resulting from constructive notice.
sr,
Noicisnotice
But it is contended, that Jennings was the mutual
aget,
agent of both mortgagor and mortgiigee in the crea-

Zo thtrincl.
pal; but in thi,
no proo
aa-.
Jennings
that

tion of Wells' mortgage, and, therefore, the
• notice to
a eot
Jennings was notice to Wells. Here, again, the com- ofwasthethedfnd.
plainant's case is unsupported by the evidence. On ant, Wells.
the law there could be no doubt, if the facts were
such as the complainant contends. But it is positively denied both by Wells and Jennings; and if
Jennings was the agent of Dorhman only, his knowledge could produce no other effect on the rightsZDof The'deed
Th-de~dto
concealed in the breast of the d-feadant,
Wells than if it had been"Wells,
almade
though
the
in
question
final
to" defrauda
Dorhman. And this leads to the
bona
made to abeing
case. As the deed really was "made" to defraud creditor,
wipurchaser
laws
the
under
alone,
Astor, does that circumstance
was vaid.

488

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
t
M'A'rthur

v.

Browder.

of Ohio, destroy its validity, without reference to the
b
knowledge or connivance of the mortgagee.

And

this again must be decided by referring to the object
of the law. The words of the statute would literally embrace th& case. But who are the objects of
the law ? Not creditors only, but subsequent purchasers. And to give it such a construction as would
expose a bona fina purchaser without notice to imposition, in order to protect creditors, could never
comport with the intent of the law.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that there is
no error in the decree below, and that the same be
affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'ARTHUR v. BROWDER.
The rule which prevails in Kentucky and Ohio, as to land titles, is,
that, at law, the patent is the foundation of title, and neither party
can bring his entry. before the Court: tut a junior patentee, claiming under an elder entry, may, in Chancery, support his equitable
title.
A description which will identify the lands is all that is necessary to
'the validity of a grant: but the law requires that an entry should
be made withsuch certainty, that subsequent purchasers may be.
enabled to locate the adjacent residuum.
An entry for 1,000 acres of land in Ohio, on Deer creek," beginning.
where the upper line of Ralph Morgan's entry crosses the creek,.
running with Morgan's line on each side of the creek 400 poles,

