OF. THE UNITED STATES.

to the Courts a power to punish those who are concerned in such violations. But in the absence of
every act of Congress in relation to this matter, the
Court would feel no difficulty in pronouncing the
conduct here complained of, an abuse of the neutrality of the United States ; and although, in such case,
the offender could not be punished, the former
owner would, nevertheless, be entitled to restitution.
Nor is our opinion confinet to the single act"of an
illegal enlistment of men, which is the only fact
proved in this case ; for we have no hesitation in saying, that for any of the other violations of our neutrality alleged in the libel, if they had been proved,
the Spanish owner would have been equally entitled
to restitution.
Sentence affirmed, with costs.

(PRACTICE.)

MILLER

(for. the use of the United States) v. NiCHOLLS.

Where a cause, is br6ught to this Court, by writ of error, or appeal,
from the highest Court of law or equity of a Statej under the 2sth.
section *of the Judiciary Act of 1789, C.20., upon the ground, that
the validity of a statute of the United States *as drawn in question,
and that the decision of the State Court was against its validity, 4c.
or that the validity bf a statute, of the. State was drawn.in question,
as Irepugnant to the constitution of the United States, and the 'de.cision was in favour of its validity; it must appear, from the record,
that the. act of Congress,.or the constitutionality of the State'law
was drawn into question.
But it is not required, that the record should, ia terms, state a mispon-

1819.
V.

312
1B19.
Miller
V.
Nicholls.

CASES IN TRlE SUPREME COURT
struction of the act of Congress, or. that it was drawn into question.,
It is sufficient to give this Cotirt jurisdiction of the cause, that the
record should sbow',that an. act of Congress was applicable to the

case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Penn-

-syl vania.
The case agreed in the Court below, stated, that
William Nicholls, collector, &c. being indebted to
the United States of America, on the 9th of June,
1798, executed a mortgage to Henry Miller,.for the
use of the United States, in the sum of 59,444 dollars, conditioned for the payment of 29,271 dollars,
payable, 9,757 dollars on or before the Ist of January, 1799; 9,757 dollars on or before th. 9th of
June, 1799 ; and 9,757 dollars on or before the 9th
of September, 1799. A seziefacias wa! issued upon
the said mortgage, returnable to September term of
the said Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,'in-.the year
1800, and judgment thereupon entered up, in the
said Supreme Court, on the 6th of March, 1802, and
thereupon a levarifacias issued, and was levid upon
the property of the said William Nicholls, and the
same being sold to the. highest bidder, for ,the sum of
14,530 dollars, the same was brought into Court,
and is now deposited in-the hands of the prothonotary of said Court, subject to the orders of the same
Court. That, on the 22d of December, 1797, the
accounts of the said William Nicholls with the commonwealth of Pennsylvqni4 Were settled by the
Comptroller and Register General of the Commonwealth. (Prout account and settlement.) That an
appeal from said settlement was filed in the office of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the prothonotary.of the said Supremte Court, on thb
6th day of March, 1798, and judgment thereupon'
enteied in favour of the commonwealth against the
saidWilliam Nicholls, in the said Supreme Court,
on the 6th Of September, 1798, for the sum of 9,987
dollars and 15 cents.
Upon. the preceding statement, the following question is submitted to the consideration of the Court:
Whether the said settlement of the said public accounts of the said William Nicholls, as aforesaid, on
the 22d. of December, 1797, was, and is,. a lien, from
the date thereof, uponl the real estate of the said William Nicholls, and which has since been sold as
aforesaid.
A. J. DALLAs,for the United States.
J. B. M'KEANfor the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
December 2d, 1803.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, on the 21st
of March, 1805, on motion of Mr. M'Kean, Attorney
General of the said Commonwealth, made a rule on
the plaintiff in error, to show cause why the amount
of the debt due to the said Commonwealth should
not be taken out of Court.' And on the 22d of
March, 1805, Alexander James Dallas, the Attorney
of the; Ufilited States for the district of Pennsylvania,
came into Court and suggested," that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania ought not to be. permitted to
have and receive the money levied and produced by
virtue of the execution in the suit, -because the said
VOL. IV.

40

.313
1819.

Mif 6.
i.chl.

CASES'IN THE SUPREME COURT

314
1819.
Miller

v.

Nieholls.

Attorney, on behalf of the United States, saith, that
as well by virtue of the said execution, as of divers
acts of Congress, and particularly of an act of Con-

gress, entitled 'an act to provide more effectually for
the settlement Qf accounts between the United States
and receivers of public moneys,' approved the 3d of
March, 1797, the said United States are entitled to
have and receive the money aforesaid, and not the
.said Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

A. J.

DALLAS."

*The record then proceeds as follows: "And now,
.to witr this 13th day of September, 1805, the motion of the Attoriey Genieral',to take' the money out
of Court, was granted by the unanimous opinion of,
the Court0'
The proceedings were afterwards brought before
this Court by writ of error.
.March 9.

Mr. .Sergeant,for'the defendant in error, moved to
dismiss the writ of error in this cause, for 'want of
jurisdiction, under the judiciary act of the 24th of
September, 1789, c. 20. s. 25. ; it no where appearing upon the face of the ,record, that any question'
arose respecting the validity, of any treaty or statute
of the United States, or of any statute of the State,.
upon the ground of its repugnancy to the constitution or laws of the United States.a
.The Attorney General, contra.
a Martin v.. Hunter's
lidge, 2 Wheat. 363.

Lessee, I Wheat. 304. Inglee v. Coo-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi-

315

1819..
Suin
the
decided
question
The
nion of the Court.
S Miller
v.
preme Court for the State of Pennsylvania respected only the construction of a law of tfiat State. It Nicholls.
does not appear, from the record, that either the constitutionality of the law of Pennsylvania, or any act
of Congress was drawn into question.
It would not be required, that the record should,
in terms, state a misconstruction of an act of Congress, or that an. act of Congress was drawn into
question. It would have been sufficient-to give this
Court jurisdiction of the cause, that the record
should show that an act of Congress was applicable
to the case. That is not shown by this record. The
act of Congress which is supposed to have been disregarded, and which, probably, was disregarded by
the State Court, is that which gives'the United
States priority in cases of insolvency. Had the fact
of insolvency appeared upon the record, that would
have enabled this Court to revise the judgment of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. But that fact
does not appear. No other question is presented,
than the correctness of the decision of the State
Court, according, to the laws of Pennsylvania, and
that is a question over which this Court can take no
jurisdiction.
The writ of error must be dismissed.

Writ of error dismissed.

