CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Sturges
V.

Crowniashield.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

STURGE3 V.

LAW.)

CROWNINMSIIELD.

Since the adoption of the constitution of the United States, a State
has authority to pass a bankrupt law, provided such law does not
impair the obligation of contractia, within the meaning of the constitution, art. 1. s. 10. and provided there be no act of Congress
in force to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting
with such law.
The act of the legislature of the State of New-York, passed on the 3d
of April, 1811, (which not only liberates the person of the debtor,
but discharges him from all liability for any debt contracted previvious to his discharge, on his surrendering his property in the manner it prescribes,) so far as it attempts to discharge the contract, is a
hw impairing the obligation of contracts within the meaning of the
constitution of the United States, and is not a good plea in bar of
an action brought upon such contract.

THIs was an action of assumpsit brought in the

Circuit Court of Massachusetts, against the defend:
ant, as the maker of two promissory notes, both dated
at New-York, on the 22d. of March, 1811, for the
sum of 771 dollars and 86 cents each, and payable
to the plaintiff one on the 1st of August, and the
other on the 15th of August, 1811, :The defendant
'pleaded his discharge under " An act for the benefit
of insolvent debtors and their creditors," passed by
the legislature' of New-York, the 3d day of April,
1811. After stating the provisions of the said act,
the defendant's plea averred his compliance with
them, and that he was discharged, and a 'certificate
given to him the fifteenth day of February, 1812.

OF THE UNITED 8TATES.

To this plea there was a general demurrer and join1819.
der. At the October term of the Circuit Court, ktuge
Sturges
v.
1817, the cause came on to be argued and heard on
.
Crowniathe said demurrer, and the following questions aroseo shiem.
to wit:

1. Whether, since the adoption of the constitution
of the United States, any State has authority to pass
a bankrupt law, or whether the power is exclusively
vested in the Congress of the United States ?
.2. Whether the Act of New-York, passed the
third day of April, 181 , and stated in ihe plea in
this case, is a bankrupt act, within the meaning- of
the constitution of the United States ?
S. Whether the act aforesaid is an act or law impairing the obligation of contracts, within the meaning of the constitution of the United States ?
4. Whether the plea is a good and sufficient bar of
the plaintiff's action.
And after hearing counsel upon the questions, the
judges of the Circuit Court were opposed in opinion
thereupon; and upon motion of the plaintiff's counsel, the questions were certified to the Supreme Court,
foi their final decision.
Mr. Daggett, for the plaintiff, argued, 1. That
since the adoption of the constitution, no State has
authority to pass a bankrupt law, but that the power
is exclusively vested in Congress. The 8th section of
the 1st article of the constitution is wholly'employed
in giving powers to Congress. Those powers had
hitherto been in the State Legislatures or in the people. The people now thought fit to vest them in Con-

Feb. SM.

1CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.12&
1811.
Sturges

v.

Crownin-

gress. The effect of thus giving'them to Congress
a be fairly inferred from the language of the 10th
article of the 'amendments to the constitution, which
declares, that"5 the powers, not delegated to the Uni-'

Smay

ted States by the constitution, nor prohibited by it to
the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or
'tothe people.." The expression is in the disjunctive;
not delegated nor' prohibited. The inference is,
therefore, fair, that if a power is delegated, or prohibited, *itis not reserved. Every. power given by
the constitution, unless limited,, is entire, exclusive,
and supreme. The national authority over subjects
placed under its control, is absolutely sovereign;
and a sovereign power over the same 8ubject cannot
co-exist in two, independent legislatures. Uniform.
laws on the subject of bankruptcies are contemplated
in the constitution. The laws of the different States
must be, of course, multiform; and, therefore; not
warranted by the constitution. The same clause
which provides for the establishment of uniform
laws on the subject of bankruptcies, provides also
for " a uniform rule of naturalization." In the first
declared, that " duclause of the same section, it -is
ties, imposts, and excises, shall be uniform throughout
the United States'" and in the 9th section it is further
declared, that no preference shall be given by any
regulation of commerce or revenue to the ports of one
State 'over those of another." In the three last cases,
itlis admitted, that Congress alone can legislate ;,and
Iy the same reasoning, Congress only can make. laws
ttis a national ,sub-onthe subject of bankuptcies.
ject; and therefore the.,power over it is in the .pa-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tional government. Before the adoption of the constitution, partial laws were enacted by the States on
the subject of foreign commerce, of the commerce.
•
between the States, of the circulating medium, and
respecting the collection of debts.' These laws had
created great embarrassments, and seriously affected
public and private credit. One strong reason for a
national constitution was, that thege alarming evils
might be corrected. The constitution provides this
remedy. It takes from the States the power of re.gulating commerce, the power of coining money,
and of regulating its value, or the value of foreign
coin. , It prohibits, in terms, the issuing of paper
money, the making any thing but gold and silver a
tender in the payment of debts. It provides for the
establishment of national Courts, extends the judicial
power to controversies between citizens of different
States, and between the, citizens of the respective
States and foreign subjects or citizens : and yet it is
urged, that it leaves in the States the power of making laws on the subject of bankruptcies, whereby contracts may be destroyed. If the convention
had intended that Congress and the State legislatures
might legislate on this subject, we should expect to
see the powers of these respective sovereignties expressed, and a definition of them, at least, attempted.
We might expect this, because, in several cases in the
constitution, it appears that this. course had been pur'sued. Section 4. art. 1., sect. 8. art. 1. compared
,with sect. 2. art. 2., sect. 9. art. 1., sect. 10. art. 1.,
sect. 1. art. 2., sect. 3. art. 4., and art. 5., furnish
instances of powers of this character. It is said,

o111-95
1819.
Sturges

Crownin-

shield.

126
1819.
Sturges

CASES IN THP SUPREME COURT

question is not declared to beexthat the power inclusive in Congress.: We answer, nor is any power.

.IC . so declared, except that of legislating for the ten
miles square, the seat of government. , It is said,
WOMld,
again, that the exercise of this power is not prohibited to the States. Nor is the power to-provide for
the punishment of piracy and other crimes committed
on the high seas.; nor of making a rule'of naturalization ; nor Of the regulating the value of' coin ; nor
of securing to authors and inventors the exclusive.
right to their writings and disooveries, -prohibited.
Yet who doubts that legislation by the States on
those subjects is 'opposed to the spirit of the constitution ? It is also objectedl that Congress are vested
with the power, of laying and. collecting taxes; and
yet, this power is rightfully exercised by the States.
This is admitted, and we contend, that comparing
the 8th and 10th sections of art. 1. there is a strong
implication of a reservation of power, in this case, to
the States.. -in the 8th section, granting powers to
Congress, taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, are spe-cified. In.'the 10th, section, prohibiting the exercise
of powers by the States, the word taxes isomitted',
undoubtedly by design. Besides, there is no incompatibility in the exercise of this power by the two.sove.
reignties; and we concede that, upon the true principles of the constitution,: the powers not prohibited to
the States, nor in their nature exclusive, sti.ll remain in
the States.' 'It will' be argued, that, if Congress. declines to exe~cise the poWer- of making laws on. the
subjects of bankruptcies, the States may exercise
'But we contend, that' the whole subject is en
it...

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-trusted to the national legislature ; and if k declines
to establish a law, it is to be considered as a, declaration, thatit is unfit that Such a law should exist:

.
Sturges
e
s.tV&

and -much stronger is the inference, if, as in 1805, Crownin

Congress repeal such a law. It will, perhaps, be
asked, if this construction of the constitution be correct, how it is, that so many States, since the adoption of the constitution, have passed laws on the
subject of bankruptcies. On examination, it will
appear, that no acts, properly called bankrupt laws,
have been passed in more than four or five of the
States. There are, indeed, insolvent laws, by which
tho bodies of debtors, in one form or another, are exempted from imprisonment, in nearly all the States.
Rhode Island had an act in existence, when the constitution was adopted, by which the debtor might,
on application to the legislature, be discharged from
his debts. In New-York, a law of the same character
has been in operation since the year 1755, and also
in Maryland, for a long period. In Pennsylvania, a
bankrupt law operating only in the city and county of
Philadelphia, existed for two or three years; 'and in
Connecticut, the legislature has often granted a special act of bankruptcy on applications of individuals.
But in all the other States, their laws on this subject
have been framed with reference to the exemption of
the body from imprisonment, and not to the dischage
of the contract. In Massachusetts the idea has prevailed so extensively.that the power of Congress is
exclusive, that no bankrupt law was ever passed by
the legislature of that State.a It cannot be denied,
a Blanhard v. Russell, 13 Mass. R. 1.

".it has often been

observed by those who advoeated a bankrupt law in this corn-.

128

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

Sturges

V.

crownishield.

that if Congress exercise this power, the States are
devested of 'it. But what species of power is'this ?
Laws madq by independent legislatures,- expireby
their own limitation or are repealed by the authority
which enacted them. Here, however, is a novel
method of, destroying laws. They are not repealed;
do not cease by their own limitation'; bnt are suspended by" the interference of another independent
legislature. It is difficult, upon this' construction, to
define this power of the States.
2. The act of the State of New-York, pleaded in
this cause, is a bankrupt law within the meiining of
the constitution of the United States. By this law,
on the application of any person imprisoned or prosecuted for a debt; or, on the application of any creditor of a debtor imp'risoned, or against whom an
execution againdst his goods and'chattels hath been remoiwealth, with a view to the relief of an unfortunate class, of
debtors from existing embarrassments, that the object of the
framers, of the constitution, in this prohibition upon the States,
was to prevent tender laws and other expedients of a like
nature, which had been resorted 'to in some.of the States, to
the great prejudice of creditors.; and that this article of the
constitution ought to be construed with reference to .such intention. But the words are too imperative to, be evaded.,
" No State shall emit bills of credit, make any thing but gold
and silver a tender in payment of debts, pass any bill of 4ttainder, ex'post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts." ' It would be contrary to all rules of construction to
limit this latter, clause of the constitution to a subject which
is expressly prohibited in )a pteceding 'sentence. Full operation ought to be given to the words of an instrument' so deliberately and cautiously made as was the constitution of the
United 5tates.?

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
turned unsatisfied, he having sixty days notice thereof, proceedings may be had before certain tribunals Sfurges
v.
by the act established, whereby all his property may Cr~wabe taken and divided among his-creditors, and he li- shiead,
berated from imprisonment, and dischazged from all
debts. It will be insisted, in support of the plea,
that this law is an insolvent law. What is an insolvent law ? Insolvent laws are derived from the cessio
bonorum of the Roman law, and discharge the person, and not the future acquisitions of the debtor. A
judgment, assignment, or cession, underthatlaw* does
not extinguish the right of action; it has no other effect than to release from imprisonment. A bankrupt
law establishes a system for a complete discharge of
insolvent debtors. An insolvent law is an act'occasionably passed for the relief of the body of the
debtor. A bankrupt law, as distinguished from art
insolvent law, is a general law, by which all the property of the debtor is taken and divided dimong his
creditors, and he discharged from his debts, and
made, as it is sometimes said, a new man. But if
this be not a bankrupt law, then it may remain in
force if Congress should exercise its power. Would
then the laws on the subject of bankruptcy be unifodrm ? It is impossible to believe, that the Convention meditated such an absurdity. On this point the
cases are numerous and strong. In Golden v. Prince,a
the law of Pennsylvania, which was similar to that of
New-York, was treated, both by the bench and bar,
as a bankrupt law. In Blanchard v. Russellb the
statute now pleaded, was declared by the Supreme
a 5 Hall's Law Journ. 502.
VOL. IV.

b 13 Mass. Rep. 1.
17

130

CASES IN THE SUPREmE COUJRT

1819.

"Sturges
v.
crownin-b
sbiele

.

Court of Massachusetts, to be a bankrupt law. Ir
Smith v. Buchanana the law of Maryland was so
considered by the English Court of K. B. In Proctor v. Moore, a special act of the legislature of Connecticut, is considered as a bankrupt law by the Supreme Court of Massachusett& In the case of
Blanchard v. Russell, Mr. Chief Justice Parker says,
speaking of the statute now in question, " The
law under which the debtor claims to be discharged,
is a general law, intended to affect all the citizens
of the State of New-York, at least, and it provides
a system by which an insolvent debtor may, upon
his own application, or upon petition of any of his
creditors, be holden to surrender all his property, and
be discharged from all his debts. It is, therefore, a
bankrupt law, and to be distinguished frgm insolvent
laws, technically so called." ' But this is said not
to be a bankrupt law, because such laws apply only
to traders, and this embraces every debtor. The first
English bankrupt statute, that of Henry VIII. c. 1.
makes a general provision ; and this is declared to be
the foundation of the whole system. It is true, by
various subsequent statutes, it was limited i but the
construction now given to those, statutes embraces
various descriptions of persons, who are not merchants or traders. it is not, 'therefore, an essential
feature of a law on the subject of bankruptcies that
it should extend to traders only. It is further urged,
that by the English bankrupt laws, an act of bankruptcy devests the debtor of his property, and the
a I East, 6.

b 1 Mass. Rep. 198.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

proceedings always originate with-the creditot. By
the 16th section of the law under consideration, the
creditor may originate proceedings, under certain
circumstances ; and all grants and dispositions of property made after a certain time are declared void.
'What constitutes this, and other similar laws, bankrupt laws, -is, that thereby an absolute discharge of
the body of the debtor and his fiture acquisitions of
property is obtained. In this it differs from insolvent
laws.
3. This act is a law impairing the obligation of contracts, and, therefore, unconstitutional and void. A
contract is an agreement to do, or not to do, a: particular thing. Its obligation binds the parties to do, or
notto do, the thing agreed to be done, or not done,
and in the manner stipulated. Whatever relieves.
either party from the performance of the contract in
whole-or in part, impairs its obligation. It is, however, said, that if the contract is made in the State
where such law exists, the parties have reference to
it, and it is a part of their contract. This is a li tio principii. If the act be unconstitutional and
void, the parties regarded it as such, and, of course,.
did not look to it as binding. A law, declaring that
d~ltors might be discharged on paying half the sum
due, or that the creditor might recover double the
sum due, are alike void ; or else, all contracts are at
the mercy of the Legislature. Legislatures act
within the limits of their powers, only when they
establish laws to enable parties to enforce contracts;
lavs to afford redress to the injured agakist negligence
and fraud iq not performing engagements: and

1819:
S
Sres
Crownin-

shielA&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1s1.

%%d
Sturges

.V.

Crownin.
shield.

Courts act within their proper sphere, when they
confine themselves to the exposition of those con-

tracts, and giving efficacy to the laws.
4. But even admitting-this act to be constitutional as to all contracts made after it was passed, it
was clearly unconstitutional and void as to all 'contracts then existing, as it was an act or law impairing
their obligation. The first impression of any man,
learned or- unlearned, is, that a law which discharges
a contract, without an entire performance of it, impairs its obligation. A law which declares, that a
bond given for the payment of 1000 dollars may be
cancelled, and the obligor freed from ail liability to
suit thereon, upon the payment of 500 dollars, certainly materially affects the obligation of the contract, and impairs it. It will be urged, however, that
though the words in the constitution are broad
enough to include the case, yet they are to be construed according to the intent of the framers, and
that the prohibition of such laws as that in question
was not intended by the constitution. Surely, language here, as every where else, is to be understood
according to its import. If by a law impairing the
obligation of contracts, we are not necessarily to understand a, law relieving either of the contracting
parties from the performance of any part, or the whole
of the stipulations, into which he has entered, we
ask forn definition of such law. In the case before the
Court, it appears, that the defendant, in March, 1811,
in New-York, gave to the plaintiff his promissory
note, payable in August, 1811, for 771 dollars, and 86
cents. In April, 181 lthe law under consideration was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

passed, and thereby the legislature of New-York declare virtually, that if the defendant shall deliver up.
all his property for the benefit of all his creditors,
and that property shall be sufficient to pay ever so
small a proportion of his debts, the plaintiff shall
never thereafter prosecute the defendant for the remaining sum, but that the contract shall be discharged.
The language of the constitution expressly forbade
the legislature from making such law. The prohibition is plain and unequivocal-needs no comment,
and is susceptible of no misinterpretation. And why
should we seek to affix any other than their natural
meaning to the terms used ? It is certainly a sound
rule not to attempt an interpretation of that which is
plain, and requires no interpretation. This is the
rule in relation to treaties and public conventions '
and surely is applicable to a constitution where
every
word and sentence was the subject of critical examination, and great deliberation. Nor is it admitted, that the Convention in their prohibition did not
look directly to a law of this nature. It was notorious, that the States had emitted paper money, and
made it a tender; had compelled creditors to receive
payment of debts due to them in various articles of
property of inadequate value; had allowed debts to
be paid by instalments, and prohibited a recovery of
the interest. All these evils, so destructive of public
and private faith, and so embarrassing to commerce,
the Convention intended, doubtless, to prevent in future. The language employed speaks only of paper
aVaud. 1. 2. c. 17. q. 2AS-.

,138
1819.
Sturges

V.

shien.

134
1819.
Sturges
,,.
Crowninsheld.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

money and tender laws, by a particular description.
Was nothing else intended ? Why then add the comprehensive words " or law impairing the obligation
of contracts?" Its language, taken in connection
with the subject, is equivalent to this declaration:
" The State governments have abused their power.
They shall no more interfere between debtor and
creditor. They shall make no law whatsoever impairing the obligation of contracts." In Golden v.
Prince, and Blanchard v. Russell,' already cited, the
Circuit Court in Pennsylvania, and the Supreme
Court of Massachusetts, expressly adopt this construction of the constitution. In the last case, Mr.
Chief Justice Parker says, " A law made after the
existence of a contract, which alters the terms of it
by rendering it less beneficial to the creditor, or by
defeating any of the terms which the parties had
agreed upon, essentially impairs its obligation, and,
for Aught we see, is a direct violation of the constitution of the United States." The same doctrine is also
recognized by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts,
in Call v. Hagger,c by Mr. Justice (now Chancellor)
Kent, in Holmes v. Lansing,' and by the Supreme
Court of North Carolina, in Crittenden v. Jones.,
5. This act is retrospective, , and, theref6re, void.
The act was passed after the note was made.
facto laws which regard crimes, are not only declared
void by the constitution, but they are opposed to common right. The same is true of retrospective laws
*Expost

a 65Hall's Law Journ. 502.
e 8 Mass. Rep. 4 3.
e 5 Hall's Law Journ. 520.

b 13 Mass. Rep. 1.
d 3 Johns. Cas. 73.

135

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in civil matters. They are not made to enforce, but
~Sturges
to violate contracts;
and are, therefore, considered
repugnant to natural justice. In the case of the So-

Crownin-

ciety for propagating the Gospel, &c. v. Wheeler,'

shield.

Mr. Justice Story says, " upon principle, every
statute which takes away or impairs a vested right
acquired under existing laws, or creates a new obligation, imposes a new duty, or attaches a new disability in respect to transactions or considerations
already past, must be deemed retrospective."- In
Dash v. Van Kleeck,b the Supreme Court of NewYork says, "an act of the legislature is not to be construed to operate restrospectively, so as to take away
a vested right. It is a principle of universal jurisprudence, that laws, civil or criminal, must be prospective, and cannot have a retrospective effect."
Mr. h1unter, contra, -stated, that before he pro
ceeded to the discussion of the question before the
Court, he would relieve himself, if not the Court,
from the pressure of an authority of the utmost respectability, which, if it stood single and unopposed,
would be irresistible. He referred to the case of
Golden v. Prince, decided by Mr. Justice Washington; but the truth is, that opinion was more conspicuous because it stood alone; no other. judge of this
Court, or of any.State Court, had so decided: but,
on the contrary, that opinion had been decided against
in several instances since its publication.c The couna 2 Gallis. 139.
b 7 Johns. Rep. 477.
c Hannay v. Jacobs, ruled by Mr. Justice Jo'bnson, in the
Circuit .Coqrt of South Carolina. Adams et ti. r.,
Story:de-

10i9.
S

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

1
Stur.es
Crownin-

sel also referred to the earlier opinions on the ques
tion; to the discussion and decisions, which took place
in the legislature of Maryland, soon after the adoption
of the constitution, as mentioned by Mr. Chief Justice

shield.

Tilghman, in his opinion in Mr. Hall's Law Journal.9 To a decision in Connecticut, in 1794, a MS.
statement of which had been furnished him by an
eminent lawyer of that State, and the accuracy of
n
which would be readily acknowledged. "O e Hunt
ington petitioned the General Assembly for a special
act of insolvency.' While the petition was pending,
he prayed for a writ of protection. His creditors
directed the sheriff to attach his body, and commit
him to prison, on the ground that the assembly had
no power of granting his petition, and, of course. the
writ of protection was void. The sheriff accordingly committed him. Huntington then prayed for a
habeas corpus from the assembly, which was granted,
commanding the sheriff to release him, which was
done. The creditors brought an action against the
sherifft, before the Circuit Court, in which it was determined by Mr. Justice Chace, that a State had the
-right of passing special insolvent acts without infringing the constitution." In the Circuit Court of Rhode
Island, several cases had occured about the same period. In Murray et al. v. Thurber, a discharge under
the insolvent law of Rhode Island was pleaded in
termined by Mr. Justice Livingston, in the Circuit Court of
New-York.

6 Hall's .m. Law Journ.

Blanchard v. Russel,

13 Mass. Rep. 1.Farmers' & Mechanics' Bank v. Smith, 6 Hall'e
Am. Law Journ. 547.

a 6 Hall's 1m. Law Journal.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

bar; and upon demurrer, and after argument, principally upon the constitutionality
•
-of the law,judgment
was given by Mr. Justice Wilson, in favour of the
plea. In 1798, the case of Cock and Townsend v.
Clarke and Burges, occurred. This was an action
,brought by the plaintiffs, citizens of New-York,
against the defendants, citizens of Rhode Island,
on two promissory notes. After several continuances,
the defendants pleaded in bar to the action, since the
last continuance, their discharge under the insolvent
law of Rhode Island ; and upon a general demurrer,
the constitutionality of the law was elaborately argued. Every leading principle laid down in the decision of Golden v. Prince, was suggested by the
plaintiff's counsel ; but they were overruled in an
elaborate opinion of Mr. Chief Justice Ellsworth.
Other cases had occured in the same State, but the
most important was one, the name of which could
not be recollected, determined by Mr. Chief Justice
Jay, in his first circuit in Rhode Island, very soon after
that State had adopted the constitution. The defendant pleaded a license or indulgence granted
him, by a law of the legislature of Rhode Island,
exempting him for a certain number of years from
the payment of his. debts, and suits, &c. The argument principally turned upon the' proper construetion of that clause in the constitution, which prohibits the State legislatures from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts. The Chief Justice Went fully into the principle ; admitted the power
of the State to pass insolvent laws, from the power
inherent in every community to give relief to disVoL.. IV

1819.
Sturges

V.
Crowninshield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tress, and to protect its citizens from perpetual impri~ sonment; from the impogsibility of compelling paySturges
V.
ment where there was no property; from the right
Crowninof the States to pass insolvent laws as they had alshield,
ways previously done, as they had only granted to
the United States the power of passing bankrupt
laws, which were very different in his conception from
insolvent laws. He stated it as his opinion, that,
ty an insolvent law, the contract was not, in the sense
of the constitution, impaired. But the practice of
suspending the collection of debts, of granting licenses and indulgences against the consent of the creditor, of impairing the obligation of a contract as to
the important point of time when a debt by its terms
was payable, and denying all remedy by action, merely
for the convenience of the debtor, when his ability
was confessed, he strongly and severely 'reprehended,
as an infraction of the constitutional injunction. The
accuracy of this statement of the case is verified by
the effects. The docket of the legislature of Rhode
Island was immediately cleared of every petition
praying for time, licenses, indulgences, &c.; and no
one has ever since been sustained. But they have
continued to act, as heretofore, upon their insolvent
system.,
1. It is, however, admitted, that _this question has
not been determined by the Supreme Court, sitting as
such; and we are bound to inquire whether these decisions of its former illustrious members were founded
in error, and whether they cannot 'be supported by
reasoning. On the other side it is said, in the first place,
that Congress have power to pass uniform laws on the
1819.

OF THE UNITED'STATES.

subject of bankruptcy throughout the United States.
That if an unqualified power-be granted
to a govern~Stu
ment to do a particular act, the whole of that power is
disposed of, and not a part of it; consequently, that no
power over the same subject remains with those who
made the grant, either to exercise it themselves, or to
part with it to any other authority. If the principle
were applicable to the subject, and correct in its hypothesis, it would be a truism Which nobody would
be disposed to dispute. But if it be not applicable
to the subject, and if the hypothesis is not previously
proved, it is apetitio principii; a gratuitous assumption of that which is to be proved. The test of this
principle consists, in the-first place, in the inqui.y,
what was the particular act, to do which, a power.,
an unqualified power, was granted? It was a power
to pass uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies
throughout the union ; not on the subject of insolvencies in the particular States. It is to pass bankrupt, not insolvent laws. No two things are more
clearly distinguishable; they mean, and always have
meant, in English and 'American jurisprudence, different things. Undoubtedly they are analogous sub:
jects ; but nullum simile est idem. In speaking of
the state of suspension or denial of payment, we say,
bankrupt; that is, a merchant who, committing certain acts, gives evidence that he is criminally disinclined to pay, and who may nevertheless not be insolvent : or, we say, an insolvent; any man who is
at once poor and in prison ; who surrenders all he
has ; pays as far as he can; and who, from the absolute want of means, is physically incompetent to pay

1819.
rge s

V.
CrowniasAield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

more.4

We refer to terms in the English language,

that have been contradistinguished in their use, so
Sturges
far as we can trace them, for nearly three centuries.
v.
Both the terms, bankrupt and insolvent, are familiar
Crowninshield.
V

in the law of England-; and it will be conceded, that
whenever a term or phrase is introduced, without
comment or explanation, into our constitution or our
statutes, every question respecting the meaning of
that term or phrase, must be decided by a reference
to that code from whence it was drawn. In the earliest times, neither bankruptcy nor insolvency were
subjects of English jurisprudence. Of the general
code of the primordial common law, they formed no
part, for the plain reason, that anciently imprisonment
for debt, which is now the main proof of bankruptcy. and consummation of insolvency, was unknown
to the common law. It was even against Magna
Charta.1 The nature of the population of England
in feudal times, developes the cause. The different
counties of England were held by great lords; the
greater part of the population were their villeins; commerce hardly existed; contracts were unfrequent.
The principal contracts that existed were with the lords
and their bailiffs, the leviers of their fines and amercements,:receivers of their rents and money, and disbursers of their revenues. In the year 1267, imprisonment for debt was first given against the bailiffs,
by the statute of Marilbridge, 52 Hen. III. c. 23.c
The statute of Acton Burnel, 11 Edw. -L, gave the
a Hassels v. Simpson, Dougl 92. note.
b- Burgess on Insolvency, 6. Co. Litt. 290. B.
e Burgess on Insolv. 18, 19. F. N. B. .Accompt, I17.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

first remedy to foreign merchants by imprisonment,
in 1283. The statute 13 Edw. I. c. 2. gave 'the same
remedy against servants, bailiffs, chamberlains, and
all manner of receivers. These instances show how
imprisonment for debt first commenced, how few
were at first included, and accounts for the non-existence of legal insolvency. The statute of 19 Hen.
VII. c. 9. which gave. like process in actions of the
case and debt, as in trespass, is the true. basis of the
right, or wrong, of general imprisonment. This statute, and the usurpations of the various courts, produced their natural effects. They filled the gaols of
England ,with prisoners for debt. This state of
things produced, sixty years afterwards, the statute
8 Eliz. c. 2. restricting the right of imprisonment,
and guarding against its abuses; but this was not
sufficient. She issued the proclamation of the 20th
of April, 1585, authorizing certain commissioners,
therein mentioned, to order and rompound controversies and causes.' This commission continued in
force until her death, and, according to the political
system of the times, had the force of law. James I.,
aided by the counsels and the pen of Lord Bacon,
on the 11th of November, 1618, issued a similar,
but enlarged, commission, in which the term insolvencyis expressly mentioned, and its nature described.,
Charles U., in 1630, issued a similar commission.'
a Burgess, 24. 27.
b Rymer's Fed. tom. 17. fol. 117. Burgess, 84.
Rot. Parl. 16 ,fac. I.
c Rymer's Fed. tom. 17. p. 116.
Burgess, 88.
d Burgess, 95.

1i89.
"Sturges

V.
Crownin,
shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME -COURT
1819.

Strge

Cie1d.

The first insolvent law, similar in language and design to these ordinances, and meant to supply their
place, was passed after the execution of Charles I.
by the republican parliament in 1660.a In the 43d
Charles II. the first great regular insolvent act was
made, the model of all that follow; its provisions
and language having been copied by the subsequent
parliaments in England, and by our colonial legislatures, with almost unvarying exactness. About
forty acts of insolvency have passed from that time
to the present in Great Britain ; until at length a regular system of insolvency is established ; and Courts
possessing a peculiar jurisdiction, clearly, and practically. contradistinguished from bankruptcy, decide
cases of insolvency in one room of Guildhall, while
commissioners of bankruptcy are deciding cases of
bankruptcy in another.' It appears, then, that insolvency is the creature of statute, and has been described, settled, and ascertained, in a course of centuries, by plain, positive, parliamentary enactments :
and this is likewise true of bankruptcies. In strict
chronology, the bankrupt laws existed first. The
first statute of bankruptcy was passed in 1542, the
34th of Henry VIII. ; but the 13th of Eliz. and the
21St of James 1. are the principal and all-important
statutes. These and others, amounting to fourteen
or fifteen different acts, continued down to Anne and
George III., form the present system of bankruptcy
a Scobell's Ordinances, 56. Burgess, 98.
b Burgess, 176. See the Report to the British House of

Commons on b ankruptcies and insolvencies, in 1817.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in England. Thus, while the ordinances of Elizabeth and James, and the various statutes, down to
the present times, were passed, expressly on the subject of insolvency, for the benefit of all poor prisoners
confined for delt, including all classes in society, the
parliament was, at the same time, passing statutes of
bankruptcy, maturing and accumulating that peculiar
code, confined as it was to merchants and traders
only." The distinction between bankyupt and insolvent laws was perfectly well known to our ancestors,
who, in their legislation and usages, have always considered insolvent as different from bankrupt laws. All
the colonies, in some shape or other, had insolvent
laws; few had bankrupt laws. In 1698, Massachusetts passed an insolvent law : that is, a law for the
relief of poor prisoners confined for debt.' In 1713,
that colony passed an act concerning bankrupts, and
for the relief of the creditors of such persons as
shall become bankrupts; this was a temporary law,
which failed in experiment, and expired in 1716.
By this historical deduction it is intended to prove,
that the particular act which the States granted to
Congress a power to pass, was one having reference
to ,bankruptcies; which meant something contradistinguished from insolvencies. It is not denied,
that insolvency, in its most comprehensive sense, is
a universal, of which bankruptcy is a parti,:ular;
but taking it in this sense, it is insisted, that the grant
a Burgess, 212. 2 Bl. Corn. 476. Christian'sjNote. 2 Wils.
172. Cooke's Binkr. Law, 42. Rees's Encyclop. Title Insolvency. 2 .Montefiore's Coin. and Law Diet. 3uo.
b aflass. Laws, 130. Lundon Edit.. 1724.

g19
Sturges

V.

Crowninshield.

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
-

V. .
Crowninohield.

to Congress narrows the universality of the previous
power of the States, only by excluding from it the
ancient, and welLunderstood, distinct matter of bankrupt laws. But it is in more exact conformity to
the facts, and, therefore, more precise language and
safer reasoning, to say, that modified as this matter
is, and has been for centuries in practice, they are
different things expressed by essentially different
terms. How has this subject been considered between the two constitutional parties, the Congress of
the United States, and the individual Statqs ? Surely,
they knew what the one granted, what the other received. The last have always asserted their power
of passing insolvent laws: The former have always
assented to the exercise of this power without the
smallest complaint of injury or usurpation. Very
soon after the adoplion of the constitution, a bankrupt law ii as introduced into Congress; it was postponed on the ground that the State insolvent laws
were sufficient. The whole debate turns on the acknowledged and well uiderstood differences between
the two laws.a Congress when at last, in the year
1800, it acted on this subject, took "care solemnly
to enact that the' bankrupt law should not repeal or annul, or be cons:rued to repeal or annul,
the laws of any State now in force, or which may
be hereafter enacted.b In all the abortive attempts
to pass a new bankrupt law, every committee of the
House of Representatives and Senate introduced the
same clause. Thus, it appears that the"two parties.
a Debates of Congress, vol. 2. p. 204.

b Act of April 4th, 1800. c. 173. s. 51.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

145

1819.
whom it is sought to make litigant, essentially and
power.
of
point
a
cordially agree, and that upon
Sturges
V.
Who have a right to say they disagree ? To interCrownin.fere to make them disagree ? Congress, in asserting shield.
the claim of the United States to priority of payment
over other creditors, exerts this right solely in cases
of legal insolvency: and this Court has frequently,
and after great deliberation, in sanctioning this claim,
considered and defined legal insolvency." How preposterous this if no legal insolvency can exist! Congress itself has passed an insolvent law for the Dis-trict of Columbia. This it has done, because there
it had the power of exclusive legislation. It has
done for its District of Columbia what the States can
do for themselves: what Congress cannot do for
them. Again ; by the declaration of rights of many
of the States, it is asserted, "that the person of the
debtor, when there is not strong presumption of
fraud, ought not to be continued in prison after delivering up his estate in such manner as shall be
prescribed by law." This supposes a rightful, permanent system of insolvency by- State authority.
2. But admitting, for the sake of the argument,
that this grant of power to Congress includes'all
that can be comprehended both under insolvencies
and bankruptcies, we, contend, that, from the peculiar
nature of the subject, to convert the grant of power
into an actual prohibition of its exercise by its former possessors, it must actually be exercised by its
a The United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358.

United

States v. Hooe, 3 Cranch, '73. Prince v. Bartlett, 8 "Cranch,
431.

Thelluson v. Smith, 2 Wheat. 396.

VOL. IV.

19

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

146
1819.

Sturge

present possessors. This arises from the very nature
of the subject ; from the nature and condition of human affairs ; from an overruling necessity : for, the

V.

Crovninshiold.J

duties of humanity are imperative and indispensable,

and must be exercised by some one or other of the

guardian powers of the community. The existence
of the power of granting relief in the extremities produced by debt and indigence, is morally necessary,
not only to the well being, but to the existence of
civilized and commercial society; and if one authority
in a nation devests itself of this by a grant. to another
authority, it imposes its exercise as a duty on that other;
and if the one does not exercise it, the other, by necessity, must. The power, in this sense, remains concurrent. This principle may be illustrated by an
analogous question of international law. Denmark,
by its position as to the Baltic and its entrances, owes
a duty to the navigating interest of the world, of
guarding their ships from peril and from shipwreck.
She has, so far as is practicable, by her buoys, her
light-houses, her pilots, performed this duty. Suppose she were to cede, by treaty, the benefit she derives from this source; grant the right, and impose
the duty upon her neighbour. and rival, Sweden.
Suppose Sweden was to forbear or neglect to exercise it icould not Denmark exercise it ? Would she
not be bound to exercise it, by all the obligatins of
humanity ? Are the buoys to be torn up, the pilots
to be suppressed, the lights to be extinguished ? Are
the coasts of both countries to be lined with shipwrecks, her own subjects to suffer, and her great duties to the civilized world to be neglected and vio-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lated ? Is this analogy too remote ? All the duties
of humanity are associated: quoddam commune vinculum habent. Why was this power over bankruptcies. granted at all ? Undoubtedly that it, might
be exercised, being necessary for the good of the
community; and, if its exercise is supended, may it
not, justly and properly, be reassurned I until again
exercised by that which is conceded to be the paramount authority. This concurrent power of the States,
from a similar, though less im'perative neeessity, exists
in various other cases. Congress has the whole power
of regulating commerce with foreign nations. The
most important medium of foreign commerce, is foreign
,bills of exchange, which are, therefore, important
subjects of commercial regulation. There can hardly
be imagined a duty more incumbent on Congress,
than this exercise of its admitted power of legislation. Yet it has neglected that duty; and as it is a
power that from the necessity of the thing must be
exercised, the States may and do exercise it, and their
rightful use of this power has been sanctioned by this
Court in innumerable instances. Congress has power,
to regulate the value of foreign coins; it was long
before it exercised this power as to any foreign coins,
and still omits to do it, as to the greater number.
Have these foreign coins then no value? So also,
Congress has power to fix an uniform standard of
weights and measures. This has never been done.
Is there then no standard, and are all contracts relative to quantity, to weight and measure, destitute of
a legal medium of ascertainment ? If Congress had

1819.
Sturges

v.
Crowninshield-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

neglected to establish post roads, would not the States
'-,'. have had power to provide, for so great a public conSturges
V.. venience ; a benefit which they always enjoyed, even
in colonial times? As to the power of Corgres; to
Crowninshield.
1819.

establish an uniform rule of naturalization, it may be
necessarily exclusive, because if each State had power
to prescribe a distinct rule, there could be no uniform
rule on the subject: and naturalization, or the power
of making aliens citizens, must have uniformity;
since the citizens of each State are entitled to all the
privileges and immunities of the citizens of the several 'States: it is a power that must pervade the Union.
But insolvent laws have no extra-territorial force unless by consent; they are made by the State, for the
State ; at any rate, a single State has no inherent
power of forcing them upon the other States. This.
depends upon the old question of the lex loci. The
-reasoning adopted by-that learned lawyer and accomplished scholar, Mr. Chancellor KENT, in the case of
Livingston v. Van lngen,a may, with the strictest propriety, be applied to this case. Congress has the
power of securing, for limited times, to authors and
inventors, the. exclusive right to their respective writings-and discoveries. To the mere importers ,pf foreign inventions, or foreign improvements, Congress
can grant no patent; are not the States at liberty, in
this omitted case, in this different matter, to promote
the progress of science and useful axts, by pursuing
their own measures, and dispensing their own re,wards? Even supposing they cannot legislate upon
a 9 John. Rep. 572.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the peculiar and admitted objects of congressional legislation, yet they may on others. If not, this great
subject of imported improvements, would be entirely
unprovided for, and unprotected. Applications to
Congress on this very subject, have been frequently
made, and always rejected for want of power. The
analogy between our argument and that presented in
the case of Livingston and Van Ingen, is this : that if
Congress had exercised all its power, it would not have
exhausted the subject. Congress has not the power to
pass a general insolvent law; the States have a power
to pass State insolvent laws; the objects and spheres
,of legislation are different; Congress has power to
pass a bankrupt law, and if it does, that will be paramount.-Having safely possessed ourselves of this
ground, we may ascend a little higher. We are justified in saying, that the States are not prohibited from
passing even bankrupt laws. They once bad the
power, and they gave away, in conjunction with the
other States, only that of passing uniform laws of bankruptcy throughout the United States. In this sense, thi
power they have granted, and that they retain, ar6
different. The grant to Congress is not incompatible.
We have shown that the mere grant of a power to
Congress does not vest it exclusively in that body.
There are subjects upon which the United, and the
individual, States, must of necessity have concurrent
jurisdiction. The fear that the rights and property
of the citizens will be worn away in the collision of
conflicting jurisdictions, is practically refuted ; and is
even theoretically unfounded, because the constitution itself has guarded against this, by providing that

1819.
Sturges
Crowninshield.

3ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
'

Sturges

the laws of the United States, which shall be made,
shall be the supreme law of the land, any thing in the

constitution or the laws of any of the States to the
Whield. contrary notwithstanding.
3. But the other great point remains; is not this
law unconstitutional and void, in as much as it impairs the obligation of a contract? As preliminary
to this inquiry, it may be suggested, that if it has
been proved that a bankrupt law is not an insolvent
law, and that the Convention, with a perfect knowledge of the subject, left the States in the full enjoyment of the right they had always possessed, of passing
insolvent laws, and subjected them to the domination
of uniform bankrupt laws only, whenever Congress
might pass them, the position is disproved, which alleges that such laws are still void, as impairing the
obligation of contracts. From the nature of the subject, it is not supposable, that the Convention left a
power in the States, which, if exercised, must necessarily violate another part of the constitution. It is
not conceivable, that a power was given, directly repugnant and contradictory to a prohibition imposed:
as almost all the States have passed insolvent laws,
and Congress has sanctioned them, and the people
assented to, and approved them; let us find out some
other interpretation that will reconcile these opposite
powers, and obviate this flagrant inconsistency. The
judges of the State Courts, and of this Court, have
confessed that there is, in these words, "impairing
tile obligation of contracts," an inherent obscurity.
Surely then, here, if dny wIhere, the maxim must
apply, semper in obscuris quod ninimum est sequimur.
V.

Crownin-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

They are not taken from the English common law,
or used as a classical or technical term of out jurisprudence in any book of authority.

No one will

pretend, that these words are drawn from any English
statute, or from the States' statutes before the adoption of the constitution. Were they, then, furnished
from that great treasury and reservoir of rational jurisprudence, the Roman law: we are inclined to believe this. The tradition is, that Mr. Justice Wilson,
who was a member of the Convention, and a Scottish lawyer, and learned in the civil law, was the author of this phrase.& If, then, these terms were borrowed from the civil code, that eode presents us with a
system of insolvency in its cessio bonorum; and yet,
as it is said by Gibbon, " the Goddess of Faith was
worshipped, not only in the temples, but in the lives of
the Romans." The rights of creditors, we know,
were protected by them with the utmost vigilance
and severity. They did not, however, it seems, conceive that a cessio bonorurn Was inconsistent with
the rights of creditors, or-impaired the obligation of
contracts. England, also, anxiously guards the rights
of creditors. On commerce, on the integrity of her
merchants and manufacturers, her best reputation and
interest depends. And yet England, more than any
other country, has her system of insolvency and bankruptcy. Good sense, in all ages, in all countries, is
the same; as in Rome, in England, and in all other
commercial countries, so in this, bankrupt and insolvent laws have never been considered as impairing
the obligation of a contract. If included in the litea See Reid's Essay, vol. 4. p; 183.

1819.
Stu rges

V.
s i-e.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

152
1819.

ral acceptation of the words of this clause of the
from the nature of things, they form an
implied exception. Insolvent laws are based upon
the confessed and physical inability of a party- to

Sconstitution,

Sturges
V.
Crowninshield,

perform a pecuniary contract, otherwise than by a
surrender of all he has. How idle, then, to make a
provision in respect to such laws, guarding against the
impairing a contract; that is, providing for its strict,
adequate, and undiminished performance, when the
impossibility of any performance is pre-supposed.
The total, physical inability of the individual is his
exemption, and this is tacitly and necessarily reserved
and.implied in every contract. This is the doctrine
of Vattel, of a nation-as to a public treaty ;* and is
it not the law of nations, that the obligations of a
treaty slhall not be impaired ? To impair an obligation has reference to the faculty of its being performed. The obligation of a contract, and a remedy
for-its performance, are different things. Whether a
contract shall be fit matter for judicial coercion is a
different question from its being preserved perfect
and undiminished where it is. When the Courts do
take cognizance, they. shall not adjudge less, or differently, either as to the amount, or other terms and
conditions of the contract. • The performance of the
contract shall be exact ; imprisonment is the remedy
for enforcing it: but where there is a confessed and
adjudicated.inability, the society withholds the power
to protract indefinitely and miserably, what can never
be an effectual remedy, but only a vindictive punishSVattel, 1. 3. c. 6. s. 91.

,PF THE UNITED STATES.

ment. The moral obligation of a contract May, perhaps, remain forever, but misfortune and extreme indi-

153
1819.
Sturges

legal obligation, as war does to " .v.
gence put an end to the
: rownin-.
•
shield.
a treaty; as revolution does to a pre-existing government; as death does to personal duties. The impossibility of payment discharges from contracts, as
insanity does from crimes: "Impossibilium," says
even the severe Bynkershoek, " nulla est obligatio."
To impair means, as to individuals, you shall not pay
less; you shall not have an extension of time in
which to pay ; you shall not pay in goods when your
contract is cash ; you shall not pay in depreciated
coin, or even current bank notes, when your contract
binds you to the payment of pure coin ; interest shall
not be diminished: in fine, there shall be no alleviation of its terms, or mitigation of its conditions. The
facts as to Which you engage shall remain the same.
The insolvent Iaw is something independent of the
obligation of the contract, and extraneous to it. It
is a matter of peremptory nonsuit to the action ; or
rather a bar, having reference to nothing inherent
in the contract, but to something exterior and posterior to it. The insolvent law, so far from impairing the
contract, sets it up, admits its obligation, and endeayours to enforce it, so far as it is possible, consistently
with the misfortunes of the debtor,, to enforce it.
If it was meant by these words of the constitution
to prohibit the passage of insolvent laws, why not
in plain terms have said so ? It would have been as
clearly understood as the plain prohibition, that no
State shall grant any title of nobility. It could not
have been meant to bury such a meaning under such
VOL. 1V.

20

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

To suppose that the framers of the conwere designedly obscure on this delicate
Sturges
Cy. and dangerous subject, is an impeachment of their
-hiel.integrity ; to suppose that they had so little command
o
1819.

obscurity.

Sstitution

of appropriate and perspicuous language as to employ such terms to express such a thought, is an unjust imputation upon their acknowledged talents.
Upon the construction contended for, statutes of limitation would be repugnant to the constitution.
Statutes of limitation take away the remedy after six
years. The insolvent law, at -once. But suppose
the statute of limitation confined the remedy to sixty
days, or six days; it would be an indiscreet, impolitic, and unwise, but'not'an unconstitutional law.
If such statutes be valid, it must be because they do
not impair the obligation of a contract. Yet the one
law has the same effect on the contract as the other.
They both take away the remedy, and neither annuls
the obligation: fo a subsequent promise in both
cases revives the debt, If the contract was annulled, or its obligation impaired, a promise to pay
would be void; becausp it would be without consideration, and 'would be contrary to the very law that
destroyed. it. The writers on the civil law most
clearly express the difference between: the obligation
of a contract, and the legal remedy for its performance.,,, Ayliffe, among other instances, refers to the
very subject now under discussion: "Neither a civil nor a natural obligation," says h6," is dissolved
by a cessio bonorurn; though it produces a good exception in law, and suspends the force of an obligaa -A.Iflfe's Civ. Law. 1. 4. tit. 1. Dig. 46. 3. 98. 8.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion for a time; the extinguishment of an obligation

1819.

being one thing, and the cessation of it another; Sturges
V.
for when the cessation of an obligation is once ex- Crown
shield.inthe
leaving
is
This
again."
revives
never
tinct, it

matter untouched and unregulated, as we contend it
is, by the great fundamental law, to be provided for
by ordinary legislation. If the States, influenced by
the eloquent reasoning of Burke and Johnson, were
to abolish imprisonment for debt entirely, could their
right be disputed ? And yet this migh: prevent the
creditor from getting his money; The contract would
remain to be enforced by other, but perhaps not
equally efficacious, means. This reasoning, as to the
distinctness of the remedy from the contract, isapplicable to cases even where ipsolvency does not interfere; with howmuch more force where it does. It
would be monstrous to parade the show, or urge the
violence of a -nominal remedy, when it could be
none in reality. You must submit to necessity. When
the sages of the Convention inserted this clause in
.our constitution, they meant no more or less than the
inviolability of contracts; and what system of religious faith, or of ethics, or ofjurisprudence,everrmeant
less? But they likewise meant, that this salutairy, but
universal principle, should be subjected to the salu
tary and indispensable exceptions to it, which always
had prevailed, and always must prevail. Every contract must be subjected to, limited, and interpreted, by
the law of nature, which every where forms a part, and
the best part, of the municipal code; and it is the primary canon 'of that code, that necessity-physical,
moral necessity--knowsno law, but itself. Laws or

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181g.
'

constitutiong cannot create property, in the individual; and, in a certain sense, in the absence of all

stuYes
Cro*WinC;Wl,

fraud, where there is no property, there can be.no injustice; of course no violation of a contract. Locke,
in endeavoring to prove that the principles of morals
are susceptible of as strict demonstration as those of
mathematics, says, where there is no property there
can be no injustice;' for the idea 'of property being a
right to any thing, and that the idea of injustice being an invasion of that right, it is evident that these
ideas being thus established, and these names annexed
to them, we can as.cortainly know these propositions
to be true, as that a triangle has three angles, equal
to two right angles.a And the civil law, perhaps the
most exact, consistent, and comprehensive code the sagacity of man ever framed and systematised, expressly asserts the same principle: Nam is videtur nullam
actionem habere eui propter inopiam adversarii inans
actio est.--Desinitdebitor esse is, qui-nactusest exceptionem justam, nec ab naturaliequitatiabhorrentemb
The States, then, in exercising the natural, inherent,
and indispensable power, of discharging poverty, distress, and absolute indigence and inability, from pay,
Ment, have not only conducted themselves lawfully
and constitutionally, but the emission to have done
it would have been impiously absurd; and it is' an
unjust imputation upon the constitution "ofthe United
States, to suppose a prohibition against the exercise
of such a power somewhere in' society. As to insolvencies, Congress cannot exercise it. As to banka Locke's Works,

b .A/yli er,606.

lib. 4.p. 258. fo. edit.
1.4. tit. .. 6.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

t57

i8ig.
ruptcies, they refuse. The States, therefore, must exS
ercise thispower.. The obligations
.
.Sturges of natural law, and
V.
a
part
is
religion
which
the injunctions of our religion,
Crowniuof our common law, imposes it'as a duty that the shield.
wants of the poor should be relieved. Strange, indeed, is it, that the laws should at the same moment
press upon society two duties, so inconsistent and
contradictory, as that of exacting for the payment of
his debts, what the impoverished and imprisoned
debtor has not; and obliging those who have something, to give him. a share of what they have, to save
,him from suffering or death. Although it has been
strenuously insisted that the abstraction of the remedy
is a violation of the contract, yet it has also been intimated, that if erroneous in this particular, the substance
of the argument on the other side would still remain
correct, in as much as not only the person of the
debtor, but the debt itself, was discharged. It may perhaps be doubted, whether, though the person be discharged from the debt, the debt itself be extinguished.
At the utmost, the tendency of the doctrine contended for, ovbuld be but to give the creditor a right to
the miserable chance of the future acquisitions of the
insolvent, by a future action; and that chance, rendered the more desperate by the consideration, that
arrest, that is, imprisonment, is almost the only mode
of instituting actions in the United States.. Grant
that the remedy may be given, or withheld, or modified, by the legislatures of the States, and the difference between us, in practical result, is not worth
contending for. This could not be what the Con*
vention had in view., According to the doctine on

168

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

the other side, you discharge the debtor from prison,
.to condemn him to work in the mines, and that too
Stitrges.
with his chains upon him. You remit the lesser to
V.
.
Crown inshield, inflict the greater punishment. You take him from a
life of listless indolence, where you are obligea to
maintain him, and doom him to a iife of labour
without hope.. Nay, worse, you so place him as to
have every step watched by a lynx-eye avarice; every
morsel he puts into his mouth counted and weighed;
every personal indulgence censured; every family
sympathy scanned and reprimanded. Well was
it said by a learned judge, that 'such freedom
would be a mockery; nay, Worse, it would be
aggiavated slavery and complicated misery. It is
admitted, that the State has a right to the service of
its citizens. It may.open its prison doors even to
criminals; what services can ever be rendered by
him who is pressed down to the earth by a poverty
that must be hopeless and interminable ? The State
wants the services of its citizens to fight its battles.
,on the land and ocean, to cultivate its fields, to enlarge its industry, to promote its prosperity, to sig.nalize its fame. 'It does not want a heartless, purposeless, mindless being-but half a man--a worse
than slave.-It wants a citizen with all his worth and
'all hi§ energies of body, mind, and soul. The line
of distinction drawn, by the. opposite counsel, between bankrupt and insolvent laws, is wholly mistaken. So far from the difference between them
consisting in the circumstance of the bankrupt law
discharging the debt itself, whilst the insolvent lawl
discharges the person of the debtor only, it is'an his1819.

,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

i59

torical fact, that the early English statutes of bankruptcy did not provide for the discharge either of the
debt or of the person.• Discharge
is not mentioned,
"

v .
Crownis-

or in any Way provided for, until the 4th or 5th of

shield.

Anne; that is, after the system of bankruptcy had
been established almost two centuries. But it is
expressly provided for, it is the object and intention
of the first regular insolvent law of England, in the
time of Charles II. and of the act of 1755, which
served as a model for colonial legislation. The law
of New-York of 1755, and that of Rhode Island
of 1756, were copied almost verbatim from this last.
There is even now no discharge in the case of a
second bankruptcy, unless the debtor pays seventyfive per cent. of his debt, and, in England, none at
all, if he has even had the benefit of an act of insolvency.a A coustruction merely technical ought
not to be given to such an instrument as a constitution of government. If any instrument ought to receive an equitable and liberal interpretation, affected
by the events which preceded, it is that of a great
treaty of confederation between various states who
were compressed into union by obvious motives and
considerations, of common wrongs sustained, mutual errors committed, and equal advantages to be
gained. Our interpretation of Such an instrument
ought, at least, to be as liberal as of a remedial statute. We ought to be as unshackled as in the interpretation of a last will and testament, where the intention of the testator is the polar star -to direct us :
a, Cullen's Bankr. Laze, 395. in notis.
1800, e. 173. s. 57.

Act of Congreve of

i8si.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

160
181g.
v

Sturges

V..

where we have a right, if the words are ambiguous,
to seek for illustration from the condition and circumstances of the testator's family. What was the

,Vrownino

.hie&

condition of the American family ? What were the
evils which this article of the constitution was intended-to -emedy ? Undoubtedly those acrts of desperation and violence, to which many of the States in
a paroxysm of revolatin, resorted', and those acts of
impolhic and selfish injustice to which they continued
-to resort, in that more dangerous moment, after the
effect of mighty impulses had ceased, and was succeeded by inevitable relaxation and debility. These,
plainly indicate what were the evils, and demonstrate
for what this remedy Wag intended. As to the effects
of poverty, of indigence, of natural and moral impossibility to perform contracts, neither foreign nations, nor our own citizens complained. These must,
and do,-from the 'vicis-situdes of human, life, and the
1onig catalogue of human ills, exist in all countries
and' societies. This provision of the cnstitution is
applicable to those -cases which suppose a freedom
from imprisonment, and ability of payment, and a
fraudulent evasion of it.. They suppose the case of
a man who would pay all his debts, but that from the
course of-events, if his contracts were literally interpreted and immediately enforced, he would pay
too much, if he paid according to its terms. The
apology for these -laws, which the constitution intended to interdict, was, that he contracted the debt
when society was peaceful and prosperous; when
and was high; when coin was in circulation; when
markets for produce were open, and the whole course

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of commercial intercourse free and. unembarrassed;

1819.

and he was called upon to pay, when every particu•"

Sturges

things, was reversed. In prolar, in this state of.~Crowninviding a remedy for this terrible fluctuation of affairs
after a storm, and the subsidence of the agitated
ocean of society into that dangerous calm which
.always succeeds, the States erred extravagantly:
they issued paper money ; they set off barren lands,
by an, arbitrary appraisement, for the payment Qf
debts; they curtailed interest ; they made specific o
articles a tender; they altered the contract as to its
facts, its terms, its conditions ;. they revoked their
own grants; they interfered in private concernsnot as they had a right to do, by the equal pressure
of a general and permanent system, granting relief
to avowed insolvency and distress, but by extending
indulgences in particular cases, and arming debtors
with privileges against their creditors. In reviewing
the history of the period referred to, it will be seen
that insolvent laws were complained of by no One
as the evil of the times, except by Mr. Hammond,
the British minister, in his correspondence with Mr.
Jefferson, who indignantly and eloquently repelled
the imputation that they were a violation of treaty ;
and yet the words of thetreaty of 1783 were, on a
similar subject, stronger and plainer, perhaps, than the
words of the constitution : British creditors were to
" meet with no lawful impediment to the recovery
-of the full value of their debts in sterling money."a
In the debates of the various conventions, no suppoa Waite's State Papers, vol. 1. p., 287.
VOL. IV

V.

i

162
1819.
te
Sturges
C. .
Crowvnin-

shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sition was started, that this clause of the constitution
Was prohibitory of the accustomed relief to poverty
by insolvent laws; and no amendment was offered for
the purpose of avoiding this possibly lurking danger,
except in the convention of Rhode Island, the last
that acted upon the constitution ; and there it was rejected, on the ground that the passage of insolvent
laws was no where prohibited in the constitution, and
that the contrary apprehension was a dream of distempered jealousy. The practice of passing insolvent laws, which had begun so early in colonial
times, which had uninterruptedly c6ntinued, and was
then in daily unblamed operation, was not even referred to as an evil. This is expressive silence-this
is a negative argument of conclusive force. They
have since been sanctioned by upward of thirty
years' practice; by the absence of all complaint; by
the decisions of State and Federal Courts; by the acquiescence of Congress; and, what is more, by the
acquiescence of creditors. It has taken upwards of
thirty years of curious inspection to discover this occult meaning, covered under the mystical veil of constitutional language. The constitution had reference
to those acts which -had palpably caused discontent
and shame, and were, unfortunately for us, peculiar
to our history. To have inserted them in odious detail would have disfigured the constitution, and have
eternized a disgrace upon the most brilliant page of
our history. Against paper money the Convention
had provided. They then guarded against the other
expedients of wrong. They did not mean the insertion of an abstract dogma, indefinite in its extent, of

163

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sweeping and dangerous generality. They anticipated, that discreet expositors would arrive at their
meaning, from the previous history of the country,
and from the consideration of the well-known evils
which they intended to remedy. For if we were to
give only a technical common law construction to this
article of the constitution, innumerable absurdities
would thicken upon us; we should frequently lose
the benefit, in the plainest case for which it was intended; and .be obliged to apply it in others, from
which the instinctive feeling aid irresistible common
sense of mankind would repel it. For instance, if we
are to be bound in verbal fetters, what shall we do
with ajudgment? The judges of England have declared that a judgment is no contract." What an inlet this to fraud and evasion! The creditor has merged
his contract in a judgment ; but arriving at this point,
he is unprotected by the constitution. What shall we
do with marriage, which is a contract, the most
solemn and sacred of all, by its- very terms indissoluble and eternal; but yet the States impair it by divorces a menso et thoro, and dissolve it by divorces
a vinculo matrimonii. If it impairs the obligation of a
contract for a living insolvent notto pay all his debts,
why is the case altered when he is dead ? Can a different rule take effect with regard to his substitute,
his executor or administrator ? This would not be
more unreasonable than what is pretended to be done
in the case of the living man, whose contract you make
to be, that he will, at all events, be able to-pay; yQu
a Biddleson v. Whytel, 3 Burr. 1548.

1s81.
S

V.
Crowniahield.

.164
1819.
""'

Sturges

v..

shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

make it an insurance against accident, against misfortune, against irresistible force, wide-wasting calamity,
inevitable necessity; against the decrees and acts of
God himself. Let, then, the rule of interpretation,
as to insolvent laws, be the common sense of mankind, the universal agreement of those" who have
been affected, who may be affected by them. Awhole
nation, on such a subject, cannot be in the wrong.
The parties contracted with the full knowledge of
these laws, and the practice of the States upon. them.
Every creditor knows he is liable to be paid only so
far forth as the property of a distressed debtor, on a
legal and bona fide surrender, can pay. rhe universal consent of the nation and its public authorities is
strongly shown by the- practice of Congress itself,
whose privileges, it is said, the States are usurping.
According to the argument on the other side, Congress, in the only bankrupt law it ever passed, impaired the obligation of contracts, since it made the
discharge of the debtor referrable to past as well as future contracts
Is it, indeed, to be said, that Congress has power.to do this, and that the prohibition
of this power to the States is an implied permission of
it to the United States? Is a different rule of right
and ethics to be applied to these different authorities
Certainly not. Where, indeed, mere political power
is prohibited to. the States, Congress may exercise
that power exclusively. For instance, Congress may
emit bills of credit. But the matter is different in a
moral prohibition. :Congress have no more right to
impair the obligation of a contract than the States.
It is a preposterous presiumption, that Congress

OF THE UNITED STATES.

meant, by its bankrupt law, to violate the injunction
of the constitution, when they' left- the payment of
debts, according to the undeviating course of the civilizedworld, to be discharged out of'the surrendered estate, rather than by the imprisoned person of the
debtor. Communis errorfacitjus: In a most importaut matter in the constitution of this very Court, a coordinate branch of the- government, in giving a con.
struction to its own powers and organization, it has
chosen to collect an-interpretation of the constitution
from acts of Congress, from the uninterrupted and
unimpeached practice under them, rather than from
the bare literal words. The constitution of the United States has said," there shall be ONE Supreme
Court, and such inferior Courts as Congress may,
from time to time, ordain and establish. The
judges, both of the Supreme and inferior Courts, shari
hold their offices during good behaviour," &c. Depending solely on -the plain signification of the words,
one can hardly conceive of language that establishes,
with more distinctness, two separate judicial depart"ments. One Court, existing in unity and supremacy; other Courts multifarious and inferior. One
original, the other appellate; and'yet, both Congress
ahd this Court have decided, that it is, at the same
time, one and many; inferior and supreme, original
and appellate: Nay, more; that with a commission,
which, framed in the words of the constitution, has
only reference to,one appointment, that, nevertheless,
you hold both. But communis error facit jus; and
all these apparent inconsistencies were reconciled by
the propriety, of acquiescing in a construction of

I'6b
ia19 .
Sturm

V.

Crowninshield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

166
1819.
Sturges

the constitution, which had been fixed by a practice
under it, for a period of several years.a

V.

Crowninshield.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, on the same side, argued, that,
supposing the law of New-York in question to
be a bankrupt law, there is nothing contained in the
constitution of the United States, to prohibit the Legislature of that State from passing such a law.
There is no express prohibition to be found in the
constitution; and if any prohibition exists, it must be
sought for either in the clause giving Congress power "to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United States," or in the clause which prohibits the States from passing "any ex post facto law,
or law impairing the obligation of contracts."
1. Does the first clause, which has been mentioned, prohibit the States from passing bankrupt laws ?
The constitution, after giving certiin powers to Congress, in some cases prohibits, by express words,
the States from exercising those powers, and in other
cases it contains no such prohibition. Why should
the Convention insert express prohibitions as to some
powers, and not as to all, if it was intended that
all should be prohibited ? The mention of one in the
prohibition is the.exclusion of all others, not mentioned, from it.. The constitution first declares what
powers Congress shall have ; and, then, what powers
the States shall no longer have. Among the powers
thus taken from the States, this of passing bankrupt
Stuart.v. Laird. 1 Cranch. 299.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laws is notenumerated. Is it not a fair conclusion
from this, that the Convention did not intend to take
this power from the States? Would they not have
expressly done so, as they did in the case of other
powers, where such was their intention ? And let it
be remembered, that this subject of bankruptcies was
brought immediately to the view of the convention
in a preceding article, in which the powers of Congress are enumerated. The powers given to Congress by the constitution, may be divided into three
classes: First. Those which are national in theiinature, and which are vested in Congress, as the'sovereign power of the nation or Union. Second. Those
powers which are given to Congress, and from the
exercise of which the States are expressly excluded.
Third. Those which are given to Congress, and from
the exercise of which the States are not excluded.
Under the first class may be enumerated: the power
to borrow money on the credit of the United States;
to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States; to provide for the punishment of
counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the
United States ; to constitute tribunals inferior to the
Supreme Court of the United States; to define and
punish piracies and felonies committed on the high
seas, and offences against the law of nations ; to declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and
to make rules concerning captures on land and water; to raise and support armies; to provide and maintain a navy; to provide for organizing, arming, and
disciplining the militia, &c. Most of the powers
which have been enumerated, could manifestly never

1.
Sturges
V.
Crowninsield.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

be exercised by the States, because they apply to the
for which the legislature of no one State
Slturges
.Se ever could legislate. The remainder of them rerownhield.
gard our intercourse with foreign nations, and, therefore, necessarily concern the whole nation collectively, and no one part of it in particular. There
was no necessity for the constitution to prohibit the
States from exercising these powers, because, from
their very nature, they would only be exercised by
the general government. Second. Those powers,
which are given to Congress, and from the exercise of which the States are expressly excluded, are, the power to levy and collect duties and
imposts ; to coin money and regulate the, value
thereof; and to this class might, perhaps, be also
added, the powers to raise armies and maintain a navy,
which have been before stated in the first class of
powers, but from the exercise of which the States
are in terms prohibited in time of peace. Under the
thirdclass of powers, or those which are given to Congress, and from the exercise of which the States are
not ptecluded, are the powers to levy and collect taxes
and excises; to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws upon the subject of bankrupteies throughout the United States; to regulate
the value of foreign coins, and fix the standard of
weights and measures ; to establish post offices and
post roads ; to promote the progress of science and
useful arts, by securing, for limited times, to authors
and inventors, the exclusive right to their writings
and discoveries. From the exercise of any of these
powers, the States are neither expressly, nor by any
1819.

SUnion,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

fair rule of construction,- excluded. To levy and collect taxes and excises, is a power given to Congress.
9
Is it taken from the individual States ? If it were, the
State governments must have expired at the moment the general government came into existence.
Without the power of levying and collecting taxes, no
government can 'exist. If this power to levy and collect taxes and excises, which is given to Congress,
be not an exclusive power, why should the others be
so ? Every argument which has been used, applies
with equal force to this, as to the other powers. The
power is expressly given to Congress,, and if it be
true, as it has been contended, that every power
given to- Congress is necessarily exclusive, this must
be so ; and if it be not exclusive, there is nothing in
the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff. But it
may be asked, do then the government of the United
States, and of the individual States, both possess
these powers ? And have they a concurrent right to
'exercise them ? We answer, that they have a concurrent power on the subjects; they may both legislate
in any of this class of powers. Congress and the
individual States may both tax the same article of
property, and both taxes must be paid. Congress
'has passed laws imposing a land tax: was it ever
supposed, that their exercising that power necessarily
'took from the State legislatures their right of exercising it ? Congress has power to establish a uniform rule of naturalization: is this an exclusive
power? The power of admitting foreigners to the
rights and privileges of natural born citizens, was a
right which had been exercised by every State in the
Vot.. TV.

2.

1sig.

Sturges

v.

Crownin-

shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Sturges

Union, from the date of their Independence down

to the adoption. of the Federal Constitution.

With

V.
Crownin-

a large portion of their territory uncultivated, and

shield,

uninhabited, except by savages, the power and right
of encouraging the emigration of foreigners had become a sort of common law of the country; it
originated with our fathers, when they first settled
in the country, and had continued ever since; it
formed a prominent feature in the system of laws
in every Suite in the Union. Suppose Congress
had never thought proper to exercise the power given
to it, of establishing a uniform rule of naturalization; was it intended by the Convention, that the
States should no longer exercise that power, and that
the omission of Congress to legislate on the subject.
should operate as a bar to the admission of foreigners
to the rights and privileges of citizens, and thus put
an end to emigration ? The first act of Congress,
entitled, "An act to establish a uniform rule of naturalization," was passed in March, 1790, and prescribed the mode in which a foreigner might become
a citizen of the United States; but it did not declare
that the mode therein prescribed should be uniform
throughout the United States, and that no State
-should thereafter, admit foreigners to the rights of
citizenship. After the passage of this law, some of
the States, Virginia' and Pennsylvania, the former
certainly, and it is believed the latter, continued to
exercise this power of naturalization until January,
1795-, when Congress passed an act, entitled, " An
act to establish a uniform rule of naturalization, and
to repeal the act heretofore passed on that subject ;"

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which act, for the purpose "of carrying into cornplete effect- the power given by the constitution to
establish a uniform rule of naturalization
• throughout the United States," declares, that any alien may
be admitted.to become a citizen of the United States,
or any of them, upon the conditions contained in tho
said act, "and not otherwise." After Congress had
thus legislated upon the subject, and had established,
what by the constitution it had a right to establish
a uniform system of naturalization, no State could
legislate, and none ever attempted to legislate,.on
the subject. Wherever a power is exercised by
Congress, an. there is nothing incompatible in-.its
exercise by the States, they may both exercise it,
and the'laws passed by both are binding and constitutional. If Congress has a power,,and exercises it
in such a way that the exercise of the same power
by the individual States would be incompatible, with
its exercise by Congress, then the State law must give
way; it must yield tothe law of Congress: not because
the law of the State is unconstitutional, and, therefore,
void, but because the power of Congress is supreme,
and where the State laws interfere with it they must
yield. The 6th article of tile constitution declares,
that "this constitution, and the laws of the United*
States, which shall be made in pursuance thereof,
and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under
the authority of the United States, shall be the supreme law of the land ; and the judges in every State
shall be bound thereby, any thing in the constitution
or laws of any state to the contrary notwithstanding." From this clause the Convention evidently

i8i9.
Sturges

v.
Crownia-.
shield.

CASES IN -THE SUPREME COURT

supposed that the laws of the United States, ,and of
individual States, might,: in some cases, conflict
sturesV. with each other, (which they never could do, if they
could never legislate upon the same subject,) and meant
Cshinnshield.,.
1819.

Sthe

to provide, when they did conflict, that the State laws
sh-ould yield, and the laws of .the United States be
supreme. But until Congress does legislate, and in
such a way as to preclude the States, the States retain their power to legislate, on the class of cases we
are now conisidering.. Congress has power to fix the
value of foreign coins. If it had never legislated upon
that subject, were the States prohibited from fixing
the value of foreign coins? Congress has power to
fix a standard of weights and measures. If it should
never exercise that power, were the individual States
to be left without any standard of weights and measures ? But it is said, that an act of legislation is an
act of the sovereign authority of the society, and that
it would be a strange act of sovereign authority,
whose power can be put an end to whenever Congress choose to legislate, and is to revive again when
Congress choose no longer to legislate. This is said
to be an anomaly in political science, and absurd
upon the face of it. But we ask, whether our whole
f6rm of government is not new and unheard of, until
established here ? Is not our constitution an anomaly ? Is it, therefore, not to be executed ? To a person
unacquainted with the nature, power, and extent of
our political institutions,, before and at the timd the
constitution of the United States was formed and established, many parts of it would be wholly unintelligible, and no proper construction could be given to

OF TIIE UNITED STATES.

it, without bearing in mind the political condition of

1819.

the people who ordained and established it. Citizens I

S~turges

they adopt-"'
v.
of separate and independent governments,
• '•Crownin'
ed this constitution, not because, they had no govern- shield.
ment, but because- they had several governments ; to
secure to themselves those blessings of peace and independence which they had earned by their common
sufferings, and which were the reward of their common blood and treasure. Fearing the approaches of
those petty jealousies, which are always engendered
in petty states, and which might soon array against
each other those arms, which had been so lately
united against the common_ enemy, they established
this constitution. It is without example ; and it is no
argument against it,, to say, that the powers vested by
it in Congress, and left by it in the several States, are
novelties. If the construction, for which we contend,
be given to it, there is perfect harmony in all its parts.
But another argument has been stated, and urged
with some earnestness against us, which is founded
upon the declaration in the constitution, that the rule
of naturalization and the laws of bankruptcy are to
be uniform throughout the United States. .The ar'
gument is this: the constitution says, the system of
bankruptcy shall be uniform throughout the United
States. If the several States have power to legislate
on the subject, the systems would be multiform ; it is,
therefore, evident, that the Convention intended that
Congress should alone have the power of establishing the system of bankrnptcy, and that the States
were to be excluded from the exercise of any such
power. Now, if there be any solidity in this argu-

[74
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

mentl it would prove, that whenever the Convention

~ declares that any laws passed by Congress shallbe:
.Sturges
.. i• uniform throughout the United States, the power.of
hield,
passing such laws is necessarily exclusive. But Congress has the power of levying and collecting duties,
imposts, and, excises; and the Convention declares,
that "all duties, imposts, and excises shall be, uniform throughout the United States ;" and yet it never
has been contended that this. power is exclusive. As
to excises, many, and, it is believed, most of the
States, -have always exercised, and still do exercise,
the power of levying and collecting excises. And so
far was the Convention from considering the power
given to Congress to levy and collect duties, imposts,
and excises, as an:exclusive power, because they
were to be unifoim, that in the. next article of the
constitution the States are, in express words, prohibited' from levying and collecting imposts and duties.
Why was this prohibition inserted, if the States were
already prohibited from the exercise of that power ? If
the power of establishing uniform laws as to duties,
imposts, and excises, vests no exclusive power in Congress, in relation to those subjects, why should the
power o5 establishing uniform laws of bankruptcy
and naturalization exclude the States from the exercise of those powers ? It has been said, that every
power given to Congress is necessarily exclusive and
unlimited, unles§ it be expressly limited in, the constitution ; or unless, from the power itself, it is necessarily a limited power. If this be true, then it follows, that if the constitution had given power to Congress to pass a law establishing a rule of naturaliza-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tion, and a system of bankruptcy, the power would
have been exclusive, and the States would have re-

1819.
Sturges

tained no power to legislate on those-subjects. Why,

V.

then, was it thought necessary by the Convention, to
declare that the laws upon these subjects should be
uniform.? Not because the power was to be an exclusive one, but because, as each State retained the
power of legislation upon these subjects, a variety of
laws and systems might, and necessarily would be,
introduced, which might and probably would have
an effect upon the general commerce of the country,
and be attended with consequences unfavourable to
the general welfare and prosperity; and, therefore,
power was given to Congress, whenever they thought
proper, to put an end to these various and discordant
systems, by establishing one uniform system, toper
vade the whole United States. So far, therefore
from the insertion of the word uniform, in this clause
of the constitution, affording any argument in favour
of the exclusive power of Congress to make laws
upon the subject of bankruptcies and naturalization,
it was the-existence and probable exercise of the power of the States to legislate upon those subjects, which
induced the Convention to give power to Congress
to establish a uniform system throughout the United
States. A system of bankruptcy is the creature of
commerce ; its end and its object are at once to give
and support commercial credit. Some of the United
States are, 'from their situation, habits, and pursuits;
commercial: others are agricultural. To the one, a
system of bankruptcy may be very convenient, if not
essential; to the other, such a system may not only

Crowninw
shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

176

be unnecessary, but ruinous.

1819.
-

-which

Sturges

V.r
Crowninshield.

Hence the difficulty

was foreseen, and is now felt, of establishipg

any uniform system, to pervade the Union, and hence
would have been the manifest impropriety of taking
from the States all power of legislating, upon the
subject, and vesting-that power exclusively in Congress. It is said, that as Congress has the power to
legislate upon this subject of bankruptcies, and omits
to exercise it, it is an expression of the opinion of
Congress, that no such system ought to exist. The
omission of Congress tolegislate, amounts to a declaration, that they do not think a uniform system
is necessary ; and they, therefore, leave the States to
legislate upon the subject, whenever they may think
it proper and expedient to do so. That Congress
considers the States as possessing this power is evident, from the 61st section of the bankrupt law
of 1800.
2. The second question is, whether this law of NewYork is repugnant to that clause of the constitution
which prohibits the States "from passing any expost
facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts?" We have already endeavoured to show, that
the individual States have the power of passing bankrupt laws. What is a bankrupt law ? It is a statute
which, upon a surrender of the property of the bankrupt, discharges both his person and his future acquired property from the payment of his debts. This
discharge from' all future liability is one of the principal objects in all bankrupt laws, which, for the benefit of the creditors, provide by heavy penalties, for
a fair and full surrender of the debtor's property; and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

and for the benefit of the unfortunate debtor and his

1819.

family, leaves him to the full enjoyment of whatever Sturges
v.
his talents and industry may enable him to earn for
the future advancement of himself and family. If, Crowni-

then, the constitution recognizes the right and power
of the States to pass bankrupt laws, it seems to follow, that the clause of the constitution, which prohibits the States from passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts, does not include a prohibition to
pass bankrupt laws. Whether this law of the State
of New-York is to be considered as an insolvent law
or a bankrupt.law, it is unnecessary for us to inquire;
because, though great pains have been taken to prove
,that it is a bankrupt law,1:we do not think it necessary to show that it is not. If it be a bankrupt law,
the State had a right to pass it. If it be au insolvent
liw, it is equally within the scope of our reasoning;
because, if an insolvent law, which discharges the
person and future property of the insolvent, be a law
impairing the obligation of a contract, within the
meaning of the constitution, so is a bankrupt law,
which does the same thing. But we have shown
that the States have the power of passing bankrupt
laws. They have, therefore, the power to declare
that an unfortunate debtor, upon the compliance with
certain conditions, shall be discharged from all liability to the payment of his debts; unless, indeed, it
can be supposed that the Convention intended to leave
to the States the power of passing a bankrupt law,
and yet, intended to deprive them of the power of incorporating into that law a provision, without which
no system of bankruptcy could exist., Is a bankVOL. IV.

CASES IN THE.SUPREME COURT
1819.
Sturges

V.
Crovniushield.

rupt law a law impairing the obligation of contracts,
within the meaning of the constitution ? We insist, that
a bankrupt law, so far from being considered as a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, ought to be re-,
garded as a mode of enforcing the performance .f
contracts. The first object of a bankrupt system
is to enforce and secure the rights of creditors, to
save them from the consequences of fraudulent and
secret conveyances of the debtors; and to give them
the benefit of all the debtor's property, and thus compelling the debtor, as far as he is able, to pay his
debts and perform his contracts. It acknowledges
the existence of the contract ;, and the binding force
of the contract is the very ground upon which it proceeds. Insolvent laws, and insolvent laws discharging as well the person as the future acquisitions of a
debtor, from the payment of his debts, had been
passed by many of the States, both before and after
the revolution, and many of them were in force
when the constitution was adopted. The nature and
existence of these laws was well known to the Convention, in which were some of the greatest lawyers in the country. If they had intended to deprive the States of this power, so long exercised, and
so well understood, would they not have expressed
that intention in direct terms, instead of leaving it
to be inferred from words of doubtful import ? or can
it be contended that the Convention intended that the
States, by construction, should be deprived .of their
power, and were afraid to deprive them of it by express. words, for fearthat if such .dpriviation was understood by the, States, they would not consent to it?

OF THE UNITED STATES. '

No such motive can or. ought to be attributed to the
then it is inconceivable that
Convention: and if not,
_ )Sturges

they should not have expressly iicluded insolvent
laws in- the prohibition, if they had intended they
should be included in it. It has already been shown
that Congress has acted upon the supposition, that
the States were not deprived of the 'power in question. What then, it will be asked, did the Convention mean by prohibiting the States from passing 'a
law impairing the obligation of contracts ? 'We answer, that they meant to include, in their prohibition all those: unusual, and'perhaps 'unwise laws,
which the exigencies of the times had originated;
which the distress and difficulties of the revolution
,seemed .to have rendered necessary, protecting individuals from the payment of their just debts, either
by allowing .thelm .to make a deduction from the
amount of interest due on them, by protracting the
paymen.t, or by permitting them to withhold their
property from their creditors. They meant to put a
check upon the sovereign authority of the States
themselves, by preventing them from breaking their
own. contracts, from revoking their own grants, .and
violating the chartered rights of corporations. In
short, they meant to suppress all'those interferences
with private rights, which are not within the proper
province of legislation, the evils of which had been felt
in an uncommon degree in this country. But they
did not mean to repeal all those laws, or to prevent
the. enactment-of other similar laws, which have existed in 'every civilized 'age and country, for the protection of unfortunate debtors, and the punishment of

.17.9
1819,

V.
Crowninibield,

ISO
1819:

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

frauds upon creditors; which do not impair the obli.
of contracts, but enforce it in the only mode
the. nature of things will permit; and which Congress itself, has the power, though not the exdlusive
power of passing.

Sgation

Stu.es
shid.-

Mr. Hopkinson, for the plaintiff, in reply, insisted,
.that the construction of the constitution contended for
by the defendant's counsel was fallacious; and even
if sound, would be -insufficient for their purpose.
That the power of passing uniform laws on the subjeet of bankruptcies, was, from its very nature, a national power ; and must, therefore, evenaccording to
the opposite argument, be exclusively vested in the
national government. That the power of passing
naturalization laws is exclusively vested in Congress
has already been determined by the Court.a Yet
both this, and the power, of legislating on the sub-ject of bankruptcies, are contained in the same
clause, and expressed in similar terms; and it is argued, on'the othei _side, that the interpretation must.
be the same as to. both. It is also said, that the
power of' Congress toJpass. unform laws on the subject of bankruptcies is consistent with the States
passing laws to operate until Congress act upon the
same subject; ,But we give a different. interpretation
to the word uniform., When the constimtion dedares, that "1Congress shall have power to pass uniform laws," it implies that none but uniform laws
shall exist: that Congress alone shall establish a
bankrupt system, and that'this system shall be, y.id Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wseat. 259.

. OF TE UNITED STATES.

form.

One of the principal motives for adopting

the constitution was to raise the credit of the country,
by establishing a national government with adequate

powers .to redress the grievances of foreigners, instead of compelling them to rely upon the capricious
and contradictory legislation of the several States"
The laws on the subject of bankruptcies, from their
very n ature ought to be the same throughout the
Union. A merchant has seldom all his creditors-confined to one place or State; and a discharge, local in
its nature, gives rise to various intricate questions of
the lex loci co ntractus, the difficulties of which are
all avoided by uniformity in the laws. It is impossible to maintain that this law of New-York, or any
other State bankrupt law, can be limited in its operation to the'State where it is passed. If it be constitutional, it must operate extra-territorially, so far
as it may, consistently with the principles of universal
law. Nor is the power of Congress confined to the
enacting of a bankrupt law ,between the States.
This power, like all the other powers of the national
government,-operates directly and universally upon
all the citizens of the Union. The 61st section of
the bankrupt law of 1800, c. 173. gives nothing to
the States which they did not before possess. If. it
intended to recognize in them an authority not reserved by the constitution, it was ineffectual for such
a purpose. Congress could .not give them what the
constitution had not given them; nor does the silence
of- Congress on th'e subject, since the act of 1800 was
repealed, manifest the opinion of that body that there
should be various laws on the subject throughout the

1.
Sturges

in

shield.

182

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Union: it only shows, that Congress has deemed it
expedient that there should be no law on the subject.
Stur.ges If such have hitherto been the views of Congress,
Crownin- although we may suppose them to be mistaken views,
shield.-1819.

in what other mode could they be made known but
by silence-by omitting to do what, perhaps, wiser
views might induce Congress to do ? The only other
mode in which Congress could secure the country
against the evils of numerous-and inconsistent bankrupt laws, would be by establishihig a uniform bankrupt law, against its own opinions and judgment.
If the States have the power contended for, when
Congress does not exercise the authority vested ini
it, then Congress must keep up a Ncontinual claim,
by maintaining at all times a bankrupt.system which
it thinks inexpedient, for the purpose of preventing
the evils and confusion that spring from various laws
on such a subject. But we believe that the Convention expected that Congress would exercise the power,
and in that way a bankrupt system would be produced. But still this is left to the discretion of Congress, and to that body must such consideratidns be
addressed, since it is evident that the individual
States cannot produce a uniform- system by their
separate laws. That the law of New-York in ques-,
tion is a bankrupt law, or a law on the subject of
bankruptcies, there can be no doubt. It has the distinguishing feature of a bankrupt law. It discharges
theparty from the obligation of the debt entirely;
whilst an insolvent law discharges only his person
from imprisonment. Such is the distinction in England between the permanent bankrupt system, and,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the insolvent laws which are occasionally passed,
(commonly called the Lords' acts,) for the relief of
debtors; as to the imprisonment of their persons, upon
their making an assignment of all their property for
the benefit of their creditors. The same distinction
prevails on the continent of Europe, between the
bankrupt system, which discharges both the person
and future property, and the cessio bonorum, which
discharges the person only, leaving the future acquisitions of property liable for the debt. If this law
of New-York were an insolvent law, it might coexist with a uniform bankrupt code: but the provisions of this law are such that it cannot co-exist with
a uniform system of bankruptcy. It, therefore, follows, that it is a bankrupt law in the sense of the
constitution. If the power of making laws on th
subject of bankruptcies be exclusive, its nature, as
such, was irrevocably fixed at the establishment
of the new constitution. On the other hand, if it
be a concurrent power, it has always been, and must
always be, concurrent. There is nothing contingent
in it ; nor can it Shift and alternate. But whether
this be a bankrupt or an insolvent law, and whether
the power of passing bankrupt laws be exclusive or
concurrent, we insist that this law, is repugnant to
the constitution, as being a law impairing the obligation of contracts. It has been urged that parties
contracting in a State where a bankrupt law is in
force, make their contract with a view to that la*,
so that the law makes a part of the contract. But
this is assuming the law to be constitutional; for if
it be unconstitutional- it is -a void law, as being re-

1835
1819.
Sturges

V.
CrowniWshield.

184
1819.

sturges

V.
Crowninshield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

pugnant to the supreme law: and parties cannot be
presumed to contract with a view to'acts of the local
legislature, which, though, clothed with the forms of
law, are nullities, so far as they attempt to impair
the obligation of contracts. The idea of a contract
made with reference to a law which impairs the obligation of contracts, is absurd and incomprehensible.
The constitution was intended to secure the inviolability of contracts according to the i'mmutable principles of justice. To restrict the operation of the
clause of the constitution which prohibits the States
from making any law impairing the obligation of
contracts, to laws affecting contracts existing at the
time the law is passed, would be to confine the operation of this salutary prohibition within very narrow limits. - Is it credible that the Convention meant
to prohibit the States from making laws impairing
the obligation of past contracts, and to leave them
free to impair the obligation of future contracts?
The prohibition against thus impairing existing
rights of property, would have, been almost 9uperfluous, since the principles of universal jurisprudence
had already prohibited such retrospective legislation
upon vested rights." But the terms of the prohibition are adapted to include both prospective and retrospective laws impairing the obligation of contracts. Suppose a State should enact a law providing that any debt, which might thereafter be conttacted, should be discharged, upon payment by the
debtor of half the amount. This law would be
a Vide ante, p. 134.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

manifestly repugnant to the constitution: nor could
it be said that the creditor would be bound by this
time when
law, because it was in existence at tre

the contract was made; since the obligation of the
.contract is guaranteed by the constitution, which is
the supreme law. Such a State law would not have
the binding force of the lex loci contractus, as between citizens of different States; because, being replignant to, the constitution of the United States, it
is, in effect, no law. Nor would it be obligatory between citizens of the same State, as a domestic regulation; because all the citizens of the United
States are entitled to the benefit of this clause of
the constitution, which was not meant merely to protect the citizens of one State from the injustice of
the government of another, but to guarantee to the
whole people of the Union the inviolability of contracts by the State legislatures. It was not intended
to have an internal or federal operation merely, but
to act, like all' the other sanctions of the constitution, directly, upon the whole body of the nation.
The operation of this law, and of all laws which discharge the debt as well as the person of the debtor,
is to compel the creditor to release his debt upon
recei'ing a dividend which may be less than his demand, or even without any dividend, if the bankrupt's
estate will not yield one. The obligation of the contract is as much impaired as if the law had provided
in terms that the debtor should be discharged from
the debt by paying half, or any other proportion, of
the sum due ; or that he should be discharged withoutpaying any part of the debt. The law, inthis
VOL. IV.

24

1819.
Sturges
Crownin

shield.

186
Isig.
Sturges
v.
Crownin-

9hield.

CASP$ IN THE SOPREMP, COURT

case, not only impairs, but it annuls, the obligation
~ of the contract-vi legiv abolitum est. But will it
be pretended, that the States have a right to pass
laws' for the abolition of debts, even if such laws
have onlya prospective operation ? Or can it be supposed that they have authority to pass instalment or
suspension laws, (which are contended, by the defendant's counsel, to be the evil meant to be guarded
against by the constitutional prohibition,) provided
such laws are only applied to contracts made subsequent to the passage of the laws'? During the pressure
of the late war, the legislature of the State of North
Carolina passed an act providing that any Court rendering judgment against a debtor for debt or damages, between the 31st of December, 1812, and the
1st of February, 1814, should stay the execution
until the first term of the Court after the last mentioned day, upon the defendant's giving 'two 'freeholders as sureties for the debt. -The Supreme
Court of North Carolina determined the act to be
unconstitutional, upon the ground :of its impairing
the obligation of contracts. Though it is not of,binding authority as a precedent, the principles of this
decision are strongly applicable to the present case. a
But we insist, in the case now before the Court, that
a Crittenden v. Jones, 5Hall's Aim. Law. Journ. 520. In this
case the Court says, " whatever law relieves one party from
,any article of a stipulation, voluntarily and legally entered into
by him.with another, without the direct assent of the latter,
'impairs its obligation; because the rigbt of the creditor are
thereby destroyed, and thise are ever correspondent to, and
co-extensivewith, the duty of the debtor."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

igig.
even admitting the act now in question to be constitutional as to all contracts made after it was passed, Sturges
V.
it is clearly repugnant to the constitution as to all
contracts previously made, as it, is a law impairing shi'
the obligation of those contracts. It is, however,
said that this law does not impair the obligation of
the contracts, but merely deprives the creditor of
the usual means of enforcing it; since it may be revived by a new promise, for which the moral obligation, which is still left, is a sufficient consideration.
But it cannot be conceived that the constitution
meant to prohibit the passage of laws impairing the
mo?"al obligation of contracts, since this obligation
can only be enforced in foro conscientice, and it depends solely upon the. volition of the party, whether
he will make that new promise which is necessary to
revive the debt. The legal bbligation being gone forever, unless the party chooses to revive it, it is not only
impaired,but absolutely extinguished and destroyed.
It does not require, as in the case of a debt barred by the
statute of limitations, a mere slight acknowledgment
that the debt has not been paid or satisfied: but an
express promise is indispensably necessary to revive
a debt barred by a bankrupt certificate, which does
not proceed on the presumption of payment; but, on
the contrary, supposes the debt not to have been satisfied, and absolves the debtor expressly from the
performance of his contract, The present inability
of the debtor to perform his contract, arising from
poverty, is indeed the motive or ground of the legislative interference to dispense with its performance;
but this ground is taken away when that inability

188
11

•r.
Crownin.
shield. .

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ceases; and it can only justify the discharge of his
person from arrest and imprisonment, but cannot
authorize the discharge of his future acquisitions of
property. Such a discharge impairs all that remains
of the obligation of the contract. If the right of
coercing the debtor by imprisonment is taken away;
if his property, assigned for the benefit of his creditors, is not sufficient to pay all his debts; and if the
property which he may afterwards acquire, of whatever. nature, or by whatever title, *is not liable for
his debts; surely the obligation of the contract is
impaired. If its terms and conditions are not changed,'
they remain unperformed; which is the same thing
to the creditor. If the 'time of performance is not
enlarged, the obligation of performance is entirely
dispensed with ; which is a still greater infringement
of his rights. It is said that imprisonment for debt
is not a common law remedy for the non-performance
of contracts, and makes no part of their obligation.
Be it so: but the responsibility of the debtor as to
his property, is 'coeval with the common law, and exists also in every other system of jurisprudencei It
is the fund to which the creditor has a natural right
to resort for payment. The liability of the person
of the debtor to arrest and imprisonment may be modified, changed, or entirely taken away, accordingto
the discretion of the' local legislature. It has been
in all ages and countries subjected to the sovereign
discretion of the legislative will ; and has been permitted, in various degrees, from the extreme severity
of the Roman jurisprudence,- which gave the creditor an absolute power over the liberty, and even life,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of his debtor, to the mild system which prevails on

1819.

the continent of Europe, which • confines imprison- Ntugc
. Sturges
v.
ment for debt to commercial contracts and cases of
Crowninfraud or breach of trust. It has also' been urged, shield.
that the same reasoning which tends to establish the
position, that the obligation of contracts is. impaired
by bankrupt laws, would extend to statutes of limitation, which make an essential part of the jurisprudence of every State. We answer, that there is a
material distinction between statutes of limitation
and bankrupt laws. A law of limitations, or prescription, does not strike at the validity of the contract. It is of the remedy, and not of the essence
or obligation of the contract. It is a mere rule of
evidence;, and is founded on the presumptioqrarising
from the lapse of -time, that the debt has been paid
or satisfied. This legal presumption may be negatived by positive evidence. It is not a presumptio
juris.et dejure, which is conclusive, and cannot be
contradicted ; for it may be repelled by any, the slightest evidence, amounting to an admission that the debt
has not been paid, even though that admission be
,qualified by the declaration of the party that he
means to insist upon the statute. The statute may
also be prevented from running,. and the demand perpetuated by the act of the.creditor himself ' It is a
rule of evidence, or legal presumption, which is incorporated into every system of jurisprudence independent of -positive institution. It was a part of the civil
jaw, and is still a part of the common law. It is
adopted by Courts' of Equity, by analogy, from the
The particular length of
statute 'of limitations.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1i9.

*

Sturges

v.
,hie.

time which shall bar tie right of action, is indeed
prescribed in some cases by the, legislature; and if
the period of limitation were to be arbitrarily altered
by the legislature, so as to take Away vested rights
under contracts existing at the time the. law was
passed, the law would be so far unconstitutional: not
that the constitutional prohibition is in general confined to existing contracts; but because, in this particular case, a new rule of evidence or legal presumption
could not justly be applied to deprive the parties of
rights :already acquired under the old rule. The
same principle applies to laws for altering the rate of
interest. - They cannot have a'retrospective operation. But, generally speaking, " the constitution
could -. t have an eye to such details, so long as contracts were submitted without legislative interference
to the- ordinary and regular course of justice,.and the
existing remedies were preserved in substance, and
with integrity.,,o But this bankrupt law is not a
mere matter of detail, and a part of the lexfori ; it is
a legislative interference with the ordinary and regular'course of justice ; and the existing remedies, so
far from being preserved.in substance, and with integrity, are entirely abolished. It is ;incredible that
the Convention intended to provide against such evils,
as suspension or instalment laws, and to leave, untouched the much greater evils of local bankrupt
laws of this character. In truth, the framers of the
constitution did not mean to limit their prohibition to
any particular description of legislative acts. •They
a Per Mr. Justice (now Chancellor) KET, in Holmes V.
Lansing, .3 Johns. Cas. 73;

OF THE UNITED STATES.

meant to incorporate into the constitution a provident
principle which should apply to Pevery possible case
that might arise.

i

The inviolability of contracts

from State legislation, is guaranteed by the Union to
all its citizens. But, it is said, that this prohibition
is of a moral, as we!l as legal nature ; and is equally
binding upon Congress, as upon the State legislatures, though Congress is not expressly mentioned in
the prohibition : that, consequently, if a bankrupt law
be a law impairing the obligation of contracts, Congress
oaight no more to assume the right of passing such a
law than the States. The answer to this objection
is, that Congress is expressly vested with the power
of passing bankrupt laws, and is not prohibited from
passing laws impairing the obligation of ccintracts,
and may, consequently, pass a bankrupt law which
does. impair it; whilst, the States have not reserved
the power of passing bankrupt laws, and are expressly prohibited from passing laws impairing the
obligation of contracts.0

1819.
Sturges

V.
Crowvniashield.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi- Feb. lyth.
nion of the Court. This case is-adjourned from the
Court of the United States, for the first circuit-and the
district of Massachusetts, on several points on which
the judges of that Court Were divided, which are stated
a This case was elaborately argued in the Circuit Court, by
Mr. Saltonstall for the plaintiff, upon the same grounds and
.principles as were maintained in this Court. The reporter
has been favoured with the perusal of a note of his instruc
five and able argument, Which, as the case was not decided in

the Court below, does not appear in Mr. Mason's reports.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
-gturges

in the record for the opinion of this Court.

The-

first is,

Whether, since th adoption of the constitution of
the United States any State has authority to pass a
Since the a. bankrupt law, or whether the power is exclusively
inth
doption of the
constitution of vested in the Congress of the United States ?
the U. States
This question depends on the following clause, in
a State has au'
thority to pass
a bnkrutd the 8th section of the Ist article of the constitution of
la,prde
uc
a rdoe the United States.
mpai
o
h
notrtoh.
"The Congress shall have power," &d.to establish
in the meaning
of the IOthsec. a uniform rule of naturalization, and uniform laws on
of the 1st art.
of the consti- the subject of bankruptcies throughout the United
tution
and
rovided there States."
of.
act
e no
in
The counsel for the plaintiff contend, that the
Congress
force to estagrant of this power to Congress, without limitation,
bish a unifor
.wptcy
con. takes-it entirely from the several States.
flicting withenily.
In support of this proposition they argue, that every
c W.
Crownin-

shield.

power-given to Congress is necessarily supreme; and,
if, from its nature, or from the words of grant, it is apparently intended to be exclusive, it is as much so- as
if the States were expressly forbidden to exercise it.
These propositions have been enforced and illustrated by many arguments, drawn from different parts
,of the constitution. That the power is both unlimited and supreme, is not questioned. That it'is exclusive, is denied by the counsel for the defendant.
In considering this question, it must be recollected
that, previous to the formation of the new constitution, we were divided into independent States, united
for some purposes, but, in most respects, sovereign.
These States could exercise almost every legislaiive
power, andi among others, that of passing bankrupt

OF THE UNITED STATES,

laws. When the American people created a national
9.
legislaturei with certain enumerted powers, it was "
Sturgeb
fieither necessary nor proper to define the powers re- CrownitdV.
tained by the States. These powers proceed, not shieldfrom the people of America, but from the people of
the several States; and remain, after the adoption of
the constitution, what they were before, except so far
as they may be abridged by that instrument. In
some iustfanees, as in making'treaties, we find an express prohibition ; and this shows the sense of the
Convention to have been, that the mere grant of a
power to Congress, did not imply a prohibition on
Whenevesr
the States to exercise the same power. But it has
we
w hich
ap by
never been supposed, that this concurrent power of' is granted.
legllaton-etened
t
ossile case
ase inn which
wichtion toconstituCoaevery possible
to evry
legislation-extended

gress, or when-

its exercise by the States has not been expressly pro- everthenature
of the power
hibited. The confusion resulting from such a prac- itself,
requirthat it oul4
tice would be endless. The principle laid down by the exclusively
be exercised
by

counsel for thecounel
plaintiff,
Cogres,is the
laitif,
or he in
i this
thi respect,
repec, is
i undoubtedunoubed-subject
as

ly correct.

Whenever ~the
terms in which a power is
completely
tISken
awayfrom
51,n~ve
the State le.
granted to Congress, or the nature of.the power, re- gislatures,
a
if they had
quire that it should be exercised exclusively
by
express,
•
' Con- been
1¥forbidden
tO

gress, the subject is as completely taken from the
State Legislatures, as if they had been expressly for-

act on it.

bidden to act on it.
Thle pw,,
Is the power to 'establish uniform laws on the sub., &ranted
to,

ject of bankruptcies, throughout the United States, of

of
songres,

establishing uniform lawsOu
subject of

this description ?the
The peculiar terms of the grant certainly deserve iankrupti
notice. Congress is not authorized merely to pass description.
laws, the operation of which shall be uniform, but to
establish uniform laws on the subject throughont the
VOL. IV.

5

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

United States. This establishment of uniformity is,
incompatible with State legislation, on that

Sperhaps,

Sturges

V.
shi,

part of the subject to which the acts of Congress may

extend.

But the subject is divisible in its nature
into bankrupt and insolvent laws; though the line of
partition between them is not so distinctly marked as
to enable any person to say, with positive precision,
what belongs exclusively to the one, and not to the
-other class of laws. It is. said, for example, that laws
which merely liberate the person are insolvent laws,
and those which discharge the contract, are bankrupt
laws. But if an act of Congress, should discharge
the person of the bankrupt, and leave his future acquisitions liable to his creditors, we should feel much
hesitation in saying that this was an insolvent,
not a bankrupt act; and, therefore, unconstitutional.
Another distinction has been stated, and has been uniformly observed. Insolvent laws operate at the instance of an imprisoned debtor; bankrupt laws at the
instance of a creditor. But should an act of Congress authorize a commission of bankruptcy to issue
on the application of a debtor, a Court would scarcely be warranted in saying, that the 'law was unconstitutional, and the commission a nullity.
When laws of each description may be passed by
the same Legislature, it is unnecessary to draw a precise line between them. The difficulty can arise only
in our complex system, where the Legislature of the
Union possesses the power of enacting bankrupt laws;,
and those of the States, the power of enacting insolvent
laws. If it be determined that they are not laws of
the same character, but are as distinct as bankrupt
laws and laws which regulate the course of descents.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

19

a distinct line of separation must be drawn, and the 1819.
power 6f each government marked with precision. ' Sturges
V
But all perceive that this line must be in a great de- Crownin;
gree arbitrary. Although tile two systems have ex- shield.
isted apart from each other, there is such a connection between them as to render it difficult to say
how far they may be blended together. The bankrupt law- is said to grow out of the exigencies of commerce, and to be applicable solely to trttders; but it
is not easy to say who must be excluded from, or may
be included within, this description. It-is, like every
other part of the subject, one on which the Legislature may exercise an extensive discretion.
This difficulty of discriminating with. any accuracy
-between insolvent and bankrupt laws, would lead to
the opinion, that a bankrupt law may contain those
regulations which are generally found in, insolvent
laws; and that an insolvent law may contain those
which are common to a bankrupt. law. If this be
correct, it is obvious that much inconvenience would
result fromthat construction of the constitution; which
should deny to the State Legislatures the power of
acting on this subject, in consequence of the grant to
Congress. It may be thought more convenient, that
much of it should be regulated by State legislation,
and Congress may purposely omit to provide for
many cases to which their -power extends. It does
not appear to be a violent construction of the constitution, and is certainly a convenient one, to consider
the power of the States as existing over such cases.as
the laws of the Union may not reach. But be this as
it may, the power granted to Congress may be exer-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
-1819.
Sturges

te

cised or declined, as the wisdom of that body shall
decide. If, in the opinion of Congress, uniform laws
concerning bankruptcies ought not to be established,

it does not follow that'partial laws may not exist,
or that State legislation on the subject must cease.
It is not the mere existence of the power, but its exercise, which is incompatible with the exercise of the
,same psower by the States. It is not the right to es-'
tablish these uniform laws, but their actual establishment, which is inconsistent with the partial acts of
the States.
It has been said, that Congress has exercised this
The rgh
the
to power; and, by doing so, has extinguished the power
Fass States
bankrup~t
ervvdb eeln
...sis~o x fteSaewihcno
by of the States, which cannot be revived by repealing
tinguislied
inote
the enactment
lawrihthe law of Congress.
bankrupt
iform
of a
throughout the
We do not think so., If the right of the States to
Union by Con
gres; ionly pass a bankrupt law is not taken away by the mere
far as t~e two grant of that power to Congress, it cannot be extinCrOweli.
shield.

laws conflict.

guished; it can only be suspended, by the enactment
of a general bankrupt law. rhe repeal of that law
cannot, it is true, confer the power on the States;
but it removes a disability to its exercise, which was
created by the act of Congress.
Without entering farther into the delicate inquiry
respecting the precise limitations which the several
grants of power to Congress, contained in the constitution, may impose on the State Legislatures, than is
necessafy for the decision of the question before the
Coirt, it is sufficient to say, that until the power to,
pass uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcies be
*exercised by Congress, the States are not forbidden
to pass a bankrupt law, provided it contain no prin-

Or

THE UNITED STATES.

ciple which violates the 10th section of the first article
• the United States.
of the constitution of
it totally unnecessary to conThis opinion renders
•
sider the question whether the law of New-York is,
or is not, a bankrupt law.
We proceed to the great question on which the
cause must depend. Does the law. of New-York,
which is pleaded in this case, impair the obligation
of contracts, within the meaning of the constitution,
of the United States ?
This act liberates the person of the debtor, and
discharges him from all liability for any debt previously contracted, on his surrendering his property

1819.
Sturges
Sturges

V.

Crowninshield.'

in the manner it prescribes.

In discussing the question whether a State is prohibited from passing such. a law as. this, our first in-

What is the
obligation of %
contract? And
what 'will
im-

quiry is into the meaning of words in common use, Pair it?

What is the obligation of a contract ? and what will
impair it ?
It would seem difficult to substitute words which,
are more intelligible, or less liable to misconstruction,
than those which are to be explained. A contract
is an agreement in which a party undertakes to do,
or not to do,,a particular thing. The law binds
him to perform his undertaking, and this is, of course,
the obligation of his contract. In the case at bar,
the defendant has given his promissory note to pay
the plaintiff a sum. of money on or before a certain
day. The contract binds him to pay that sum on
that day; and this is its obligation. Any law whic4
releases a part of this obligation, must, in the'literal
sense. of the word, impair it. Much more, must a.

198

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

law impair it which makes it totally invalid, and enS
tirely discharges it.
Sturges
V.
The words of the constitution, then, are express,
Crownin.
and incapable of being misunderstood. They admit
shield.
of no variety of construction, and are acknowledged
to apply to that species of contract, an engagement
between man and man for the payment of money,
which has been entered into by these parties. Yet
the opinion that this law is not within the prohibition
of the constitution has been entertained by those
who are entitled to great respect, and has been supported by arguments which deserve to be seriously
considered.
It has been contended, that as a contract can only
bind a man to pay to the full extent of his property,
it is an implied condition that he may be discharged
on surrendering the whole of it.
But it is not true that the parties have in view
a con- only the property in possession when the contract is
t;oTheof obligatrct isnotfal- formed, or that its obligation does not extend to fufilled by a ces,io
ture acquisitions. Industry, talents, and integrity,
The bonm.
partiestlet,
iegty
have not mere- constitute a fund which is as confidently trusted as
view
Z.e inproperty
ir possesson property itself. Future acquisitions are, therefore,
when the
liable for contracts ; and to release them from this
1819.

tractis formed,

but its obligation extends to
future acquisi-

none.

liability impairs their obligation.
It has been argued, that the States are not prohibitdd from passing bankrupt laws, and that the
essential- principle of such laws is to discharge the
bankrupt from all past obligations ; that the States
have been in the constant practice of passing insolvent
laws, such as that of New-York, and if the framers of
the constitution haa intended to deprive them of this

.OF THE UNITED STATES.

power, insolvent taws would have been mentioned

in the prohibition; that the prevailing evil of the
times, which produced this clause in the constitution, was the practice of emitting paper money, of
making property which was useless to the creditor
a discharge of his debt, and of changing the time of
payment by authorizing distant instalmewts. Laws
of this description, not insolvent laws, constituted,
it is said, the mischief to be remedied ; and laws of
this description, not insolvent laws, are within the

1819.
Sturgs

V.
Crowsoinshild.

true spirit of the prohibition.

Trhe constitution does not grant to the States the

Altho-ghtho

States may, uu-

that powerby
power of passing bankrupt laws, or any other power; ilis exercised

PaIIenubut finds them in possession of it, 'and may either
bankrupts,
ytg
so
it
restrain
or
entirely,
prohibit its future exercise
constitunt
•
far as national policy may require. It has so far re- tlona.y introduce into such
lws a clause
strained it as to prohibit the passage of'any law im- which
dis-

pairing the obligation of contracts. Although, then,
the States may, until that power shall be exercised

the
charges
obligations the
ban!rut has
ent

by Congress, pass laws concerning bankrupts; yet
they cannot constitutionally introduce into such laws
a clause which discharges the obligations the bankrupt has entered into. It is not admitted that, without this principle, an act cannot be a bankrupt law ;
and if it were, that admission. would not change the
constitution, nor exempt such acts from its prohibitions.
The argument drawn from the omission in the
constitution to prohibit the States from passing insolvent laws, admits of several satisfactory answers.
It was not necessary, nor would it have been safe,
had it even been the intention of the framers of the

inte.

200

CASES IN°THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
constitution to prohibit the passage of all insolvent
" ' laws, to enumerate particular subjects to which the
Sturges
V.
principle they intended to establish should apply.
Crowninshield.
The principle was the inviolability of contracts.
This principle was to be protected in whatsoever
form it might be assailed. To what purpose enumerate the particular modes of violatiot which should
be forbidden, when it was intended to forbid all ?
Had an enumeration of all the laws which might
violate contracts been attempted, the provision must
have been less complete, and involved in more perplexity than it now is. The plain 'and simple dealaration, that no State shall pass any law impairing
-the obligation of contracts, includes insolvent laws&
and all other laws, so far as*they infringe the principle the Convention intended to hold saceed, and no
farther.
But a still more satisfactory answer to this arguDistinction

between a. law
impairing the

ment is, that the Conventiou did not intend to prohibit

contractB, and

the passage of all insolvent laws.

n law modifythe
iny
egilture

ligation.

To punish honest

by imprisonment for life, and to make
dinsolvency
tot°
this a constitutional
principle, would be an excess of

inhumanity which will not readily be imputed to the

illustrious patriots who framed our constitution, nor
to the people who adopted it. The distinction between the obligation of a contract, and the remedy
given by the legislature to enforce that obligation,
rsonment has been taken at the bar, and exists in the nature of
of the-debtor
is
nopartbfthe
Without impairing the obligation of the
contract, anldb things.
he may be re- contract, the remedy may certainly be modified as
leased
from
Imprisonmenti the wisdom of the nation shall direct.' Confinement
Without
imiPal
pg its ob. of the debtor may'be a punishment for not perform-

OF: THE UNITED STATES,

ing his contract, or may be allowed as a means of
inducing him to perform• it. But the State may refuse to inflict this punishment, or may withhold this

181g.

Sturges,

IV.

Crownin-

means, and leave the contract in full force, Impri- shield.
sonment is no part of the contract, and simply to release the prisoner does not impair its obligation.
No argument can be fairly drawn from the 61st sec-. ofThe61stsec,
the act of
tion of the act for establishing a uniform system of Congress of
bankruptcy, which militates against this reasoning, for establishing a uniform

That section declares,
-ruptcy,that the act shall not be con- systemofbank.
does
teins6ventir
then
strued to repeal or, annul the laws of any State
I ty te
S th
laws, containin force for the relief of insolvent debtors, except so l.g aproaision
Impaing the
of
far as may respect persons and cases clearly within obligation
contracts; bat
its purview ; and in such cases it affords its sanction merelyto leaves
opethem
so far as
to the relief given by the insolvent laws of the State, rate,
if the creditor of the prisoner shall not, within three constitutional.
lY
they may,
the act of Co5.
g.ess, excep t
months, proceed against him as a bankrupt.
were
W
that
mav apply to
The insertion of this section indicates an opinion individual
"
hi Congress, that insolvent laws might be considered cass.
as a branch of the bankrupt system, to be repealed
or annulled by an act for establishing that system,
although not within its purview. It was for that
reason only that a provision against this construction
could be necessary. The last member of the section adopts the provisions of the State laws so far
as they apply to cases Within the purview of the act.
This section certainly attempts no construction of
the constitution, nor -does it suppose any provision
in the insolvent laws impairing the obligation of
contracts. it leaves them to operate, so far as constitutionally they may, unaffected by the act of Con-

VOL. IV.

2

202
1819.
Sturges
Crownin.V

shield.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

gress, except where that act may apply to individual
cases,
The argument which has been pressed most earnestly at the bar, is, that although all legislative acts
which discharge the obligation of a contract Without
performance, are within the very words of the constitution, yet an insolvent act, containing this principle, is not within its spirit, because such acts have
been passed by Colonial and State Legislatures from
the first settlement of the country, and because we
know from the history of the times, that the mind of
the' Convention was directed to other laws which
were fraudulent in -their character, which enabled
the debtor to escape from his obligation, and yet hold
his property., -not to this, which is beneficial in its
operation.
. Before discussing this argument, it may not be improper to premise that, although the spirit of an instrument, especially of a constitution, is to be respected not less than its letter, yet the spirit is to be
collected chiefly from its words. It would be dangerous in the extreme to infer from extrinsic circumstances, that a case for which the words of an instrument expressly provide, shall be_ exempted from its
operation. Where words conflict'with each other,
where the different clauses of an instrument bear
upon each other, and would be inconsistent unless
the natural and common import of words be varied,
construction becomes necessary, and a departure from
the obvious meaning of words is justifiable. But if,
in any case, the plain meaning of a provision, not
contiadicted by any other provision in the samn in-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

strument, is to be disregarded, because we believe the
framers of that instrument could not intend what
they say, it must be one in which the absurdity and in-

justice of applying the provision to the case, would
be so monstrous, that all mankind would, without
hesitation, urkite in rejecting the application.
This is certainly not such a case. It is said the
Colonial and State Legislatures have been in the habit
of passing laws of this description for more than a
century; that they have never been the subject of
complaint, and, consequently, could not be within the
view of the general Convention..
The fact is too broadly stated. The insolvent laws
of many, indeed, of by far the greater number of the
States, do not contain this principle. They discharge
the person of the debtor, but leave his obligation to
pay in full force. To this the constitution is not
opposed.
But, were it even true that this principle had been
introduced generally into those laws, it would not
justify our varying the construction of the section.
Every State in the Union, both while a colony and
after becoming independent, had been in the practice
of issuing paper money ; yet this practice is in terms
prohibited. If the long exercise of the power to.
emit bills of credit did not restrain the Convention
from prohibiting its future exercise, neither can it be
said that the long exercise of the power to impair the
.obligation of contracts, should prevent a similar prohibition. It is not admitted that the prohibition is
more express in the one case than in the other. It
does not indeed extend to insolvent laws by .ame r

2203
1819.
Sturges

V.

iheld.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

11)014

because it is not a law by name, but a principle
•which isto be forbidden.; and this principle is described

i819.
Sturges

V.
Crowninshield.

in as appropriate terms as our language affords.
• Neither, as we conceive, will any admissible rule

Theprohibi.

of construction justify us in limiting, the prohibition

ant the
aconstittin

under consideration, to the particular laws which

have been described at the bar, and which furnished
gl
such cause for general alarm. What were those laws
We are told they were such as grew out of the
trctdoes not
extend to paper mony or general distress following the war in which our indeTo relieve this distress,
because these pendence was established.
tes maing

uny law
]igation the
ofeonobFairing

subjects
.1presly

are

pro.
eprd lr; pnor paper money was issued, worthless lands, and other

is it to be li-

mitedtoinstal-

ment or slnlaws,
Mreson
ecuethe
terms of the
prohibition are
general
ad
vomprehenbiive' and esta"
bish the priss.iple of the inPontracts

every mode.

property of no use to the creditor, were made a tender in payment of debts; and the time of payment,
stipulated in the contract, was extended by law.

These were the peculiar evils of the day. So much
mischief was done and so much more was appredistrust prevailed, and all confihended, that general
)
dence between man and man was destroyed. To
laws of this description therefore, it is said, the pro,
hibition to pass laws impairing the obligation of
contracts ought to be confined.
Let this argument be tried by the words of the
section, under consideration.
Was this gerieral prohibition intended to prevent
paper money? We are not allowed to say so, because
it is expressly provided, that DO State shall "emit
bills of credit ;" neither-could these words be intendod to restrain the States from enabling debtors to
discharge their debts by the tender of property of
po real value to the'creditor, because for that subject also particular provisioi is made. Nothing hut

OF THE UNITED STATES,

gold and silver coin can be made a tender in payment
ofdebts.
It remains to inquire,• whether the prohibition under consideration could be intended for the single
case of a law directing that judgements should be
carried into execution by instalments ?
This question will scarcely admit of discussion.
If this was the only remaining mischief against
which the constitution intended to provide, it would
undoubtedly have been, like paper money and tender
laws, expressly forbidden. At any rate, terms more
directly applicable to the subject, more appropriately
expressing the intention of the Convention, would
have been used. It seems scarcely possible to sup.pose that the framers of the constitution, if intending to prohibit only laws authorizing the payment of'
debts by instalment, would have expressed that
intention by saying "no State shall pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts." No men
would so express such an intention. No men would
use terms embracing a whole class of laws, for the
purpose of designating a single individual of that
class. No court can be justified in restricting such
comprehensive words to a particular mischief to
which no allusion is made.
The fair, and, we think, the necessary construetion of the sentencee requires, that we should give
these words their full and obvious meaning. A general dissatisfaction with that lax system of legislation
which followed the war of our revolution undoubtedly directed the mind of the Convention to this subject. it is probable that laws suclh as those which

205
1819.
Sturges

V.
Crowninhield.

206

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

have been stated in argument, produced the loudest
complaints, were most immediately felt. The attenSturges
V. , tion of the Convention, therefore, was particularly
Crowaninshield,.
directed to paper money, and to acts which enabled
the debtor to discharge his debt, otherwise than was
stipulated in the contract. Had nothing more been
intended, nothing more would have been expressed.
But, in the opinion of the Convention, much more
remained to be done. The same miscief might be
effected by other means. To restore public Confidence completely, it was necessary not only to prohibit the use of particular means by which it might
be effected, but to prohibit the use of any means by
which the same mischief might be produced. The
Convention appears to have intended to ,establish a
great principle, that contracts should be inviolable.
The constitution, therefore, declares, that no State
shall pass "any law impairing the obligation of con,
tracts."
If, as we think, it must be admitted that this intention might actuate the Convention ; that it is not
only consistent with, but is apparently manifested by,
all that part of the section which respects this subject; that the words used are well adapted to the
expression of it; that violence would be done to
their plain meaning by undehstanding tem in a more
limited sense; those rules of construction, which
have been consecrated by the wisdom of ages, compel
Statutes of US to say, that these -words prohibit the passage of
limitation and
Iaws,un.
usury
less ret'
active any law discharging a contract without performance.
in.their effect,
By way of analogy, the statutes of limitations,
do not impair
the obligation and against usury, have beenireferred to in argument;
1819.

.

of eontract&.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

207

and it has been supposed that the construction of iswi.
the constitution, which this opinion maintains, would Sturges
V.
apply to them also, and must therefore be too extenCrowninsive to be correct.
shieLL
We do not think so. Statutes of limitations relate
to the remedies which are furnished in the courts.
They rather establish, that certain circumstances shall
amount to evidence that a contract has been performed, than dispense with its performance. If, in
a State where six yea~s may be pleaded in bar to an
action- of assumpsit, a law should pass declaring
that contracts already ihi existence, not barred by the
statute, should be construed to be within it, there
could be little doubt of its unconstitutionality.
So with respect to the laws against usury. If the
law be, that no person shall take more than six per
centum per annum for the use of money, and that, if
more be reserved, the contract shall be void, a contract made thereafter, reserving seven per cent.,
would have no obligation in its commencement; but
if a law should declare that contracts already entered
into, and reserving the legal interest, should be usurious and void, either in the whole or in part, it would
impair the obligation of the contract, and would be
clearly unconstitutional.
'This opinion is confined to the case actually under Thici,,
,case "+ed.-c~omconsideration. It is confined to a case in which a under
creditor sues in a-Court, the proceedings of which the dratio .

legislature, whose act is pleaded, had not a right to
control, and to a case where the creditor had not.proceeded to execution against the body of his debtor,
within the State whose law attempts to absolve a

209

CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT

confined insolvent debtor from his obligation. When
~ such a ease arises, it will be considered.
Sturges
It is the opinion of the Court, that the act of the
V.
Crownn- StateofNew-York, which is pleaded bythe defendant
1819

shield.

in this cause,,so far as it attempts to discharge this defendant from the debt in the declaration mentioned, is
contrary to the constitution of the United States, and
that the plea is no bar to the action.
This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the Circuit Court
of the United States, for the first Circuit, and the
district of Massachusetts, and on the questions on
which the judges of that Court were divided in opinion, and was argued by counsel: On consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion, that, since the
adoption of the constitution of the United States, a
State has authority to pass a bankrupt law, provided
such law does not impair the obligation of contracts,
within the meaning of the constitution, and provided
there be no act of Congress in force to establish a
.uniform system of bankruptcy, conflicting with such
law.
This Court is farther of opinion, that the act of
New-York, which is pleaded in this case, so far as it
attempts to discharge the contract on which this suit
was instituted, is a law impairing the obligation of
contracts within the meaning of the constitution of
the United States, and that the plea of the defendant
is not a good and sufficient bar of the plaintiff's action.
All which is directed to be certified to the said Circuit Court.
CERTIFICATE.

