45

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT
181 9.

The General Smith.

(INSTAIcE CorT.)

The GEN.ERAL SMITH-HOLLINS et al. Claimants.
The admiralty possesses a general jurisdiction in cases of suits by material men, in personam, and in ren.
Where, however, the proceeding is in eM to enforce a specific lien,
it is incumbent upon the party to establish .theo existence (f such
lien in the particular case.
Where repairs have been made, or necessaries furnished to a foreign
ship, or to a ship in a port of the State to which she does not belong,
the general maritime iaw gives the party a lien on the ship itself for
his security, and he may maintain a suit in rem, in the admiralty, to
enforce his right.
But, as to repairs and necessaries'in the port or State to which the ship
belongs, the case is governed altogether by the local law; and no
lien is implied unless by that law.
By. the common law, material men.furnishing repairs to a domestic
ship, have no particular lien upon the ship itself for their demand.
'A shipwright who has taken a ship into his possession to repair it, is
not bound to part with the possession until he ispaid for the repairs.
But if he parts with the possession (of a domestic ship.) or has worked upon it without taking.possession, he has no claim upon, the ship
-itself.
,The common law -being the law of Maryland, on this subject, it was
S':held, that material men could not maintain a suit in rem in the District Court of Maryland, for" supplies furnished. to a domestic ship,

although they might have maintained a suit in. personam in that
Court.

APPE.AL from the Circuit Court of Maryland.

rhis was a libel filed on the 4th day of October,
1816, in the District Court of Maryland, setting forth
,that James Ramsey, the libellant, had supplied and
furnished for the use, accommodation, and equipment

of the ship General Smith, at Baltimorej in the dis-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

trict of Maryland, to equip and prepare her for a
voyage on •the high seas, various articles of cordage,
.

439
1sag.
The

Gene.

ship chandlery, and stores, amounting in the whole ral Smith.
to the value of 4,.599 dollars, and 75 cents, for no
part of which he had received any compensation,
payment, or security. That the said ship was then
owned by a certain George Stevenson, to whom he
had applied for payment of said materials furnished,
but without effect. And praying the usual process
against the ship, and that she should be sold. under
the decree of the Court, to pay and satisfy the libellant his claim.
A claim was given for the ship by John Hollins
and James W. M'Culloch, merchants, of Baltimore
the Court below, it
On the hearing, of the cause iniS
was proved, or admitted by the parties, that the ship
was an American ship, and formerly was the property
of George P. Stevenson, a merchant of Baltimore,
and a- citizen of the United States; and that whilst
the ship so belonged io -Stevenson, the -libellant, a
ship chandler of Baltimore, fuinished for her use.various articles of ship chandlery, to equip and furnish
her, it being her first equipment to perform a voyage
gn country,-to wit) tooRtedmadLvr
Rotterdam and Liverto,a foreigncut~,t
pool, and back to Baltimore. That Stevenson was
also the owner of several other vessels, for which the
libellant from time to time furnisheil articles for their
equipment for foreign voyages, and that ,payments
were made by Stevenson to the. libellant, at different
dineg, on their general' account, without application
to any'particularpart 6f the account.' That the ship
soon afterwards sailed, &c. .That theship departed

4AO

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
from Baltimore, on the voyage, without any express
.
'The Gene- assent or permission of the libellant,,and also, with'ral Smith. out objection being made on his part, and without
his having attempted to detain her, or enforce any
lien which he had against her for the articles furnished. That the ship continued to be the property of

said Stevenson, during the said voyage, and after her

return, and was not sold or disposed of in any way
by him, until the 3d day of October, 1816, when
finding himself embarrassed in his pecuniary affairs,
and obliged to stop payment, he executed an assignment to the claimants of his property, including the
ship General Smith, in trust for the payment of all
bonds for duties due by said Stevenson to the United
States, and for the payment and satisfaction of his
other creditors, &c..
Another libel was filed on the 11 th of November,
1816, against the same ship, by Rebecca Cockrill,
administratrix of Thomas Cockrill, deceased, alleging
that the said Thomas, in his life time, at Baltimore,
in the said district, did furnish a large amount of
iron materials, and bestow much labour and trouble
by himself, and those hired and employed by him, in
working up and preparing certain iron materials
for
building and, preparing the said ship for navigating
the high seas, all which materials, and work and
labour' were in fact applied and used in the construce
tion and fitting said ship, according to a bill of particulars annexed. That the libellant has: been informed, and believes, that said ship is Owned and
claimed by various persons in certain proportions,:but
in what proportions, and who are the several owners,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
she does not know, and cannot, therefore, state. That
libelthe
nor
life
time,
in
his
neither the said Thomas
The Genelant, since his decease, have ever received any part ral Smith.
of said account, or any security or satisfaction for
the same. Concluding with the usual prayer for
process, &c.
A claim was given for the same parties, and at the.
hearing, the same proofs and admissions were made
as in the suit of James Ramsey; except that it did
not appear, that Thomas Cockrill had furnished any
other vessels belonging to Stevenson with materials,
or that any payments on account had been made by
said Stevenson to said Cockrill, or to the libellant as
his admikistratrix.
The District Court ordered the ship to be'sold,
and decreed, that the libellants should be paid out of
the proceeds the amount of their demands for materials furnished. In the Circuit Court this decree was
affirmed, proforma, by consent, and the cause was
brought by appeal to this Court.

Mr. Pinkney, for the appellants and claimants,
admitted the general jurisdiction of the District
Court, as an Instance Court of Admiralty, ovier suits
,by maierial men in -personam and in rein, and over
other maritime contracts; but denied that a suit in
rem .could be maintained in the present case, because
the parties had no specific lien upon the ship for supplies furnished in the port to which she belonged.
In the case of materials furnished or repairs done to
a foreign ship, the maritime law has given, such a
lien, which nmay be enforced by a suitin the Admi-'
VOL. Tv'

442
1819.
The Gene-

4 CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ralty. But in the case of a domestic ship, it was
long since settled by the most solemn adjudications

ral smith. of the common'law, (which is the law of Maryland

on this subject,) that mechanics have no lien upon
the ship itself for their demands, but must look
to the personal security of the owner Had this
been a suit in personam in the Admiralty, there
would have been no doubt that the District Court
would have had jurisdiction : but there being, by the
local law, no specific lien to be enforced, there could
be no ground to maintain a suit in remi
Mr. Winder, contra, insisted, that the question of
jurisdiction and lien were intimately and inseparably
connected. In England, the lien has been denied
to attach, in the case of domestic ships, because the
Courts of common law, in their unteasonable jealousy of the Admiralty jurisdiction, would not per-,
mit the only Court, which could enforce the lien,
to take cognizance of it. - Consequently, the lien
has been lost with the jurisdiction. But the universal maritime law, as administered in the European
Courts of Admiralty, recognizes the lien in the case
.of 'a domestic as well as a foreign ship b and commercial policy demands that it should be enforced in
both cases.
a Abbott on Ship. p. t c. 3. s. 9-136. and the' cases there
cited. Woodruff et ql v. The Levi Dearborne, 4 Hall's AJi.'
Law. Jour. 97.
Deb. 233. note.
b Stevens v. The Sandwich, I Peter's mdtm.
De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallts. 400. 468. 476.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Justice
Court.

'

"

STORY,

delivered the opinion of,the

W

1819.
The Gene-

No doubt is entertained by this Court, that -the ral Smith.
Admiralty rightfully possesses a general jurisdiction•JMarch 10th.
in cases of material men; and if this had been a
suit in personam, there would not have been any hesitation in sustaining the jurisdiction' of the District
Court. Where, however, the proceeding is in rem
to enforce a specific lien, it is incumbent upon those
who seek the aid of the Court, to establish the existence of such lien in the particular case. Where repairs have been made, or necessaries have been furnished to a foreign ship, or to a ship in a port of the
State to which she does not belong, the general maritime law, following the civil law, gives the party a
lien on the ship itself for his security ; and be may
well maintain a suit in rem in the Admiralty to enforce his right. But in respect to repairs and necessaries in the port or State to which. the ship'belongs,
the case is governed altogether by the municipal law
of that State; and. no lien is implied, unless it is recognised. by that law. Now, it has been long settled,
whether originally upon the soundest principles it is
now too. late to inquire, that by the common law,
which is the law of Maryland, material men and
mechanics furnishing repairs to a domestic ship,
have no particular lien upon the ship itself for the recovery of their demands. A shipwright, indeed,
who has taken a ship into his own possession to repair it, is not bound to part with the possession until
he is paid for the repairs, any more than any other
artificer. But if he has once parted with the posses-

. 444.
1819.
e
.M'lver

V.

CASES: IN THE SUPREME COURT

sion, or has worked upon it without taking possession, he is not". deemed a privileged creditor,_ having
any claim upon the ship itself.
Without, therefore, entering into a discussion of
the particular circumstances of this case, we are of.
opinion, that here there was not, by the principies of
law, any lien upon the ship; and, consequently, the
*decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed.
Decree reversed.'
a Vide Ante, vol. 1. p. 96. 103, The Aurora, in which
case a lien of material men on foreign ships, was recognized
by this Court. The common, law is the municipal law of most
of the States, be to supplies furnished to domestic ships But
the legislature of New-York has, by statute, given a lien to'
shipwrights, material men, and suppliers of ships, for the'
amount of their debts, whether the ships are owned ,within
the State or not. A~ts.of 22d sess. c. I., and 40th sess' c. 59 .
%'This lien, existing by the local law, may consequently be en.
forced, ipon the principle of the above cage in the text,, by a
suit in rem in the Admiralty.

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'IvER's Lessee v. WALKIERet al.
Ifthere is nothing in a patent to control the call for course and distance, the land must be bounded by the'courses and distances of
the patent, according to the magnetic meridian. .But its a general'.
principle, that the course and distance must yield to natural objects
calledfor in the patent.
An lands are supposed to be actually. surveyed,: and the. intention of
the grant is to convey the land acoording to the actual. surrey;

