100
1819.

"'"The Caledonian.

gASES IN THE SfJBRIMF COURT

have pursued their rights fibhb'7 ol- petition by way
of libel, against the portion of the proceeds of the
cargo which was adjudged to the shippers. These
parties were entitled to be heard upon such a claim,
and could only be called upon to answer in that

mode.
But the ship owners are not yet too late to pursue
their remedy. The proceeds are still in the possession of the law, and may be subjected to any maritime claim or lien in the Court below.
Claim rejected.

(PRIzE.)

The

CALEDONIAN.-DICKEY,

Claimant.

A vessel and cargo, which is liable to capture as enemy's property, or
for sailing under the pass or license of thc enemy, or for trading with
the enemy, may be seized after her arrival in a port of the United
States, and condemned as prize of war. The delictun is not purged
by the termination of the voyage.
Any citizen may seize any property forfeited to the use of the government, either by the municipal law, or as prize of war, in order to
enforce the forfeiture; and it depends upon the government whether
it will act upon the seizure ; if it proceeds to enforce the forfeiture
by legal process, this is a sufficient confirmation of the seizure.

APPEAL
Peta. 3d.

from the Circuit Court of Rhode Island.

Tis cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden for

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the appellant and claimant;. and by the Attorney General for the: United States.b

1819.
The. Caledo-

nian.

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion -of the
Court. Thisis the case of an-American ship, which
sailed from Charleston, S. C., with a cargo of rice,
bound to Lisbon, about the 28th of May,1813, under
the protection of a British license. -In the course of
the voyage the ship was captured by a British frigate,
and sent into Bermuda for adjudication. Upon trial
she was acquitted, and her cargo being prohibited
from exportation, was afterwards s(ld by the agentof the claimant at Bermuda, and the proceeds were
remitted for his use. The ship sailed from Bermuda
for the United States, in November, 1813, and upon
her arrival at Newport, in Rhode-Island, was
seized by the collector of that port as forfeited to the
United States. The libel contains four articles propounding the causes of forfeiture; first, for the ship's.
having on board, and using a British' licence; secondly, for the ship's being engaged in trade with the
enemy; and, thirdly and fourthly, for usingia British
license contrary to the act of congress of the 2d of
August, 1813, ch. 56'. prohibiting the use of British
licenses.
It is unnecessary to consider the two last articles
a He cited the Nelly, Note to the Hoop, I Rob. 219. The
Two Friends, 1 Rob. 283. The Thomas Gibbons, 8 Cranch,
421. to show, that the vessel could -not be seized as prize, after
her arrival in port, nor by a non-commissioned seizor.
b He cited the Ariadne, 2 Wheat. 143.

Feb. 16t,%

102
1819.
'

The CaledoDian.

CASES IN THE SUPREMiE COURT

which are founded upon statutable prohibitions, be-.
cause, it is clear, that the two preceding articles,
founded on the general law of prize, are sufficient to
justify a condemnation jure belli, the proof of the
facts being most clearly established.
The only questions which can arise in the
case,
are whether the ship was liable to seizure for the asserted forfeiture, after her arrival in port; and, if so,
whether the collector had authority to make the seizure. And we are clearly of opinion in favour of
the United States on both points. It is not necessary,
to enable the government to enforce condemnation in
this case, that there should be a capture on the high
seas. By the general law of war. every American
ship sailing under 'the pass, or license of the enemy,
or trading with the enemy, is deemed to be an enemy's ship, and forfeited as prize. If captured on the
high seas, by a commissioned vessel, the property
may he condenmed to the captors as enemy's property; if captured by an uncommissioned ship, -the capture is. still valid, and the property must be condemned to the United States. But the right of the government to the forfeiture, isnot founded on the capture; it arises'from its general authority to seize all
enemies property coming into our ports during war;
and also from its authority to enforce a forfeiture
against its own citizens,- whenever the property comes
within, its reach. If, indeed, the mere arrival in port
wouLd purge away the forfeiture, it would afford the
urtmost impunity to persons engaged in illegal traffic
during war, for in most instances, the government

OF THE UNITED STATES.
819.
would have no means of ascertaining the offence
until after such arrival.
The Lang
In respect to the other point, it is a general rule, don Cheves
that any person may seize any property forfeited to
the use of the government, either by the municipal
law, or by the law of prize, for the purpose of ehforcing the forfeiture. And it depends upon the go.
vernment itself, whether it will act upon the seizure.
If it adopts the acts of the party, and proceeds to enforce the forfeiture by legal process, this is a sufficient
recognition and confirmation of the seizure, and is of
equal validity in law, with an original authority given
to the party to make the seizure. The confirmation
acts retroactively, and is equivalent to a command.

Decree affirmed, with costs,

(PRhaZ.)

The LANGDON CHEVES.-LAMS, Claimant.
A question of fact upon a seizure in port, as a droit of admiralty, for
trading with the enemy, and using his license. The circumstance of
the vessel. having been sent into an enemy's port, for adjudication,
and afterwards permitted to resume her voyage, held to raise a violent presumption that she had a license, which the claimant not
having repelled by explanatory evidence, condemnation was pro-

nounced.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of Rhode-Island.

This cause was argued by Mr. Hunter, and Mr.

Feb. 3d.

