488

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
t
M'A'rthur

v.

Browder.

of Ohio, destroy its validity, without reference to the
b
knowledge or connivance of the mortgagee.

And

this again must be decided by referring to the object
of the law. The words of the statute would literally embrace th& case. But who are the objects of
the law ? Not creditors only, but subsequent purchasers. And to give it such a construction as would
expose a bona fina purchaser without notice to imposition, in order to protect creditors, could never
comport with the intent of the law.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion, that there is
no error in the decree below, and that the same be
affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed, with costs.

(LOCAL LAW.)

M'ARTHUR v. BROWDER.
The rule which prevails in Kentucky and Ohio, as to land titles, is,
that, at law, the patent is the foundation of title, and neither party
can bring his entry. before the Court: tut a junior patentee, claiming under an elder entry, may, in Chancery, support his equitable
title.
A description which will identify the lands is all that is necessary to
'the validity of a grant: but the law requires that an entry should
be made withsuch certainty, that subsequent purchasers may be.
enabled to locate the adjacent residuum.
An entry for 1,000 acres of land in Ohio, on Deer creek," beginning.
where the upper line of Ralph Morgan's entry crosses the creek,.
running with Morgan's line on each side of the creek 400 poles,

. 89

OF THE UNITED STATES.
thence up the creek 400 poles in a direct line, thence from each
side of the given line with the upper line at right angles with the
side lines for quantity :" held, to be a valid entry.
Distinc~tion between gending and withdrawing an entry.

1819.
M'Arthur
V.
]Browder.

from the Circuit Court of Ohio.
The bill in equity filed in this cause by the appellant, M'Arthur, states, that George Mathews, on the
19th of September, 1799, made the following entry
with the surveyor of the Virginia army lands.
"'No. 3717: 1799, September 19th. George Mathews, assignee, enters 1,000 acres of land, on part
of a military warrant, No. 4795, on Deer creek, beginning where the upper line of Ralph Morgan's
entry, No. 466.5, crosses the creek, running with Morgan's line on each side of the creek 200 poles ; thence
up the creek 400 poles on a direct line, thence from
each side of the given line with the upper line, at
right angles with the side lines for quantity."
That afterwards the entry of Ralph Morgan was
withdrawn; and that in consequence, George MS.thews made the following entry: "No 3717: 1801,
October 26th. George Mathews, assignee, enters
1,000 acres of land on part of a military- warrant,
No. 4795, on'Deer creek, beginning at two elms on
the south west bank of the creek, upper -corner to
Henry Mossies' survey, No. 3925, running south 45
west 120 poles, north 65 west 172 poles, north 17
west 320 poles, north 76 east 485 poles, thence south
1 west 292.poles, thence to the beginning." The
bill charges, that the last entry was not intended as a
new one ; but only as an amendment or explanation
of the first. This last entry was surveyed the 7th of
APPEAL

VoL IV.

6

490

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
M'Arthur

v.

lrowder.

October, 1807: And upon an assignment to the complainant, the,land, embraced in the survey was pa-

tented to the plaintiff, the 16th of July, 1806.
The title of Browder, the respondent, is stated in
the bill as follows:
That on the 20th of July,, 1798, Nathaniel Randolph made the following entry: " No. 3310: July
20, 1798. Nathaniel Randolph, assignee, enters
300 acres of land on three military warrants, Nos.
4165, 4250, and 4664, on the lower side of Deer
creek, beginning at a walnut and two elms, cornered
,5 poles from the bank of the creek, running south 61
west 200 poles to two white oaks, and two hickories, thence north 7 west 234 poles, thence north 6t
east 200"poles, thence to the beginning." That the
last entry was surveyed for Randolph, and the oldest
patent obtained by him, which he conveyed to Browder, who has recovered upon an ejectmentBy the answer and exhibits, it appears, that Randolph's survey was made the 1st of August, 1798 ;
that a patent was granted to Randolph, the 29th of
September, 1800, who conveyed to the respondent.
The respondent, Browder, having brought an action
of ej-ctment, recovered the possession of the land in
question; and the appellant, M'Arthur, filed this bill
in equity, praying for an injunction ; a conveyance of
so much of the land claimed by the respondent, as
interferes with his claim ; and for general relief. The
bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, and the cause
brought by appeal to this Court.

,March i0ih.

This cause was argued by Mr. Scott and Mr.

OF THE UNITED STATES..

Brush, for the appellant, and by the Attorney General and Mr. Doddridge, for the respondent.
'

M'Arthur

deliyered the opi-

Browder"

1819.
MAtu
V.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL

nion of the Court.

In this case, the appellee claims under the elder
grant founded on the elder entry. Consequently,. if
his entry be valid, the bill, of the appellant cannot be
.sustained. But the entry is so defective in description, that it was necessarily abandoned; and the appellee relies on his patent; interior to the emanation of which, the appellant contends that the land
was appropriated by hisentry. , The validity of this
entry, als'o, is denied. But before we examine the
objections made to it, we must consider those which.
have been urged against the jurisdiction of this
Court as a Court of Equity.
The rule which prevails both in Kentucky_ and
Ohio is, that, at law, the patent is the foundation of
title, and that neither party can bring his entry before the Court. In consequence of this rule, it has
been also well settled, that the junior patentee, claiming under an elder entry, may, in Chancery, support
his equitable title, and obtain a decree for a conveyance of so much of the land as under his entry he'
may be entitled to. But the general principle is'
supposed to be inapplicable to this case, because the
words of the entry are introduced into the grant;
and if they were too vague to appropriate the land'
when used in the entry, they must be too vague to
appropriate it wlien used in the grant,. which is a

.

.
1.2arc

492:

CASES IN: THE SUPREME COURT

question triable at law, and which was tried in the.
brought by ,theappellee for the land.

1819..

'~v~ejectment
McArthur
'entsp

Browder.

Were the fact.precisely as stated, it could not support the argumentwhich is founded on it. When

theulethat

lands are

.

granted, a description which will identify
ajt miorn
ited o
teeundernder them is all .that is necessary to. the -validity of the
entry, may, in grant. But identity is not: all that is necessary to.
i n
Chancery,
suporthise

tite, the validity of an, entry... The law requires-that,

applicable

,hip case

to

locations should be'made with such certainty, that
subsequent .purchasers may be enabled to locate the
adjaceit fesiduum. All grants are founded on surveys. They recite the surveys, and all that is required -in an ejectment is to prove that the: land
claimed is that which was surveyed.. But more is
required in. a contest respecting, an entry. N6thing
is more common than for Courts to declare an entry
void for uncertainty, notwithstanding the clearest
proof that the land claimed, and that located, are the
same.
There is then nothing in the resemblance between
the words of the grant and of, the entry, to distinguish this-from other cases, in which the party claiming under the first good'entry, comes into Chancery
to obtain a conveyance of lands held under a senior
patent. We proceed, then, to examine the entry under which the appellant claims. That entry is made
for 1000 acres of land on Deer creek, " beginning
where the upper line of Ralph Morgan's entry crosses
the creek, running with Morgan's line on each side
of the creek 200 poles, thence up the creek 400
poleson a direct 'line, thence from each side of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
given line, with the upper line at right angles with
M'Arthur
quantity."
for
the'side lines,
B
.
That entries, which contain such descriptive Browder.
necesis"
What descripwords as clearly to designate the place where the tion
particular sary
more
their
to
respect
land lies, shall with
of a nenlid ity tothe,.•
locative calls, be supported, if they can on fair con- try.
struction be supported, is a principle which pervades the whole of that curious and intricate fabric,
which has been erected by. the. decisions on land
titles in Kentucky, and has been taken as a model
for those in the military district of Ohio. If a subsequent locator, brought to the spot where the lands
lie, with the location in his hand, might by the application of the rules which the Courts have established,
know how to place the entry so as to enable himself
to locate the adjacent residuum, the entry must be
sustained.
In this case it is admitted, that the beginning is
described with sufficient certainty. The -place where
the upper line of Ralph Morgan's entry crosses Deer
creek is ascertained. From that beginning the entry
calls to run " with Ralph Morgan's line on each side
of the creek 200 poles." It is said to be entirely
uncertain whether this line is to be 200 poles on each
side of the creek, so as to amount to 400 poles, or
to be only a line of 200 poles altogether. Did this
ambiguity really exist in the words themselves, it is
entirely removed by the other parts of the location.
The entry is made for 1,000 acres of land, and cannot, on any. construction, be made to exceed 600
acres, unless the base line be 400 poles. We have
then a given line of 400•poles. The entry then pro-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,ceeds, 4(thence up the creek 400 poles on a direct
line." The plain meaning of these words is, that
the land liesup the creek, so that a direct line of 400
M'Artbur
V.
Browder. poles will reach' its upper boundary. If the location
stopped here, adding only "for quantity," the decisions of Kentucky would establish it as a good entry for a square formed on the upper side of the base
line of 400 poles, which would contain 1,000'ares*
of land. But the entry proceeds, "thence from each
side of the given line, with the upper line at right
angles with the side lines, for quantity." This part
of the description has been said to produce urncertainty, because two lines are given, and a subsequent
locator could not tell to which reference was made.
If it would make any difference whether the base
line or the line up the creek was taken as the given
line, this might produce some difficulty ; but if the
entry must cover precisely the same ground, whether
the one or the other be taken as the given line,.it can
make none.
Let the base line be considered as the given line.
It is plain that the words from each side must mean
from each end, because the land is to lie up the creek;
if you proceed from each side, it would lie
whereas,
partly down
the creek. The line, too, which is to
:the upper line,
give the quantity with the side lines is
and that is-removed from the base line the distance
necessary to include the quantity of land required.
As this quantity is to be inclosed from the whole
entry taken together, within lines which form a square,
the entry must be understood to require, that the side
lines should be drawn from the ends of the base line,
819.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

and the inaccuracy of the expression could not mislead.
But the entry is understood to refer as the given
line to that which is last mentioned ; that is, to the
line of 40)0 poles, which is perpendicular to the base.
You are then carried up the creek 400 poles in a direct line from the base line. From each side of
this line you are carried "with the Upper line at right
angles with the side lines," until you get 1,000
acres. This construction gives full effect to every
word of the entry, and gives a square which will
contain 1,000 acres. It is, we think, the natural
construction. The entry would be so understood by
every subsequent locator. On any constructiou, the~n.
which can be given to the words, the entry must not
only have the same form, but must cover precisely
the same land.
If, then, the original entry had never been amended, there could be no doubt of the right of the party
claiming under it. This leads to the inquiry, whether the amendment affects this right.
The distinction between amending and withdiawing an entry is well established, and completely understood. An amended entry retains its original
character, so far as it is unchanged by the amendment. So far as it is changed, it is a new entry.
The survey, in this case, is understood to conform
precisely to the amended entry; and it contains a
part of the land comprehended in-the original entry.
So far as respects the land within the appellee's patent, which is-comprehended. by the original entry,
the amended entry, and the survey, we think the

'IWr
a
1819.
V.

Browder.

Distinction be.
tween amendin.- and mithdraming aneu try.

496

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
'the

M' Arthur

v.

Browder.

appellant was entitled to a decree, and, consequently,
Circuit Court erred in dismissing his bill.

The

decree is to be reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Circuit Court, with directions to enter a decree
conforming to this opinion.
DEcRE.-This cause came on to be heard on the
transcript of the record of the Court of the United
States for the seventh Circuit, and District of Ohio,
and was argued by counsel. On Consideration
whereof, this Court is of opinion, that the plaintiff
in the Circuit Court had a good title in equity to so
much of the land contained in the defendant's patent, as is comprehended in the original entry made
by George Matthews, in September, 1799, and also
in his amended entry, and in his survey ; and that
the decree of the said Circuit Court, dismissing the
bill, is erroneous, and ought to be reversed, and it is,
accordingly, Reversed ; and this Court doth farther
Direct and Order, that the said cause be remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a
decree, directing the defendant to convey to the
plaintiff so much of the land contained in, his patent, as is comprehended in the original entry, and
also in the amended entry and survey, on which the
grant of the plaintiff was founded.

