73

01' TE UNITED STATES.
,eas upon the property of our citizens, by a cruizer regularly
commissioned by a foreign and friendly power, except where
such cruizer has been fitted out in violation of our neutrality.
L'Invincible, ante, vol. 1. p. 238. S. C. 2 Gallis. 29.
Vide infra, the. cases of the Estrella, and the .Tleustra Senora

de la Caradid, in which the same principles which are collected in this note werq applied to captures of Spanish property
by Venezuelean and Carthagenian privateers, and the property
was restored to the original owners, or to the captors, accordingas the capture had, or had not bedi made in violation of our
neutrality.

For the different public acts by which the government of the,
United States has recognized the existence of a civil war between Spain and her American colonies, see the Appendix,
note II.

tEVANS against PHILLIPS.
(PRAcTIcE.)

A writ of 'error will not lie on a judgment of nonsuit.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court of New-York.

Mr. D. B. Ogden moved to dismiss the writ' of
error in this case, upon the 'ground that the plaintiff
had submitted to a nonsuit in the Court below, upon
which no writ of error will lie.
The Court directed the writ of error to be dismissed.
VOL. IV.

10

1819..
Evans
V.

Phillips.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

,a,
ess
Van Ness

V.
13uel

JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record

on consideration whereof,"

it is adjudged and ordered, that the Writ of error be,
and the same is, hereby dismissed, with costs, the
plaintiff having submitted to a nonsuit in the Circuit
Court.a
a Vide Box 'v. Bennett, 1 H. BL. 432.
ley, 4 T. R. 436.

Kempland v. Macau-

(COMMON LAW.)

VAN NE*ss against BUEL.
A collector of the customs, who makes a seizure of goods for an 9sserted forfeiture, and before the proceedings in rem are consummated by
a sentence of condemnation, is removed from office, acquires an inchoate right by the spizure, which by the subsequent decree of con
'demnation gives him an absolute vested right to his share of the forfeiture, under the collection act of the 2d of March, 1799.

to the Circuit Court of Vermont.
This was an action of assumpsit, in which the defendant in error, Buel, declared against the plaintiff in
error, Van Ness, in the money counts, and gave evidence
that the sums of money, for the recovery of which this
suit was brought, were the proceeds of a moiety of a
certain seizure of goods as forfeited, which seizure was
made in the district of Vermont, on the 6th of July,
1812, while the plaintiff below was collector of the
ERROR

