,.08
1s19.
-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

not a-provision made by him for his family, but by

•another.
Bd.
Although, from, any thing that appears in this
Biddle.cause, this Court can see no ground on which the
jury could have found otherwise than they did, yet
if the .instruction was erroneous, and to the prejudice
of the defendant below, as this Court cannot estimate its influence on the minds of the jury, the
judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

(PRACTICE.)

SERGEANT's Lessee v. BIDDLE et a.
Dipositions, taken according to the proviso in the 30th sec. of the Judiciary act of 1'189, c. 20., under a dedimuspote tiem, "according to
common usage, when it may be necessary to prevent a failure or
delay of justice," are under no circumstances to be considered as
taken.de Uene ease, whether the witnesses reside beyond the process
of the Court or within it; the provisions of the act relative to depositions de bene esase. being confined to those taken under the enacting part of the section.
Marh.9a.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Martin and Mr.

C. J. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. Hopkinson and Mr. Sergeant, for- the defendants. The
facts are fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
omarch 1h.

Mr. Justice
the Court.

WASHINGTON

delivered theopinion of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The only: question certified by the Circuit Court
for the District of Delaware
to this Court is, whe•
ther certain depositions taken under a commission.
issued from that Court to Philadelphia, could, under
the circumstances of the case, be given in evidence to
the Jury.
This question arises out of the following facts: On
the 26th of October, 1817, a consent rule was entered in this cause, "for a commission to issue to,
take depositions on both sides, to be directed to Thomas Bradford, jun. and William J. Duane, of Philadelphia; interrogatories to be filed on ten days
notice." The agreement of the counsel, under which
this rule was entered, was filed in Court, on the
11th of November, of the same year.
On the 27th of October, 1817, an ex parte rule
was entered, on the motion of the defendants' counsel, "for a commission to issue to the city of Philadelphia, on the part of the defendants, to be directed
to George Vaux and William Smith, or either of
them, commissioners on the part of the defendants,
on ten days notice of filing interrogatories, with
liberty to the plaintiff's counsel to name a commis-

sioner or commissioners, if they should choose to do
so, at any time before issuing the commission."
After the counsel for the lessor of the plaintiff
had opened his casc and gone through his evidence,
the counsel for the defendants having opened his case,
offered to give in evidence to the jury sundry depositions of witnesses taken under a coimmission to Philadelphia, bearing date the 31st of October, 1817,
directed to George Vaux and William Smith, or

1819.
Sergeant

v.
Biddle.

510
1819.

Srg

-Didle

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

either of them, and to George M. Dallas and Richor either of them.. This evidence was
ardBache,
objeted to by the plaintiff's counsel, on the ground
that the depositions so taken'were to be considered,
in point of law, as taken de bene esse.
In support of this evidence, the defendants stated,
and the opposite counsel admitted, that previous to
the execution of this commission, . an agreement had
:been entered into, that the same should be executed
by George M. Dallas, one. of the commissioners on
the part of the plaintiff, and George Vaux, -another
of the commissioners on the part of the defendants;
and that it was further agreed, and so endorsed on
the commission, that the said George Vaux might
be permitted to'take a solemn affirmation, instead of
an oath, and that the commissioners, who should
act, might bequalified by any alderman of Philadelphia, and their clerk by the commissioners; and which
agreementswere entered into upon the application
of the defendant's counsel. He further gave in evi--.
dence, that commissions had heretofore issued to
Philddelphia, and other places within 100 miles of,
the place of trial, from the Circuit Court -for that
District, upon motions made'for that purpose; and
-that upon motion,- commissions had -issued to Philadelphia and to other -places without the State, from
the Supreme Court of the State of Delaware, pre•vious and subsequent to the year, 1789. - That upon
the return of the commission in this case, publication
-thereof was ordered by the Court; and, lastly, that
all the witnesses examined in the execution of -thp

OF THE UNITED STATES.

said commission, resided in Philadelphia: distant 83
miles from the place of holding the Court.
It is contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that, as
by the 6th section of the act of the 2d of March,
1793, subpoenas for witnesses may run into any other
district than that in which the Court is holden, provided, that in civil causes, the witnesses do not live at
a greater distance than'100 miles from the place of
holding the Court, the deposition in this case ought
not to have- been received, unless it had appeared to
the Court that the witnesses had been duly summoned, and were unable to attend. This argument ap-.pears to be founded upon the provision of the 30th
section of the judiciary act of 1789, c. 20. to which
this case has no relation. That section authorizes
the taking of depositions in the specified cases, without the formality of a commission, but declares that
.the depositions. so taken, shall be de bene esse ; and to
prevent any conclusion from being drawn against the
power of.the Courts jo grant commissions for taking
depositions by reason of the above provisions, this section goes on to provide, that nothing in the said sec-

-ion contained shall -be construed to prevent any
.Court of the United States from granting.a dedimus
potesatema to take depositions according to common,
usage, when it may be necessary to prevent a failure,
or delay of justice, which power it is declared they
shall severally ppssess.
'The only question then is, whether depositions,
:taked under a dedimus potestatem, according to com,
,mbn, usagei are, under any circumstances, to be con-sidered as-taken de bene.esse ? And it is the opinion'

• 6! I

Se~rgeant

v.

Biddld

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

512g

Of this Court that they cannot be so considered.
oi1,
SWhat

Sergeant
v.
Biddle.

might be the effect of the agreement of the

parties, or of an order of the Court to, the contrary,
need not be decided in this case, as the rule, as well
as the commission which issued under it, was absolute and unqualified. Whenever a commission issues
for taking depositions according to common usagei
whether the witness reside beyond the process of the
Court, or within it, the depositions are absolute,
the above section of the act of Congress relating to,
depositions de bene esse, being most obviously confined, to those taken under the enacting part of that
section. But it is contended by the'plaintiff's counsel, that this commissioh to take depositions of witnesses living within 100 miles from the place at which
the Court was to sit, although in another district,
was improvidently issued, and that. the ruleunder
which it issued was. erroneo0 usly made.
Whether this objection ought, or ought not, to have
been made at the time, or during the term when the
rule was entered. is a question which does not occur in
this case; because it is most obvious from the con-.
duct of the plaintiff's counsel in the Court below,
that if'they did not agree to the rule, the commission was issued with their consent. A consent rule
was entered on the 25th of October, differing from
the exparle rule, entered two days afterwards, in no
other respect, but as to the names-of 'the commissioners. The plaintiff's counsel afterwards joined
in the commission, removed: every possible obj ction
as to the commissioners, by- naming one on. the part
of the plaintiff, to act with one-of the defendant's

OF THE UNITED STATES.

513

commissioners, and filed his cross interrogatories, to 18.19.,
be propounded to the witnesses. The commission '. Boyd
,'
was executed by the commissioners so named, and
V.
the witnesses were regularly examined, as well on Graves.
the cross interrogatories, as on those in chief.
After such unequivocal evidence of consent to the
'issuing of the commission, it is not competent to the
plaintiff's counsel to object, that- it issued improvidently, or that the rule was improperly obtained.
It is to be certified to the Circuit Court for the
district of Delaware, that the depositions taken under
the commission, referred- to in the transcript of the
record sent to this Court, dated the 31st day of October, 1817, ought to be given in evidence to the jury,
upon the trial of the cause in which they were taken.
Certificate accordingly.

(COMMON LAW.)

I30YD's Lessee v. GRAVES et at.
An agreement, by parol, between too proprietors of adjoining lands, to
employ a surveyor to run the dividing line between them, and that
it should be thus ascertained and settled, which was executed, and
the line accordingly run and marked on a plat by the surveyor, in
their presence, as the boundary, held to be conclusive in an action
of ejectment, after a correspondent possession of 20 years by the
parties, and those claiming under them respectively.
Such an agreement is not-within the statute of frauds, as being a contract for the sale of lands, orany interest in or concerning them.

VOL. IV.

66

