OF THE UNITED STATES.

4W
1819.

(Pkizz.)

The NEusThA SENORA DE LA CARIDAD-BAGEt et

aL Claimants.
A cruiser, equipped at the port of Carthagena, in South America, and
commissioned under the authority of the province of Carthagena,
one of the United Provinces of New Grenada, at War with Spain,
sailed from the said port, and captured on the 'high seas, as prize,
a vessel and 'cargo. belonging to the subjects of the king of
Spain, and put a prize crew on board; and ordered her to pro-.
ceed to the said port of Carthagena; the captured vessel was
afterwards fallen in with by a private qrmed vessel of the United
States, and the cargo taken out-and brought into the United States
for adjudication as the property of their enemy. The original'Spa.
nish bwner, and the prizenfiaster from the Carthagenian cruiser,
both claimed the goods. The possession was decreed to be rqtorec .
to the Carthagurnan prizemaster.
War having.been recognize- to exist between Spain and her colonies
by the government of the United States, it is the duty of the Courts
of the United States, where'a capture is imade by either of the bel.
ligerent parties witho0t any violation of pur neutrality, and the capturid prize is brought infiocently within our jurisdiction, to leave
tings in the same state they find them; or to restore them to the
state from which they have been fdtcibly removed by the act of qur
* own citizens.
The Spanish treaty held, not to apply to the above case, as the Court
could not consider the Carthagenian captors as pirates, and the
capture was not made within the jurisdictional limits of the United
States; the only twocases i# which the, treaty enjoins restitution,

APPEAL fromi

the Circuit Court of North Caro-

lina.
This was aprize allegation against certain goods,
taken by a private armed v6sse| of the United States,

the Harrison-, dering thp, late war with Great Britain,
93
VeL.; IV.,

The.Neustra
Senora do Is

Caridad.

CASES IN'.THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

out of a ship called the Neustra Senora de Ia CarlA claim was interposed by Salvador Bages,

The Neustra
e

dad.

Senora de la
Caridad.

and others, Spanish subjects, domiciled at St. Jago,
in thetisland of Cuba, alleging that the ship was a
Spanish ship,and-with the goods, their property, was
captured on the high seas, by an armed vessel cruizing under the pretended colours of Carthagena, the
coiimander of- which produced no commission, nor

did, the claimants know, or admit, he had one, and
Who detained the Caridad as prize, and put a prize
crew on board. That having separated -fromthe capturing vessel, they were met with and boarded by the
privateer Harrison. That :the' said privateer
capthe
the
Caridad,
and
tured. and took possession of
'
captors unladed the cargo from on board of her , into
the Harrison, and having brought the same into the
port of Wilmington, North Carolina, proceeded
against it as prize of war.
A 'cross'claim was filed'by Pedro Brugman; mas'ter and 'commander of the Carthagenian armed
schooner Neustra' Senora de la Popa, in behalf of
himself, and others, 'the owners of said privateer, to
the goods thus proceeded against as prize of war by
the cor-'mander, officers, and crew 'of the Harrison.
This 'claim pleaded, that the goods Were: not at the
time of the proceedings, nor at the time of capture
by the'Harrison, the property of any'British subjects,
or of any persons domiciled in' the dominions of
Great Britain, nor 'of any of the enemies of the Uni-'
ted Statesbut that the same then,'were, and yet are,
the property of thei ownersj officers, and crew of the
La Popa, from, whose lawful possession the same

OF THE UNITED STATES.

499

had- been violently. and. wrongfully taken, on the .is9.
high "seas, by the Harrison, as before mentioned. The Neutra
Se.ora de I
Thatthe La Popa, having
"'.
•been
.. duly commissioned Caridad;
d
by the sovereign authority of the independent. State
of Carthagena,-and furnished with letters of marque
and reprisal, autho'izing.her to capture, on the high
seaq, the property of the enemies of said State, left
the port of. Carthagena in the month. of December,
1814,. on a cruise., That on the -21st of January, 181), while cruising off St. Jago de Cuba,
the said privateer La Popa, commanded. by -the
claimant,. seized and captured the ship La- Cartdad, sailing, froth Jamaica to Cuba, loaded with,,
dry:goods,' and belonging,- With the cargo, to the enemiesof the said independent State of Carthagena,.
as the papers on.-board, and. the. information of .the
master and crew, convinced the claimant to be :the
fact. That the.claimant put a prizemaster and crew
on board the captured vessel, and ordered her to pro--.
ceed to the said port. of Carthagena. '.That the: said
prizemaster and crew, retained the possession for four :
days, and while they were proceeding to Carthagena,
the, Caridad was forcibly taker) by the Harrison from
their, possession, .the goods, taken out, and brought
into the port of Wilmington, as aforesaid.
An order was made by the Court below,, that-the
claimant, I'edro Brugman, sbould, be- allowed to
make fa'ther proof, that the, commission which, he
produced, and 'under which., he alleged the..original
capture to have been made, was,; issued. by-the aif-.
thority acting as the, sovereign authority of 3tho6-United Provinces of &ew-Grenada.

500

,CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

At the bearing it was ,proved, by the testimony of
witnesses, that the La Popa belonged to and had
e
Senora de la been actually fitted out in Carthagena, one of the said
1819.

Caridad.

United Provinces of New Grenada; that the com-

mission produced by the commander, was in the
usual form in which letters of marque were issued by
the sovereign authority of that Province; that the
.seal affixed to the same was the seal used at the time
by those who exercised the sovereign authority of
Carthagena to authenticate the commissions by them.
granted; that the officers of state by whom the same
wes signed, were at the time, and had been for some
time before, respectively, the Governor and the Secretary of War, and the Marine of the-said. Province
that the witnesses were acquainted with the hand
writing of the said Governor and Secretary, the wit-.
nesses having often seen them write, as well as seen
their public and acknowledged writings, and verily
believed the same to be their signatures. - And the
commission was also proved to be genuine, and to have
regularly issued, by the certificates and declarations of
the officers of state of the Province of Carthagena.
The origiiial- capture by the. La Popa, the retaking
by the Harrison, and -the proprietary interest of 'the
original Spanish owners of the goods were all fully
proved..
The Circuit Court decreed, at May term, 1818,1
the goods to'be restored to the possession of Pedro
Brugman f' from which sentence an appeal was taken
to this Court by"the claimant, Salvador Bages,' for,
himself .and the. original Spanish owners.
.. The, cause was submitted without argument."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Sol

Mr. Justice J0H$qSON delivered the opinion of 'the
18i9.
Court..""
"
C
.
..
"The Neustra
T'his case arose out of a capture made in:the late Senora de la
war. 'The La Popa, a commissioned cruiser of the MTr 21
Province of Carthagena, had made prize of the Ca-'
ridad, a Spanish vessel, in a voyage' from Jamaica
to Cuba.: The American private armed vessel Harrison fell in with the Caridad, then in. possession of
the prize crew of the La Popa, and suspecting her
cargo to be -British, took possession of it, and transhipped it into their own vessel.., On the arrival of
the Harrison in*a port of North Carolina, the cargo
was claimed both by the Caridad and La Popa, and,
finally restored to the LaiPopa.
This is an appeal from -the decision of the. Circuit
Court of North. Carolina, made by the original Spar
nish owner; and the case has been submitted on. the
evidence and the grounds taken in the argument .beThere is no doubf'that the, property was Spanish,
nor that the privateer La Popa was commissioned as
a cruiser, whilst the Province of Carthagena had, an
organized government and there is, the fullest evidence that hex armament and equipment was unaffected by any charge of having' been maqe-in violation of our laws.
The'only question in the case iS'whether an ori-,
ginal Spanish owner is entitled to 'the aid of the
,,Courts of.-this country, to 'restore to him prbperty of
which he has been dispossessed by capture, under, a
commission..derived from the revolted colonies ? and
this question is considered, by'this court, as having

5CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
been fully decided by the principles assumed in the
case of the United States v. Palmera at the last term,
The Nebstra
,Senora de la and by the decisions inthe cases of the Estrellab and
Divina Pastorac at the present term.
Caridad.
War notoriously exists, and is: recognized by our
government to exist, between Spain and her colonies.
This is an appeal to the highest of all'tribuilals on a
question of right. No neutral nation can act against
either, without taking part with the other in the war.
All that. the lawof nations requires of us, is strict
arid impartial neutrality. And no friendly nation
ought to'demand of the Courts of this country to
do an act which may involve it in a war with the
victor. , Our duty is, where the property of either is
-brought innocently within our jurisdiction, to leave
things as we find them; much more to restore them
to that state from Which they, have been forcibly removed by the act of our own citizens. The-treaty
with Spain can have -no bearing upon the case,, as'
this ,Court cannot recognize such captors as pirates,
and the capture was not made. within our jurisdi-tional: limits.' In"those two cases only 'does the
treaty enjoin restitution.
•Decdied affirmid, witli costs.
*•
. Whe .•6 o.. :bA t,,T. 290.'
..

C
c Ant ;pP.

