816

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

MICulloch
4,coPFTITUTIOzi~AL

V.

Stauo f M;ryland.

IWCULLOCH V.

'The STATE

LAW.)

-J1 MARYLAND

et al.

Congress has power to incorporate a Bank.
The government of the Union is a government Qf the People' it
and are to
powers are granted by.them ;,
v anates from them; its
be e~ercised directly on them,. and for their benefit.
The government of. the Union, though limited 'inits powers, is supreme within its sphere of action; and its laws,-when made in pursuance of the constitution, form the supreimie lKw of the land.
.There is nothing in the- Cpnstitution of tbp Unitpd States, similar to
the articles-of Confederation, which exclude incidental or implied
powers.
If the end be legitimate, and within the scope of the constitution, all
pe
eano which are appropriate, which are plainly adapted to that
enid, and which are not prohibited, may constitutionally be erployed tocarry it'into effect.
The power of establishing a c~rporation is not a distinct sovereign
powr o #4 qf government, but only the mcaps of carrying into
ect other- powers which are sovereign. - Whenever it becomes an
appropriate means of exercising any of the powers given by te
it may be exercised
- constitution to the government of the Union,
by thatgovernmdnt.
If"
, certain e~ens to arr ipt, effect any of the powers, . expresgy
fiven by the constitution to the government of the Union, be am
appropiato measure ,. potprohibited bythe constitution, the degree
of, its necessity is a question of legislative discretion, not of:

9dicial cegn'Lzanee.

The act of the 10th April, 1816, c. 44., to "incorporate the subscri-.
bers to the Bank of the United States," is a law made. inpursuance
of. the o6nstitution.
Tse Bank of the United States has, constitutionally, a right to establish its branches or offices of discount and deposit within any, State.
The State, within which such brafich may be established, cannot,
witbut violating the constitutio'n, tax that branch;
The State. governments have no-right to tax any of tie constitutional
means employed, by the goverment of -the Union to execute its coistitutiolial powers.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

317

1819.
'The States have no power, by taxation, or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner controul the operations of the constitutional laws enacted by Congress, to carry into effect the powers MICulloch
State V.of Mavested in the natioajal government.
ryland.
This principle does not extend to a tax paid. by the real property of
the Bank of the United States, in common with the other real
property in a particular State, nor to a tax imposed on the proprietary interest which the citizens of that State may hold in this institution, in .common with other property -of the same description
throughout the State.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of

Maryland.
This was an -action of debt brought by the defendant in error, John James, who sued as well for
himself as for the State of Maryland, in the County
Court of Baltimore County, in the said State, against
the plaintiff in error, M'Culloch, to recover certain
penalties under the act of the legislature of Maryland, hereafter mentioned., Judgment being rendered
.against the plaintiff in error, upon the following
statement of facts, agreed and submitted, to the
Court by the parties, was affirmed. by the Court of
Appeals of the State of Maryland, the highest Court
of law of said State, and the cause was brought,
by writ of error, to this Court.
It is admitted by the parties in this cause, by their
counsel, that there was passed on the 1Oth day of
April, 1816, by the Congress of the United States,
4n act, entitled, "1an act to incorporate the subscribers
to the Bank of the United States;" and that there
was passed, on the I lth day of February, 1818, by the
General Assemblyof Maryland, an act, entitled, " an
act to impose a tax on all Banks, or branches thereof,
inthe State of Maryland, not chartered by the legis-

318

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

o19.
M'Culloch
M l

v.
ryland.

State of Ma-

,tre,"
which said acts are made part of this statement, and it is agreed may be read from the statute
books in which they are respectively printed. It is
further admitted, that the President, Directors and
Company of the Bank of the United States, incorporated by the act of Congress aforesaid, did organize themselves, and go into full operation n the City
of Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania, in pursuance of the said act, and that they did on the
day of
eighteen hundred and, seventeen, establish a branch of the said Bank, or an office of
discount and deposit in the city of Baltimore, in the
state of Maryland, which has from that time until
the first day of May, eighteen hundred and eighteen,
Over since transacted and carried on business as a Bank,
or office of discount and deposit, and as a branch of
the said Bank of the United States, by issuing'Bank
notes an(d discounting promissory notes, and performing other operations usual and customary for Banks
to do and perform, under the authority and by the direction of the said President, Directors and Company
of the Bank of the United Sates, established at Philadelphia'as aforesaid. It is further admitted, that the
said President,., Directors and Company of the said
Bank, had no authority to establish the said branch,
or office of discount and deposit at the city of Baltimore, from the State of Maryland, otherwise than
the said State having adopted the Constitution of
the !inited-,States and composing, one-of the States
of the Union. It is further admitted, that James
William M'Culloch, the defendant below, being the
cashier of the said branch or office of discount and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

319

1819.
deposit, did, on the several days set forth in the deslaration in thiscause, issue the said respective Bank M'Culloch
v.
notes therein described, from the said branch, or
of MQ '
State
of
city
the
ih
Williams,
Sryland
George
certain
a
to
office,
Baltimore, in part payment of a promissory note of
the said Williams, discounted by the said branch or
office, which said respective Baik notes were not, nor
was either of them, so issued oi stamped paper in the
manner prescribed by the act of Assembly aforesaid.
It is further admitted, that the said President, Directors and Company of the Bank of the United States,
and the said branch or office of discount and deposit.have not, nor has either of them, paid in advance,
or otherwise, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, to
the Treasurer of the Western shore, for the use of the
State of Maryland, before the issuing of the said notes,
or any of them, nor since, those periods. And it is
further admitted, that theTreasurer of the Western
Shore of Maryland, under the direction of the Governor and Council of the said. State, was ready,
and offe-ed to deliver to the said President, Directors
and Company of the said Bank, and to the said
branch, or office of discount and deposit, stamped
paper of the kind and denomination required and
described in the said act of Assembly.
The question submitted to the Court for their-decision in this case, is as to the validity of the said act
of the General Assembly of Maryland, on the ground
of its being repugnant to the constitution of the
United States, and the act of Congress aforesaid, or
toone of them. Upon the foregoing statement of
facts, and the pleadings in this cause, (all errors in,

320

ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

,s119;
which' are hereby agreed to be mutually released,) if
the Court should be of opinion that the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover, then judgment it .is agreed shall
&ate of Mabe entered for the plaintiffs for twenty-five hundred
?yland.
dollars, and costs of suit. But if the Court should
be of opinion that the plaintiffs are not entitled to
recover upon the statement and pleadings aforesaid,
then judgment of non pros shall be entered, with
costs to the defendant.
It is 'agreed that either party may appeal, frov2 the
decision of the County Court, to the Court of Ap,peals, and from the decision of the Court of Appeals
to the Supreme Court of the United States according, to the modes and usages of, law, and have the
same benefit of this statement of facts, in the same
manner as could be.had if a jury had been sworn
and empannelled ih this cause, and a special verdict
had been found, or these facts had appeared and been
stated in an exception taken to the opinion of the
Court, and the Court's direction to,the jury thereon.
"
v.

Copy of the Act of the Legislature%of the State
of Maryland, referred to, in the prededing statement.
An Act to impose a Tax on all Banks or Branches
thereof in the State of Maryland, not'charteredby
the Legzslature.
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Maryland, That if any Bank has established, or shall
without authority from the State first had and obtained, establish any branch, office -of discount and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

deposit, or office of pay and receipi, in any part Of
this State, it shall not be lawful for the said branch,
office of discount' and deposit, or office of pay
'andreceipt, to issue notes in any, manner, of any

other denomination than five, ten, twenty, fifty, one
'hundred, fiv.e hundred and one-thousand dollars, and
no note shall be issued except upon stamped paper of
the following denominations; that is to say, every
five dollar note shall be upon a stamp of ten cents;
every ten dollar note upon a stamp of twenty cents;
every twenty dollar note, upon a stamp of thirty
cents; every fifty dollar note, upon a stamp of fifty
cents; every one hundred dollar note, upon a stamp
of one dollar; every five hundred dollar note, upon
a stamp of ten dollars; and, every thousand dollar
note, upon a stamp of twenty dollars; which paper
shall be furnished by the Treasurer of the Western
Shore, under the direction of the Governor and
.Council, to be paidfor upon delivery; Provided always, That any institution of the above description
may relieve itself from the operation of the provisions aforesaid, by paying annually, in advance, to
the Treasurer of the Western Shore, for the use of
the State, the sum of fifteen thousand dollars.
•A-d be it enacted, That the President, Cashier,
each of the Directors and Officers of every institution established, or to be established as aforesaid, offending against the provisions aforesaid, shall forfeit a sum of five hundred dollars for each and every
offence, and every person having any agency in circulating any note aforesaid, not stamped as aforesaid
directed, shall forfeit a sum not exceeding one hurt,
VOL. IV.

41

1819.
M'CuUoch

V.

State of Ma-

ryland.

3522,
12i9.

.CASES 1N THE .SUPREME COURT

dred dollars; every penalty aforesaid to be recovered

• ulic by, indictment, or action of debt, in the County
Statev.
of M.a- Court of the county where the offence shall be cornryland.

mitted, one half to the informer, and the other half
to t'he use of the State.
And be it enacted, That this act shall be in full
force and effect from and after the first day of May
next.

Mr. W-Vebster, for the plaintiff in error, L.stated,
i" that the question whether Congress constitutionally
Marchpossesses the power to incorporate a bank, might be
3d.
226dFeb., and
27th

raised upon this record ; -and it was inthe discretion
of the defendant's counsel to agitate it. But it might
have..been hoped that it Was not now to be considered as an open question. It is a questiowof the utmost magnitude, deeply interesting to the, government itself, as well as to individuals. The mere discussion of such a question. may. most essentially
affect the value of a vast amount of private property.
We are bound to suppose that the defendant in error
is well aware of these consequences, and would not
have intimated an intention to agitate'such a ques-'
.tion, but with a real design to make it a topic 'of
serioJs discussion, and with' a,view of demanding
,upon 'it the, solemn judgment of this Court. ,This
a .This case involving a constitutional question of great pubtic importance,. and th sovereign rights of- the United States
and the State of Maryland ; and the government of the United

States: having directed their Attorney' General 'to. appear for
the;'plaintiff in error,' the Court dispensed with its general.rule,
-permitting only two counsel to argue for each party.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

question arose early after the adoption of the constitution, and was discusstd, and settled, as far as legis-

323
1819.
M'Cullooh

lative decision could settle it, in the first Congress.
of MifiState v.

The arguments drawn from the constitution in faYour of this power, were stated, and exhausted, in
that discussion. They were-exhibited, with characteristic perspicuity and force,,hy the first Secretary
of the Treasury, in his report to the President of
the United States. The first Congress created and
incorporated a bank.a Nearly e~ich succeeding Congress, if not every one, has acted and legislated on
the presumption of the legal existence of such a
power in the government. hidividuals, it is true,
haZ doubted, or thought otherwise ; bhut it cannot
be shown that either. branch of the legislature has,
at any time, expressed an opinion against the existence
of the power.. The executive government has acted
upon it; and the courts of law have acted upon it.
Many of those who doubted or denied 'the existence
of the power, when first attempted to be exercised,
have yielded to the first decision, and acquiesced in
it, as a settled question. When all branches of the
government have thus been acting on the existence
of this power nearly, thirty years, it would seem
almost too late to call it~i question, unless its repugnancy with the constitution were plain and manifest. Congress, by the constitution, is invested With
,certain. powers; and, as to the objects, and within
the scope of these powers, it is sovereign. Even
without the aid of the general clause in the constitu,z Act of February 5th, 1791, c. 84.

rylaad.

324

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion, empowering Congress to pass all necessary and
M'ollc
proper laws for carrying its powers into execution,
State V.
9f Ma- the grant of powers itself necessarily implies the
grant of all usual and suitable means for the execuryland.
tion of the powers granted. Congress may declare
war: it may consequently carry on war, by. armies
and navies, and other suitable means aiqd methods
of warfare. So it has power to raise a revenue, and
to apply it in the stipport of the government, and
defence of the country. It may, of course, use .all
proper and suitable means, not specially prohibited,
in the raising and disbursement of the revenue.
And if, in the progress of society and the arts, new
means arise, either of carrying on war, or of raising
revenue, these new means doubtless would be properly considered as within the grant. Steam frigates,
for example, were not in the minds of those who
framed the constitution, as'among the means of naval warfare ; but no one doubts the power of Congress to use them, as means to an authorized end.
It is not enough tosay, that it does not appear that
-a bank was in the contemplation of the framers of
the constitution. It was not their intention, in these
cases, to enum erate particular§. The true view of
the subject is, that if, it be a fit instrument to an atnthorized purpose; it may be used, not being specially
prohibited.. Congress is authorized to pass all laws
"necessary and proper"1• to carry into execution the
powers conferred on it. These words, "necessary
and proPer
i ," in such an instrument, are probably to
be considered as synonimous. Necessary pdwvers
must hero intend,. such powers as : e suitdble and
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

326

lm,'
fitted to the object such as are best and most useful
,oh
in relation to the end .proposed. - If this be not so, '
and if qongress could use no means but such as were , , v.
absolutely indispensable to the exisince of a: granted State o Ma-

power, the government would hardly exist ; at least,
it would be wholly inadequate to the purposes of its
formation. A bank is a proper and suitable instrument to assist the operations of the government, in
the collection and disbursement of the revenue ; in
the occasional anticipations of taxes and imposts;
and in the regulation of the actual currency, as being a part of the trade and exchange between the
States. It is not for this Court to decide whether a
bank, or such a bank as this, be. the best possible
means to aid these purposes of government. Such
topics must be left to that discussion which belongs
to them in the two houses of Congress. Here, the
only question is, whether a bank, in its known and
ordi'narywoperations, is capable of beingso connected
with the finances and revenues of the' government,.
as to be fairly within the discretion of Congress,
when selecting means- and instruments to execute its
powers and perform its duties. A bank is not less
the proper subject for the choice of Congress, nor
thb. less' constitutional, because it. requires to be executed 6y granting a charter of incorporation. It is
not, of itself, uticonstitutional in Congress to create
-a corporation.

Corporations are but means.

are not ends and objects of government.

They

No govern-

ment exists for the purpose of creating corporations
as one of the ends of its .being. They are iastitu-

tions established to effect-certain beneficial purposes;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

326
1819.

M'Culloch

arid, as means, take their character generally from

. their end and obiect. They are civil or eleemosynary,

V. I public or private, according to the object intended by

ryland.

their creation. They are common means, such as
all governments use. The State governments create
corporations to execute powers confided to. their
trust, without any specific authority in the State constitutions for that purpose. There is the same reason that Congress should exercise its discretion as to
the means by which it must execute the powers conferred upon it. Congress has duties to peiform and
powers to execute.. It his a right to the means by
which these duties can be properly and most usefully
performed, and these powers executed. Among other
means, it has established' a bank; and before the act
establishing it can be pronounced unconstitutional
and void, it must be shown,, that a bank has no .fair
.connection with the execution of any power or duty
of the national government, and that its creation is
consequently a manifest usurpation.
:2. The second question is, whether, if the bank
:be' constitutionally created, the State. governments
have power to 'tax itv? The people of -the United
:States have seen fit to divide sovereignty,' and to establisha complex system. They have conferred cer* tain powers on the State Governments, and certain.
other powers on the National Government. As it
was easy to foresee that qudstions must arise between
.the'se governments thus constituted, it, became of
:great moment to' determine upon what. principle these
questions should be decided, and who shouild decide
them. The constitution, therefore, declares, that the

OF THE UNITED STATE$.

"27

constitution itself, and. the laws passed, in.
pursuance
1819.be
the
supreme,
law
of
the
6f its prdvisions, shall
. . . • . .. .
.
.,M-eulloch
!V.
land, and shall control all State legislation and State
constitutions, which may be incompatible therewith

and it confides to this Court the ultimate power of
deciding all questions, arising under the constitution
and laws of the •United States., The laws of the
United States, then, made in pursuance of the constitution, are to be the supreme law of-the land , any
thing in the laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding. The, only inquiry, therefore, in, this
case is, whether the law of the State of Marylalid
imposing this tax be consistent with the free operation of, the law establishing the bank, and the full
enjoyment of the -privileges conferred ,by it ? If it
be not, then it is void ; if it be,*then it may be valid.
Upon the supposition that the bank is constitutionally

created, this is the only question ; and this question
.seems answered as soon as it is stated. If the States
may tax the bank, to what extent shall they tax it,
and where shall they stop ? An unlimited power to
tax involves, necessarily, a power to destroy ; because
there is a limit beyond which no institution and no
property can bear taxation. A question of constitutibnal power can hardly be ,made to depend on a
question of more or less. If the States .may tax,
-they have no limit but their discretion; and the bank,
therefore, must depend on the discretion of the State
governments for its existence. This consequence is
inevitable. Thq object in laying this tax, may 1ave
been revenue, to the State. In the next case, the object may be to expel the bank from te State; but'

State of Ma-

ryland.

328
1819.
'judge

M'Culloch
t.
ryland.

CASES IN-.THE SUPREME COURT

how is this object to be'ascertained, or who is to
of the motives of legislative acts ? The government of the United States has itself a great pecuniary interest in this corporation. 'Can the-States
tax this property? Under the Confederation, when
the national government, not having the power of
direct legislation, could not protect its own property
by its own laws, it was expressly stipulated, that
"no impositions, duties, or restrictions, should be
laid by any State on the property of the United
States." Is it supposed that property of the United
States is now subject-to the power of the State
governments, in a greater degree than under the Confederation ? If this power of taxation be admitted,
what is to be its limit ? The United States have,
and must have, property locally existing in all the
States; and may the States impose on this property,
whether real or personal, such taxes as they please ?
Can they tax proceedings in the Federal Courts ?
If so, they can expel those judicatures from the
States. As Maryland has undertaken to impose a
stamp tax on the notes of this bank, what -hinders
her from imposing a stamp tax also on- permits,
clearances, registers, and all other documents connected with imposts and navigation ? If by one she
can suspend the operations of the bank, by the other
she can equally well shut up the custom house..
The law of Maryland, in question, makes a requisition., The sum called for is not assessed on property, nor deducted from profits or income. It is a
direct imposition on the power, privilege, or franchise
of the corporation. - The act purports, also, to re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

strain the circulation of the paper of the bank to bills
of certain descriptions. It narrows and abridges the
powers of the bank in• a manner which, it would
law of
seem, even Congress could not do. Thisprinciples
upon
but
Maryland cannot be sustained
and reasoning which would subject every important
measure of the national government to the revision
and control of the State legislatures. By the charter, the bank is authorized to issue bills of any denomination above five dollars. The act of Maryland
purports to restrainand limit their powers in this respect.. The charter, as well as the laws of the United States, makes it the duty of-all collectors and
receivers to receive the notes of the bank in payment of all debts due the government. The act of
Maryland makes it penal, both on the person paying
and the peson receiving such bills, until stamped by
the authority of Maryland. This is a direct interference with the revenue. The legislature of Maryland might, With as much propriety, tax treasury
notes. This is either an attempt to expel the bank
from the State ; or it is an attempt to raise a revenue for State purposes, by an imposition on property
and franchises holden under the national government, and created by that government for purposes
connected with its own administration. In either
view there cannot be a clearer case of interference.
The bank cannot exist, nor can any bank established
by Congress exist, if this right to tax it exists in the
State governments. One or the other must be surrendered; and a. surrender on the part of the government of the United States would be a giving
VOL. IV.

42

3W9
1819.
M'Culloch

V.

Stateof wia.

ryand.

WQ0
1319.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'.

up of those fundamental and essential powers with,

out which the government cannot- be maintained.
hV.A lank may not be, and is not, absolutely essential
State of Ma.to the'existence and preservation of the government.
ryland.
But it is essential tothe existence and preservation
of the government, that Congress. should be able to
exercise its constitutional powers, at its own discretion, without being subject to the control of State
legislation. The question is not whether a bank be
necessary, or useful, but whether Congress may not
constitutionally judge of that necessity or utility;
and whether, having so judged and decided, and
having adopted measures to carry its decision into
effect, the State governments may interfere with that
decision, and defeat ihe operation. of its.measures.
"Nothing can be plainer than that, if the'law of Congress establishing the bank be a 'constitutional "act,
it must have its full and complete effects. Its operation cannot be either defeated or impeded by acts
of State legislation. '1'o hold otherwise, would be
t9 declare, that Congress can only exercise its con-,
stitutional powers subject to the controlling discretion, and under the sufferance, of the State governmen ts.
Mr. Hopkinson, for the defendants in error, proposed three questions for the consideration of the
Court. 1. Had Congress a -constitutional power to
incorporate the bank of the United States? 2. Granting this power to Congress, has the bank, of its own
authority, a right to establish its branches in the several States? 3. Can the bank,' and its branches
thus established, claim to be exempt from the ordi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nary and equal taxation of property, as ssessed in the
States in which they are placed ?
1. The first question has, for many years, divided
the opinions of the first men of our country. He
did not mean to controvert the arguments by which
the bank was maintained on its original establishment. The power may now be denied, in perfect consistency with thos,, arguments. It is agreed,
that no such power is expressly granted by the constitution. It has been obtained by implication; by
reasoning from the 8th section of the 1st article of
the constitution ; and asserted to exist, not of and by
itself, but as an appendage to other granted powers,
as necessary to carry them into. execution. If. the
bank be not "necessary and proper" for this purpose,
it has no foundation in our constitution, and can have
no support in this Court. But it strikes us at once,
,that a power, growing out of a necessity which may
not be permanent;may also not be permanent. It
has relation to circumstances which change; in a
state of things which may exist at one period, and
not at-another. The argument might have been perfectly good, to show the necessity of a bank for the
operations of the revenue, in 1791, and entirely fail
now, when so many facilities for money transaciions
abound, which were wanting then. That some of
the powers of the constitution are of this fluctuating
character, existiNg, or. not, according to extraneous,
circumstances, has been'fully recognized.by this Court
at the present term, in the'case of Sturges-v. CrownNecessity was the plea.7and justification
inshield.
a Ante, p. 122.

lS19.
V,un h
V.
State of Ma
ryland.

S32

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of the first bank of the United States. If the same:
Mnecessity
existed when the second was established,
M'Cu1lochV.
it will afford the same justification; otherwise, it iv'ill
Stat' f Matylani, stand withputjustification, as no other ispretended.
We cannot, in making this inquiry, take a more fair
and liberal test, than the report of General Hamilton,
the father and defender of this power. The uses and
advantages he states, as making up the necessity required by the constitution, are three. L, The augmentation of the active and productive capital of the
country; by making gold and silver the basis of a
paper circulation. 2. Affording greater faciiity to
the government; in procuring pecuniary aids ; especially in sudden emergencies. This, he says, is an
indisputable advantage of public banks. 3. The facility of the payment of taxes, in two ways; by loaning to the citizen, and enabling him to be punctual;
and by increasing the quantity of circulating medium,
and quickening circulation by bank bills,.easily transmitted from place to place. If we admit. that these
advantages, or conveniences, amount to the necessity
required by the constitution, for the creation and exercise of powers not expressly given; yet it is obii"ous they may be derived from any public banks, and
do not call for a bank of the United States, unless
there should be no other public banks, or not a sufficiency of them for these operations. In 1791, when
this argument was held to be valid and'effectual,
there were but three banks in the United States,
with limited capitals, and contracted spheres of operation. Very different is the case now, when we
have a banking capital to a vast amount, vested in
1i1g.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

. 333

banks of good credit, and so spread over the coun1819.
try, as to be. convenient and competent for all the AT 'Cullach
V.
purposes enumerated in the argument. General
of Ma
State
if
fail,
must
.Hamilton, conscious that his reasoning
ryland.
the State banks were adequate for his objects, proceeds to show they Were not. Mr. Hopkinson particularly examined all the objections urged by General
Hamilton, to the agency of the State banks then in
existence, in the operations required for the revenue;
and endeavoured to show, that they had no application to the present number, extent, and situation of
the State banks; relying only on those- of a sound
and unquestioned credit and permanency., He also
contended, that the experience of five years, since
the, expiration of the old charter of the bank of the
United States, has fully shown the competency of
the State banks, to all the purposes and uses alleged
as reasons for erecting that bank, in 1791. The
loans to the government by the State .banks,'in the
emergencies spoken of; the accommodation to individuals, to enable them to pay their duties and taxes;
the creation of a circulating currency; and the facility of transmitting money from place- to place,
have all been effected, as largely and beneficially, by
%the,State banks, as they could have been done by a
bank ircorporated by Congress. Tile change in the
country, in relation to banks, and an experience that
was depended upon, concur in proving, that whatever might have been the truth and force of the
bank argument in 1791, they wcre.wholly wanting
in 1816.

34

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

2. If this bank of the United States has been lawfully created and incorporated, we next inquire, whether
M'Culloch
c
V,. it may, of its own authority, establish its branches in
State of Matie several States, without the- direction of Conryland.
gress, or the assent of the States. It is true, that the
charter contains this power, but this. avails nothing,
if not warranted by the constitution. This power to
establish branches, by the directors of the bank,
must be maintained and justified, by the same necessity. which supports the bank itself, or it cannot exist.
The power derived from a given necessity, must be
co-extensive with it, and no more. We will inquire,
1. Does this necessity exist in favour of the branches ?
2. Who should be the judge of the necessity, and
direct the manner and extent of the remedy to be applied ? Branches are not necessary for any of the enumerated advantages. Not for pecuniary aids to the
government; since the ability to afford them must be
regulated by the strength of the capital of the parent
bank, and cannot be increased, by scattering and
spreading that capital in the branches. Nor are they
necessary to create a circulating medium; for they
create nothing; butissue paper on the faith and responsibility of the parent bank, who could issue the
same quantity on the same foundation; the distribution of the notes of the parent bank can as well be
done, and, in fact, is done, by the State banks.
Where,' then, is that, necessity to be found for the
branches, whatever may be allowed to the bank itself? It is undoubtedly true, that these branchesi are
established with a single view to trading, and the profit of the stockholders, and not for the convenience
1819.

OF TffE UNITED STATES.

liuo.
or use of the government; and, therefore, they are
located at the. will of the directors, "who represent and MCulloch
regard the interests of the stockholders, and are such StateV.
of Maryland.
it
be
contended,
case,
can
is
the
If
this
themselves.
that the State rights of territory and taxation are to.
yield for the gains of a money-trading corporation;
to be prostrated at the will of a Set of men who have,
no concern, and no duty, but to increase their profits ? Is this the necessity required by the constitution for the creation of undefined powers? It is true,
that, by the charter, the government may require a
branch in any place it may designate, but if this power
is given only for the uses or:necessities of the government, then the government only, should have the power
to order it. In truth, the directors have exercised
the power, and they hold it without any control from
the government of the United States; and, as is, now
contended, without any control of the State governments. A most extravagant power to be vested in a
body of men, chosen annually by a very small portion of our citizens, for, the purpose of loaning and
trading with their money to the best advantage A
State will not suffer its own citizens to erect a, bank
without its authority, but the citizens of another State
may do so ; for it may happen that the State thus
used by the bank for one of its branches, does not
hold a single share of the stock. 2. fBut if these
branches are to be supported', on the ground of the
constitutional necessity, and they can have no other
foundation, the question occurs, who should be the
judge of the existence of the necessity, in any proposed case ; of the when and the where the power

336
1819.
Msuredly,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

shall be exercised, which the necessityrequires. Asthe same tribunal which judges of the original

of Ma- necessity on which the bank is created, should also
StateV.
judge of any subsequent necessity requiring the exryland.
tension of the remedy. Congress is that tribunal
the only one in which it may be safely trusted; the
only one in which the States to be affected by the
measure, are all fairly represented. If this power
belongs to Congress, it cannot be delegated to the
directors of a bank, any more than any other legislative power may be transferred to any other body
of citizens: if this doctrine of necessity is without
any known limits, but such as those who defend
themselves by it, may choose for the time to give it;
and if the powers derived from it, are assignable' by
the Congress to the directors of a bank; and by
the directors, of the bank to any body else ; we have
really spent a great deal of labour and learning to
very little purpose, in our attempt to establish a form
of government in which the powers of those who

govern shall be strictly defined and controlled; and

the rights of the government secured from the usurpations of unlimited or unknown powers. The establishment of a bank in a State, without its assent;
without regard to its interests, its policy, or institutions, is a higher exercise of authority, than the crQation of the parent bank; which,- if confined to the
seat of the government, and to the purposes of the,
government, will interfere less with the rights and
policy of the States, than those wide 'spreading'
branches, planted every where, and influencing all the
business of the community. Such an exercise of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sovereign power, should, at least, have the sanction
of the sovereign
legislature to vouch that the good ,
0M'Culloch
of th4 whole requires it, that the necessity exists
which justifies But will it e tolerated that
it.

u,

twenty directors of a trading corporation, having no
object but profit, shall, in the pursuit of it, tread
upon the sovereignty of the State ; enter it without
condescending to ask its leave; disregard, perhaps,
the whole system of its policy; overthrow its institutions, and sacrifice its interests?
3. If, however, the States of this Union have surrenderedthemseles in this manner, by implication,
to the Congress of the United State.s, and to such corporations as the Congress, from time to time, may find
it necessary and proper" to create; if a State may
no longer decide, whether a trading association, with
independent powers and immunities, shall plant itself in its territory, carry on its business, make a
currency and trade on its credit, raising capitals for
individuals as fictitious as its own; if all this must be
granted,.the third and great question in this cause
presents itself for consideration; that is, shall this
association come there 'with rights of sovereignty,
paramount to the sovereignty . of the State, and. with
privileges possessed by no other, persons, corporations orproperty in the State ? in other words, can
the bank and its branches, thus established, claim
to be exempt from the ordinary and equal taxation of property,'as assessed in the States in which
they are placed? As this overwhelming invasion
of Stae sovereignty is not warranted by any express
clause or grant in the constitution, and never was
Vo. IV.

43

1819.

V.
eof Ma-

ryland.

338,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

imagined by any State that adopted and ratified that
it -will be conceded, that it must be
.M'Cullochconstitution,
'
State V.
of Ma- found to be necessarily and indissolzbly, connected
with the power to establish the bank, or it must be
ryland.
Court has .always shown a just.
repelled.
anxiety to The
prevent any conflict between the federal
and State powers; to construe both
so as to avoid
an interference if possible, and to preserve that harmony of, action in both, on which the prosperity
and happiness of all depend. • If, therefore, the right
to-incorporate a national bank may exist, and be
exercised. consistently with the right of the State, to
tax the property of such bank within its territory,
the Court will maintain both rights; although some
inconvenience or diminution of advantage may be
the consequence.. It is not for the direetols of the
bank to say, you will lessen our profits by permitting
us to be taxed; if such taxation will not deprive the
government of the uses it derives from the agency
and operations of the bank. The necessity of the
government is the. foiandation of the charter; and
beyond that necessity it can claim nothing in deroga•tion of'State authority. If the power to erect this
corporation were expressly given in the constitution,
still it would, aot be construed to be an exclusion of
any State right, not absolutely incompatible and repugnant. The States need no reservation or ac-'
knowledgment of their right; all remain that are
not expressly prohibited, or necessarily excluded ; and
this gives our opponents the broadest ground they
can ask. The right now assailed by the bank, is.
the right of taxing property within the territory of
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the State.

M9

This is the highest attribute of sove. : 1819.

riegnty, the tight to raise revenue ; in fact, the right MCulloch

V.
to exist; without which no other right can be held
State of Maor enjoyed., The general power to tax is not denied ryland.
to the States, but the bank claims to be exempted
from the operation of this power. If thisl claim is
valid, and to be supported by the Court, it must be,
either, 1. From the nature of- the property. 2. Because it is. a bank of the United States. S. From
some express :provision of the: constitution;- or, 4,
Because the exemption is indispensably necessary to
the exercise 'ofsome power granted by the constitution.
'First. There is nothing in the nature of the propetty of bank stock that exonerates it from taxation. It' has been taxed, in some form, by every
State in which a bank has been incorp6rated; either
annually and directly, or by a gross sum paid for the
charter. The United States have not . only taxed the,
capital or stock of the State banks,, but their business also, by imposing a duty-on all-notes discounted
by them' The bank paid a tax for its capital; and
every man who deals with the bank, by borrowing,
patid another tax for the portion of the same capital
he borrowed. This species of property, then, so
far from, having enjoyed any exemption from the
calls of the revenue, has been particularly burthened;
and. been thought a fair subject of taxation both by
the Federal and State governments.
Second. Is' it thefi exempt, as being a bank of the
United States ? How is it such?. In name only.. Just
as the Bank, of Pennsylvania, ot. the Bank of Mary-

0CASES
IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
land, are banks of those States. The
property of
"
the bank, real or personal, does 'not belong to ,the
M'Culioch
V.
*
United
States only as a stockholder, and as ,any
State of Alaother sto'khpide rs. The United States might have
ryland.
the sane interest in any other bark, turnpike,' or
ca al coimpany. So far as they hold stock, they'have
a'property in the institution, and no further ; so long
and no longer. Nor is the direction and management of the bank under the control of the United
States. They are represented in the board by the
directors appointed by them, as the other stockholders
are represented by the directors they elect. A director of the government has no more power or right
than any other director. As to the control the government may have over the conduct of the bank,
b y its patronage and deposits, it is precisely the same
it might have over any other bank, to'which that patronage would be equally important. Strip it of its
name, and we find it to be a mere association of individuals, putting their money into a common stock,
to "be loaned for profit, and to divide the gains. The
government is- a partner in the frm, for gain als9 ;
for, except a participation of the profits of ':he business, the government could have every other use of
the bank without owning a dollar in it. It is j1 9t.
then, a bank of the .United States, if by that we
meadi an institutiofi belonging.-to,. tho government,
directed by it..0r inwhich it has a permanent, indjs6lpble interest., The convenience it affords in
the collection ad distfi~iution of the revenue, is collateral, secondary,"and may be transferred at pleasure.
to any other bank. It forms no part of the construe-

OF' THE. UNITED STATES.

tion or character of this bank ; which, as t9 all its
rights and powers, would be exactly what it now is

1819.
M'Culloch'

if the government was to seek and obtain all this State V.
of Ma-

:convenience from some other source; if the.government
were to withdraw its patronage, and sell otdt its stock.
Howthen, can such an institution claim the immunities
of sovereignty; nay, that sovereignty does not possess?
for a sovereign, who places his property in the territory
of another sovereign, submitsit to the demands of the
,revenue, which are but justly paid, in return for the
protection afforded to the property. General Hamilton,. in his report on this subject, so far from considering the bank a- public institution,' connected with,
or controlled by the government, holds, it to be indispensable that it should not be so. It must be, says
he, underprivate, not public, direction; under the.
-guidance of individual interest, not public policy.
Still, he adds, the state may be holder of part of its
stock; and, consequently, '(what! it .becomes public
property? no!)-a sharer of the profits. He traces no
other consequence to that circumstance. No' rights
•re founded on it; no part of its utility or necessity
•arises from it. Can an institution, then, purely private, and which disclaims any public character, be
-- thed with the power and rights of the government i
and demand subordination from theStategovernment
in virtue' of the federal authority, which it undertakes
to wield at its own will and pleastre ? Shall it be
private in its direction and interests; public in its
rights and privileges,: a trading money-lender in its
business; an uncontrolled sovereign in its powers?
If the Whole bank, with all its property and business,

ryland.

342

CASES IN .THESUPREME COURT

belonged to the United States, it would not, thereMI'tulloch -fore, be exempted from the taxation of the States.
v.:
To this purpose, the United States and the several
State of MaindepenrySad. States must be considered as sovereign and idpn
1819.

dent; and the principle is clear, that a sovereign putting his property within the territory and jurisdiction
of another sovereign, and of course under his protection, submits it to the ordinary taxation of the State,
and must contribute fairly to the wants of the revenue. In other words, the jurisdiction of the State
extends over all its territory, and every thing within
or upon it, with a few known exceptions. With a
view to this principle, the constitution has" provided
for those cases in which it was deemed neCessary and
proper t6 give the United States jurisdiction within a
State, in exclusion of the State authority ; and even
in these cases, it will be seen, it cannot be done withOut the assent of the State. For a seat of govern-,
ment, for forts, arsenals, dock-yards, &c. the assent
of the State to surrender its jurisdiction is required ;
but the bank asks no consent, and is paramount to
all State authority, to all the rights of territory, and
demands of the public revenue. We have not been

told, whether the banking houses of this corporation,
and any other real estate it may acquire, for the accommodation of'its 'affairs, are, also, of this privileged
order of property. ' In principle, it must be the same;
for the privilege, if it exists, belongs to the corporation, and must cover equally all its property. It is
understood, that a case was lately decided by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and fron which no;
appeal has been taken, on the part of the United

OF THE UNITED STATES.

343

States to this Court, to show that United States' pro- .1819.
perty, as such, has no exemption from State taxa- M'Culloch
of Ma,
tion. A fort- belonging to the federal government, StateV.
near Pittsburgh, was sold by public auction; the usual ryland.
auction duty was claimed, and the payment resisted,
on the ground that none could be exacted from the
United States. The Court decided otherwise. ,In
admitting Louisiana into the Union, and so, it is believed, with all the new States, it is expressly stipu4ated, "that no taxes shall be imposed on lands, the
property of the United States." There can, then, be
no pretence, that bank, property, even belonging to
the United, States, is, on that account, exonerated
from State taxation.
Third. If,then, neither the nature of the property)
nor the interest.the United States may have in the
bank, will warrant the exemption claimed, is there
any. thing expressed in the constitution to limit and
control the. State right of taxation, as now contended
for? .Wefind but one limitation to this essential right,
'of 'which the States were naturally and justly 'most
jealous. In the 10th section of,the 1st article, it is
declared' that "no- State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties, on imports or exports, except What may be absolutely necessary for executing.its inspection laws." And
there is a like'prohibition to laying'any duty of tonnage. Here, then, is the .whole restriction, 6r limitation, attempted tobe imposed by the 'constitution,
on the'powei- of the States,to raise revenue, precisely in.
the same manner, from the same subjects, and
to the same extent, that any sovereign and indepeh-

344

CASES IN "THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

,
MICulloch
v.
State of Ma
ryland.

dent State may do; and. it never was understood by
those who made,' or those who received the constitution, that any further restriction ever would, or could,
be imposed. This subject did not escape either the
assailants or the defenders of our form of government ; and their arguments and commentaries upon
the instrument ought not to be disregarded in fixing
its construction. It was foreseen, and objected, by
its opponents, that, under the general sweeping pow-'
er. given to Congress, "To make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper, for carrying into execution the foregoing powers," &c. the States might
be exposed to great dangers, and the most humiliating
and oppressive encroachments, particularlyin this very
matter of-taxation. By referring to the Federalist,the
great champion of the constitution, the objections will
be found stated, together with the answers to them. It.
is again and again replied, and most solemnly asserted, to the people of these United States, that the
right of taxation in the States is sacred and inviolable, with "the sole exception of duties on ihnports
and exports ;", that "they retain the authority in the
most absolute and unqualified. sense; and that an
attempt on'the part of the national government to
abridge them in the exercise of it, would be a violent assumption of power, unwarranted by any article
or clause of its conistitution." With the exception
mentioned, the Federal and State powers of taxation
are'declared to be- concurrent; and if the United
States are justified in, taxing State banks, the same
equal and concurrent authority will justify the State
in ,taxing the Bank of the United States, or any

OF THE UNITED STATE.

other bankd The author begins, No. 34, by saying, 1819.
"I flatter myself it has been clearly
• shown, in my MICulloch
under ihe State v.
States,
last number, that the particular
Of Mo-'_
proposed constitution, would have CO EQUAL autho- rylanc
rity with the Union, in the article of revenue, except
as to duties on imports.". Under such assurances
from those who made, who recommended, and carried, the constitution, and who were supposed best
to understand it, was it.received and adopted by
the people of these Uni ed 'States ; and now, after
a lapse of neatly thirty years, they are to be informed that all this is a mistake, all these assurances
are unwarranted, and that the Federal Government
does possess most productive and important powers
of taxation, neither on imports, exports, or tonnage,
but strictly internal, whirh are ,prohibited to the
States. The question then was, whether the United States should have any command of the inter,nal revenue; the pretension now is, that they shall
enjoy exclusively the best portion of it. The question was then quieted by the acknowledgment of a
co-equal right; it is now to be put at rest by the
prostration of the State power. The Federal Government is to hold a power by implication and ingenious inference from general words in the constitution, which it can hardly be believed would have
been suffered in an exp~ess grant. If, then, the
people were not deceived. when they were told- that,
with the exceptions mentioned, the State 'right of
taxation is sacred and inviolable ; and it be also true
a Letters of Publius, or The -Federalist,Nos. 31-6.

VGD. IV.

44

346

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that the Bank of the United States cannot exist under the exercise of that right, the consequence ought
M'Culoch
v.
,tate of Ma to be, that the Bank must not exist; for if it can
&aofd. a- live only by. the destruction of
such a right-if it
can live only by the exercise of a power which this
Court solemnly declared to be a "violent assumption
of -power, unwarranted by any clause, in the constitution"-we cannot hesitate to say, let it not live.
But in truth.this is not the state of the controversy.
No such extremes are presented for our choice. We
only require, that the bank'shall not. violate State
rights, in establishing itsof, or its bran~hes ; that, it
shall be submitted to the jurisdiction and laws of the
State, in the same ,mAner with- other: corporations
and other property,; and all this may be done withput ruining the institution, or destroying its national
uses. Its profits will- he. diminished by contributing
io'th revenue of -the State.;. and this is the whole
effect that ought,,.in a fair and liberal spirit of reasoning,to be anticipated. But, at all events, we
show, on the part of the State a clear, general, absolute, and uiqualified right of taxation, (with the
exception stated ;) and protest against such a right
being made to yieldto implications and obscure constructions Of indefinite clauses in the onstitution.
Such a right must not be defeated by doubtful pretensions .of power, or arguments of convenience or.
policy to ,the government ; much less to a private
corporation. It ,is not, a little alarming to trace the
progress of this argument ...
The power to raise
the bink is founded orpno provision of the consti-

tition that, has the most distant allusion to such an

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
,institution ; there is not a word in that instrument
that would suggest the idea of a bank to the most
M'Culloch
V.
fertile imagination; but the bank is created by implication and construction, made out by a very subtle State
of M.
r~land;

course of reasoning; then, by another implication,
raised on the former, the bank, this creature of construction, claims the right to enter the territory, of a
State without its assent ; to carry on its business

when it pleases, and where it pleases, against the
will, and perhaps in contravention of the policy, of
the sovereign owner of the soil. Having such great

success in the acquirement of implied rights, the experiment is now pushed further; and not contented
with, having obtained two rights in this extraordinary

way, the fortunate adventurer assails the sovereignty
of the State, and would strip from it its most vital and
essential power. lItis thus with the famous fig tree
of. India, whose branches shoot from the trunk to a
considerable distance; then drop upon the earth)
where.they take root and become trees, from t'hiCh

also other branches shoot, and plant and propagate
and ext6nd themselves in the same way, until gradually'a vast surface is covered, and every thing perishes in the spreading shade.
What have we opposed to these doctrines, so
just and reasonable?- Distres~ing inconveniences
ingeniously contrived; supposed dangers; fearful
distrusts; anticipated violence and, injustice from
the States, and consequent ruin to the bank.
A
right to tax is' a right to destroy, is the whole

amount of the argument, however varied by inge.nuity, or embellishea by eloquence It is said the
States'will- abuse the power; and its exercise will

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

produce infinite inconvenience and embarrassment to
"-"' ' the bank. Now if this were true, it cannot help
M,Cullueh
-of Ma our opponents; because if the States havelthe power
Btat V
1819.

ryla,,,

contended for, this Court cannot take itfrom them,
under the fear that, they may abuse it ; nor indeed
for its actual Abuse; aInd if they have it not, they
may not use it, however moderately and discreetly.
Nor is there any more force in the argument, that
the bank property will be subjected to double or
treble taxation. Each State will- tax:only the'capital really employed in it; and 'it is always in the
:power of the bank to show, how its capital is distri-.
buted. But it is feared'the capital inca State may
be taxed ing'ross; and 'the individual stockholders
also taxed for the same stock.. Is this common case
of a double taxation of the same article, to be a
cause of alarn now? Our revenue laws abound
'with similar cases ; they arise out of the very nature
of our double gbvernment. So Says the Federalist;
and it is the first time it has been the ground of comjplaint.'. Poll taxes, are paid to the federal and State
governments; licenses to retail. spirits; land -taxes;
and .the whole round of internal duties, over which
both governments have a concurrent, and, until now,
itwas supposed, a co-equal right... Were not the
State banks taxed by the federal, and also by the
State governments; in some by a bonus for the char'ter; ins6thers directly, and annually? The circumstance, that the taxes go to different.governments in
.:these cases, is whol-ly immaterial to those, who,pay;
unless it, is that it increases the danger of excess and

oppression; - It is justly remarked on this .sibject, by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
the Federalist, that our security from excessive burthens on apy source of revenue, must be found in M"Culloch
mutual forbearance and discretion in the use of the State V.
of MaMa.
power; this is the only security, and the authority
of this Court can add nothing to it. When that fails,
there is an end to the confederation, which is founded
on a reasonable and honourable confidence in each
other. It has been most impressively advanced, that
the States, under pretence of taxing, may prohibit
and expel the banks; that in the full exercise of this
power, they may tax munitions of war; ships about
to sail and armies on their march; nay, the spirit of
the Court is to be aroused by the fear that judicial
proceedings will also come under this-all destroying
power. Loans may be delayed for stamps, and the
country ruined for the want of the money. But
whenever the States shall be in a disposition to uproot the ,general government, they will take more
direct and speedy means; and until they have this
disposition, they will 'not use these. What power
may not be abused; and whom or what shall we
trust, if we guard ourselves with this extreme caution ? The common and daily intercourse between,
man and man; all our relations in societyj depend
upon a reasonable confidence in each other. It is
peculiarly the basis of our confederation, which lives
not a moment after we'shall cease to trust. each
other. If the two governments are to regard each
other as enemies, seeking opportunities of injury and
distress, they will not long continue friends. This
sort of timid reasoning about the powers of the government, has not escaped the authors so often al-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

550
1819.

luded to; who, in their 31st number, treat it, very

MCulloch properly.
state of Ma
ryland.

Surely the argument is as strong agiiist

giving to the United States the power to incorporate
esa bank with branches. What may be more' easily,
or. more extensively abused ;, and what more powerlul
engine can we imagine to be brought- into operation..
against the revenues and rights of the States? If
the federal government must have ,a bank for the
purposes of its revenue, all collision will be avoided
by establishing the- parent bank in its own District,
where it holds an exclusive jurisdiction ; and planting its branches in such States, as shall assent to it;
and using State banks where such assent cannot be
obtained. Speaking prnctically, and by our experience, it-may be safely-asserted, that all the use, of
thc bank to the government might be thus obtained.
Nothing would be wantitg but ptofits and lartge dividends to the stockholders, which are the:Teal ohjNect in this contest. Whatever may bethe right of
the United States to establish a bank, it cannot be
better than that of the, States., Their lawful power
to incorporate such institutions7 has never yet been.
questioned; whatever may be in reserve for them,
when it may be found ' nbcqssary and proper",
for the interests of the national bank to crush the
State institutions, and curtail the State authority.
Granting, that these rights.are equal in the two governments; and that the sovereignty of the State,
within its territory, over this sufiject, is but equal'to
that of the United States; and. that all -sove'relgn
power remains undiminished in the State%;, except in
-Mhosecases in which it has, by the constitution, been

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
expressly and exclusively transferred to the United
on
(except
taxation
of
power
sovereign
States: the
M'Culloch
'
v.
foreign commerce) being, in the language of the
State of la.
Federalist, co-equal in the'two governments; it lfl- ryland.
lows, as a direct and necessary consequence, that
having equal powers to erect banks, and equal powers. of' taxation on property of that description, being
neither imports, exports or tonnage, whatever jurisdiction the federal government may exercise in this
respect, over a bank created by a State, any State.
may exer'ise over a bank created by the United
States. Now, the federal government has assumed

the right of taxing, the State banks, precisely in the
manner in which the State of Maryland has proceeded against the bank of the United States; and

as -this right has never been resisted or questioned, it
may 'be taken to be admitted by both parties; and
must be equal and common to both parties, or.-the

fundamental principles -of our confederation have
been strangely mistaken, or are to be violently overthrown.. It has also been suggested that the bank
may, claim a protection from this tax, under that
clause, of the constitution, which prohibits the States
froW passing laws, which shall impair the obligation of contracts. - The chaiter is said to be the contract between' the government and the stockholders;
arid the interests of the latter will be injured by the
tax which reduces their profits. Many answers offer
themselves to !his argument. In the first place, the

United States cannot, either by a direct law, or by a
.contract, with a third party, taken away aiy right

from the States not granted by the Qoiistitutiou.; they

352,

5(7ASES. IN ,THE SUPREME COURT

cannot do collaterally and by implication, what cannot
be done directly. Their contracts must conform to
M'Culloch
. M the constitution, and not the constitution to their conOryatod. " tracts.
If, therefore, the States have, in some other
way, parted with this right of taxation, they cannot
be deprived of it by a contract between other ,parties. Under this doctrine, theUnited States might
contract away every right of every State; and any
attempt to resist it would be called a violation of the
obligations of a contract. Again the United States
have no more right to violate contracts than the
States, and sirely they never imagined they were
doing so, when they taxed so: liberally the stock of
,the State banks. Agairn; it might as well be said
that a tax on real estate, imposed after-a sale of it,
and not then perhaps contemplated,, or new duties
imposed on merchandize after it is ordered, violates
the contract between, the vendor, and the purchasgr,
and diminishes the value, of the property. In fact,
all contracts in relation to property, subject to taxation, are presumed to have in view the probability or
possibility that they will be taxed; and the happeningof the .event never; was imagined to interfere
'with the contract,' or -its lawful -obligatiOns.
1810.

The Atorney- General,for the plaintiff in error,
argued, 1. That the power of Congress to create a
bank ought not now to be questioned, after its exercise ever since the establishment of the constitution7 ,
sanctioned' fy every department of the government;
by the legislature, in the charter of the bank, and,
other laws connected .with the incorporation ;:by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

executive, in its assent to those laws; and by the

353
1810.

judiciary, incariying them •into..effect. After such MCulloch
a lapse of time, and so many concurrent acts of the StateV.
of Alapublic authorities, this exercise of power must be ryland.
considered as ratified by the voice of the people,,and
sanctioned by precedent. In the exercise of criminal
judicature, the question of constitutionality could not
have been overlooked by the Courts, who have
so often inflicted punishment for acts which would
be no crimes, if these laws were'repugnant to the
fundamental law.
2. The power to establish such a corporation i$
implied, and involved in the-grant of specific powers
in the constitution; because the end involves the
means necessary to carry it into effect. A power
without the means to use it, is a nullity. But we
are not driven to seek for this power in implication:
because the constitution, after enumeratirng certain
specific powers, expressly gives to Congress the
power "to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution the forpgoing
powers, and- all oth er powets vested by this constitution in .the government of the United States, or in
any department or officer thereof." If, therefore, the
act of Congress establishing the bank was necessary
and proper to carry into execution any qne or, more
of the enumerated powers, the authority to pass it
is expressly delegated to Congress by the constitution.
We contend that it was necessary and proper to carry
into execution several of the enumerated powers,
such 'as, the power of levying and'collecting taxes
throughout this widely extended empire; of paying
Vox.. iv,

43

354
1819.

"
M'Cullclch
of Marrtate,.
ryland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the public debts, both in the United States and in
foreign countries; of borrowing money, at home and
abroad ; of regulating commerce with foreign .nations, and among the several States ; of raising and
supporting armies and a navy ; and of carrying on
war. That banks, dispersed throughout the country,
are appropriate means of carrying into eiecution all
these powers, cannot be denied. Our history furnishes abundant experience of the utility of a national bank as an instrument of finance, It will be
found in the aid derived to the public cause from
the Bank of North America, established by Congress, during the war of the revolution ; in the great
utility of the former bank of the United States; and
in the necessity of resorting to the instrumentality
of the banks incorporated by the States. during the
interval between the expiration of the former charter
of the United States Bankin 1811, and the establishment of the present bank in 1816; a period of wart
the calamities of which were greatly aggravated by
the want of this convenient instrument of finance.
Nor is it required that the power Of establishing such
a monied corporation should be indispensably necessary to the execution of any of the specified powers
of the government. An interpretation of this clause
of the constitution so strict and literal, would render
every law which could be passed by Congress unconstitutional: for of no particular law can it be
predicated, that it is absolutely and indispensably necessary to carry into effect any of the specified powers; since a different law might be imagined, which
czould be enacted tending to the same object, though

OF THE UNITED STATES.

S5

1819.
not equally well adapted- to attain it. As the inevitable consequence of giving this very restricted sense MICulloeh
tothe word "necessary," would be to annihilate the Statev.of Mavery powers it professes to create; and as so gross ryland.
an absurdity cannot be imputed to the framers of the
constitution, this interpretation, must be rejected.
Another not less inadmissible consequence of this
construction is, that it is fatal to the permanency of
the constitutional powers; it makes them dependent
for their being on extrinsic circumstances, which, as
these are perpetually shifting and changing, must
produce correspondent changes ini the essence of the
powers on'which they depend. But surely the constitutionality of any act of Congress cannot depend
upon such circumstances.. They are the subject of
legislative discretion, not of judicial cognizance.
Nor'does this position conflict with the doctrine of
the Court in Sturges v. Crowninshield.a The Court
has not said, in that case, that the powers of Congress are shifting powers, which may or may not be
constitutionally exercised, according to extrinsic or
temporary circumstances; but it has merely determined, that the power of the State legislatures over
the subject of bankruptcies is subordinate to that of
Congress on the same subject, and cannot be exercised so as to conflict with the uniform laws of bankruptcy thr6ughout the Union which Congress may
establish. The power, in this instance, resides permanently in Congress, whether it chooses to exercise
it or not ; but its exercise on the part of the States
a Ahnte, p. 122.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

is precarious, and dependent, in certain respects, upol
, its actual exercise by Congress. The Convention
M.Culoeb well knew that it was utterly vain and nugatory to
state of Ma- give to Congress certain specific powers, without
the means .of enforcing those powers. The auxiliary
ryland.
1819.

means, which are necessary ,for this purpose, are
those, whicb are useful and appropriate to produce
the particular end. ".Necessary and proper" are,
then, equivalent to needful and adapted. Such is
the popular sense in which the word necessary is
sometimes used. That use of it is confirmed by the
best authorities among lexicographers. Among other
definitions of the word ." necessary," Johnson gives
"needful ;11 and he defines " need," the root of the
latter, by the words "want, occasion." Is a law,
then, wanted, is there occasion for it, in order to
carry into execution any of the enumerated powers
of the national government; Congress has the power
of passing it. To make a law constitutional, nothing
more is necessary than that it should be fairly adapted
to carry into effect some specific power given to Congress. This is the only interpretation which can
give effect to this vital clause of the constitution,;
and, being consistent with the rules of the language,
is not to bc-rejected because there is another interpretation equally consistent with the same' rules, but
wholly inadequate to convey what must have been
the intention of the Convention. Among the multittide of means to carry into execution the powers
expressly given to the national government, Congress is to select, from time to time, such as are most
lit.-for the purpose. It would have been impossible

OF THE UNITED STATES.1810.
to enumerate them all in the constitution.;. and a
have
would
others,
specification. of some, •omitting .
M'Culloch'
V.
been wholly-useless. The Court, in inquiring wteState of Mather Congress has made a selection of constitutional ryland.
mqans, is to compare the law in question with the
powers it' is intended to carry into execution; not
in order to ascertain whether other or better means
might have been selected, for that is the legislative
province, but to see whether those which have been
chosen have .a natural connection with any specific
power.; whether they are adapted to give it effect ;
whether they are appropriate -means to an end. It
cannot be denied, that this is the character of the
Bank of the United States. But it is said, that the
government might use private bankers, or the banks
incorporated .by the States, to carry on- their fiscal
operations. This; however, presents a mere question of political expediency, whi-ch, it is repeated, is
exclusively for legislative consideration; which has
been determined by the legislative wisdom; and cannot be reviewed by the Court, It is objected, that
this act creates a corporation; which, being an exercise of a fundamental power of sovereignty, can only
be claimed by Congress, under their grant of specific
pdwers. But to have enumerated the power of establishing corporations among the specific powers of
Congress, would have been to change the whole plan
of the constitution; to destroy its simplicity, and load
it with all the complex details of a code of private jurisprudence. The power of establishing corporations is not one of the ends of government; it is only
a class of means for accomplishing its ends. An enu-

Z58
1819.
MICulhoch
Ihall

V.
ryland.

State of Ma-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

meration of this particular class of means, omitting
others, would have been-a useless anomaly in the
constitution. It is admitted, that this is an act of sovereignty, and so is any other law. If the authority of
establishing corporations be a sovereign power, the
United States are sovereign, as to all the powers specifically given to their government, and as to all others
necessary and proper to carry into effect those specified. If the power of chartering a corporation be necessary and proper for this purpose, Congress has it
to an extent as ample as any other sovereign legislature. Any government of limited sovereignty, can
create corporations only with reference to the limited
powers that government possesses. The inquiry
then reverts, whether the 'power of incorporating a
banking company, be a necessary and proper means
of executing the specific powers ,pf the national government. The immense powers incontestably given,
show that there was a disposition,. on the part of the
people, to give ample means to carry those powers
;qte effect. A State can. create a corporation, in virtue of its sovereignty, without any specific authority
for that purpose, confer'ed in the State constitutions.
The United States aie sovereign as to certain specific
objects, and may, therefore, erect a corporation for
the purpose of effecting. those objects. If th- incorporating power had been expressly granted as an end,
it would have conferred a power not intended; if
granted as a means, it would have conferred nothing
more than was before given by necessary implication.
Nor does the rule of interpretation we cotitend for,
sanction any usurpation, on the part of the 'national govrnment; since, if the argument be, that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
implied powers. of the constitution may be assumed
and exercised, for purposes not really connected with: *M'Cuiloch
v.
of some
the powers specifially granted, under colour
imnaginary relation between them: the answer is -that State of Ma1.

1

this is nothing more than arguing from the abuse of
constitutional powers, which would equally apply
against the use of those that are confessedly granted
to the national government; that the danger of the
abuse will be checked by .the judicial department,
which, by comparing the means with the proposed
end, will decide whether the connection is real, or
assumed as the pretext for the usurpation of powers
not belonging to the government; and that whatever
may be the magnitude of the danger from this quarter, it is not equal to that of annihilating the powers
of the government, to which the opposite doctrine
would inevitably tend.
3. If, then, the establishment of the parent bank
itself be constitutional, the right to establish the
branches of that bank in the different States of the
Union follows, as an incident of the principal power. The expediency of this ramification Congress is
alone to determine. To confine the operations of the
bank to the District of Columbia, where Congress
his the exclusive power of legislation, would be as
absurd as to confine the Courts of the United States to
this District. Both institutions are wanted, wherever
the administration of justice or of the revenue is
wanted. The right, then, to establish these branches,
is a necessary part of the. means. This right is not
delegated by Congress to the parent bank. The act
nf Congress for the establishment of offices of dis-

yland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
'establishment

M'Culloch

count and deposit, leaves thetime and place of their,
to the directors, as a matter of detail.

V.ateloMh When established, they rest, not on the authority of
ryland,
the parent bank, but on the authority of Congress.
4. The only remaining question is, whether the act
of the State of Maryland, for taxing the bank thus
incorporated, be repugnant to the constitution of the
United States? We insist that any such tax, by authority of a State, would be unconstitutional, and
that this act is so, from its peculiar provisions. But
it is objected, that, by the 10th amendment of the
constitution, all powers not expressly delegated to the
United States, nor prohibited to the States, are reserved to the latter. It is said, that this being neither
delegated to the one, nor prohibited to the other,
must be reserved: And it is also said, that t4je only prohibition on the power of State taxation, which does
exist, excludes this case, and thereby leaves it to the
original power of the States. The only prohibition
is, as to laying any imposts, or duties on imports and
exports, or tonnage duty, and this not being a tax of
that character,.is said not to be within the terms of
the prohibition; and, consequently, it remains under
the authority of the States. But, we answer, that
this does not contain the wholesum of constitutional
restrictions on the authority of the States. There is
another clause in the constitution, which has the
effect of a prohibition on the exercise of their authority, in numerous cases. The 6th article of the constitution of the United States, declares, that the laws
made in pursuance of it, "shall be the siupreme law
of ihe land, any thing in the constitution, or laws of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

361

1819.
any State to the contrary notwithstanding." By
from pass- ICulloch
the States are prohibited
this declaration,
0
in
V.
to
a
law of the
ing any acts which shall be repugnant
United States. The Court has already instructed Stat' ofM
us in the doctrine, that there are certain powers,
which, from their nature, are exclusively vested in
Congress.a So we contend, here, that the only ground
on which the constitutionality of the bank is maintainable, excludes all interference with the exercise
of the power by the States. This ground is, that the
bank, as ordained by Congress, is an instrument to
carry into execution its specified powers; and in order to enable this instrument to operate effectually, it
must be under the direction of a single head. It caniot be interfered'with, or controlled in any manner,
by the States, without putting at hazard the accomplishment of the end, of which it is but a means.
But the asserted power to tax any of the institutions
of the United States, presents directly the question of
the supremacy of their laws over the State laws. If
this power really exists in the States, its natural and
direct tendency is to annihilate any'power which belongs to Congress, whether express or implied. All
the powers of the natioral government are to be executed in the States, and throughout the States; and
if the State legislatures can tax the instruments by.
which those powers are executed, they may entirely
defeat the execution of the powers. If they may tax
an institution of finance, they may tax the proceedings in the Courts of the United States. If they may
a Vide Sturges v. Crowninshield, ante, p. 122.
VOL. IY.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

362

1811.

tax to one degree, they may tax to any degree; and

uloc

nothing buL their own discretion can'impose a limit
State ofMa. upon this exercise of their authority.
They may tax
ryland.

both the bank and the Courts, so as to expel them
from the States. But, surely, the framers of' the
constitution did not intend that the exercise of all the
powers of the national government should depend

upon the discretion of the State governments.

This

was the vice of the former confederation, which it
was the object of the new constitution to eradicate.
It is a direct collision of powers between the two governments. Congress says, there shall be a branch of
the bank in the State of Maryland. That State says,
there shall not. Which power is supreme? Besides,

the charter, which is a contract between the United
States and the corporation, is violated by this
Maryland. A new condition is annexed by
,ereignty which was no party to the contract.
franchise, or corporate capacity, is taxed by a

act of
a soThe
legis-

lature, between whom and the object of taxation there
is no political connection.
'Mr. Jones, for the defendants in error, contended,
1. That this was to be considered as an open ques-

tion, inasmuch as it had never before been submitted
to judicial determination. The practice of the go.vernment, however inveterate, could never be considered as sanctioning a manifest usurpation;
still
less could' the practice, under a constitution of a date
so recent, be ]put in 'competition with the cotemporaneous exposition of its illustrious authors, as recorded for our instruction, in the "Letters of Pub-,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Federalist. The interpretation of the
lius," or
constitution, which was contended for by the State
of Maryland, would be justified from that text book,
containing a 'commenfary, such as no other, age or
nation furnishes, upon its public law.
2. is insisted, that the constitution was formed
and adopted, not by, the people of the United States
at large, but by the people of the respective States.
To suppose that the mere proposition of this fundamental law tbrew the American people into one 'aggregate mass, would be to assume what the instrument -itself does not profess to establish.. It is,
therefore, a compact between the States, and all the
powers which are not expressly relinquished by it,
are reserved to the States. We admit, that. the 10th
amendment to the constitution is merely declaratory;
that it was adopted ex abundanti cautela ; and that
with it nothing more is reserved than would have
been reserved without it. But it is contended, on
the other side, tbat not only the direct powers, but
all incidental powers, partake of the supreme power,
which is sovereign. This is an inherent sophism in
the opposite argument, which depends on the conversion and ambiguity of terms. What is meant by
sovereign power ? It is modified by the terms of the
grant under which it was given. They do not import sovereign power generally, out sovereign power
limited to particular cases ; and 'the question again
recursi, whether sovereign power was given inj this
particular case. Is it true, that by conferring sovereign powers on a limited, delegated government,

sovereiga means are also granted ? Is there no re-

1819.

uloc
StateVof Maryland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

striction as to the means of exercising a general
Mpower
? Sovereignty was vested in the former conICulloch
a. off M
State
Ma- federation as fully as in the present national governryland.
ment. There was nothing which forbad the old
confederation from taxing the people, except that
three modes of raising revenue were pointed out,
and they could resort to no other. All the powers
given to Congress under that system, except taxation, operated as directly on the people, as the powers
given to the present government. The constitution
does not profess to prescribe the ends merely for
which the government was instituted, but also to detail the most important means by which they were
to be accomplished. "1To levy and collect taxes,"
" to borrow money," "1to pay the public debts," "to
raise and support armies," " to provide and maintain
a navy," are not the ends for which this or any other
just government is established. If a banking corporation can be said to be involved in either of these
means, it must be as an instrument to collect taxes,
to borrow money, and to pay the public debts. Is it
such an instrument? It may, indeed, facilitate the
operation of other financial institutions; but in its
proper and natural character, it is a commercial institution, a partnership incorporated for the purpose
of carrying on the trade of banking. But we contend that the government of the United States must
confine themselves, in the collection and expenditure of revenue, to the means which are specifically
enumerated in the constitution, or such auxiliary
means as are naturally connected with the specific
means. But what natural connection is there be11i9.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

365

1819.
tween the collection of taxes, and the incorporation
of a Company of bankers ? Can it possibly be said, M'Culloch
that because Congress is invested with the power of StateV.
Saeof Maraising and supporting armies, that it may give a ryland.
charter of monopoly to a trading corporation as a
bounty for enlisting men ? Or that, under its more
analogous power of regulating commerce, it may
establish an East or a West India company, with the
exclusive privilege of trading with those parts of the
world ? Can it establish a corporation of farmers
of the revenue, or burthen the internal industry of
the States with vexatious monopolies of their staple
productions? There is an obvious distinction between those means which are incidental to the particular power, which follow as a corollary from it,
and those which may be arbitrarily assumed as convenient 'to the execution of the power, or usurped
under the pretext of necessity. For example: the
power of coining money implies the power of establishing a mint. The power of laying and collecting taxes implies the power of regulating the mode
of assessment and collection, and of appointing revenue officers; but it does not imply the power of
establishing a great banking corporation, branching
out into every district of the country, and inundating
it with a flood of paper money. To derive such a
tremendous authority from implication, would be to
change the subordinate into fundamental powers ; to
make the implied powers greater than those which
are expressly granted; and to change the whole
scheme and theory of the government. It is well
knorn, that many of, the .powers which are, ex-

.36
IBID.

M'Culloch
V.

State of Ma.
rylaud.

CASES [N THE SUPREME COURT

pressly granted to the national government in the
consitution, were most reluctantly conceded by thd
people, who were lulled into confidence by'the assurances of its advocates, that it contained no latent
ambiguity, but was to be limited to the literal terms
of the grant: and in order to quiet all alarm, the
10th article of amendments was added, declaring
"that the powers not delegated to the United States
by the constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to
the people." It would seem that human language
could not furnish words less liable to misconstruction! But it is contended, that the powers expressly
granted to the national government in the constitution, are enlarged to an indefinite extent, by the
sweeping clause, authorizing Congress to make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the powers expressly delegated to
the national government, or any of its departments or
officers. Now, we insist, that this clause shows that
the intention of the Convention was, to define the
powers of the government with the utmost precision
and accuracy. The 'creation of a sovereign legislature implies an authority to pass laws to execute its
given powers. This clause is nothing more than a
declaration of the authority of Congress to make laws,
to execute the powers expressly granted to it, and the
other departments of the government. But the laws
which they are authorized to make, are to be such as
are necessary and proper for this purpose. No terms
could be found in the language more absolutely excluding a general and unlimited discretion thaft

OF THE UNITED STATES.

367

1819.
diese. It is not " necessary or proper," hut " necessary and proper."' The reans used must have both M'Culloeh
these qualities. It must be, not merely convenientV.
State of Mafit-adapted-proper to the accomplishment of the ryland.
end in view ,it must likewise be necessary for the
accomplishment of that end. Many means may
be proper which are not necessary; because the
end may be attained without them. The word ;Inecessary," is said to be a synonyme of " needful."
But both these words are defined 1"indispensably requisite ;" and most certainly this is the sense in which
the word " necessary" is used in the constitution.
To give it a more .lax sense, would be to altei the
whole character of tile government as a sovereignty
of limited powers. This is not a purpose for which
violence zhould be done to the obvious and natural
sense of any terms, used in an instrument drawn up
with great simplicity, and with extraordinary pref:ision. The only question, then, on this branch of the
argument, will be, whether the establishment of a

banking corporation be indispensably requisiteto execute any of the express powers of the government ?
So far as the interest of the United States is concerned as partners of this company of bankers; or so
far as the corporation may be regarded as an executive officer of the government, acquiring real and
personal property in trust for the use of the government, it may be asked, what right the United States
have to acquire property of any kind, except that
purchased by the consent of the legislature of the
State in which such property may be, for the erection of forts, magazines, &c.; and ships or muni-

368

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
MICi-lloch

V.
rland.

tions of war, constructed or purchased by the United States,7 and the public treasure ? Their right of
acquiring property is absolutely limited to the subjects specified, which were the only means, of the
nalure of wealth or property, with which the people thought it necessary to invest them. The people never intend,:d they should . become bankers- or,
traders of any description. They meant to leave to
the States the power of regulating the trade of banking,
and every other species of internal industry; subject
merely to the power of Congress to regulate foreign
c6mmerce, and the commerce between the different
States, with which it is not pretended that this asserted power is connected. The trad6 of
banking
either
be left
within the particular States would then
to regulate itself, and carried on as a branch of private trade, as it is in many countries; or banking
companies would be incorporated by the State legislatures to tarry it on, as has been the usage of this
country. But ,in either case, Congress would have
nothing to do with the subject. The power of creating corporations is a distinct sovereign power, applicable to a great variety of objects, and not being
exprepsly granted to Congress for this, or any other
object, cannot be assumed by implication. If it
might be assumed for this purpose, it might also be
exercised to create corporations for the purpose
of constructing roads and canals';' a power to
construct which has been also lately discovered
among other secrets of the constitution, developed
,by this dangerous doctrine of implied powers. Or
it might be exercised to establish great trading mo-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

369

isi9.
nopolies,'or to lock. up the property Of-the country in
mortmain, by sonle strained connection between the MI'UClch
exercise of such powers, and those expressly given StateVo'f Mryland.
to the government.
3. Supposing the establishment of such- a banking corporation,, to be implied as one of the means
necessary and proper to execute the powers expressly
granted to the national. government, it is contended
-by the' counsel opposed to us, that its property is exempted from taxation by the State governments, because they, caifnot interfere with the exercise of any
of the powers, express or implied, with which Congress is invested. •But the radical vice of this argument is, that the taxing power of the States,, as'it
would exist, independent of the. constitution, is in
no respect limited or controlled by that supreme law,
except in the single case, of imposts and tonnage
duties, which the States cannot lay, unless for the
purpose of executing their inspection laws,. ,-Bt
their power, oftaxation is absolutely unlimited.in,
every other respect. Their power to ,tax the" property, of this corporation cannot be denied "without
.atthe'same time denyingtheir right to tax any: pro.perty of the United States. The property of the'
bank cannot be. more highly privileged than.,that of
the government. But, they are not, forbidden from:
taxing the property of the governmnnt, and therefore
-cannot be constructively prohibited from taxiig that,
of the bank. Bleing prohibited from taxing. exports
and imports, and tonnage, and left free from any other
prohibition, in this respect; they, may tax every thing
else but exports; imports, and tonnage. The authority of
VoL, IV.

47

370

7ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

"the Federalist" is' express, that the taxing power of
Congress does not exclude that of the States over any
If, then, the exercise of
of Ma- other objects except these.
State V.
the taxing power of Congress does not exclude that
rylamnL
of the States, why should the exercise of any other
power by Congress, exclude the power of taxation
by the States? If an express power will not exclude it, shall an implied power have that effect?
If a power of the same kind will not exclude it,
shall a power of A different kind ? The unlimited
power of taxation results from State sovereignty. It
is expressly taken away only in the particular instances mentioned. Shall others be added by implication ? Will it be pretended that there are two
species of sovereignty inour government?. Sovereign
power is absolute, as to the objects to which' it may
be applied But the sovereign power og taxation in
the States, may be applied to all other objects, except imposts and tonnage: Its exercise cannot, therefore, he limited and controlled by the exercise of
another sovereign power in Congress. The
right of
both sovereignties are co-equal and co-extensive.
The trade of banking may. be' taxed by the State of
Maryland; the, United.States iay incorporate a
company to carry on the trade of banking, which
may establish a branch in Maryland: The exerciso
of the one sovereign power,, cannot be controlled by
the exercise of the other. It can no more be controlled in this case, than if it were the power of.
taxation in Congress, which was interfered with by
the power of taxation 'in the State, both being exerted concurrently' on the same object. In both
1819.

M
l
m'Culioch

OF THE UNITED STATES.

189.
cases, mutual confidence, discretion, and forbearance',
can alone qualify the exercise of the conflicting "
V.Ma.
powers, and prevent the destruction of either. This taeof
ryaSa.
our
in
imperfection
an
is an anomaly, and perhaps
system of government. 13t neither Congress., nor
this Court, can correcet it. That system was established by. reciprocal concessions and compromises
between the State and Federal governments. Its
harmony can only be maintained in:the same spirit.
Even admitting that the property of the United
States, (such as they have a right to hold,) their forts
and dock yards, their ships and m;]*tary stores, their
archives and treasures, public institutions of war, or
revenue or justice, are exempt.by necessary implication'from State taxation; does it therefore follow,
that this corporation, which is a partnership of bankers, is also exempt? They are not collectors of
the revenue, any more than any State bank or foreign bankers,. whose'agency the government- may
find it convenient to employ as depositaries of itsr
funds. They may be employed to remit those funds
from one place to another, or to Procure loans, or
to buy and sell stock: but it is in a commercial, and
'not an admiriistrative character, that they are thus
employed. The corporate character with Which
these persons are cloathed, does not exempt them
from State taxation. It is the nature of their employment as agents or officer's of the.government, if any
thing, which must create the exemption., But the
same employment of the State bank or private bankers, would equally 'entitle them to the same exemption. Nor can the exemption of the stock of this

372

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

corporation from State taxation, be claimed on the
Muc
,ICuloch ground of the proprietary interest which the United
;
a. States have in it as stockholders. Their interest is
undistinguishably blended with the general capital
taf.
stock; if they will mix theii funds with those of
bankers, or engage as partners in any other branch
9 f commerce, their sovereign character and dignity
are lost in the mercantile character which they have
assumed ; and their property thus employed becomes
subject to local taxation, like other capital employed
in trade.
1819.

Mr. Martin, Attorney General of Maryland, 1.
read several extracts from the Federalist, and the debates of the Virginia and New- York Conventions, to
show that the cotemporary exposition of the constitution by its authors, and by those who supported its adop, tion1, was wholly repugnant to that now contended for
by the counsel for the plaintiff in error. That it was
then maintained, by the enemies of the constitution,
that it contained a vast variety of powers, lurking
under the generality of its phraseology, which would
prove highly dangerous to the liberties of the people,
hnd the rights of the States, unless controlled by some
declaratory amendment, which'should negative their
existence. This apprehension was treated as a dream
of distempered jealousy. The danger was denied to
exist; but to provide an assurance against the possibility of its occurrence, the 10th amendment was
added to the constitution. This, however, could be
considered as nothing more than'declaratory of the
sense of the people, as to the extent of the powers

OF THE UNITED STATES.

373

conferred on the new government. We are now .1819.
called upon to apply that theory of interpretation 'uv ch
V.
which was then rejected by the friends of the new
rylad.
it
upon
engraft
to
asked
are
we
and
constitution,
powers of vast extent, 'which were disclaimed by
them, and which, if they had been fairly avowed at
thetime, would have prevented its adoption. Before
we do this, they must, at leastj be proved to exist,
upon a candid examination of this instrument, as if
it were now for the first time submitted to interprepation. Although we cannot, perhaps, be allowed
to say, that the States have been "deceived in itheir
grant ;" yet. we may justly claim something like a
rigorous demonstration of this power, wich no
Where- appears upon the face of the constitution, but
which is supposed to be tacitly inculcated in its general object and spirit. That the scheme of the
framers of the constitution intended to leave nothing
to implication, will be,'evident from the. consideration,
that many of the powers expressly given are only'
means to accomplish other powers expressly given.
For example: The power to declare war involves,
by necessary implication, if any thing was to be implied, the powers of raising and supporting armies,
and providing and maintaining. a navy, to prosecute
the War then declared. So, also, as money is the
sinew of war, the powers, of loying and collecting
taxes, and of borrowing money, are involved in that'
of declaring war. Yit, all these powers are specifically enumerated. If, then, the Convention has specified some powers, which, being only means to ac.complish the.'ends of government, might have bee

374

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
taken by implication ; by what just rule of construc""'
tion are other sovereign powers, equally vast and imM'Culloch
V.
State of Ma- portant, to be assumed by implication ? We insist,

ryland.

that the only safe rule is the plain letter of the constitution ; the rule which the constitutional legislators
themselves have prescribed, in the 10th amendment,
which is merely declaratory ; that the, powers not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to
the people. The power of establishing corporations
is *notdelegated to the United States,' nor prohibited
to the individual States. It is, therefore, reserved to
the States,'or to the people. It is not expressly delegated, either as an end, or a means of national government. It is not to be taken by implicatign, as
a means of executing any or all of th9 powers expressly granted ; because other means, not more important or more sovereign in their character, are expressly enumerated. We still insist, that the authority of establishing corporations is one of the great
sovereign powers of government. - It may well exist
in the State governments, without being expressly
conferred in the State constitutions; because those
governments have all the usual powers which belong
to every political society, unless expressly forbidden,
by the letter of the State constitutions, from exercising them. The power of establishing corporations
has been constantly exercised by the State governments, and-no portion of it has been ceded by them
to the government of the United States.
.2. But, admitting that Congress has a right to in-.
:orporate a banking company, as one of the means

OP THE UNITED STATES.

.575

.
-ecessary and proper to execute the specific powers
the
rethat
of the national. government ; we insist,
M'Culloch
v.
spective States have the right to tax the property of
that corporation, within their territory; that the, Uni- State of Mted States cannot, by such an act of incorporation,
withdraw any part of the property within the State
from the grasp of taxation. It is not necessary for
us to contend, that any part of the. public property of
the United States, its munitions of war, its ships, and
treasure, are subject to State taxation. But if the
United States hold shares in the stock of. a private
banking company, or any other trading company,
their property is not exempt from taxition, in common with the other capital stock of the company;
still less can it communicate to the shares belonging
to private stockholders, an immunity from local taxation. The right of, taxation by the State, is co-extensive with all private property. within the State.
The interest of the United States in this bank is private property,, though belonging to public persons
It is held by .the government, as an undivided interest
with private stockholders. It. is employed in the
same .trade i subject. to. the same fluctuations. o
value, and liable to the'osame contingencies of profit and loss." Thq shares, belonging to the United
States, or of any other stockholders, are not subjected to direct taxation by the iaw of Maryland.
The tax imposed, is a stamp tax upon the notes
issued by a banking house within the State of:Maryland. Because the United States happen to be
partially'interested, either as dormaht or active partners, in that' house, is .no reason why the State should
refrain from laying a tax which, they have,. other-

376

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

wise, a constitutional right to impose, any more than
if they were to become interested in any other house
M'Culloch
t. f
of trade, which should issue its notes, or bills of exState of Machange, liable to a stamp duty, by a law of the State.
ryland.
But it is said that a right to taxr, in this case, implies
a right to destroy ; that it is impossible to draw the
line of discrimination between a tax fairly laid for
the purposes of revenue, and one imposed for the pur.pose of prohibition. We answer, that the same objection would equally ap)ply to the right of Congress
to tax the Statebanks; since, the same difficulty of.
discriminating occurs in the exercise of that right.
The whole of'this subject of taxation is full of difficulties, whch the Convention found it impossible to
solve, in a manner entirely satisfactory. The first
attempt was to divide the subjects of taxation between the State and the national government. This
being found impracticable, or inconvenient, the State
governments surrendered altogether their right to tax
imports and exports, and' tonnage giving the authority to tax all other subjects to Congress,. but reserying to the States a concurrent right to tax the same
subjects to an unlimited extent. This was one of the
anomalies of the government, the evils of which must
be endured, or mitigated by discretion an4 mutual
forbearance. The debates in the State conventions
show that the power of State taxation was understood, to be absolutely unlimited, except as to imposts and:tonnage duties. The States would not
have adopted the constitution upon any other understanding. As to the judicial proceedings, and the
custom house papers of the United States, they are
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

377

not property, by their very nature; they are not the .1.
subjects of taxation;'• they are the proper instruments MIGulloch
lW u- .c.
of national sovereignty, essential to the exercise of
V.
its powers, and in legal contemplation altogether
exSyate
of Ma.
b
ryland.
tra-territorial as to State authority.
Mr. Pinkney, for the plaintiff in error, in reply,
stated, 1. That the cause must first be cleared of a
question which ought not to have been forced into the
argument-!-whether the act of Congress establishing
the bank was consistent with the constitution ? This
question depended both on authority and on principle.
No topics to illustrate it could be drawn from the confederation, since the present constitution was as different from that, as light from darkness. The former
was a -mere federative league ; an alliance offensive
and defensive between the States, such as there had
been many examples of in the history of the world.
It had no power of coercin but by arms. Its radical vice, and that which the new constitution was intended to reform, was legislation upon sovereign
States in their corporate capacity. But the constitution acts directly on the people, by means of powers
communicated directly from the people. No State,
in its corporate capacity, ratified it; but it was pro*posed for adoption to popular conventions. It springs
from the people, precisely'as the State constitutions
spring from the people, and acts on them in a similar
manner. It was adopted by them in the geographical sections into which the country is divided. The
federal powers are just as sovereign as these of the
States. The State -overeigniis are not the authors
VOL.. IV.

4P

378
1sig.

,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of-the constitution of the United States. They are
preceding in point of time, to the national sovereignty,

.Mbut tey are postponed to it in point of supremacy,
by the will of the people. The means of giving.
ryland.
efficacy to the sovereign authorities vested by the people ig1 the national government, are those adapted to
the end; fitted~to promote, and having a natural rela-

Stt.e

tion. and connexion with, tWre objects of that government. The constitution, by which these authorities,
and the-means of executing them, are given, and the
laws made. in pursuance of it, are declared to be the
:supreme law'of. the land; and they would have been
such, without the insertion of this declaratory clause.
.They must be supreme or they would be nothing.

The constitutionality of the establishment of the
bank, as~one of the means necessary to carry into
effect the authorities -vested in the national government, is no longer an open question. It has been
long siuce settled by decisions of the most revered
authority, legislative, executive, and judicial. A legislative .construction, in a doubtful case, persevered
in fora course of years, ought to be binding upon the
Court.' This, however,.is not a question of construetion merely, but of political necessity, on Which Congress must decide. It is conceded, that a manifest
usurpation cannot be maintained in this. mode; but,
we contend, that this is such a doubtful "case, that
Congress may expound the nature and extent of the
authority under Which it acts, and' that this practical
interpretation has-become .iilcorporated.into the constitution. There are two distinguishing points which
.entitle it to great respect. The fAit is, that it was a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cotemporaneous construction; the second is, that it
was made by the authors of the constitution themselves. The members of the convention who framed
the constitution, passed into the first Congress, by
which the new government was organized. They
must have understood their own work. They determined that the constitution gave to Congress the
power of incorporating a banking company. It Was
not required that this power should be expressed in
the text of the constitution ; it might safely be left to
implication. An express authority to erect corporations generally, would have been perilous; since it
might have been constructively extended to the creation of corporations entirely unnecessary to carry
into effect the other powers granted; we do not
claim an authority in this respect, beyond the sphere
of the specific powers. The grant of an authority
to erect certain corporations, might have been equally
dangerous, by omitting to provide for others, which
time and experience might show.to be equally, and
even more necessary. It is a historical fact of great
importance in this discussion, that amendments to the
constitution were actually proposed, in order to guard
against the establishment of commercial monopolies.
But if the general power of incorporating did not
exist, why seek to qualify it, or to guard against its
abuse? The legislative precedent established in 1791,
has been followed up by a series of acts of Congress,
all confirming the authority. Political considerations
alone might have produced the refusal to renew the

charter in 1811 ; 'at any rate, we know that they
mingled themselves in the debate, and the determina-

379
1819..MCUlloch

V.
ryland.

380

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

189.
MICulloch

V.
ryland;

tion. In 1815, a bill was passed by the two houses
of Congress, incorporating a national bank ; to which
the President refused his assent, upon political considerations only, waiving the question of constitutionality as being settled by cotemporaneous exposition, and repeated subsequent recognitions. In 1816,
all branches of the legislature concurred in establishIng the corporation, whose chartered rights are now
in judgment before the Court. None of these measures ever passed sub silentio; the proposed incorporation was always discussed, and opposed, and supported, on constitutional grounds, as well as on considerations of politicalexpediency. Congress is, pnmafacie,, a competent judge of its owf constitutional
powers. It is not, as in questions of privilege, the
exclusive judge; but it must first decide, and that in
a proper judicial character, whether a law is constitutional, before it is passed. It had an opportunity of
exercising it.s judgment in this respect, upon the present subject, not only in the principal acts incorporating the former, and the present bank, but in the various incidental statutes subsequently enacted on the
same subject; in all of which, the question of constitutionality was equally open -to debate, but in none
of which was it agitated.
There are, then, in the present case, the repeated
deter'minations of the three branches of the national
legislature, confirmed by the constant acquiescence
of the State sovereignties, and of the people, for a
considerable length. of time.. Their strength is,
fortified by judicial authority. The decisions in
the Courts, affirming the constitutionality of these

OF THE UNITED STATES.

laws, passed, indeed, sub silentio; but it was the
in criminal cases, to
duty of the judges, especially
•
,

1819.
M'Culloch

have raised. the question;.and we are to conclude, StateV.f Ma-

from this circumstance, that no doubt was entertained
respecting it. And if the question be examined on
principle, it will be found not to admit of doubt. Has
Congress, abstractedly, the authority to erect corporations ? This authority is not more a sovereign
power than many other powers which are acknowledged to exist, and which are but means to an end.
All the objects of the government are national
objects, and the means are, and must be, fitted to accomplish them. These objects are enumerated in the constitulion, and have no limits but
the constitution itself. A more perfect union is to
be formed ; justice to be established; domestic tranquillity insured ; the common defence provided for ;
the general welfare promoted ; the blessings of liberty
secured to the present generation, and to posterity.
For the attainment of these vast objects, the government is armed with powers and faculties corresponding in magnitude. Congress has power to lay and
collect taxes and duties, imposts and excises; to pay
the debts, and provide for the common defence and
general welfare of the United States; to borrow
money on the credit of the nation ; to regulate commerce; to establish uniform naturalization and bankrupt laws ; to coin money, and regulate the circulating medium, and the standard of weights and measures; to establish post offices and post roads; to
promote thie progress of science and the useful arts,
by .granting patents and copy-rights; to constitute
tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court, and to de-

ryland.

382

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

fine and punish offences against the law of nations;
and support
'
to declare and carry on war; to raise
armies, and to provide and maintain a navy ; to disM.
S-ate of Ma. cipline.and governthe land and naval
forces; to call
forth the militia to execute the laws, suppress insur•rections, and repel invasions; to provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the militia;' to exercise
exclusive legislation, in all cases, over' the district
-where the seat; of government is established, and
over such other portions of territory as may be ceded to the Union for theerection of forts, magazines,
&c. ; to dispose of, and make all needful rules and
regulations respectingi the territory or other property
belonging to the United States; and to make all
0laws which shall 'be necessary and proper for carrying into execution these powers and all other powers
vested in the national government or any of its'departments- orofficers. The laws thus made are declared to be-. the supreme law of the, land ; and the,
judges in every- State are bound thereby, any thing
'in
the constitution or laws'of any State ,to the contrary notwithstanding. Yet it is doubted, whether a
government invested with such immense powers has
authority to erect a coi'poration within the sphere of
its general objects, and in order to accomplish sodme
of those objects ! The State powers are much less.
in point of magnitide, though greater in number;
yet it is supposed the States possess the authority of
establishing corporations, whilst it is denied; to the
general government. It is conceded to the State legislatures, though not specifically granted, because it
is said to be an incident of State sovereignty ; but it
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W

1819.
is refused to Congress, because it is not specifically
", granted, though it may be necessary and proper to IM'CUllocha
execute the powers which are specifically granted. S.l
of MaBut the authority of legislation in the State govern- State
ry
limitations
several
are
There
ment is not unlimited.
to their legislative authority. First; from the nature
of all government, especially of republican government, in which the residuary powers of sovereignty,
not granted specifically, by inevitable implication,
are reserved to the people. Secondly ; from the express limitations contained in the State constitutions.
And, Thirdly; from the express prohibitions to the
States contained in the United States' constitution.
The power of erecting corporations is no where expressly granted. to the legislatures of the States in
their constitlktions; it is taken by necessary implication: but it cannot be exercised to accomplish any
of the ends which are beyond the sphere of their
constitutional authority. The power of erecting corporations is not an end of any government; it is a
necessary means of accomplishing the ends of all
governments. It is an authority inherent in, and incident to, all sovereignty. The history of corporations will illustrate this position. They were transplanted from the Roman law into the common law
of England, and all the municipal codes of modern
Europe. From England they were derived to this
country. But, in the civil law, a corporation could
be created by, a mere voluntary association of individuals.a And, in England, the authority.of parlia-

a 1 Bl. Com. 471.

384.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ment is not necessary to create a corporate body.
C
The king may do it, and may communicate his power
M'Culloch
V.
to
a subject ;a so little is this regarded as a transcenState of Ma.I
ryland, dent power of sovereignty in the British constitution.
1819.

So, also, in our constitution it ought to be regarded
as but a subordinate power, to carry into effect the
great objects -of government. The State governments cannot establish corporations to carry into effect the national powers given to Congress, nor caii
Congress create corporations to execute the peculiar
duties of the State governments. But so much of
the power or faculty of incorporation as concerns national objects has passed away from the State legislatures, and is vested in the national government.
An act of incorporation is but a law, and laws are
but means to -promote the legitimate end of all go-

vernment-the felicity of the people. All powers are
given to the national government, as the people will.
The reservation in the 10th amendment to the constitution, of "powers not delegated to the United
States," is not confined to powers not expressly de-

legated. Such an amendmentwas indeed proposed;
but it was perceived, that it would strip the government of some of its most* essential powers, and. it

was rejected.- Unless a specific means be expressly
prohibited to the general government, it has it,' within
the sphere of its specified- powers. Many particular
means are, of course, involved in. the general means
necessary to carry into effect the powers expressly
granted, and, in that case, the general means become
a I..BL'Com, 474.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
the end, and the smaller objects the means. It was
impossible for the framers of the constitution to spe.
both because it '
cify prospectively all these means,
would have involved an immense variety of details, StateofMa.
and because it would have been impossible for them
to foresee the infinite variety of circumstances in
such an unexampled state of political society as ours,
forever changing and forever improving. How unwise would it have been to legislate immutably for
exigencies which had not then occurred, and which
must have been foreseen but dimly and imperfectly!
The security against abuse is to be found in the constitution and nature of the government, in.its popular
character and structure. The statute book of the United States is filled with powers derived from implication. The power to lay and collect taxes will not execute itself. Congress must designate in detail all the
means of collection. So, also, the power of establishing
post offices and post roads, involves that of punishing the offence of robbing the mail. But there is no
more necessary connexion between the punishment of
mail robbers, and the power to establish post roads,
than there is between the institution of a bank, and
the collection of the revenue and payment of the publi> debts and expenses. So, light houses, beacons,
buoys, and public piers, have all been established
under the general power to regulate commerce. But
they are not indispensably necessary to commerce.
It might linger on without these aids, though exposed to more perils and losses. So, Congress has
authority to coin money, and to guard the purity of
the.circulating medium, by providing for the punishVOL. IV.

49

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ment of counterfeiting the current coin: but laws
are also made for punishing the offence of uttering
M'Culloch
It is the
df Ma- and passing the" coin thus counterfeited.
State-V.
duty of the Court to construe the constitutional
ryland.
powers of the national government liberally, and to
mould them so as to effectuate its great objects.
Whence is derived the power to punish smuggling?
It does not collect the impost, but it is a means more
effectually to prevent the collection from being diminished in amount, by frauds upon the revenue
laws. Powers, as-means, may then be implied in
many cases. And if so,, why not in this case as
well as any other? The power of making all needful rulesaqd regulations respecting the territory of the
United-States, is one of the specified powers of Congress. Under this power, it has never been doubted,
that Congress had authority to establish corporations
in the territorial governments. But this power is
derived entirely from implication, it is assumed as
an incident to the principal power. If it may be
assumed in that case, upon the ground that it is a necessary means of carrying Ijto effect the power ex.pressly granted, Why may it not be assumed in the
present case, upon a similar ground ? It is readily
admitted, that there must be a relation in the nature
and fitness of things, between the means used and
the end to be accomplished. But the question is,
whether the necessity which will justi-fy a resort to
a certain means must be an absolute, indispensable,.
.inevitable necessity? The power of passing all laws
necessary and proper to carry into effect the other
powers specifically granted, is a political power; it
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

337

is a matter of legislative discretion, and those who 181g.
wide range of choice in selecting MCuiocb
exercise it, have'aIV.
State of Mameans. In its exercise, the- mind must compare SttYoa
means with each other. But absolute necessity ex- ryland.
cludes all choice; and therefore, it cannot be this
species of necessity which 'is required. Congress
alone has the fit means of inquiry and decision.
The more. or less of necessity never can enter as an
ingredient into judicial decision. Even absolute necessity cannot be judged of here; still less can practical necessity be determined in a judicial forum.
The judiciary may, indeed, and must, see that what
has been done is not a mere evasive pretext, under
which the national legislature travels out of the proscribed bounds of its authority, and encroaches upon
State sovereignty, or the rights of the people. For
this purpose, it must inquire whether the means assumed have a connexion, in the nature-and fitness of
things, with the end to be accomplished. The vast
variety of possible means, excludes the practicability
of judicial determination as to the fitness of a particular means. It is sufficient that it does not appear to
be violently and unnaturailly forced into the service, or
fraudulently assumed, in order to usurp a new sub,
stantive power of. sovereignty. 'A philological analysis of the terms" necessary and proper" will illustrate the argument; Compare these terms as they are
used in that part of the constitution now in question,
with the qualified manner in which they are used in
the 40th section of the same article. In the latter,
it is provided that "no State shall, without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties, on ira-

388
18 7.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ports or exports, except what may be absolutely Be-

M.Culi0ch cessary for executing its inspection laws."

In the

State V.
of Ma- clause in question, Congress is invested with the
ryland.
power "to make all laws which shall be necessary
andproper for carrying into execution the foregoing
powers," &c. There is here then, no qualification
of the necessity. It need not be absolute. It may
be taken in its ordinary grammatical sense. The
word necessary, standing by itself, has no inflexible
meaning ; it is used in a sense more or less strict, according to the subject. This, like many other words,
has a primitive sense, and another figurative and more
relaxed; it may be qualified by the addition of adverbs of diminution or enlargement, such as very,
indispensably, more, less, or absolutely necessary;
which last is the sense in which it is used in the 10th
section of this article of the constitution. But that
it is not always used in this strict and rigorous sense,
;ay be proved by tracing its definition and etymology
in every human language.
If, then, all the powers of the national government are sovereign and supreme; if the power of
incorporation is incidental, and involved in the others ;
if the degree of political necessity which will justify a resort to a particular means, to carry into execution the other powers of the government, can never be a criterion of judicial determination, but
must be left to legislative discretion; it only remains to inquire, whether a bank has a natural and
obvious connection with other express or implied
powers, so as to become a necessary and proper
means of .carrying thorn into execution. A bank

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-S89

might be established as a branch of the public ad1.
ministration without incorporation. The* overn- M'culloch
ment might issue paper upon the credit of the public - v.
State of Mafaith, pledged for its redemption, or upon the credit. rylan4.
of its property and funds. Let the office where this
paper is issued be made a place of deposit for the
money of individuals, and authorize its officers to
discount, and a bank is created. It onlywants the
forms of incorporation. But, surely, it will not be
pretended, that clothing it with these forms would
make such an establishment unconstitutional. In the
bank which is actually established and incorporated,
the United States are joint stockholders, and appoint
joint directors; the secretary of the treasury has a
supervising authority over its affairs;, it is bound,
upon his requisition, to transfer the- funds of the government wherever they may be wanted; it performs 'all the duties of commissioners of the loan
office; it is bound to loan the government a certain
amount of money on demand; its notes are receivable in payment for public debts and duties.; it is iitimately connected, according to the usage -of the
whole .world, with the power of borrowing money,
and with all the financial operations of the governnient. It has, also, a close connection with the
power-of regulating foreign commerce, and that between the different States. It provides a circulating
medium, by which that commerce can be more conveniently carried on, and exchanges may be facilitated. It is true, there are State banks by which a circulating medium to a 'certain extent is provided.
But that only diminishes the quantum of necessity,

390

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

which is no criterion by which to test the constituIt is also connected with
X-ICullocil tionality of a measure.
the power of making all needful regulations for the
V;
State of Marand. government of the territory, "and other property of
the United States." If they may establish a corporation to regulate their territory, they may establish
oe to regulate their property. Their treasure is
their propprty, and may be invested in this mode.
Itisput in partnership; but not for the purpose of
carrying on the trade of banking, as one of the ends
for which the government was established ; but only
as an instrument or means for executing its sovereign
powers. This instrument could not be rendered effectual for. this purpose but by mixing the property
of individuals with that of the public. The bank
could not otherwise acquire a credit for its notes.
Universal experience shows, that, if altogether a government bank, it could not acquire, or would soon
lose, the confidence of the community.
2. As to the branches, they are identical with the
parent bank. The power to establish them is that
species of subordinate power, wrapped up in the
principal power, which Congress may place at its
discretion.
3. The last, and greatest,.and only difficult question
in the cause, is that which respects the assumed right
of the States to tax this bank, and its branches, thus established by Congress ? This is a question, comparatively of no importance to the individual States, but
of vital importance to the Union. Deny this exemption to the bank as an instrument of government, and
what is the consequence ? There is no express provi1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sion in the constitution, which exempts 'any of the
national institutions or Iproperty from State taxation.
It is only by implication that the army, and navy, and

1819.
M'Culloch

V.

M.;
treasure, and judicature of the Union, are exempt Statof
from State taxation. Yet they are practically exempt; and they must be, or it would be in ihe power
of any one State to destroy their use. Whatever
the United States have a right to do, the individual
States have no right to undo. The power of Congress
to establish a bank, like its other sovereign powers,
is supreme, or it would be nothing. Rising out of
an exertion of paramount authority, it .cannot be subject to any other power. Such a power in the States,
as that contended for on the other side, is.manifestly
repugnant to the power of Congress ; since a power
to establish implies a power to continue and preserve.
There is a manifest repugnancy between the power
of Maryland to tax, and the power of Congress to
preserve, this institution. A power to build up what
another may pull down at pleasure, is a power which
may provoke a smile, but can do nothing else. This
law of Maryland acts directly on the operations of
the bank, and may destroy it. There is no limit or
check in this respect, but in the discretion of the
State legislature. That discretion cannot be controlled by the national councils. Whenever the local
councils of Maryland will it, the bank must be expelled from that State. A right to tax without limit
or control, is essentially a power to destroy. If one
national institution may be destroyed in this manner,
all may be destroyed in the same manner. If this
power to tax the national property and institutions

592
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

exists in the State of Maryland, it is unbounded in

There can be no check upon it, either by
V.
Congress,
or the people of the other States. Is
State of MaMextent.
m'Culloch
ryland.

there then any intelligible, fixed, defined boundary of
this taxing power ? If any, it must be found in this
Court. If it does not exist here ,' it is a nonentity.
But the Court cannot say what is an abuse, and what
is a legitimate use of the power. The legislative
intention may be so masked, as to defy the scrutinizing eye of the Court. How will the Court ascertain, a priori, that a given amount of tax will
crush the bank ? It is essentially a question of political economy, and there are always a vast variety of
facts bearing upon it. The facts may be mistaken.
Some important considerations belonging to the subject may be kept out of sight. They must all vary
with times and circumstances. The result, then,
must determine whether the tax is destructive. But
the bank may linger on for some time, and that result cannot be known until the work of destruction
is consummated. A criterion which has been proposed, is to see whether the tax has been laid, impartially, upon the State banks, as well as the Bank
of the United States. Even this is an unsafe test ;
for the State governments may, wish, and intend, to
destroy their own banks. The existence of any national institution ought not to depend upon so frail
a security. But this tax is levelled exclusively at
the branch of the United States' Bank established
in Maryland. There is, in point of fact, a branch of
no other bank within that State, ;nd there can legally
be no other. It is a fundamental article of the State

OF THE UNITED STATES.

constitution of'Maryland, that taxes shall operate on
all the citizens impartially, and uniformly, in proportion to their property, with the exception, however,
of taxes laid for political purposes. This is a tax
laid for a, political purpose; for the purpose of destroying a great institution of the national government; and if it were not imposed for that purpose, it
would be repugnant to the State constitution, as not
being laid uniformly on all the citizens, in proportion
to their property. So that the legislature cannot disavow this to be its object, without, at the same time,
confessing a manifest violation of the State constitution. Compare this act of Maryland with that of
Kentucky, which is yet to come before the Couirt,
and the absolute necessity of repressing such. attempts in their infancy, will be evident. Admit the
constitutionality of the Maryland tax, and mat of
Kentucky follows inevitably. How can it be said,
that the office of discount and deposit in Kentucky
cannot bear a tax of sixty thousand (ollars per annum, payable monthly ? Probably it'could not; but
judicial certainty is essential; and the Court has no
means of arriving at that certainty. There is then,
here, an absolute repugnancy of power to power;
we are not bound to show, that the particular exercise of the power in the present case is absoluteiy
repugnant. It is sufficient that the same power may
be thus exercised.
There certainly may be some exceptions out of the
taxing power of the States, other than those created
by the taxing power of Congress; because, if there
were no implied exceptions, then the navy, and other
VOL., IV.

393
1819.
MICuloch

v.

State of Maryland.

394

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
M'Culloch

.V.

State of Ma-

rqland.

exclusive property of the United States, would be
liable to State taxation. If some of the powers of
Congress, other than its taxing power, necessarily
involve incompatibility with the taxing power of the
States, this may be incompatible. This is incompable; for a power. to impose a tax ad libitum upon the
notes of the bank, is a power to repeal the law, by
which the bank was created. The bank cannot be
useful, it cannot act at all, unless it issues notes. If
the present tax does not disable the bank from issuing
its notes, another may; and it is the authority itself
which is questioned as being entirely repugnant to the
power which established, and preserves the bank.
Two powers thus hostile and incompatible cannot
co-exist. There must he, in this case, an implied
exception to the general taxing power of the States,
because it is a tax upon the legislative faculty of
Congress, upon the national property, upon the -national institutions. Because the taxing powers of
the two governments are concurrent in some respects,
it does not follow, that there may not be limitations
on the taxing power of the States, other than those
which are imposed by the taxing power of Congress.
Judicial proceedings are practically a subject of taxation in many countries, and in some of the States
of this Union. The States are not expressly prohibited in the constitution from taxing the judicial proceedings of the United States. Yet such a prohibition must be implied, or the administration of justice
in the national Courts might be obstructed by a prohibitory tax. But such a tax is no more a tax on the
legislative faculty of Congress than this. The branch

OF THE UNITED STATES.

S95

bank in Maryland is as much an institution of the so1819.
vereign power of the Union,
as the Circuit Court of M'Culloch
' "
Maryland. One is established in virtue of an express
V.
ofIaState
both
but
authority;
implied
an
~ryland.
power; the othei-by
are equal, and equally supreme. All the property
and all the institutions of the United States are,
constructively, without the local, territorial jurisdiction of the individual States, in every respect,
and for every purpose, including that of taxation.
This immunity must extend to this case, because the
power of taxation imports the power of taxation for
the purpose of prohibition and destruction. The immunity of foreign' public Vessels from the local jurisdiction, whether State or national, was established
in the case of the Exchange," not upon positive municipal law, nor upon conventional law; but it was
implied, from the usage of nations, and the necessity
of the case. If, in :favour of foreign governments,such an edifice of exemption has been built up, independent of the letter of the constitution, or of any
other written law, shall not a similar edifice be raised
on the same foundations, for the security of our own
national government? So, also, the jurisdiction of a
foreign power, holding a temporary possession of a
portion of national territory, is no where provided for
in the constitution; but is derived from inevitable implication.b These analogies show, thatthere may be
exemptions from State jurisdiction, not detailed in.
the constitution, but arising out of general consideradons. If Congress'has power to do a particular. act,
n 7 cranch, 116.

b The United States v. Rice, ante, p. 246.

396
189.
'there

MICulIoch

t .
rtare
of Mar) land.

CASES IN THE, SUPREME COURT

no State can impede, retard, or burthen it.

Can

be a stronger ground, to infer a cessation of
State jurisdiction ?

The bank of the United States is as much an instrument of the government for fiscal purposes, as
the Courts are its instruments for judicial purposes.
They both proceed from the supreme power, and
equally claim its protection. Though every State in
the Union may impose a stamp tax, yet no State can
lay astamp tax upon the judicial proceedings or custom-house papers of the United States. But there is
no such express exception to the general taxing power of the States contained in the constitution. It
arises from the general nature of the governmenti
and from the principle of the supremacy of the national powers, and the laws made to execute them,
over the State authorities and State laws.
It is objected, however, that the act of Congress,
incorporating the bank, withdraws property from
taxation by the State, which would he otherwise liable
to State taxation. We answer, that it is immaterial,
if it does thus withdraw certain property from the
grasp of State taxation, if Congress had authoriiy to
establish the bank, since the power of Congress is
supreme. But, in fact, it withdraws nothing from the
mass of taxable property in Maryland, which that
State could tax. The whole capital of the bank belonging to private stockholders, is drawn from every
State in' the Union, and the stock belonging to the
United States, previously constitued a part of the
public treasure. Neither the stock belonging to citizens of other States, nor the privileged treasure

OF THE UNITED STATES. '

397

i819.
of the United States mixed up.with this private proto taxation in Mary- m'Culloch
perty, Were previously •liable
'
land; and as to the stock belonging to its own citi- State,,.
of Ma.,
zens, itstill continues liable to State taxation, as a ryland.
portion of their individual property, in common with all
the other private property in the State. The establishment of the bank, so far from withdrawing any thing
from taxation by the State, brings something into
Maryland which that State may tax. It produces revenue to the citizens of Maryland, which may be taxed equally and uniformly, with all their other private
property. The maierials of which the ships of war,
belonging to the United States, are constructed, were
previously liable to State taxation. But the instant
they are converted into public property, for the
public defence, they cease to be subject to State taxation. So here the treasure of the United States,
and that ,of individuals, citizens of Maryland, and of
other States, are undistinguishably confounded in
the capital stock of this great national -institution,
which, it has been before shown, could be made useful.as an instrument of finance, in no other mode
than by thus blending together the property of the
government and of private merchants, This partnership is, therefore, one of necessity, on the part of the.
United States. Either this tax operates upon the
franchise of the bank, or upon its property. If upon
the former, then it come directly in conflict with the
exercise of a great sovereign authority of Congress ;
if upon the latter, then it is a .tax upon the property
of the United States; since the law does not, and

398
isig.
I
•M'Culloch
of MaState V.

ryland.,

CASES IN THE SUPRESIE COURT

cannot, in imposing a stamp tax, distinguish their interest from that of private stockholders.
,
But it is said, that -Congress possesses and exer-

cises the unlimited authority of taxing the State
banks; and, therefore, the States ought to have an
equal right to tax the bank of the United States.
The answer to this objection is, that,. in taxing the
State banks, the States in Congress exercise their
power of taxatiori. Congress exercises the power of
the people. The, whole acts on the whole. But
the State tax is a part acting on the whole. Even
if the two cases were the same, it would rather exempt the State banks from federal taxation, than subject the bank of the United States to taxation by a
particular State. But the State banks are not machines essential to execute the powers of the State
sovereignties, and, therefore, this is out of the question. The people of the United States, and the sovereignties of the several States, have no control over
the taxing power of a particular State. But they
have a; control over the taxing power of the United
States, in the responsibility of the members of the
House of Representatives to the people of the State
which sends them, and of the senators to the legislature by whom they are chosen. But there is no
correspondent responsibility of the local legislature
of Maryland, for example, to the people of the other
States of the Union. The people of other States are
not represented in the legislature of 'Maryland,. and
can have no control, directly or indirectly, over its
proceedings. The legislature of Maryland is responsible only. to the people of that State.. The nation-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

al government can withdraw nothing from the taxing power of the States, which is not for the pur-

399
1819.
M'Culloch

V.
pose of national benefit and the common welfare,
ryland.
of Maand within its defined powers. But the local inte- State
rests of the States are in perpetual conflict with the
interests of the Union; which shows the danger of
adding power to the partial views and local prejudices of the States. If the tax imposed by this law
be not a tax on the property'of the United States, it
is not a tax on any property; and it must, consequently, be a tax on the faculty, or franchise. It is,
then, a tax on the legislative faculty of the Union,
on the charter of the bank. It imposes a stamp duty
upon the notes of the bank, and thus stops the very
source of its circulation and life. It is as much a
direct interference with the legislative faculty of
Congress, as would be a tax on patents, or copy
rights, or custom-house papers, orj udicial proceedings.
Since, then, the constitutional government of this
republican empire cannot be practically enforced, so
as to secure the permanent glory, safety, and felicity
of this great country, but by a fair and liberal interpretation of its powers; since those powers could not
all be expressed in the constitution, but many of them
must be taken by implication; since the sovereign
powers of the Union are supreme, and, wherever
they come in. direct conflict and repugnancy with
those of the State governments, the latter must give
way; since it has been proved that this is the case as
to the institution of the bank, and the general power
of taxation -by the States; since this power, unlimited and unchecked, as it necessarily must be, by the

400

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
very nature of the subject, is absolutely inconsistent
mCulloc, with, and repugnant to, the rightof the United States
Stlae of Ma- to establish a national bank; if the power of taxation
rylan(.

be applied to the corporate property, or franchise,
or property of the bank, and might be applied in
the same manner, to destroy any other of the great
institutions and establishments of the Union, and the
whole machine of the national government might be
arrested in its motions, by the exertion, in other
cases, of the, same power which is here attempted
to be exerted upon the bank: no other alternative
remains, but for this Court to interpose its authority,
and save thp nation from the consequences of this
dangercus attempt.

Sfarch 7a.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the case now to be determined, the defendant,
a sovereign State, denies the obligation of a law enacted by the legislature of the Union, and the plaintiff, on his part, contests the validity of an act which
has been passed by the legislature of that State.
The constitution of ourcountry, in its most interesting and vital parts, is to be considered ; the conflicting powers of the government of the Union and of
its members, as marked in that constitution, are to be
discussed ; and an opinion given, Which may essentially influence the great operations of the government. No tribunal can approach such a question
without a deep sense of its importance, and of the
awful responsibility involved in its decision. But it
must be decided peacefully, or remain a source of

OF THE UNITED STATES,

401

hostile legislation, perhaps of hostility of a still more
1810.
erious nature; and if it is to be so decided, by this
tribunal alone can the decision be made. On'the StateV.
of MaSupreme Court of the United States has the consti- ryland.
tution of our country devolved this important duty.
The first question made in the cause is, has Congress power to incorporate, a bank ?
It has been truly said, that this can scarcely be c6iisidered as an open question, entirely unprejudiced
by the former proceedings of the nation respecting
it. The principle now contested was introduced at
a very early period of our history, has been recognised by many successive legislatures, and has been
acted upon by thejudicial department, in cases of
pec'uliar delicacy, as a law of undoubted obligation,
It will not be denied, that a bold and. daring usurpation might be resisted, after an acquiescence still
longer and more complete than this.' But it is con-.
ceived that a doubtful question, one on. which human reason may pause, and the human judgment be
suspended, "in
the decision of whilch the great principles of liberty are not concerned, but the respective powers of those who are equally the representatives of the people, are to beiadjusted; if not put at
rest by the practice of the government, ought to receive a considerable impression from that practice,
An exposition of the constitution, 'deliberately established by legislative acts, on -the faith 'of which an
iriimense property has been advanced, ought not to
-be lightly disregarded.
'The power now contested was exercised by the
first Congress ele cted
under the -present constitution.
VOL.' IV.

.61

. CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

402
1819.

The bill for incorporating the bank of the United

did not" steal upon an unsuspecting legislature,
and pass unobserved. Its principle was completely
Rtate of Maryland,
understood, and was opposed with equal zeal and
ability. After being resisted, first ir. the fair and
open held of- debate, and afterwards in the executive cabinet, with as much persevering talent as any
measure. has ever experienced, and being supported
by arguments which convinced minds as pure and as
intelligent as this country qan boast, it became a
law. The original at was permitted to expire; but a
shortrexperience of tile embarrassments to which the
refusal to revive it exposed the 'government, convinced those who were most prejudiced against the
measure of its necessity, and induced the passage of
the present law. It would require no ordinary share
of intrepidity to assert that a measure adopted under
these circumstances was.a. bold and plain usurpation,:
to which the constitution gave no countenance.
These observations belong to the cause ; but'they
are not made under the impression that, were the
question entirely new, the law would be found irreconcilable with the constitution.
In discussing this question, the counsel for the
State of Maryland have deemed it, of some importance, in the construction of the constitution, to yon.sider that instrument not as emanating from the peo-'
pie, but as the act of sovereign and independent
States. The powers of the general government, it
has been said, are delegated by the States, Who alone
are truly sovereign;- and must be exercised in subordination to the States, who alone possess supreme
dominion.
MStates
MICulloch

V.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

It would be difficult to sustain this proposition.
The Convention which framed the constitution was

119.

indeed elected by the State legislatures. But theSState V.
of Mainstrument, when it came from their hands, was a ryland.
mere proposal, without obligation, or pretensions to
it. It was reported to the then existing Congress of
the United- States, with a request that it might "be
submitted to a Convention of Delegates, chosen in
each State by the people thereof, under the recomr
mendation of its Legislature, for their assent and ratification." This mode of proceeding was adopted;
and by the Convention, by Congress, and by the
State Legislatures, the instrument was submitted to
the people. They acted upon it in the only manner
in which they can act safely, effectively, and wisely,
on such a subject, by assembling inConvention. It
is true, they assembled in their several States-and
where else should they have assembled ? No political
dreamer was ever wild enough to think of breaking
.down the lines which separate the States, and of
compounding the American people into one common,.
mass. Of consequence, when they act,: they act in
their States. But the measures they adopt do not,
on that account, cease to be the measures of the people themselves, or become the measures-of the State
governments.
From these Conventions the constitution derives
its whole authority. The government proceeds directly from the people; is" ordained and established"
in the name of. the people and is declared to be ordained. "in order to form a more perfect union, establish j 4stice,,ensure domestic tranquillity, and secure

40A

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

19.

the blessings of liberty to themselves and to their
The assent of the States, in their sovereign capacity, is implied in calling a Convention,

m['Culloch osterity."
P

V.
ryland.

and thus submitting that instrument to the peol:le.
But the people were at perfect liberty to accept or
reject it ;.and their act was final. It required not
the affirmance, and could not be negatived, by the
State. governments. The' constitution, when thus
adopted, was of complete obligation, and bound the
State sovereignties.
'It
has been. said, that the people had already surrendered all their powers to the State sovereign ties,
anl had nothing more to give. But, surely, the
question whether they may resume and modify the
powers granted to government does not remain to
be settled in this country. Much 'more might the
legitimacy of the general government be doubted,
had it been created by the States. The powers delegated to the State' sovereignties were to be exercised by themselves, not by a distinct and independent
sovereignty, created by themselves. Torthe formation of a league, such as was the confederation, the
State sovereignties were certainly competent. But'
when, inorder to form -amore perfect union," it
was deemed necessary to change, this alliance into
an effective government, possessing great and sovereign powers, and acting directly on -the people, th 9
necessity of referring it to the people, and of deriving its powers directly from them, was felt and ac.Rnowledged by all.
The government of the Union, then., (whatever/
may be the. influence of this fact on :the case,)'is,'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

emphatically, and truly, a government of the people,
In form and in substance it emanates from them.
Its powers are granted by them, and are to be exercised directly on them, and for their benefit.

405
- 119.
M'Culloch

This government is acknowledged by all to be one
of enumerated powers. The principle, that it can
exercise only the powers granted to it, would seem too
apparent to have required to be enforced by all those
arguments which its enlightened friends, while it was
depending before the people, found it necessary to
urge.

That principle is now universally admitted.

But the question respecting the extent of the powers
actually granted, is perpetually arising, and will probably continue to arise, as- long as .our system. shall
exist.
Indiscussing these questions, the con flictingpowers
of the general and State governments must be brought
into.vieVv, and the supremacy of their respective laws,
when they are in opposition, must be settled.
If any one proposition could command the universal assent of mankind, we might expect it'vould be..
'this--,that the government of the Union, though
limited in its powers, is supreme within its sphere of
action. 'This would seem -to result, necessarily from
its nature. It is the government of all; its powers
are delegated by all; it represents all, and acts for
all. Though. any one State may be willing to con-,
trol its operations, no State is willing to allow others
to control them.

The nation, on those, subjects on

,which it can act, must necessarily bind its component
parts. But this question is not left to mere reason:
-the people have, in express terms, decided it, by, say-

v.

State of Mai4rlan&.

40

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

t
ing, "t his
constitution, and the laws of the United
culoch States, which shall be made in pursuance thereof,"
StateV.
of Ma- "shall be the supreme law of the land," and by re1819.

ryland-

quiring that the members of the State legislatures,

and the officers of the executive and judicial depaicments of the States, shall take the oath of fidelity
to it.

The government of .the United States, then,
though limited in its powers, is supreme; and its
laws, when made in pursuance of the constitution,
form the supreme law of the land, "1any thing in the
constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding."
Among the enumerated powers, we do not find that
of establishing a bank or creating a corporation*
But there is no phrase in the instrument which, like
the articles of confederation, excludes incidental or
implied powers ;and which requires that every thing
granted shall be expressly and minutely, described..
Even the 1Oth amendment, which was framed for
the purpose of quieting the excessive, jealousies
which had been excited, omits the word "expressly,"
and declares only that the powers ".not delegated to
the -United States, nor prohibited to the States, are
reserved to the States or to the people ;" thus leaving the question, whether the..particular power which
may become the subject of 'contest has been. delegated to the one government, or prohibited to the
other,. to depend on a fair construction, of the whole
instrument. The men who drew and adopted this
amendment .had experienced the embarrassments re"
suiting. from the insertion of this word in the articles

OF THE UNITED STATES.

407

3819.
.of confederation, and probably omitted it to avoid
those embarrassments. A constitution, to contain
v.
an accurate detail of all the subdivisions of which
Rby
means
the
all
of
and
admit,
will
powers
great
its
which they may be carried. into execution, would
partake of the prolixity of a legal code, and could
scarcely be embraced by the human mind. It would
probably never be understood by the public. its nature, therefore, requiresy thatonly its great outlines
should be marked, its important objects designated,
and the minor ingredients which compose those objects be deduced from the nature of the' objects themselves. That this. idea. was entertained. by the framers of the American constitution, is not only to be
inferred from the nature of the instrument, but from
the language. Why else. were some of the limita-*
tions,. found in the. ninth spction of the 1st article,
introduced? It is also, in some degree, warranted
by their .having omitted to use any restrictive term
which might prevenf its receiving a fair and just interpretation. In considering this question, then," we
must never forget, that it is a constitution we are ex-.
pounding.
Although, among the enumerated powers of g6vernment, we do not find the, word"bank".'or" in•eorporati6n,", we find the, great powers to lay and
collect taxes; to borrow -money; to regulate commerce ; to dedlare and conduct a war; and to raise
and support armies and navies. The sword and the
p se, all the externial, relations, and no inconsiderable portion, of the industry of the. nation, are enirusted to its government. Itcan n.ever :be pretended

408
1819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that these vast powers draw after them others of inimportance, merely because they are inferior°
an idea can never be advanced. But it may
with great reason be contended, that a government,
entrusted. with such ample powers, on the due execution of which the happiness and prosperity of the
nation so vitally depends, must also be entrusted with
ample means for their execution. The power being given, it is the interest of the nation to facilitate
its execution. It can never be their interest, and
cannot be presumed to have been their intention, to
clog and embarrass its execution by withholding the
most appropriate means. Throughout this vast republic, from the St. Croix to the Gulph of Mexico,
from the Atlantic to the Pacific, revenue is to be collected and expended, armies are to be marched anti
supported. The exigencies of the nation may require that the, treasure raised in the north should be
tradsported to the south, that raised in the east conveyed to the west, or that this order should be reversed. Is that construction of the constitution to be
preferred which would render these operations difloultbhazardous, and expensive? Can we adopt that
construction, (unless the words imperiously requite
iQ) which would imput'e to the framers of that instrument, when granting these powers for the public
good, the intention of 'impeding their exercise by
withholding a choice of means? If, indeed, such be
the mandate of the constitution, we have only to
obey; but that instrument does not profess to enumerate the means by which the powers it confers may be
executed ; nor does it prohibit the creation of a corpo-

MICullochhferior
M Such
State of. Ma-W

rylnd.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

409

1819.
ration, if the existence of such a being be essential
to the beneficial exercise of those powers. It is, M
.
far such means
then, the subject of fair inquiry, how
State of Marylaud.
may be employed.
It is not denied, that the powers given to the government imply the ordinary means of execution.
That, for example, of raising revenue, and applying.
it to national purposes, is admitted to imply the
power of conveying money from place to place, as
the exigencies of the nation may require, and of employing the usual means of conveyance. But it is
denied that the government has its choice of means;
or, that it may employ the most convenient means,
if, to employ them, it be necessary to erect a corporation.
On what foundation does this argument rest ? On
this alone: The power of creating a corporation, is
one appertaining to sovereignty, and is not expressly conferred on Congress. This is true. But all
legislative powers appertain to sovereignty. The
original power of giving the law on any subject Whatever, is a sovereign power ; and if the government of
the Union is restrained from creating a corporation,
as a means for performing its functions, on the single
reason that the creation of a corporation is an act of
sovereignty; if the sufficiency of this reason be acknowledged, there would be some difficulty in sustaining the authority of Congress to pass other laws
for the accomplishment of the same objects.
The government which has a right to do an act,
and has imposed on it the duty of performing that
Act, must, according to the dictates of reason, be alVoL. IV.

52

410119t.

MCulloh
t fa

.CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lowed to select the means ; and those who contend
*that it may not select any.appropriate means, that one
..

particular mode of effecting the object is excepted,

If, take upo themselves the burden of establishing that
tit
exception.
The creation of a corporation, it is said, appertains
to sovereignty. This is admitted. But'to what
portion of sovereignty, does, it appertain ? Does it
belong to one more than to another ? In America,
the. powers of sovereignty are .divided between vthe
government of the Union, and those o('the States.
They are each sovereign, with espect to the objects
committed to it, ,and neither sovereign with respect
-to the objects committed' to the other. We cannot
comprehend, that train of reasoning which would
maintain, that the extent of power granted , by the
people is to be ascertained, not by the nature and
terms of the grant, but by its date . Some State
constitutions were formed before, some since thatof
the Ubited'States. We cannot believe that their relation to each other is in any degree dependent upon
this circumstance. ..
Their respective .powers must,
-we think, be Iprecisely the same as 'if they had been
formed at the same time.. Had: they been:formed
at the same time, and had., the people conferred on
the general government ' the,: power contained, in,
the constitution, and on the States the whole- residuum of power, would it have been asserted that
the government of the Union was not sovereign with
.respect to those objects which were entrusted to it,
in.
relation to whieh its' laws were declared to be
supreme -If this .could not. have been asserted ,we
cantiot well comprehend the process of reasoning

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1819.
which maintains, that a power appertaining to sovereignty cannot be connected with that vast portion of . MI'Culloch
v.
it which is granted to the general government, so'far
of Maryland.
as to subserve the legitimate objects State
as it is calculated
of that government. The power of creating a corporation, though appertaining to sovereignty, is not,
like the power of making war, or levying taxes, or
of regulating commerce, a great substantive and independent power, which cannot be implied as incidental to other powers, or. used as a means of executing them. It is never the end for which other
powers are exercised, but a means by which other
objects are accomplished. No contributions are
made to charity for the sake of an incorporation,
but a corporation is created to administer the charity; no seminary of learning is instituted in order to
be incorporated, but the corporate character is conferred 'to subserve the purposes of education. No
city was ever built with the sole object of being incorporated, but is incorporated as affording the best
means of being well governed.e The power of creating a corporation is never used for its own sake,
but for the purpose of effecting something else. No
sufficient reason is, therefore, perceived, why it may
not pass as incidental to those powers which are expressly given, if it be a direct mode of executing
them.
Butthe. congtitution of the United States has.not
left the right of' Cogress to employ the necessary
means, for tie execution of the powers conferred on
the government, to general reasoning. To its enumeration' of powers is added that of making "all

412
h0a19.
M'-.rlo.
'.M'Culloch"
S.ta

State of Ma-,

ryland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

laws which shall be necessary and proper, for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all
other powers vested by this constitution, in the gqvernment of the United States, or in any department
thereof."
The counsel for the State of Maryland have urged
various arguments, to prove that this clause, though
in terms a grant of power, is not so in effect; but is
really restrictive, of the general right, which might
otherwise be implied, of selecting means for executing the enumerated powers.
In support of this proposition, they have found it
necessary to contend, that this clause was inserted
for the purpose of conferring on Congress the power
of making laws. That, without it, doubts might be
entertained, whether Congress could exercise its powers in the form of legislation.
But could this be the object for which it was inserted ? A government-is created by the people,' having legislative, executive, ane judicial powers. Its
legislative powers are vested in a Congress, which is
to consist of a Senate and Jlouse of Representatives.
Each house may determine the rule of its proceedings; and it is declared that every bill which shall
*have passed both houses, shall, before it becomes a
law,. be presented eto the President of the .United
States. The 7th section describes the course of proceedings, by which a bill shall become a law; and,
then,. the 8th sectionenumerates the powers of Congress.. Could -it be necessary, to say, that a legislature should exercise legislative powers, in the shape
of-legislation? After allowing each. house to pre-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.4113

18i19.
scribe its own course of proceeding, after describing
the manner in which •.a bill should become a law2
• M'Cuiloch
would it have entered into the mind of a single mem- State V.
of Maber of the Convention, that an express power to make rylad.
laws was necessary to enable the legislature to make,
them? That a legislature, endowed with legislative
powers, can legislate, is a proposition too self-evident
to have been questioned.
But the argument on which most reliance is
placed, is drawn from the peculiar language of this
clause. Congress is not empowered by it to make
all laws, Which may have relation to the powers conferred on the government, but such only as may be
"necessary and propere" for carrying them into execution. The word "necessary," is considered as co,.
trolling the whole sentence, arid as li .ing the right
to pass laws for the execution of the granted powers,
to such as are indispeisable, and without which the
power would be nugatory. That it excludes the
choice of. means, and leaves to Congress, in each
case, tht only which is most direct and simple.
Is it true, that this is the sense in which the word
inecessary" is always used ? Does it always import
an absolute physical necessity, so strong, that one
thing, to which another may be termed necessary,
cannot exist without that other ? We think it does
not. If reference be had to its use,'in the commona
affairs of the world, or in approved authors, we find
that it frequently imports nomore than. that one thing
.is convenient, or useful, or essential to another. To
employ the means'necessary to an end, is generally
understood as employing any means calculated to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

produce the end, and not as being confined to those
MCUIloch single means, without which the end would be enMa_ tirely unattainable.. Such is the character: of human
State V.
o0f
language, that no word conveys to the mind, in all
ryland.
situations, one single definite idea; and nothing is
more common than to use words in a figurative
sense. Almost all compositions contain words, which,
taken in their rigorous sense, would convey a meaning different from that which is obviously intended.
It is.essential to just construction, that many words
which import something excessive, should be understood in a more mitigated sense-in that sense which
common usage justifies. The word "necessary" is
of this description. It has not a fixed character peculiar to itself. It admits of all degrees of comparison; and is often connected with other words, which
increase or diminish the impression the, mind receives
of the urgency it imports. A thing may be necessary, very necessary, absolutely or indispensably ne'cessary. To no mind would the same idea be conveyed, by these several phrases. This comment on
the word is well illustrated, by the passage cited- at
the bar, from the 1Oth! section of the 1st article of the
1812;.

constitution. It is, we think, impossible to compare
the' sentence which prohibits a Stae from, laying
"imposts, or duties on imports or exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing its
inspection laws," with that which authorizes Coinigress "to make all laws which shall be necessary anad
proper for carrying into execution" the powers of the
general government, without feeling, a conviction.
that the convention understood itself. to change ma-

OF, THE UNITED STATES.

.41.5

terially the meaning of the word "necessary'" by
prefixing the word " absolutely." . This word, then, M'Culloo~h
V.
like others, is used in various senses; and, in its
State of M.construction, the subject, the context, the intention - ryland.
of the person using them, are all to be taken into
view.
Let this be done in the case under -consideration.
The s.u1ject is the execution of those great powers
oil which the welfare of a hation essentially depends.
It must have been the intention of those who gave
these powers, to insure, as far as human prudence
could insure, their beneficial execution. This could
ntt be done by confiding the choice of means to such
narrow limits as not to leave it in the power of Congress to adopt any which might be. appropriate, and
which were conducive to the end. This provision is
made in a constitution intended to endure for' ages,
to come, and,'consequently, to be adapted to' the various crises of human affairs. To have prescribed
the means by which government should, in all future time, execute its powers, would have been to
change, entirely, the character of the instrument,
and give it the properties of a legal code. It would
have been an unwise attempt to provide, by immutable-rules, for exigencies which,. if foreseen at all,
must have been seen dimly, and which can be best
provided'for as they occur. To have declared'that
the best, means shall not be used, but those alone
without Which -the power given would be nugatory,
would have been to deprive the legislature of the
capacity to avail itself of experience, to exercise its
reason, and to accommodate its legislation to circum-

416

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

stances. If we apply this principle, of construction
to any of the powersof the governhlent, we shall
ul
ICulloch
V. find it so pernicious in its operation that we shall be
State of Macompelled to discard it. The powers vested in Conryland.
gress may certainly be carried into execution, without prescribing an oath of office. The power to
exact this security for the faithful performance of
duty, is not given, nor is it indispensably necessary.
The different departments may be established ; taxes
maybe imposed and collected; armies and navies
may be raised and maintained ; and money may be
borrowed, without requiring, an oath of office. It
might be argued, with as much plausibility as other
incidental powers have been assailed, that the Convention was not unmindful of this subject. The
oath, which might be exacted-that of fidelity to the
constitution-is prescribed, and no other can be re,
quired. Yet, he, would be charged with insanity
who should contend, that the legislature might not
-superadd, to the oath directed by the constitution,
such, other .oath of office as its wisdom might
suggest'.
So; with respect to the whole penal code of the
United States :.
whence arises 'the. power to punish
in cases not prescribed by theconstitution ? All admit that ,the goverment may, legitimately, punish
any violation of its laws; and'yet, this is not among
the enumerated, powers of Congress. The right to
enforce the. observance.of law, by punishing itsinfraction, might be denied with. the more plausibility,
becau.se it.
is expressly given in.. some cases,. Congress is empowered "to provide for the punishment
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.'

of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of
the United States,".and " to define and punish piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, and
offences against the law of nations." The several
powers of Congress may exist, in a very imperfect
state to be sure, but they may exist and be carried
into execution, although no punishment should be inflicted in cases where the right to punish is not expressly given.
Take, for example, the power "to establish post
offices and post roads." This power is executed by
the single act of naking the establishment. But,
from this has been hWferred the power and duty of
carrying the mail along the post road, froim one post
office to another. And, from this implied power,
has again been inferred the right to punith those
who steal letters from the post office, or rob the mail.
It may be said, with some plausibility, that the right
to carry the mail, and to punish those who rob it, is
not indispensably necessary to the establishment of
a post office and post road. This right is indeed essential to the beneficial exercise of the power, but
not indispensably necessary to its existence. So, of
the punishment of the crimes of stealing or falsifying a record or process of a Court of the United
States, or of perjury in such Court. To punish these
offences is certainly conducive to the due administration of justice. But courts may exist, and may decide the causes brought before them, though such
crimes escape punishment.
The baneful influence of this narrow construction
on all the operations of the government, and the abVOL. IV.

53

1819

M'Culloc
V.

State of Maryland..

-.-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

solute impracticability of maintaining it without reu-

M'Cllooh dering the government incompetent to its great ob-

by numerous Iexamples
might
be illustrated
i,
.. .
ran from the constitution, and from our laws. The
oM
rylja.

State V.
of Ma- .jects,

good sense of the public has pronounced, without
hesitation, that the power of punishment appertains
to sovereignty, and may be exercised whenever the
sovereign has a right to act, as incidental, to his constitutional powers. It is a means for carrying into
execution all sovereign powers, and may be used,
although not indispensably necessary. It is a right
incidental to the power, and conducive to its -beneficial exercise.
If this limited construction of the word "necessary" must be abandoned in order to punish, whence
is derived the rule which would reinstatejt, when the
government would carry its powers into execution
by means not vindictive in their nature? If the
word " necessary" means " needful," " requisite,"
" essential," " conducive to," in order to let in the

power of punishment for the infraction of law; why
is it not equally comprehensive when required to au-.
thorize the use of means which facilitate the execution of the powers of government without the infliction of punishment ?"
In ascertaining the'sense in which the word "necessary" is used in this clause of the constitution, we
may derive some aid from that with which it is associated. Congress shall have power "to make all:
laws which shall be necessary and proper to carry
into 'execution" the powers of the governinent.. If
the word "necessary" was used in that strict and rigorous sense for which the Counsel for the State of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

411-9

1819.
Maryland contend,-it would be an extraordinary departure from the usual course of the human mind, as MICulloeh,
v.
exhibited in composition, to add! a-word, the only .
possible effect of which is to qualify that strict and Stateofarigorous meaning; to present to the mind the idea of
some choice. of means of legislation not straitened
and compressed within the narrow limits for which
gentlemen contend.
But the argument which most conclusively demonstrates the error of the construction contended for by
the counsel for the State of Maryland, is founded on
the intention of the Convention, as manifested in the
whole clause. To waste time and argument in
proving that, without it, Congress might carry its
powers into execution, would be not much less idle
than to hold a lighted taper to the sun. As little
can it be required to prove, that in the absence of
this clause, Congress would have some choice of
-means. That it might employ those which, in its
judgment, would most advantageously effect the object to be accomplished. That any means adapted
to the efid, any means which tended directly to the
execution of the constitutional powers of the government, were in themselves Constitutional. This clause,
as' construed by the State of Maryland, would abridge,
and almost annihilate this useful and necessary right
of the6 legislature to select its means. That this could
not be intended, is, we should 'think, had it not been
already controverted, too apparent for controversy.
We think so for the following reasons :
Ist. The clause is placed among the powers of
Congress, not aniong the limitations on those powers,

420

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
m'Culloch

V.
.
tryland.

2nd. Its terms purport to enlarge, not to diminish
the powers vested in the government. It purports to
be an additional power, not a restriction on those al-ready granted. No reason has been, or can be assigned for thus concealing an intention to narrow the
discretion of the national. legislature under words
which purport to enlarge it. The framers of the
constitution wished its adoption, and well knew that
it would be endangered by its strength, not by its
weakness. Had they been capable of using language which would convey to the eye one idea, and,'
after deep reflection, impress on the mind another,
they would rather have disguised the grant of power,
than its limitation. If, then, their intention had been,
by this clause, to restrain tile free use of means which
might otherwise have been implied, that intention
would have been inserted in another place, and would
have been expressed in terms resembling these. "In
carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all
others," &c. " no laws shall be passed but such as
are necessary and proper." Had the intention been
to make this clause restrictive, it would unquestionably have been so in form as well as in effect.
The result of the most careful and attentive consideration bestowed upon this clause is, that if it does
not enlarge, it cannot be' construed to restrain the
powers of Congress, or to impair the right of the legislature to exercise its best judgment in the selection of measures to carry into execution the constitutional powers of the government. If no other motive for its insertion can be suggested, a sufficient one
is found in the desire to remove all doubts respecting

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the right to legislate on that vast mass of incidental
powers which must be involved in the constitution,
if that instrument be not a splendid bauble.

We admit, as all must admit, that the powers of

the government are limited, -andthat its limits are not
to be transcended. But we-think the sound construction of the constitution must allow-to the national legislature that discretion, with respectto the
means by which the powers it confers are to be carried into execution, which will enable that body to
perform the high duties assigned to it, in the manner most beneficial to the people. "Let the end be
leoitimate, let it be within the scope of the constitution, and all means which are appropriate, which
are plainly adapted to that end, which are not prohibited, but consist with the letter and spirit of the
constitution, are constitutional.
'rhat a corporation must be considered as a means
not less usual, not of higher dignity, not more requiring a particular specification than other means,
Ifwe look to thehas been sufficiently proved.
origin of corporations, to the manner in which they
have been framed in that government from which
we have derived most of our legal principles, and
ideas, or to the uses to which they have been ap-.
plied, we find no reason to suppose that a constitution, omitting, and wisely omitting,' to enumerate
all the means for carrying into execution the great
powers vested in government, ought to have specified this. Had it been intended to grant this
power as one which should be distinct and independent, to be exercised in any case whatever, it

1819.

VM.Cilioch
State of MarylanD.

422

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

would have found a place among the enumerated
powers of the government. But being considered
MV'Culloch
V
merely as a means, to be employed only for the purState of Maryland. pose of carrying into execution the given powers,
there could be, no motive for particularly mentioning it.
The propriety of this remark would seem to be
generally acknowledged by the universal acquiescence in the construction which has. been uniformly
put on the Srd section of the 4th article of the coustitution. The power to "make' all needful rules
and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States," is not more
comprehensive, than the power "to make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
execution" the powers of the government. Yet all
admit the constitutionality of a territorial government, which is a corporate body.
If a corporation may be employed indiscriminately
with other means to carry into execution the powers
of the government, no particular reason can be assigned for excluding the use of a bank, if required
for its fiscal operations. To use one, must be within
-the discretion of Congress, if it be an appropriate
mode, of executing the powers of government.
That it is a convenient, a useful, and essential instrument in the prosecution of its fiscal operations, is not
now a subject of controversy. All those who have
been concerned in the administration of our finances,
have concurred in representing its importance and
necessity; and so strongly have they been felt, that
statesmen of the first class, whose previous opinions
Ja19.

VuV'.,,'

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

2*23.

ngainst it had been confirmed by every circumstance '1819.
b..
.
M,
M'Cv.
Cu1loch,
have'e yielded
which can fix the human judgment,
. Ma..
Unnation.
those opinions to the exigencies of the
Statevpf
der the confederation, Congress justifying the. mea-S rSla .
sure by its necessity, transcended perhaps its powers,
to obtain the. advantage of a bank ; and our own legislation attests the universal convictifn of the utility..
of this measure. The time has passed away when
it can be necessary to enter. into. any, discussion in
order to prove the importance of this instrument, as a
means to effect the legitimate objects of the govern.,
merit.
But, were its necessity less apparent, none can
denr its being an appropriate measure; and if it is,
the degree of its nec..essity, as has been very justly
observedlis to 'be discussed in another place., Shoild
Congress, in the execution of it' powers, adopt measures which are proh ibifed by the constitution; or
should Congress, under the pretext of executing its
powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects
not entrusted to the government.; .it would become
the painful duty of this tribunal, should a case requiring, such a decision .como before it, to say that'
such an act was not the law of the land. But where
the law is not prohibited, and is really calculated to
effect any of the objects entrusted to the government, to undertake here to inquire intG the degree
of its necessity, would be to pass the line which'circumscribes the judicial department, and to tread on
legislative ground. This court disclaims all prkten-:
sions to such a Dower.

424
1819.

Mto
M'Culloch
State V.
of Ma-

iyland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

After this declaration, it can scarcely be necessary
say, that the existence of State banks can have no
possible' influence on the question. No trace is to be
found in the constitution of an intention to create a dependence of the government of the Union on those
of the States, for the execution of the great powers
assigned to it. Its means are adequate to its ends
and on those means alone was it expected to rely
for the accomplishment of its ends. To impose on
it th6 necessity of resorting to means which it cannot control, which another government niay furnish
or withhold, would render its course precarious, the
result of its measures uncertain,. and create a dependence on other governments, which might disappoint
its most important designs, and is incompatible with
the language of the constitution. But were it
otherwise, the choice of means implies a right to
choose a national bank in preference to State banks,
and Congress alone can make the election.
After the most deliberate consideration, it is the
unanimous and decided opinion of this Court, that
the act to incorporate the Bank of the United States
is a law made in pursuance of the constitution, and
is a part of the supreme law of the land.
The branches, proceeding from the'same stock,
and being conducive to the complete accomplishment
of the object, are equally constitutional. It would
have been unwise to locate them in the charter, and
it would be unnecessarily inconvenient to employ the
legislative power in making those subordinate arrangements. The great duties of the bank are prescribed;
those duties require branches; and the bank itself

4253

OF THE UNITED STATES.

may, we think, be safely trusted with the selection

1s19.

of places where those branches shall be fixed; re- -*IO

serving always to the government the right to require
that a branch shall be located where it may be
deemed necessary.
It being the opinion of the Court, that
the act in-

St.

corporating the bank is constitutional ; and that the.
power of establishing a branch in the State of Maryland might be properly exercised by the bank itself,,
we proceed to inquire2. Whether the State of Maryland may, without
violating the constitution, tax that branch ?
That the power of taxation is one of vital importance ; that it is retained by the States ; that it is
not abridged by the grant of a similar power to the
government of the Union ; that it is to be concuriently exercised by the two governments : are truths
which have never been denied. But, such is the
paramount character of the constitution, that its capacity to withdraw any subject from the action of
even this power, is admitted. The States are expressly -forbidden to lay any duties on imports or exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for
executing their inspection laws. If the obligation
of this prohibition must be conceded-if it may restrain a State from the exercise of its taxing power
on imports and exports; the same paramount character would seem' to restrain, as it certainly may,
restrain, a State from such other exercise of this
power, as is in its nature incompatible with, and repugnant to, the constitutional laws of the Union.
A law, absolutely repugnant to another, as entirely
VOL. IV.

54

Saeof Ma-

ryland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME. COURT

repeals that other as if express terms.of repeal were

1810.

Sused.

.M'CuIochOn this ground the counsel for the bank place its
State ocMaryland...

to
claim to be exempted from the power of a'State
, .
tax its operations. There is.no express provision for
the case, but the claim has been sustained on a principle which so entirely pervades the constitution, is
so intermixed with the materials which compose it,
so interwoven with its web, so blended. with its texture, as to be incapable of being separated from it,
without rending it into shreds.
This great principle is, that the constitution and
the laws made ii pursuance thereof are supreme ;
,that they control the constitution and laws of the respective States, and cannot be controlled by them.
From this, which may be almost termed an axiom,

-other propositions are deduced as corollaries, on the
-truth or error of which., and on their application
to.'this' case, the cause has been supposed to de-.
-pend. These are, 1st. that a power to create im.plies -a power to preserve. 2nd. That a power to
.destroy, if wielded by a different hand, is hostile
-to, and incompatible with these powers to create and
to preserve. 3d. That where this repugnancy exists, that' authority which is supreme must 'control,
not yield to that over which it is supreme.
These.propositions, as abstract truths, would, per-'
.:haps,- never be controverted. " Their. application to
this'case,' however, has been denied; and, both in
maihtaining the affirmative and the negative, a splendoi of eloquence, and strength. of argument, sel-.
,dom, if ever, surpassed, have been displayed.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The power of Congress to create, and of course
to continue, the bank, was the subject of the preceding part of this opinion; and is no longer to be
considered as questionable.
That the power of taxing it by the States may be
exercised so as to destroy it, is too obvious to be denied. But taxation is said to be an absolute power,
which acknowledges no other limits than those expressly prescribed in the constitution, and like sovereign power of every other description, is trusted
to the discretion of those who use it. But the very
terms of this argument admit that the sovereignty of
the State, in the article of taxation itself, is subordinate to, and may be controlled by the constitution 9 f
the United States. How far it has been controlled
by that instrument must be a question of construction. In making this construction, no principle not
declared, can be admissable, which would defeat
the legitimate operations df a supreme government.
It is of the very essence of supremacy to remove all
obstacles to its action within its own sphere, and so
to modify every power vested in subordinate governments, as to exempt its own operations from their
own influence. This effect need not be stated in
terms. It is so involved in the declaration of supremacy, so necessarily implied in it, that the expression of it could not make it more certain. We must,
therefore, keep it in view while, construing the constitution.
The argument on the part of the State of Maryland, is, not that the States may directly resist a
law of Congress,. but that .they may exercise their

427
1819.
.M'Culloch

V.

State of Ma-'
ryland.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

428
1819.

M
M'Culloch

V.
ryland.

acknowledged powers upon it, and that the constitution leaves them this right in the confidence that
they will not abuse it.
Before we proceed to examine this argument, and
to subject it to the test of the constitution, we must
be permitted to bestow a few considerations on the
nature and extent of this original right- of taxation,
which is acknowledged to remain with the States.
It is admitted that the power of taxing the people
and their property is essential to the very existence
of government, and may be legitimately exercised
on the objects to which it is applicable, to the utmost
extent to which the government may chuse to carry
it. The only security against the abuse of this
power, is found in the structure of the government
itself, In imposing a tax the legislature acts upon
its constituents. This is in general a sufficient security against erroneous and oppressive taxation.
The people of a State, therefore, give to their government a right of taxing themselves and their property, and as the exigencies of government cannot
be limited, they prescribe no limits to the exercise of
this right, resting confidently on tha interest of the
legislator, and on the influence of the constituents
over their representative, to guard them against its
abuse. But the means employed by the government
of the Union have no such security, nor is the right
of a State to tax them sustained by the same theory.
Those means are not given by the people of a particular State, not given by the constituents of the legislature, which claim the right to tax them, but by
the people of all the States. They are given by all,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

for the benefit of all-and upon theory, should be
.subjected to.that government
only which belongs
"
to all.

429
1819.
MICu1loch

V.

It may be objected to this definition, that the power State of Ma
property ryland.
and
people
the
to
confined
not
of taxation is
of a State. It may be exercised upon every object brought within its jurisdiction.
This is true. But to what source do we trace this
right? It is obvious, that it is an incident-of sovereignty, and is co-extensive with that to which it is
an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign
power of a State extends, are objects of taxation;
but those over which it does not extend, are, upon
the soundest principles, exempt from taxation. This
proposition may almost be pronounced self-evident.
The sovereignty of a State extends to every thing
which exists by its own authority, or is introduced
by its permission; but does it extend to those means
which are employed by Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on that body by the people
of the United States ? We think it demonstrable
that it does not. 'Those powers are notgiven by the
people of a single State. They are given by the.
people of the United States, to a government whose
laws, made in pursuance of the constitution, are declared to be supreme. 'Consequently, the people of
a single State cannot confer a sovereignty which will
extend over them.
If we measure the power of taxation residing in
a State, by the extent of sovereignty which the people of a single State possess, and can confer on its
government,. we have an intelligible standard, appli-

430

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cable to every case to which the power may be apWe have a principle which leaves the power
plied.
MCulloch
S. o
of taxing
the people and property of a $tate unimState of Mapaired; which leaves to a State the command of all
ryland.
its resources, and which places beyond its reach, all
those powers which are Conferred by the people of
the United States on the government of the Union,
and all those means which are given for the purpose
of carrying those powers into execution. We have
a principle which is safe for the States, and safe for
the Union. We .are relieved, as we ought to be,
from clashing sovereignty ; from interfering powers ;
from a repugnancy between a right in one government
to pull down what there is an acknowledged right in
another to build up ; from the incompatibility of a
right in one government to destroy what there is a
right in another to preserve. We are not driven to
the perplexing inquiry, so unfit for the-judicial, department, what degree of taxation is the legitimate
use, and. what degree may amount to the abuse of
the power. The attempt to use-it on the means employed by the government of the Union, in pursuance, of the constitution, is itself an abuse, because it
is the. usurpation of a power which the people of a
single State cannot give.
We find) then, on just theory, a total failure of this
original right to tax the means employed by the government of the Union, for the execution of its powers. The right never existed, and.the question whether it has been surrendered, cannot arise.
But, waiving this theory for the present, letus re'sume the inquiry, whether this Power can be exercised
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

431

msg.
by the, respective States, consistently with a fair construction of the constitution ?
M'Culloch
•
That the"power to tax involves the power to de- State V.
of Mastroy ; that the power to destroy may defeat and ren- ryland.
der useless the power to create ; that there is a plain
repugnance, in conferring on one government a power to control the constitutional measures of another,
which other, with respect to those very measures, is
declared to be supreme over that which exerts the
control, are propositions not to be denied. But all
inconsistencies are to be reconciled by the magic of
the word CONFIDENCE. Taxation, it is said, does
not necessarily and unavoidably destroy. To carry it
to the excess of destruction would be an abuse, to presume which, would banish that confidence which'is
essential to all government.
But is this a case of confidence? Would the
people of. any one State trust those of another
with a power . to control the most insignificant
operations of their State government,? We know
they would not. Why, then, should' we suppose
that the people of any one State should be willing to trust those of another with a power to control
the operations of a government to which they have
confided their most important and most valuable interests ? In the legislature of the Union alone, are all
represented. The legislature of the Union alone,
therefore, can be trusted by the people with thepower of controlling measures which concern all, in .the
confidence that it will not be abuseid. This, then, is
not, a case of confidence, and we must consider it as
it really is,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

If We apply the principle for which the State of
' Maryland contends, to the constitution generally, we
M'
MICu1loch
_
totally the character
find it capable of changing
of Ma- shall
StateV.
of that instrument. We shall find it capable of arryland.
resting all the measures of the government, and of
prostrating it at the foot of the States. The American people have declared their constitution, and the
laws made in pursuance thereof, to be supreme ; but
this principle would transfer the supremacy, in fact,
to the States.
If the States may tax one instrument, employed by
the government in the execuion of its powers, they
may tax any and every Other instrument. They
may tax the mail; they may tax the mint; they may
tax patent rights; they may tax the papers of the
custom-house; they may tax judicial process; they
may tax all the means employed by the government,
to an excess which would defeat all the ends of government.' This was not intended by the American
people. They did ,not design to make their government dependent on the States.
Gentlemen say, they do not claim the right to
extend State taxation to these objects. They limit
their pretensions to property. Eut on what principle
is this distinction made ? Those who make it have
furnished no reason for it, and the principle for which
they contend denies it. They contend that the power
of taxation has no other limit than is found in the
10th section of the 1st article of the constitution;
that, with respect to every thing else- the power of
the States is supreme, and admits of no control. If
this be true, the distinction between property and
1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

other subjects to which the power of taxation is ap-

1819.

plicable, i3 merely arbitrary, and can never be sus- M.CuIoeh
tained. This is not all. If the controling power of StateV.
of Ma-

the States be established ; if their supremacy as to
taxation be acknowledged; what is to restraiiq their
exercising this control in any shape they may please
to give it ? Their sovereignty is not confined to taxation. That is not the only mode in which it might
be displayed. The question is, in truth, a question
of supremacy'; and if the right of the States to tax
the means employed by the general government be
conceded, the.declaration that the constituti6n, and
the laws made in pursuance thereof, shall be the supreme law of the land, is empty and unmeaning, declamation.
In the course of the argument, the Federalist has
been quoted ; and the opinions expressed by the authors of that work have been justly'supposed to be
entitled to great respect in' expounding the constitution. No tribute can be paid to them which exceeds
their merit; but in applying their opinions to the
cases which may arise in the progress of our government, a right to judge of their correctness must be
retained; and, to understand the argument, we must
examine the proposition it maintains, and the o1jections against which it is directed. The subject of
those numbers, from which passageg hrave been ci led,
is.the unlimited power of taxation ihich is vested in
the general government. The objection to this Unlimited power, which the argumentseek -to remove,
is stated with fullness and clearness. It is, " that an
indefinite power, of taxation in the latter'(the goVOL. IV.

55

ryiaod.

434

I CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

i819.

vernment of the Union),might, and probably would,

M lcin
M'GuUoch

time,
deprive the former (the government of the
.•
States) of the means of providing for their own necessities; and would subject them entirely to the

Va
ryland.

mercy of the national legislature. As the laws of
the Union are to become the supreme law of the
land;' as it is to have, power to pass all laws that
may be necessary for'carrying into execution the
authorities with which it is proposed to vest it; the
national government might at any time abolish the
taxes imposed for State objects, upon the pretence
ofan interference with its own. It might allege
a necessity for doing this, in order to give efficacy
to the national revenues; and thus all the resources of taxation might, by degrees, become the
subjects of.federal monopoly, to the entire exclusion
and destruction of the State governments.")
The objections to-the constitution which are nothese numbers, were to the undefined power
ticed in.
of the government to tax, not to the incidental privilege of exempting its .ownmeasures from State taxation, The consequences apprehended from this
undefined power were, that it would absorb all thLobjects of taxation) C to the exclusion and destruction of the State governments." The arguments of
the Fede'alist are intended to prove'the fallacy Of
these apprehensions; not to prove that the government was incapable of: executing any of its powers,.
without exposing themeans :it employed to -the embarrassments of State taxation. Arguments, urged
against these objections, and these apprehensions,
.are to be understood as relating to the points they

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
mean to prove. Had the authors of those excel"
lent -essays been asked, whether they contended'"
V.
for that. construction of the constitutioti, which State of Mab
would place within., the reach of the States those ryland.
measures which the government might adopt for
'the execution of its powers; no .man, who has..
read their instructive pages, will hesitate to admit,
that their answer must have been in the negative.
It has also been insisted, that, as the power of taxation in the general and State governments is ackndwledged to be concurrent, every argutnent which
would sustain: the right of the general. government
to tax banks chartered by the States, will. equdally sustain the right of the States to tax banks chartered
by the general government.'
But the two cases are not on the same reason.
The people of all the States have created 'the general government, and have conferred upon it the general power of taxation. The people of all the,
States' and the States themselves, are represented in
Congress, and,.by their representatives, exercise this
power. When they tax the chartered institutions of,
the. States, they, tax. their 'constituents and these
taxes, must be' uniform. But, when a State taxes.
the operations of. the government of the United
States, it acts uponinstitutions 'created, not' by their
own 'constituents, but by people over whom they
claim no 'control. 'It acts upon the measures.of a
government created by others as, well as themselves,
dr. the benefit of others in common with themselves.
The difference is that.which 'always exists, and always
t- exist, between the .action .of the whole, on a

4,56
1819.
m'Culloch,
State v.
of Maryland.,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

part, and the action of a part on the whole-between the laws of a government declared 'o be supreme, and those of a government which, when in
opposition to those laws, is not supreme.
But if the full application of this argument could
be admitted, it might bring into ques.ion the right of
Congress to tax the State banks, and could nor prove
the right of the States to tax the Bank of the United
States.
The Court has bestowed on this subject its most
deliberate consideration. The result is a conviction
ihat the, States have no power, by taxation or otherwise, to retard, impede,, burden, or in any manner
control, the operations of the constitutional laws
enacted by Congress to carry into execution the
powers vested in the general government. This is,
.we think, the unavoidable consequence of that supremacy which the constitution has declared.
We are unanimously of opinion, that the law
passed by the legislature of Maryland, imposing a
tax on the Bank of the United States, is .unconstitu•tional and void.
This opinion' does not deprive the States of any resources which they originally possessed. It does not.
extend to a tax paid by the real prop'erty of the bank,
in common with the other real property within the
State, nor to a tax imposed on the interest which the
citizens of Maryland may hold in this institution, in,
common with other property of the same description
throughout the State. But this is a tax on the operations of the bank, and is, consequently, a tax on.
the operation of an .instrument employed by the go-

437

OF THE UNITED STATES.

vernment of the Union to carry its powers into execution. Such a tax must be unconstitutional.

1819.
MICulloch
V.

.JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on State of Ma-

the Court of Appeals
the transcript of the record of
of the State of Maryland, and was argued by coun*sel. . On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of
this Court, that the Act of the Legislature of Maryland is contrary to the Constitution of the United
States, and void ; and, therefore, that the said Court
of Appeals of the State of Maryland erred in affirming the judgment of the Baltimore County Court,
in which judgment was rendered against James W.
M'Culloch ; but that the said Court of Appeals of
Maryland ought to have reversed the said judgment
of the said Baltimore County Court , and ought to
have given judgment for the said appellant, M'Culloch. It is, therefore, Adjudged and Ordered, that
the said judgment of the said Court of Appeals of
the State of Maryland in this case, be, and-the same
bereby is, reversed and annulled. And this Court,
proceeding to render such judgment as the said
Court of Appeals should have rendered; if is. further Adjudged and Ordered, that the judgment of
the, said Baltimore County Court be reversed and
annulled, and that judgment be entered in the said
,
Baltimore County Court for the said ..James
M'l'Culloch.-

