'OF THE UNITED STATES.

did not, and could not, change the character of the
previous transactions. The doctrines respecting the
jus postliminii are wholly inapplicable to the case.
imThe goods were liable to American duties, when
ported, or not at all. That they are so liable at the
time of importation is clear, from what has been
already stated ; and when, upon the return of peace,
the jurisdiction of the United States was re-assumed,
they were in the same predicament as they would
have been if Castine had been a foreign territory
ceded by treaty to the United States, and the goods
had been previously imported there. In the latter
case, there would be no pretence to say that American duties could be demanded; and, upon principles
of public or municipal law, the cases are not distinguishable. The authorities cited at the bar would,
if there were any dyutbt, be decisive of the question. But we think"# too clear to require. any aid
from authority.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.

(CHANCERY.)

BROWN et al. v. GILMAN.
The scrip or certificate holders, in the association called the NewEngland Mississippi Land Company, hold their shares under the
Company itself, as a -part of the common Capital stock, and are not
considered as holding derivatively, and solely as individual sub-purchasers, under the separate original titles of the original purchasers
from the Georgia Mississippi Company, so as to be affected by any
circumstances of defect in these separate original titles; these titles

being, in'fact, now vested in the trustees of the New-England Miw'

i8ig.
B

V.
Gilman.

26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

sissippi Company itself, as part of its common, stgck, and not in the
1819.
jy%J
individual holders.
Brown
The eqtitable lien of the -vendor of land, for unpaid purchase money,
is waived, by any act of the parties showing that the lien is not inGilman.
tended to be retained, as by taking separate securities for the pu.
chase money.
An express contract, that the lien shall be retained to a specified extent, is equivalent to a waiver of the lien to any greater extent.
Where the deed itself-remains an escrow until the first payment is
made, and is then delivered as the deed of the party, and the vendor
consents to rely upon the negotiable notes of the purchaser endorsed
by third persons, for the residue of the purchase momey, this is such
a separate security as extinguishes the lien.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of -Massachu-

setts.
This cause was by consent heard upon the bill,
answer, and exhibits in the case. The material facts
were these: In the month of January 1796, sundry
persons, and among them William Wetmore, purchased, of the bgents of certain persons ,in Georgia,
called the Georgia Mississippi Company, then in Boston, a tract' of land, then in the State of Georgia,
and now in the Mississippi Territory, estimated to
contain 11,380,000 acres, at ten cents per acre;
which tract the Georgia Mississippi Company had
purchased of the State of Georgia, and had received
a grant thereof in due form of law. The conditions
of the purchase were, that the purchase' money
should be paid as follows, viz: two cents thereof on
or before the first day of May, 1796; one cent more
on or before the first day of October, 1796; two and
a half cents more on or before the first day of May,
i797; two and a half cents more, Ion or before the
first 'day of May,, 1798;- and the remaining' two

OF THE UNITED STATES.

cents on or befQre the first day of May, 1799. The
p
was to be secured by
whole of the purchase money
negotiable notes of the several purchasers with approved endorsers, to be made payable to Thomas
Cumming, President of the Georgia Mississippi
Company, or order, payable at the bank of the Unites States at Philadelphia, or at the Branch Bank at
Boston, and to be delivered to the agents upon the
execution of the deed -of conveyance by them. It
was further agreed, that the deed, when executed,
should be placed in the hands of George R. Minot,
Esq. as an escrow, to be delivered over by him to the
grantees upon the first payment of two cents, payable in May, 1796, for which first payment, and for
that only, the purchasers agreed to hold themselves
jointly resp6nsible. , Accordingly, a deed of conveyance was executed by the agenits dated the 13th day
of February, 1796, to certain grantees named by the
purchasers, to wit: 'William Wetmore, Leonard Jarvis, and Henry Newmanin tru.t for the purchasers;
and thesame was duly placed in the hands of Mr.
Minot, as an escrow, and negotiable notes, with approved endorsers, were duly delivered to the agents by
all the purchasers for their respective shares of the
ptfrchase money. And afterwards the first payment
of two cents having been satisfactorily made to the
agents, the said deed was, with their consent, delivered over to the grantees as an absolute deed; and
a deed of confirmation thereof was aftewards, in
February, 1797, duly executed and delivered to the
grantees by the Georgia Mississippi Company. After
the purchase, and before the delivery of the deed,
VoL. IV.

33

257
1819.
Brown

V.
Gilma.

258

CASES IN TH9 SUPREME COURT

the purchasers formed themselves into an association
by the name of the New England Mississippi Land
B
Brown
Company, and executed sundry articles of agreeV.
Gilman. ment, and, among other things, therein agreed,, that
1819.

the deed of the purchase should he made to Jarvis,
Newman, and Wetmore, as grantees as above stated,
(art. 2d. ;) that they should execute deeds to the several original purchasers for their proportions in the
lands, but should retain these deeds, until the purchasers should sign and execute the articles of association; and should also execute a deed of trust, to
certain trustees, as provided for in the articles, of
such their respective shares in the purchase, (art. 3d.;)
that the several purchasers should execute a deed of
trust to Jarvis, Newman, and William Hull, of their
respective shares in the purchase, to hold to them and
the survivor of them in trust, to be disposed of according to the articles, (art. .4th. ;) that the business of
the association should be managed by a board of directors, who were to have full power and authority to
sell and dispose of the whole, or any part of the property of the company, and to pay over to their respective proprietors their proportions of the money
received from any and every sale, &c. (art. 8. 16. 20. ;)
that upon receiving a deed from any purchaser, according, to the tenor of the articles, the trustees were
to give to each proprietor a certificate, in a prescribed
form, stating his, interest in the trust, and that he
should hold it according to the articles of the asso-

ciation; which certificate was recorded in the company's books, and was to be "complete evidence to,
such person of his right in said purchase," and was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to be transferrable by endorsement; and upon a record of the transfer in the company's books, the
transferee was to be entitled to vote as a member of
the company. The share of Mr. Wctmore in the
purchase was 900,000 acres. He paid the two cents
per acre in cash; arid of the notes given by him for
tile purchase money, $ 40,000 were paid by Mrs.
Sarah Waldo, his endorser, and the residue $ 45,000
still rem ains unpaid. Mr. Wetmore received his certificates from the trustees for his whole purchase;.
and having sold or conveyed 500,000 acres, he afterwards conveyed the remaining 400,000 acres to Robert Williams, to whom certificates for that amount
were duly issfied by the trustees, three of which cerificates, each for 20,000 acres, duly endorsed by said
Williams, came into tile plaintiff's, Mrs. Gilnan's,
hands fop a valuable consideration; and the assignment
thereof having been duly recorded in the company's
books, she was admitted, and has always acted, as a
member of the company. From causes well known to

the public, the New England Mississippi Land Company never obtained possession of the tract of land so
conveyed to them." On the 31st of March, 1814,
Congress passed an act, entitled," an act providing for
the indemnification of certain claimants of'public
lands in the Mississippi Territory."' By this act, and
,other subsequent acts amending the same, it was
proiided, that the claimants of the lands might file in
a See the history of this case in Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch,
89. and in the public documents of Congress, 1809.
b Act of 23d of January, 1815, ch. 706 . Act !f 3d of March,
1815, ch. 778.

259
1819.

v.
Glman.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

260
1819.
Brown

V.

Gilman.

the office of the secretary of state, a release of all
claims to the United States, and an assignment
and transfer to the United States of their claim to any
money deposited or paid into the treasury
of Georgia,
such release and assignment to take effect on the indemnification of the claimants according to the pro-

Stheir

visions of the act.

Commissioners were to be, and

were accordingly, appointed under the act, who were
authorized to adjudge and determine upon the sufficiency of such releases and assignments, and also to
"adjudge and determine upon all controversies arising from such claims so released as aforesaid, which
may be found to conflict with, and to be adverse to,
each other." And the sum of $1,550,000, to be
issued in public stock, was appropriated by the act,
to indemnify the claimants, claiming in the name -of,
or under, the Georgia Mississippi Company. The
New England Mississippi Land Company duly executed the release and assignment, required by the act
of Congress; and presented the claims of the whole
company before the commissioners. The commissioners awarded the company the sum of $1,083,812
in stock, certificates for which were duly issued under
the act of Congreess, and received by the treasurer
of the company. A farther claim was made for the
whole amount of the original share of Mr. Wetmore,
but the board of commissioners decided, that the
Georgia Mississippi Company had a lien in equity
on the land sold and conveyed to said Wetmore, for,
the purchase money due and unpaid by said Wetmore, and that the indemnity under the act of Congress should follow that lien, and be awarded to said

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Georgia Mississippi Company to the amount thereof.
And in as much as the said Sarah Waldo was the
holder of certain certificates issued by said trustees,

1819.
Brown.

V..

on account of said Wetmore's original purchase, the Gilmav.
commissioners farther awarded, that the sum of
840,000 of the purchase money (which had been
paid or satisfied by her for said Wetmore, on her endorsement) should be applied first to make good the
scrip or certificates so issued to her; and that if there
was any surplus, after making her scrip or certificates
good, such surplus could not be applied to the scrip
or certificates held under Robert Williams, who, did
not become the assignee of the said Wetmore until
after the said sum was paid. And the commissioners
farther decided, that the certificates, issued. by the
trustees on account of any of the original purchasers, who failed to make payment of the purchase money to the Georgia Mississippi Company,
were bad, and that the parties claiming under them
must lose their indemnity under the act of Congress.
By this award of the commissioners, the claim of
the New England Mississippi Land Company, for
the amount of the share of the plaintiff; was completely excluded. But the plaintiff claimed her share
of the stock actually received, as a proprietor in the
New England Mississippi Land Company, notwithstanding the award of the commissioners, and to
establish this claim, the present suit was brought ;
and in her bill she averred, that she was a bona
fide purchaser for a valuable consideration, without
notice of the non-payment of the purchase money

262

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
Brown

V.

Feb. 13th.

by Mr. Wetmore, which averment was not denied by
answer.
The Court below decreed that the complainant
was entitled to the relief she claimed, and the cause
was brought by appeal to this Court.

Sthe

Mr. Jones, for the appellants, argued, that the decision of the Commissioners was correct in principle. The property acquiied by the New England
Company under their. purchase from tie GeorgiaCompany, was not a legal, but a mere equitable interest, unassignable at law. Even if the Georgia
Company had a legalestate, their deed to the New
England Company, does not pass such estate according to the local law of Georgia; it never having
been acknowledged, and proved, and reorded. It,
.amounted only to a covenant to stand seized to uses,
an agreement to sell, which a court of equity would
enforce. The rescinding act of Georgia has a double effect: one to annul the contract; the other to
render all deeds conveying the property incapable of
being recorded. It is only as to the first effect that
the Court has pronounced, or could pronounce, the
act to be unconstitutional and void. The States
have an unquestionable right to regulate the mode
of conveying real property, and the rule of evidence
as to land titles. Even supposing the trustees to
have acquired a legal estate, the cestui que trusts
The.
have acquired an equitable interest only.
claim of the vendor for unpaid purchase money is
the prior equity, which must be preferred. If the
subsequent purchaser acquires a mere equitable in-

OF THE" UNITED STATES.

263;

terest, he is entitled to no notice of the vendor's lien.
1819.
The assignee of a chose in action, which is not as- Bww
V.
signable at law, has a mere equitable interest, and
Gilman.,
assignor
the
as
equity
takes subject to the same
But even if notice be necessary, the lien of the vendor is sustainable, because there was notice either*
actual or constructive; and notice to the trustees of
the New England Company, was notice to the individuals whom they represented.' But all discussion
on this point is cut short by the well-established prinaciple, that the purchaser who sets up the want of
notice must positively deny the notice in her plea,
and swear to it.c

Here the pleadings, so far from

denying notice, impliedly admit, it; and the rule of
presumption against the party omitting to deny notice,
is to be applied a fortiori in a case like the present,
where the person insisting on the want of notice is
the party plaintiff. Nor has there been in this case
any waiver of the, equitable lien for the purchase
mone,. All the facts of the case repel the presumption of a waiver of the lien. The notes, with
approved endorsers, taken from the individual pur-,
chasers, cannot furnish such a presumption. The
case of Fawell v. Heelis,d which will be relied on. to
support this positioni has been repeatedly overruled.
a Finch, 9. 34. Davis v. Austin, 1 Ves. jun. 247. Coles
Y. Jones, 2 Vern. 692. lb. 765. 1 Ves. sen. 123. 1 Bro. Ch.
Cas. 302. Mackreth v.:Simmons, 115 Fes. 329.
b Sugd. Vend. 492.'498. Mertins v. Joliffe, .1mb,311.
c Sugd. Vend. 510-513.•
d Amb. 734. 2 Bro. Ch. Ca,. 422.- note.*
e Sugd." Vend. 252. et infra.

264

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.
Browna

V.

Gilman.

The taking of personal security is not considered
as a waiver of the lien.a It is not necessary to prove
affirmatively the intent to retain a lien. It is a natural equity; and he who would repel it must show
that the vendor agreed to rely on the personal security, and to abandon the lien.b As to the lex loci
of Massachusetts, which does not recognize the equitable lien on land for unpaid purchase money, it has
nothing to do with the question ; for the record does
not show that the deed was executed in that State ;
and even if it did, the lex loci rmei sitee of Georgia
must govern the case, according to a well-known
rule. But even supposing the award of the commissioners to be erroneous, it is still conclusive upon the
parties. The commissioners had jurisdiction of the
subject matter under the act of Congress by which
the Board was established to determine upon all
controversies arising from adverse claims to these
lands. There is no analogy between this claim, and
the lien of a judgment. It is a real interest in the
land ; an equitable mortgage; a charge upon it which
descends, and is assigned with it.c The decision of
the commissioners, then, has the force of res judicata.
a Hughes v. Kearney, 1. Scho. 4. Lefr. 132. Mackreth v.
Simmons, 15 Vs. 329. Grant v. Mills, 2 Ves. 4"Beames, 306.
Elliot v. Edwards, 3 Bos. & Pul. 181.
b Frost v. Beatmen, I Johns. Ch. 288. Garson v. Green,
1b. 308. Mackreth V. Simmons, and the cases there cited, 16
Ves. 329.
c Cator v.
, I Bro. Ch. Cas. 302. B.424. Pollexfen v. Mpore, 3 Atk. 272.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Mr. Amory, contra, insisted, that Mrs. Gilman
was not the assignee of Mr.
t, Wetmore,I and did not
hold his title. She could not be an assignee without
a privity, either in fact or in law, which did not exist in this case. The intention of the associates,
from tile beginning, was to render the certificates of
the trustees the only evidence of the title ; for which
-purpose the legal title was vested in the trustees,
and a new title, in all the property, was derived from
them. The certificate possessed by Mrs. Gilman
does not contain *he name of Wetmore, nor was the
certificate originally issued in-his name; it could not.
have expressed a trust upon the portionj or title,

acquired by him, and conveyed to the trustees ; but
such a certificate must have expressed a general interest, or title, pervading the whole land. Inasmuch
as the trustees derived their title, not from Wetmore
only, but from different sources, it must be presumed:
and intended, that their 'certificates were to operate
generally on all the right and title which they possessed, without reference to the mode of acquirement. If M'rs. Gilman, or any holder of certificates,
was obliged to search into the title, this estate would
be attended with all the consequences and incidents
of other titles. But that diffieulty was expressly intended to be avoided by the 12th art. of association, wiiich declares , that such certificate shall be
complete evidence; thereby announcing to any purchaser, that the. common.rules of real property were
dispensed with. Shall the trustees and associates
now be permitted, contrary to their- express stipulation, to depart from this rule of property, which they
VoL. IV.

34

.265
1819.
- Brown
v.

266.
1819.
v

Brgown

v.
Gilman.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

themselves created, and thus entrap a bofia fide purchaser without notice ? This association was not

incorporated ; but the parties intended, as far as they
could by law, to give it those facilities, and, in some
degree, to convert this real estate into personal estate. The title at law was to vest in the trustees,
until bona fide sales of the land were actually made.
It is the proceeds of such sales only, -or money .acquired therefrom, that is assured to the holders of the
certificates. The trustees and original purchasers
undertook to examine each other's title, and pre.cluded all further inquiries in relation to it. Wetmore gave a quit claim deed only; the quality of
his title the associates or trustees -could judge of,.
of which they had as much knowledge as he had ;
and such deed of quit claim, whether it conveyed
a good or a bad :title, constituted a good consideration for the compact with the associates and trustees.
If the doctrine of lien for the purchase money, without mortgage, obtains in Georgia ; the contract being made in Massachusetts, where the intention of
both parties must be considered as constituting the
contract, the laws of Massachusetts ought to construe such a contract in preference to those of Georgia. We contend, that this doctrine of lien is only
a creature' of equity, and refers only to such estates
or rights of real property as are especially recognised by that tribunal, and which do not derive their
support from the'ordinary rules of law. The title,
in order to be what is commonly denominated equitable,' must be such a one as is not recognised by
law; such as the assignmelt of a chose in. ation,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

267

1g19.
which cannot be assigned by law ; or the title must
be equitable from the inefficient mode adopted for Brown
its transfer, such as the conveyance of real estate by . I.
an instrument without seal, or by an executory con- Gilman
tract. The conveyance of land, in this case, did
not pass an equitable title merely; the cases of
Fletcher v. Peck, -and Greei v. Liter,b show, that,
notwith§tanding the indian title be not extinguished,
the freehold and seisin may be transferred.; and, in
this ease, the most solemn deeds and instruments,
duly acknowledged, were adopted for the conveyance
of the title ; and it is sustained by every legal form.
Even in Courts of Equity, this lien is only raised
by implication; and where other circumstances resist this implication, showing that the parties did
not mean to rely on the estate sold for security, the
lien is waived. This transaction is filled with circumstances repugnant to such implication. The
design of the parties to sell the land, instead of cul-'
tivating the same, whereby to pay the notes, expressly excludes the idea of such a lien, as no man
would have'purchased who knew that such a note
Was given for the first purchase, without seeing that
his money was appropriated to extinguish the notes;
and the strongest circumstance, to repel such a lien
for the consideration,'consists in this, that the sum
of five dollars only is expressed as the pecuniary
consideration.. Any purchaser, therefore, making inquiry concerning the purchase money's being paid
or not, is*at once checked in the pursuit; and no

at 6 Cranch,.89.

b 8 Cranch, 229.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
B~rown

v.
Gilman.

case of lien, for the purchase money, can be shown,
where the sum is not expressed in the deed of sale.
It is also a doctrine in equity, that the vendee has
a lien on the land, in case the title be defective, and
proper conveyance not made to him ; thus making
the right reciprocal. But in this deed express provision is made, that the consideration money shall
not be refunded by the vendor for any cause whatsoever; thus essentially distinguishing the present
case from those in which such lien is maintained.
It is said, that the commissioners, having a right to
decide upon adverse titles, here conclusively decided
on our claims; but the'adverse titles or claims, on
i)hich they were to decide, were adverse claims to
the stock from the treasury of the United States,
and between such persons as released their claims
to the United States. Mrs. Gilman did not release
any claim to the United States, or demand any
money from the treasury; of course, her rights or
claims could not be adjudged by the commissioners.
Her claim is not on the government, but on her
associates and trustees. The commissioners were
bound to decide, to whom the money or stock from
the treasury should be paid; not the use the receiver
should afterwards make of that money, or the obligations he might be under in relation to it. Decrees
affect only those who are parties to the suit ; and an
opinion incidentally given by the commiss'oners
ought .not to control the plaintiff's right.
The Attorney General, on the same side, contended, that ao such lien, as that insisted upon, existed,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

even as to Mr. Wetmore's title ; much less was Mrs.
Gilman's affected by it. The question whether the
legal title passed from the Georgia Company to the
New-England Company, cannot be raised in the
appellate Court ; because, so far from being raised
in the Court below, the pleadings admit the fact
that the legal title did pass, and the cause was argued upon that ground in the Court below. But
supposing it were otherwise; as a bona fide purchaser, without notice, Mrs. Gilman cannot be affected with the equitable lien for purchase money unpaid by the original vendee, because a distinct personal security was taken, and all the other circumstances of the case combine to show that the original
vendors did not mean to rely on the lien. It is worthy of observation, that this doctrine of lien for unpaid purchase. money, which has grown to its present extravagant height, seems to have originated in:
the inaccuracies and mistakes of some of the earlier
Chancery reporters. -The first case is that of Chapman v. Tannera which is erroneously reported. According to the reporter, it Was the case of a bankrupt who purchased land, and the purchase money
not being paid, the assignees would have, had the
vendor come in as a creditor under the commissiofi
for the remainder of his purchase money. "9er
Cur. In this case theie is a natural equity that the
land should stand charged with so much of the purchase money as 'was not paid; and that without any
special agreement for that purpose." But Lord
a I Vernon, 267.

269
1819.
Brown

V.
Gilman.

9270

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Apsley says, "-Chapman v. Tanner, (I Vernon, 267;)
r
according to the report, is in point; but, it ap. *pears, by the register's book, that the vendor retained
Gilman. the title deeds till he was paid.
The Court said,
1819.

that a natural equity arose, from his having the
title deeds in his custody.a" In the case of Pollexfen v. Moore,b (which is also said, in the last mentioned case, by Lord Apsley, to be badly reported,)
the title deeds were also kept back by agreement;
and it was impossible for a Court of Equity to
doubt, in either of these cases, that the lien was retained. But it is from them that the doctrine, as
now understood, has originated ; and, even according to the modern cases, it is nothing more than a
lien raised by equity on the presumed intention of
the parties.c This presumption, however, may be
repelled by evidence of a contrary intention. Among
other circumstances to repel this presumption, is the
delivering an absolute deed to the purchaser. Although this circumstance may not be considered strong
enough to repel the presumption as between vendor
and vendee, it is so as to a bonafide purchaser under
.the latter, -without notice; otheiwise suich a deed
would be a fraud on the public. In such a case,
this circumstance, connected: with that of taking a
distinct security, must certainly be deemed sufficient
to repel the presumed intention to rely on the lien.
The rule is accurately laid down by President PENa Fawell v. Heelis, Ambl. 724.
b 3 Attk. 372. "
c Sugd. Vend. 358.

OF T JE UNITED STATES.

271

IAI9.
"The doctrine that the vendor of land
renot taking a.security, nor making a conveyance,
•
Browrn
V.
tains a lien upon the property, is so well settled as
Gilman.
made
hath
he
if
Even
maxim.
a
as
received
to be
a conveyance, yet he may pursue the land in the
possession of the vendee, or of a purchaser with notice. But if he hath taken a security, or the vendee hath sold to a third person, without notice, the
lien is lost.' ' a It has been much contested in
England, whether passing the legal title to the
vendee, and taking his bond or note alone, will
not defeat the lien. But there has been no case,
where, after passirig an absolute deed, and taking the
security of a third person, the lien has been held
still to exist. In Hughes v. Kearney,b the note was
that of the vendee merely ; and Lord Redesdale is
understood to admit, that taking a distinct security
would discharge the lien. Grant v. Mills,c is also
.relied on to show that the taking of the security of
a third person would not discharge the lien; but the
bills of exchange, in that case,. were not considered
as the security of a third person, but as a mode of
payment merely: Sir W. Grant, distinctly admitting
that the security of a third person would repel the
lien. In Elliot v. Edwards,' which was a case at
law,, the point was not decided; and it depended
upon its own peculiar circumstances ; the surety, himself might seem to have stipulated for the lien, by"
-DLETON.

a
b
c
d

Cole v. Scott, 2 Wash. 14i.
I Sch. 4- Lefr. 132.
2 Ves. 4-Beames, 306.
3 Bos. 4 Pul. 181.

272

IMP.
Brown

.V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

requiring a covenant against the assignment of the
premises, without the joint* consent of himself and
the vendor.' If further circumstances are necessary,
in the present ase, to remove the presumption, that
the vendor intended to rely upon the lien, they will
be found to exist. Holding back the deed, or what
is equivalent, depositing it ,as an escrow, until after
the first paymenthas always been considered as indicating the intention to rely upon the lien ;-and if
so, the delivery of the deed, after the first payment
was made, equally manifests an intention to relinquish the lien. The counsel then proceeded to argue,
that, from other circumstances and facts in the case,
it never could have been the intention of the parties
that the lien should exist. But even supposing the
lien did exist as against Mr. Wetmore, the original
purchaser, would it follow the shares through every
variety of modification intor the hands of a remote
purchaser without notice ? But it is said that Mrs.
G. has not denied notice. Nor could she deny notice in the manner pointed out by the authorities-7-that
is, upon oath, being tie party plaintiff. But the
same authorities lay down the rule, that if notice is
neither alleged by the bill, nor proved, and the defendant by his answer denies notice, the Court will
not grant an inquiry to affect him with notice.'
This rule has more analogy to the present case; for
the answer does not charge the plaintiff with notice;
and it is denied in the bill. We insist, that where the
legal estate has passed from the vendor, a bonafidepura Svgd. Vend. 512.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

chaser without notice, even though he has no deed,
will overreach the implied lien for unpaid purchase
money. Mr. Sugden, after reviewing all the cases,
expresses the opinion that even an equitable mortgage created by the vendee depositing deeds with a
third party, bonafide, and without notice, will give
him a preferable equity, and will overreach the vendor's equitable lien for any part of the purchase
money~a Now, a mortgage is a mere security for a
debt, and the same conclusion is much stronger in
the case of an absolute purchaser. But supposing
the lien to exist: according to Frost v. Beekman,b it
only exists to the amount of the consideration expressed on the face of the deed ; which, in this case,
is only five dollars. And even if it exists to any extent according to the law of the English Court of
Chancery, that is not the law of this case ; the contract being made in Massachusetts, relative to lands
in Georgia. It is admitted, that the law of Massachusetts recognizes no such lien ; but it is said that it is not
the lex loci contractus, which is to govern, but the lex
loci raei sit& ; and that the law of Georgia adopts the
English principle. We do notdeny that the'lex loci
raei sitwe is to govern as to the transfer of real property; but we insist, that the intention of the contracting parties is to be gathered from the law of
the place where the contract is made. ,Admitting,
however, that the law of Georgia is to give the rule,
it remains to be shown, on the other side, that this
peculiar doctrine of the English Courts of Equity is
b 1 Johns. Ch. 288.

a Sugd. Vend. 366.

Vol. IV.

35

273
1819.
Brown'

V.
Gilman

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

274
18J9.

adopted in that State

We insist, we are not con-

Drown

cluded by the decision of the Commissioners, under

v.

the acts of Congress, because their power extended
only to legal or equitable claims to the lands; such

Gilman.

equitable claims as enabled the holder to call for the
legal title, and such as conflict with each other;
which not being the case here, the Commissioners
had no jurisdiction to determine this ,question.
Mr., Webster, for the appellants, in reply, insisted
that the title was no better in the plaintiff's hands
thaI it was in the hands of Mr. Wetmore. The purchaser of an equity must abide by the case -of the.
person from whom he buys. He must take the
estate subject to all incumbrances. Want of notice,
or payment of a valuable considera ion, will not enable him to raise himself higher than his vendor.
Lord Thurlow says,. he takes that to be a universal
rule.a It is unnecessary to say, whether the Commissioners 'vCre well founded in the decision they
have pronounced. No fraud or negligence is at any
rate imputable to the defendants. :They have used
due diligence, and sought to increase the fund, by
obtainingfrom the Commissioners the stock which
would have belonged to the original purchase of Wetmote, if his'title had been deemed valid. In this
they have failed; but without any fault of their own.
The Commissioners have decreed, that that portion of
Wetmore's purchase which was conveyed to Wila Davis T. Austen, I Ves jun. 247. See also Murray v,
Silburn, I Johni. Ch. 441. Redfearn v. Ferrier, 1 Dow. 50.

27&

OF THE UNITED STATES.

liams, through whom the pIlaintiff derives her title, is
aot entitled to any indemnification. They proceed
on the ground that the oxiginal Georgia vendors-had
a lien for the purchase money, and that they, if any
body, the purchase money not being paid, are entitled to the indemnity provided by the 'act of Congress. That the vendor has in equity a lien for the
purchase money against the vendee, and all purchasers under him with notice, if it be a legal.estate;
and against all persons purchasing with or without
notice, if it be an equitable estate; could not be denied as a general doctrine. The English cases, on
this point, are all considered by Lord Eldon inMackr-eth v. Simmons." There may be a relinquishment of this lion; and the evidence of such
relinquishment may result from the nature of the
transaetion, and the circumstances attending it' How
-far such evidence existed here, it was the duty of
the Commissioners to consider. If they have erred
in judgment, the consequences . of that error ought
not to be thrown on he defendants. The stock,
which the Commissioners were to issue, may be considered as the product of the estate vested in the
trustees. The bill does not complain, that the defendants have injured the plaintiff by surrendering
the estate to the, United States. In this they are
admitted to have done precisely what they ought to
have done., The complaint is, that a just distribution has not been made of the proceeds. But the
plaintiff's estate., has- produced ,no proceeds. The
a 15 Ves. 329.

PIo9. Brown

B.
Gilman.

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
Brown

.iV.

Gilman.

Commissioners were empowered by the act to adjudge between adverse claims. They have decided
against the claim of the plaintiff; and it would be
manifestly unjust and unreasonable, that, having a
bad claim herself, she should partake with others ia
the benefit of their claims, which are good, 'unless she
clearly proves an agreement to form this sort of partnership. And indeed, if it were proved that Wetmore and others agreed to form this partnership,
each at the same time covenanting for the title of
what he himself brought to the common stock, he
could not claim in equity a proportionate share of
the proceeds of the whole, having broken his own
covenant' and the general proceeds being thereby
diminished in an amount equal to what he undertook
to convey to the trustees. If the plaintiff could recover in this case against the defendants, one of
whom is the surviving trustee, that trustee must have
his action against Wetmore on the covenants of his
deed of trust. But it is not the course in equity to
treat covenants as distinct and independent, but to
require of plaintiffs to allege and prove performance,
or readiness to perform, on their part." If the land,
or its proceeds, have been taken from the trustee by
som e one, whose title has been adjudged better than
that of the cestui que trust, is it possible, that the
cestui que trust can have any claim on the trustee ?
The plaintiff relies on the articles' of association,
which say that the certificate shall be complete evidence of the title. So it may be; but they do not
a 2 Fonb. 383.

27-7

OF THE UNITED STATES.

say what title the holder of the certificate shall be
taken to have.

The articles mean no more than that,

the certificate should be evidence of the transfer.
Whatever the vendor could sell, he might assign by
endorsing the certificate. But in this there is no
agreement to assure the title. The certificate itself
refers to the articles of association, and the deeds of
trust, to show the nature and condition ofthe property.
These articles and deeds prove clearly, that the original purchasers stand on their several distincfpurchases,
and decline all mutual responsibility. She must,
therefore, be taken to have known what she purchased, as the reference in the certificate to the deed
and articles was sufficient to put her on inquiry.
Where one has sufficient information to lead him to
the knowledge of the fact, he shall be deemed conusant of it.4

isi1.
Brown

.v.
Gilman.

Even if her estate had been a legal, and

not an equitable interest, this constructive notice
would have prevented her from standing in any better condition than those under whom she held.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opihion of the Court. The question to be decided is,
whether, under all the circumstances of this case,
the New-England Mississippi Land Company, or
Mary Gilman, shall lose the sum awarded by the
commissioners to the Georgia Mississippi Company,
in satisfaction for the lien that company was supposed to retain on the lands they sold, for the nona. Sugd. Vend. 498. and the cases there cited.

Feb. 241h.
The questiom
to be decided-

'278

CASES IN THE SUPREME' COURT

1819.
B~rown.

v.
Gilman.

The nature
tween the

of the contract
Gr

'and

the Nw-F,,,-

land Compa-

ny.

The motives

and acts of the'

New-England
Company.

payment of the notes of William Wetmore, given for
the purchase money on his interest in ihe purchase.
In examining this question, thenature of the contract, the motives of the New-England Mississippi
Company, and their acts, are all to be considered.
The contract was made in January; 1796, for
1 1,380,000,acres of land, Iying within the country occupied by the Indians, whose title was hot extinguishY
ed. The purchase money, amounting to 1,380,000
dollars, was to be divided into five instalments, the
first ofwhich amounting to 113,800 dollars, was to
be paid on the 1st of May, 1796, and the last on the
May, 1799. It is obvious, that this purchase
1St of
o
could not have been made with a view to hold all the
lands., The object of-the purchasers must hpve been
to make. a.profitby re-selling a great part of them.'
Accordingly, we find them making immediate arrangements to effect.this'object. In February, 1796,
before the legal title was obtained, the purchasers
formed an association, by which it was, among other
things, agreed, that the land should be conveyed to
three, of their partners, Leonard Jarvis, Henry Newman, and William Wetmore, for the use and benefit
of the company. It was also agreed, that. seven directors should be appointed, with power-to manage
their affairs, and, after the company should be completely organized, as prescribed in'the articles of association, to sell their lands for the' ommon benefit
of the proprietors. In addition to this mode of selling the lands thenise.lves, which might be slow in its
operation, it was agre.?d tlat each proprietor might
in part -and,to facilitransfer his interest, in who 0,o

OF THE UNITED STATES.

279

tate this transfer, the whole purchase was divided into 1819.
2276 shares, and it was determined that an assignable -Brown
V.
certificate should be granted to each proprietor, or to
Gilman.
amount
the
stating
such person as he should appoint,
of his interest in the company. No certificate was
to issue for less than one share,
*11at,, of the
It, is of great importance to inquire, how farthe interest
con.
vey ed to the
company pledged itself to the waassigneeo of thist certiof
lokcetiasltne
in thef
ficate; and how far it Was incumbent on him to look c,Iew.England
beyond the certificate itself,,in order to ascedrtain the Company.
interest which it gave him fi'he property of the
company.
In pursuing this inquiry, we must look with some
minuteness into the state of the property, and the
articles of association, as well as into the language
of the paper which was to evidence the' title of the
holder.
Although the association ,was formed before the
lands were conveyed, no certijcate was to issue until th'e legal title in the company should be as complete as it could be made. It was obviously necessary for the purchasers, before they proceeded to
sell, to examine well their title, and to use every precaution which prudence could suggest, for its security. This appears to have been done.' On the 13th
of 'February, 1796, a deed was executed by. the
Georgia Company, purporting, to convey the lands to
Wifliaft Wetmore, Leonard Jarvis, and Henry Newman; and i afterwards, in February, 1797, a deed of
confirmation was executed and delivered. By these
deeds the Georgia Company certainly intended to

280
i819.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

pass, and the New-England Company expected to

*" ' ' receive, the legal title.
Brown
V.
.
The articles of association direct these trustees to
Gilnan. convey the purchased lands to the proprietors, as-tenants in common, who are immediately to re-convey
.them to Leonard Jarvis, Henry Newman, and William Hull, in trust, to be disposed of~accordingvto the
articles.
The certificate granted to each proprietor, for the
purpose of enabling him to dispose of his interest,
certifies, that he is entitled, to the trust and benefit of
Acertain specified proportion of the property contained in the trust deed," to hold said proportion, or share,
to him, his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns,
according to the terms, conditions, covenants, and exceptions, contained in the said deed of trust, and in
certain articles of agreement entered into by the
persons composing. the New-England Mississippi
Land Company." This certificate purports on its
face to be transferrable by endorsement. If it amounted to no more than a declaration, that the holder had
a right to sell a specified part of ihe common property,
it wouia be difficult to maintain that the company
could afterwards charge this part exclusively with a
pre-existing incumbrance. But the certificate proceeds further, and declares that the share, or shares,
thus tranferred, shall be held according to the terms,
&c. of the deed of trust, and of the articles of agreement. So far, therefore, as that &ed, or those arti,cles, encumber the property, it certainly remains encumbered in the hands of the assignee. To what

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.28'1

extent does either of those instruments affect the

1819.

Case?

Brown

v.
The deed from the proprietors to Jarvis, NewGilman.
of
State
of'he
grant
the
recites
man, and Hull,
Georgia, the conveyance of the grantees to Wetmore, Jarvis, and Newman, in trust for the NewEngland Company, the conveyance of those trustees
to the members of the company to hold as tenants in
common, according to their respective interests, and
adds, that it is found necessary and expedient, that
the premises should be conveyed "in trust to Leonard
Jarvis, Henry Newman, and William Hull, Esquires,
to have and to hold the same, subject to all the
trusts, provisions, restrictions, covenants, and agreements, contained in certain articles of agreement,
constituting the New-England Mississippi Land
Company ;" therefore, and in consideration of 10
dollars, the parties of the first part, severally "remise, release, and.forever quit claim, to the said Jarvis, Newman, and Hull, all the interest,' 8zc. which
they have, or ever had, or of right ought to have, in
the premises, subject, however, to and for the purposes mentioned in the agreement constituting the
New-England Mississippi Land Company. The
parties of the first part, each for himself," and no
further, covenants, that the premises are free and
clear*of all incumbrances, by him made or suffered to
be made, and warrants the same against himself and

all claiming under him.
A separate conveyance was made by Wetmore,
Jarvis, and"Newman, to John Peck, who conveyed
Yor. IV.

36

282'

GASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to Jarvis, Newman, and Hull. But these conveyances are not supposed to vary the case.
Brown
In this deed of trust, each proprietor covenants
V.
Gi.
for his -own title not for that of his co-partners.
This has been supposed to give notice to the assignee
of each certificate issued by the .company, that the
property conveyed did not constitute a common
stock in the hands of the trustees, out of which each
holder was to draw iii proportion to his interest, as
expressed in the face of his title paper; but that the
interest of -each co-partner was limited to the product of his own share, as under the original purchase, and that the holder of every certificate was
bound to trace his title through the particular original purchaser under Whom he claims, and in whose
place he stands.
We do not think the fact will sustain the argument.
This. deed conveys the estate of each partner to
the company, and the covenants it contains ascertain
the extent of .each partner's liability for the title -it
passes. , The lands thus conveyed, are held by the
company in like manner as if they had been convey-'
ed by persons who were not members of it., The
legal title is in the company; the power to sell is in,
the company ; and if itwas intended that the right of
each individual to dispose of his interest, should depend on the validity of the*ititlehe had made, and
that the purchaser of such interest-took it subject to
any incumbrance with which the estate conveyed
might have been, burthened, previous to its conveyance, it would have been unnecessary to-make any,
181g.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

provision respecting the sale of such interest. The
right of sale is coninected with the right of property,
and without any regulation whatever, each member
would have possessed it to the extent of his property.
The object for granting the certificate seems to have
been, to enable each share-holder to sell, unobstructed by those entangling embarrassments 'which may
attend amere equitable title. This object, in which
every member was equally concerned, could not be
effected without giving to each some -evidence of his
title, which should make it unnecessary for the purchaser to look further, in order to ascertain his interest in the general fund t whatever that fund might
be. The history of the title, as well as the words of
the certificate, would confirm this opinion. From its
origin, every step of its progress was marked out and
controlled by the company. The legal title was, by
their order, conveyed to three persons', selected by
themselves, and the deed contains no allusion to the
interest of other purchasers. By this order, also, the
title which was then made to the several purchasers,
was immediately re-conveyed to trustees in whom
the company confided, to uses and purposes expressed in certain articles of agreement which the company had formed. They guarded the title against
incumbrances from individuals, and this watchfulness was for the double purpose of enabling their
agents to sell the lands themselves, for the, common
benefit, and enabling each member to sell to the best
advantage his particular interest in that fund. It was
scarcely possible for any individual to have encumbered the title after it was received by the first agents

283
2819.
Brown

V
Gilman

284

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

B
Brown

.

Gilman.

of the company, and against defects in the title conthe Georgia Compan the certificate does
veyed by
Iy.Y
not profess to engage.
The articles of agreement, to which also the certificate refers, explain fully the views of the company. The great object of the association is to sell
their lands to advantage. This is too plainly expressed to be mistaken. The words "terms, eonditions, covenants, and exceptions," contained in the
certificate, refer chiefly to provisions respecting, the
sale of lands, and to others which recognize the absolute control ovef the property which each member
had ceded to the whole body. It is unnecessary to
recite the particular articles whici tend to this general result. It is the spirit which pervades the whole
association. Only those articles which relate to the
.certificate need be adverted to.
The 1 ith article divides the whole purchase into
2,276 shares.
'The 12th directs that a transferrable certificate
shall be given to each proprietor, prescribes its form,
directs it to be recorded, and declares that it shall be
complete evidence to such person, of his right in the
purchase. Noassignee is admitted as a member, to
vote, in the affairs of the company, until his assignment shall be recorded.
The 13th declares, that no certificate shall issue-for
less than .ne .share, and -that the holder of any cera
tificate for a larger quantity, may, at any time, surrender it to the trustees, and take .out others for such
quantities as he .may choose.
The 16th obliges .the directors to pay over to the

OF, THEUNITED STATES...

respective proprietors their proportions of the moneys
received from any and every sale, as soon after the
receipt thereof as may be.
It is not more apparent, that the general object of
the association was to promote the sale of their lands,
than it is that the particular object of this certificate,
and of the articles which relate to it, was to enable
every proprietor to avail himself of his individual inOn no other
terest, and to bring it into circulation.
principle can we account for subdividing the stock
of the company into such small shares ; for issuing
the certificate itself; for making it assignable ; for
declaring that it shall be complete evidence of title to
that quantity of interest which is expressed on its
face ; for enabling every holder, by surrendering his
certificate, to divide it as his convenience might suggest; and for declaring that each holder shall receive his proportion of the money arising from the

lands which might be sold. All these provisions
tend directly to the same object, and are calculated
for the single purpose of affording to each member of
the company every possible facility in selling his'
share of the stock. In this operation all were equally interested. Every member of the company was
alike concerned in removing every obstruction to the
free circulation of his own certificate, which could
only be done by making it complete evidence of title;
an advantage which, to be acquired by him, must be
extended to all. In the particular benefit accruing
to each member of the company from this arrangement, a fill consideration was received for his joining in it. It is a mutual assurance, in which all the

285,
1819.
Brown.

V.
Gilman.

286
1819.

Brown

Gilma.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

members pledge themselves for each, that he is really
:--entitled to sell what he offers for sale.
The articles of agreement then strengthen, instead
of weakening, the language of the certificate. They

prove that the company must have intended to give
it a]l the credit they could bestow on it, and to give
to the assignee all the assurance they could give him,
that he would stand on the same ground with other
members, and was liable to no casualty to which they
were not all exposed.
It was scarcely possible for any member, unless it
be one of the original agents, to have eluded the precautions of the company, and have parted with, or
An aignee, encumbered any portion of his estate.
But suppose
(without
- the fact to have happened, and a certificate to have
ii,
ftecerhares in the issued from any accident whatever, to him for a
Now-EnglandII

larger interest than that to which he was really encomguy, nis
Ci rum- titled, would an, assignee, without notice, have been
Yctin thttie affected by this error on the part of the company ?
of the original
We think it clear, that he would not. The comholder of the
Zertificatei.
pany has itself undertaken to judge of his title ; and,
for its own purposes, for the advantage of all its members, to certify what that title is. The object and
effect of that certificate is to stop inquiry. The company has pledged its faith, that the title undei this
certificate shall not be questioned. This: is not all.
The. articles require that an assignee shall have his
assignment recorded. Here-is a second confirmation
of title.
We fihd a number of. persons associated together
for the purpose of purchasing an immense body of
land, which tiey expect to resell upon a profit.

-not afeted by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

They watch the progress of the title, direct its
course, leave no power to individuals over their individual shares, but keep the whole under the control of the company until they are perfectly satisfled with the state in which they have placed it.
The legal title is by their order vested in three trustees, who are to be controlled by seven directors.
Then, in order to enable each proprietor to dispose
of any portion of his interest which he may incline
to sell, assignable certificates are issued, declaring
that the holder is entitled to a specified share of the
land. This certificate refers to certain laws of the
company, and these laws declare that such certificate shall be complete evidence of title, that the assignee shall become a member of the company, authorized to vote on having his assignment recordeI
in books kept for that purpose. These certificates
are offered to the public; confiding to the promise
they contain, an individual becomes a purchaser,
has his assignment recorded, and is received, without
•bjection, as a member. If any latent defect exists
in the title of one of the original purchasers, which
was unknown to the company when the certificate issued, we think the company cannot set up this latent
defect against an assignee. The Company possessed the means of obtaining full information of all
eircumstances which could affect the title, so far as
information was attainabl*. They undertook to
judge of it, and to assert unconditionally, that' the
holder of the certificate was entitled to the quantity
of interest it specified.. However true it may be,
that the individual in whose default this defect orig-

1819.'
Brown

V.

Gilman.

GASES IN" THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

]Bow:

V.-

rxilman.

nated, might be held accountable for it, we cannot
agree that the assignee stands in his place. The
company which would set it up against him, has inquired into the title; has, for its own purposes, assured him that it is perfect,, and, upon the faith of
this assurance, lie has. purchased. Had he taken an
equitable interest in trust, relying upon the faith of the
vendor, his equity, it is conceded, would 'not be better
than that of the vendor; but he has relied upon
the
Company. He has mounted up to the source of the
equitable title, and is there assured of its goodness.
The Company can never be permitted to say, that
being themselves mistaken, they have imposed innocently upon him; and thit, therefore, they will throw
the loss from themselves on him.
If, then, Mr. Wetmore had really, by any act of
his, diminished the estate he carried, into the common stoek,,and if the deduction of his share from the
sum awarded, to the company had been proper, he
would have been personally answerable to the Company for such diminution ; but wg do not think
this-liability passes with the certificate to his assigue6
without notice. - We do not think the Company could
be permitted to a~sert against the assignee, the right
they might assert against Mr. Wetmore.
But this is not a defect in the titl -itself created,
voluntarily created, by Mr. Wetmore. It is a still
weaker case on the part of the Company. , A sum
of money, equal to the claim of the, plaintiff, has
been awarded to.the Georgia, iistead of the NewEngland Company, by the Commissioners, under the
idea that so much -of the, original purchase money

OF THE UNITED STATES.

289

181.
remained unpaid, and that a lien on the lands they
sold was still retained by the Georgia Company. Brown
V.
As this failure was on the part of Mr. Wetmore, the
subjectof
right
the
claim
New-England Company
ing to this loss the shares of Mrs. Gilman, which
were derived from certificates issued on the stock of
Mr. Wetmore. On the part of Mrs. Gilman it is
contended, 1.That this lien did not exist; and, if it
did, 2. That it affects her only as a member of the
Company.
The Commissioners determined in favour of the
lien, because they considered the New-England
Company as holding only an equitable estate.
UThe legal
The deeds from the Georgia to the New-England
0
'Ile passed bythe deedsfrom
Company certainly purport to pass, and were ioin- the
Georg'ia,
tothe
objection
only
The
title.
legal
the
pass,
to
tended
Core, England Newwe have heard to their having the operation in- Pany.
tended by the parties, is, that they were not recorded, and that the legislature of Georgia passud an act
which forbid their being recorded.
But by the laws of Georgia, a deed, though not recorded within the time prescribed by law, remains valid
between the parties; and, were it even otherwise, it
might well be doubted whether this deed would not retain all the validity it possessed when executed, since
its being recorded is rendered impossible by act of law.
Could it even be'admitted that the deeds passed only
an equitalle estate, it might well be doubted, whether the Georgia Company, as plaintiffs in equity,
could, under all the circumstances of this case, stand
on better ground than if their deed had operated as
they intended it should operate.

Vot,. IV.

37

290

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But the Court considers the title at law as pass
Brown
sing by'the deeds to the New.-England Company,
and remaining with them, although those deeds were
Gilmnan.
not recorded. If this opinion be correct, even
admitting the law of England respecting the lien of
vendors for the purchase money after the execution of a-deed to be the law of Georgia, a point
No lien was which we do not mean to decide, we think it perretained, or intended to be fectly clear that no lien was retained, and none inretained,
in
this cue.
tended to be retained, in this case.
It must have been well known to the Georgia'
'Company, tOat the purchase was made for the purpose of reselling the lands; and, of consequence, that
it was of great im portance to the purchasers to have
a clear unincumbered title; and the event that the
property might pass into other hands before the
whole purchase money was paid, was not improbable.
In the original agreement, an express stipulation
is made that the property shall remain liable for the
first payment, but that separate securities shall be
.taken for the residue of the purchase money.
1819.

The deed itself remains an escrow until the first
payment shall be made, and is then to be delivered
be retained to
a certain ex- as the deed of the parties; after which the vendors
tent, isa waivreof the lien consent to rely on the several notes of therespective
The express
that
the lien should

contract

toany greater.

,extent.

purchasers.

This is equivalent to a mortgage of

the premises, to secure the first payment, and a consent io relyon the separate notes of the purchasers,
for the residue of the purchase money. The express contract, that the lien shall be retained to a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

specified extent, is equivalent to a waiver of that lien

1819

to any greater extent.

The notes, too, for which the vendors stipulated,
are to be endorsed- by persons approved. by the-mselves. This is a collateral security, on which they.
relied, and which discharges, any implied -lien on the
land itself for the purchase money.
We think this, on principles of English law, a
clear case of exemption from lien.
Could this be doubted, it would not alter the obligation of the New-England Company, to Mrs. Gilman. If they were in the situation of purchasers
with notice, it must be with a very ill grace that they
set up against her particular interest, after having
induced her to purchase by the assurance that she
came into the Company on equal terms. If they
were purchasers without notice, the lien is gone.
We are unanimously of opinion, that the sum deducted from the claim of the New-England Company, by the commissioners, is chargeable on the fund
generally, not on the share of Mrs. Gilman particularly.
Some doubt was entertained on the question, whether Mrs. Gilman should recover from the parties to
tliis suit, her proportion of the money received by
them, or her proportion after deducting therefrom,
the sum she would be entitled to receive from those
members, who obtained an order from the commis-sioners, by which they received directly, and not
through the agents of the Company, the sums to
which they were entitled. The majority of the
Court directs me to say, that in this respect also, the

V.
Gilman.
Taking
collateral

ge.

cuitv fro the
pir-hnse mo.
neydisharges
tile ' implied
lien On, the
land.

292,
1819.

Y
]Brown

v.

Oiln.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

decree is right, and that the Comnpany, or their agents,

have the right to proceed againt those members for
y the

. p

what they have received beyond their just proportion of the whole sum awarded to the Company.
Decree affirmed, with costs.a
a This subject of lien for "unpaid 'purchase money, 'is So
fully discussed in the opinion of the Court below in this case,
,,that the following extract from that opinion, in Mr. Mason's
Reports, may be useful to the reader.
"The doctrine, that a lien exists on the land for the purchase money, which lies at the foundation of the decision of
the commissioners, as well as of the present defence, deserves
a very deliberate consideration.. It can hardly be doubted,
that this doctrine was borrowed. fromthe text of the civil law ;*
and though it may now be considered as settled, as between the
vendor. and the vendee, and all claiming under tie latter with
notice of the non-payment of the purchase money, yet its
establishment may be referred to a comparatively recent period. Lord Eldon has given us an historical review of all
the cases, in Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Vez. 29. from which
First, That, genehe deduces the following inferences.
rally speaking, there is such a lien. Secondly, That in
those general cases, in which there would be a lien, as between vendor and vendee, the vendor will have the lieti against
.athird.person, who had notice, that the money was not paid.
These two points, he adds, seem to be clearly settled ; and the
vendidi non aliter accipientis quam si Rut pretium:nobis solutum sit,
"Quod
aut satis eo nomine factum, vel etiam fidem habuerimus emptori sine ulla satisfac1. it. 2. I. 3. 1. 1. But this lien
tione.". Dig. Lib. 18.fit. 1. 1. 19.-Domat. lib.
was lost, by the civil law, not only by taking a separate security from the purchaser, as a surety or pledge, &c. but also, by giving a term of credit to him. For
Justinian, after laying down the rule in the Institutes thus, "Vendit e vero res et'
tradite, non aliter emptori acquiruntur, quam si is venditori pretium solverit, vel
altomodio el astisfecerit, vedui expromnssore aut pignore data :"8fc. adds, ."sed.
statim rem emptoris
dicendum est
si is qui vendidlt fidern empieris sequutuw fiuerit,
Jf,'i." Inst. L 2. f.I. De Rerun Divis. s. 41. PoLh esr, .a Fente, No. 322, W.
.Pothier's Pandeds, Tom. 3. p. i07.

. OF THE UNITED STATES.

293

1819.
same conclusibn has been adopted by a very learned chancel.
Rep.
Ch.
I
Johns.
v.
Green,
Garson
country.
own
lor of our
Brown
308. The rule, however, is manifestly founded oa a supposed
V.
Gilmai,
which
the
upon
parties,
of
the
intentions
conformity with the
law raises an implied contract; and therefore it is not inflexible,
but ceases'to act, where the circumstances of the case do not
justify such a conclusion. What circumstances shall have such
an effect, seems indeed to be matter of a good deal of delicacy
and difficulty; and the difficulty is by no means lessened by the
.subtle-doubts and distinctions of recent authorities. It seems
indeed to lie established, that primafacie the purchase money
is a lien on the land ; and it lies on the purchaser to show, that
the vendor agreed to waive it; (Hughes v. Kearney, I ScP54.
L'ef. 132. Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Vez. 329. Garson v.
Green, I Johns. Ch.. Rep. 308. ;) and a receipt for the purchase
money, endorsed upon the 'conveyance, is not sufficient to -repel this presumption of law. But how far the taking a distinct
security for the pufchase money shall be held to be a waiver-of
the implied lien, has been a vexed question.
There is a pretty strong, if not decisive current of authority,
to lead us to the conclusion, that merely taking the bond, or
note, or covenant of the vendee himself, for the purchase money, will not repel the lien ; for it may be taken to countervail the receipt of the payment usually endorsed on the conveyance. (Hughes v. Kearney, 1 Sch. 4-Lef. 132. Nairn v. Prowse,
6 Vez. 752. Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Vez. 329. Blackburn v.
Gregson, 1 Bro. C. C. 420. Garson v. Green, 1 Johns. Ch. Rep.
308. Gibbons v. Baddall, 2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 682. Coppin v.
Cqppin, 2. P. Will. 291. Cases cited in Sugden on Vendors,
ch. 12. p. 352, &c.) But where a distinct and independent security is taken, either of property or of the responsibility of
third persons, it certainly admits of a very different consideration. There the rule may-properly apply, that expressumfacit
cessare taciturn; and where the party has carved out his 'own
security, the law will not create another in aid. This was
*manifestly the opinion of Sir William Grant in a recent case;
where he asks, "If the security be totally distinct and independent, will it not then become a case of substitution for the

294
1819.
• vBrown
Gilman.

CASES IN THE SUPREME ,COURT
lien, instead of a credit given because of the lien?" And be
then puts the case of a mortgage on another estate for the putchase money,,which he holds a discharge of the lien, and asserts, that the same rule must hold with regard to any other
pledge forthe purchase money. Nairn v. Prowse, 6 Vez. 752.
And the same doctrine was asserted in a. very early case,
where a mortgage was taken for a part only of the purchase
money, and a note for the residue,. Bond v. Kent, 2 Vern. 281.
Lord Eldon, with his characteristic inclination to doubt, has
hesitated upon the extent of this doctrine. He seems to con.
sider, that whether the taking of a distinct security will have
the effect of waiving the implied lien, depends altogether upon
the circumstances of each case, and that no rule can be laid
down universally ; and that, therefore, it is impossible for any
purchaser to know, without the judgment of a Court, in what
cases a lien would, and in what cases it would not, exist. His
language is, " If, on the other hand, a rule has prevailed, (as it
,seems to me,) that it is to depend, not upon the circumstance
of taking a security, but upon the nature of the. security, as
amounting to evidence, (as it is sometimes called,) or to declaration plain, or manifest'intention, (the expression used on
other occasions,) of a purpose to rely not any longer upon the
estate, but upon the personal credit of the individual ; it is
-obvious, that a purchaser taking a security, unless by evidence,
mnanifest intention, or declaration plain, he shows his purpose,
cannot know the situation in which he stands, without the
judgment of a Court, how far that security does contain the
evidence,, manifest intention, or declaration plain upon that
point." Mackreth v. Symmons, 15 Vez. 329. 342. Austin v.
.Halsey, 6 Ves. jr. 475.
If indeed this be the state of the law upon this subject, itis
reduced to a most distressing uncertainty. But, on a careful
examination of all the auth6rities, I do.not find a single case,
in which it has been held, if the vendor takes-a personal collateral security, binding others as well as the vendee, as, for instance, a bond or note with a surety or an endorser, or a collaterial security by way of pledge or mortgage, that under such
tircumstances a lien exists on the land itself. The only case,

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

295

1819.
that looks that way, is Elliot v. Edwards, 3 Bos. 4- Pull 181.;
Where, as Lord Eldon says, the point.was not decided; and it %
Brown
was certainly a case depending upon its own peculiar circumGilman.
stipulated
have
to
seem
might
stances, where the surety himself
for the lien,'by requiring a coVeinant against an assignment of
the premis'es, .without the joint consent of himself and the
vendor. Lord Redesdale, too, has thrown out an intimation,
Hughes v. Kearney, 1 Sch. &"Lef. 132., that it must appear,
that the vendor relied on it as security ; and he puts the case,.
"Suppose bills given as part of the purchase money, and suppose them drawn on an insolvent house, shall the acceptance of
such bills discharge the vendor's lien ? They are taken not as
In my humble judga security, but as a mode of payment."
ment, this is begging the whole question. If, upon the con-,
tract of purchase, the money is to be paid in cash, and bills of
exchange are.afterwards taken in payment, which turn out-unproductive, there the receipt of the bills may be considered as
a mere mode of payment.. But if the original contract is, that
the purchase money shall be paid ata future day, and accept-.
ances of third persons are to be taken for it, payable at such
future day, or a bond with surety payable at such future day, I do
not perceive how it is possible to assert, that the acceptances ofbond are not relied on as security. It is sufficient, however,
that the case was not then before his lordship ; and that he admits, that taking a distinct security would be a waiver of the lien.
On the other hand, there are several cases in which it is laid
down, that if other security be taken, the implied lien on the
land is gone. To this effect certainly the case of Fawell v.
Heelis, .Rmb. R. 724. 8. C.-2 Dick. 485. is an authority, however it may, on its own circumstances, have beeni shaken ; and
the doctrine is explicitly asserted and acted upon in Nairn v.
Prowse, 6 Ves. jr. 752. See, also, Bond v. Kent, 2 Vern. 381.
'Inour own country, a very venerable judge of equity has recognized the same doctrine. He says, " The doctrine that the
vendor of land, not taking a security, nor making a conveyance,
retains a lien upon the property, is so well settled as to be received as a maxim. Even if he hath made a conveyance, yet
he may pursue the land in the possession of the vendee, or of a

296

CASES INTHE SUPREME C6URT
11

Brown
Gilman.

purchaser with notice. But ifhe hath taken a security, or the
vendee bath sold to a third person without notice, the lien is
lost. Cole v. Scott. 2 Wash. Rep. 141. Looking to the principie, upon which the original doctrine of lien is established, I
have no hesitation to declare, that taking the security of a third
person for the purchase money, ought to be held a complete
waiver of any lien upon the land ; and that, in a case standing
upon such a fact, it would be very difficult to bring my mind to
a different conclusion. At all events, it is primafacie evidence
of a .waiver, and the onus is on the vendor to prove, by the most
cogent and irresistible circumstances, that it ought not to have
that effect.
. Such was the result of my judgment upon an examination of
the authorities, when a very recent case before the Master of
lhe Rolls first came to my knowledge. I have perused it with
great attention, and it has not, in any degree, shaken my opinion. The case there was of acceptances of the yendee,
and of his partner in trade, taken for the payment of the purchase money. It was admitted, that there was np case of a security given by a third person, in which the lien had been held
to exist. But the Master of the Rolls, without deciding what
would be the effect of a security, properly so denominated, of a
third person, held, in conformity to'the opinion of Lord Redesdale, that bills of exchange were merely a mode of payment,
and not a security. This conclusion he drew from the nature
of such bills, considering them as mere orders on the acceptor
to pay the money of the drawer to the payee; and that the acceptor was to be considered, not as a surety for the debt of another, but as paying the debt out of the debtor's funds in his
hands.. Grant v. Mills, 2 Ves. 4.Beamies' Rep. 306. With this
-conclusion .of the Master of the Rolls, I confess myself not satisfied, and desire to reserve myself for the case, when it shall
.arise in judgmenL It is founded on very artificial reasoning,
and not always supported in point of fact by the practice of the
'commercial world. The distinction, however, on which it proceeds, admits, by a very strong implication, that the security of
a third person would repel the lien. If, indeed, the point were
.new, there Would be much-reason to contend, that a distinct'sd,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
qurity of the party himself would extinguish the lien on the
land, as it certainly does the lien upon personal chattels. (Cowell v. Simpson, 16 Ves. jr. 276.) In applying the doctrine to
the facts of the present case, I confess, that I have no difficulty
in pronouncing against the existence of a lien for the unpaid
part of the purchase money. The property was a large mass
of unsettled and uncultivated lands, to which the Indian title
was not as yet extinguished. It was, in the necessary contemplation of all parties, bought on speculation, to be sold out to
sub-purchasers, and ultimately to settlers. The great objects
of the speculation would be materially impaired and embarrassed by any latent incumbrance,,the nature and extent of which
it might not always be easy to ascertain, and which might, by a
subdivision of the property, be apportioned upon an almost infinite number of purchasers. It is not supposable, that so obvious a consideration should not have been within the view of
the parties ; and, viewing it, it is very difficult to suppose they
could mean to create such an incumbrance. A distinct and independent security was taken by negotiable notes, payable at a
future day. There is no pretence, that the notes were a mere
mode of payment, for the endorsers were, by the theory of the
law, and, in fact, conditional sureties for the payment ;. and in
this respect the case is distinguishable from that of receiving
bills of exchange, where, by the theory of the law, the acceptor
is not a surety, but merely pays the money of the drawer in
pursuance of his order. (Hughes v. Kearney, 1 Sch. 4- Lef.
132.-Grant v. Mills, 2 Ves. 4- Beasnes' Rep.306.) The secu.
rities themselves were, from their negotiable nature, capable
of being turned immediately into cash, and in their transfer from
hand to hand, they could never have been supposed to draw
after them, in favour of the holder, a lien on the land for their
payment. But I pass over these, -rid some other peculiar circumstances of this case, and put it upon the broad and general
doctrine, that here was the security of a third person, taken as'
such, and that extinguished any implied lien for the purchase
money." (1 Mason's Rep. 212.)

VOL. IW.

27
1819.
Brown
V.
Gilmarf.

