OF THE UNITED STATES.
moiety shall be given, to such officer."

Then follow provi-

sions concerning the distribution, where the recovery hasbeen
j tad in pursuance of information g'iven by an informer, or by
any officer of a revenue cutter.

--.

1819.
Williams
V.
Peytot,

*,:o-.--.

(COAMONr
LA11P.)

WILLIAMS

(4

(11. V. PEYTON'S lessee.

in the case of a naked power, not coupled with an interest, the law
requires that every pre-requisite to the exercise of that power
should precede it.
The party who sets up a title must furnish the evidence necessary to
support it. If the validity of a deed depends on an act in pais, the
party claiming under it is as much bound to prove the performance
of the act, as he would be bound to prove any matter of record on
which the validity of the deed might depend.
In the case of lands sold for the non-payment of taxes, the Marshal's
deed is not even primafacie evidence, that the pre-requisites required by law have been complied with; but the party claiming under it must show positively that they have been complied with.

THIs

cause was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr.
Talbot, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Taylor,
for the defendant in error.

Feb. 2d.

The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr.

Feb. 8t,.

Chief Justice MARSHALL.
This is an ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
for the district of Kentucky, by the original patentee,
against a purchaser at a sale made for non-payment
of the direct tax, imposed by the act ofCongress of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

the 14th of July, 1798, c. 92. After the plaintiff in
the
l
William
s Circuit Court had exhibited his title, the defendV. ants gave inevidence the books of the supervisorof
r'eyton, the district, showing,that the tax on the lands in controversy had been charged to the plaintiffs, and that
they had been sold for the non-payment thereof. They
also gave in evidence a deed executed by the Marshal of the district, in pursuance of the act of March
3d, 1804, and proved by Christopher Greenup, the
agent of the plaintiff; that there were tenants on the
land, and that he did not pay the tax, nor redeem
the land.
Upon this evidence, the Court, on the motion of
the plaintiff, instructed the jury, " that the purchaser
under the sale of lands for the non-payment of the
direct tax, to make out title, must show that'the collector had advertised the land, and performed the
other requisites of the law of Congress, in that case
provided, otherwise he made out no title." The dethndants then moved the Court to instruct the jury,
"that the deed and other evidence produced by them,
and herein mentioned, was primafacieevidence that
the said land had been advertised, and the other requisites of the law of Congress, as to the duty of the
collector, in that respect, had been complied with :"
but the Court refused to give the instruction ; and,
on the contrary, instructed the jury, " that said deed,
and other evidence, was not prima facie evidence
that the said land had been advertised according to
law, nor that the requisites of the law had been complied with."
The defendants excepted to this opinion. The
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and the judg1819.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
ment rendered on that verdict is now before this
WamsftWilliams
Court on writ of error.
,
sell
to
authority
general
no
has
As the collector
Peytoni.
the
of
non-payment
the
lands at his discretion for
direct tax, but a special power to sell in the particular cases described in the act, those cases must exist,
or his power does not arise. It is a naked power,
not coupled with an interest; and in all such cases,
the law requires that every pre-requisite to the exercise of that power must precede its exercise; that the
agent must pursue the power, or his act will not be
sustained by it.
This general proposition has not been controverted ; but the plaintiffs in error contend, that a deed
executed by a public officer, is primafacie evidence,
that every act which ought to precede that deed had
preceded it. That this conveyance is good, 'unless
the party contesting it can show that the officer failed to perform his duty.
It is a general principle, that the party who sets up
a title must furnish the evidence necessary to support it. If the validity of a deed depends on an act
in pais, the party claiming under that deed is as
much bound to prove the performance of the act, as
he would be bound to prove any matter of record
on which its validity might depend. It forms a part
of his title; it is a link in the chain which is essential.
to its continuity, and which it is incumbent on him
to preserve. These facts should be examined by
him before he becomes a purchaser, and the evidence
of them should be preserved as a necessary mun;ment of title. If this be true in the general, is there

CASES IN THE, SUPREME COURT
1819.

Williams

v.

Pyton.

any thing which will render the principle inapplicable to. the case of lands sold for the non-payment of
taxes? In the act of Congress, there is no declaration that these conveyances shall be deemed prina
facie evidence.of the validiiy of the sale. Is the ni.ture of the transaction such, that a Court ought to
presume in its favour any thing which does not appear, or ought to relieve the party claiming, under it
from the burthen of proving its correctness?
The duties of the public officer are prescribed in
the 9th, 10th, and 13th sections of the act of the
14th of.July, 1798, c. 92.a If these duties be exa Which provides, sec. 9. " That each of the said -collectors
shall, immediately after receiving his collection list, advertise,
by notifications, to bpeposted, up in at least four public places in
each collection district, that tl~e said tax has become due and
payable. and the times and places at which he Will attend to receive the same ; and, in respect to persons who shall not attend according to such notifications, it shal be the duty of each
collector to apply once at their respective dwellings, within
such district, and there demandthe taxes payable by, such
persons : and if the taxes shall not be then paid, or within
twenty days thereafter, it'shall be lawful for such collector to
proceed to collect the said taxes by distress and sale of the
goods, chatteis, or effects, of the persons delinquent, as afore-,
said, with a commission of eight per cent. upon the said taxes,
to and for. the use of such collector: Provided, That it-shall not
be lawful to make distress of the tools or implements of a
trade or profession, beasts of the 'plough necessary for the cultivation of improved lands, arms, or the household utensils, or
apparel, necessary for a fomily." And, sec. 13, " That-when
any tax assessed on lands or houses, shall have remained unpaid for the term of one year, the collector of the collection
district, within which such land or houses may be situated,

OF THE UNITED.STATES.-

amined, they will be found t6 be susceptible-of complete proof on the part of the officer, and conse-

Williams

quently on the part of the purchaser, who ought

Peyto-.

for a reato preserve the evidence of them, at least,
sonable time. Their chief object is to give full notice to the proprietor, and furnish him with every
facility for the voluntary payment of the tax, before
resort should be had to coercive means. Ih some
instances the proprietor would find it extremely difficult, if not impracticable, to prove that the officer
had neglected to give him the notice required by
law, It is easy, for example, to show that the col-,
havjng first adVertised the same for two months, in six different public places within the said district,- and in the two gazettes in the State, if there be so many, one of which shall ba
the gazette in which the laws of such State shall be published
by authority, if any such there be, shall proceed to sell, at
public sale, and under the direction of the inspector of the
survey, either lhe dwelling house, or so much of the tract of
land, (as the case may be;,), as may be necessairy to satisfy the
taxes due thereon, togetheir with costs and charges, not exceedini at the rate of one per centum, for each and every
month the said tax shall have remained due and unpaid:
Provided, that in all cases where any lands or tenements shall
be sold, as aforesaid, the owner ofthersaid lands or tenements,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, shall have liberty to redeem the same, at any time within two yeats from -the -time of'
sale, upon payment, or tender of' payment, to' the colrebtor for
the-time being, for the- use of the purchaser hiWs
heirs,,.or assignees, of the amount-of the said taxes, costs, and charges,
with interest for the same, at the rate of twelve pe' centum
per-anntii ;' and upot the" payment, or tender of.paytbent, -as
~fresaid, suh sale shalbe void.. And no deed. shall be given,
in purtuance", of .any-such sale, :until the time of redempti
shall have expired."
1 Vo.' IV..

189.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

lector has posted up the necessary notifications in
Williams four public places in his collection district, as is required by the 9th section, but very difficult to show
'Peyton
that he has not. He may readily prove that he has
made a personal demand on the person liable for the
tax, but the negative, in many cases, would not admit of proof.
The 13th section permits the collector, when the
tax shall have remained unpaid for the term of one
year, having first advertised the same for two months
in six different public places within the said district,
and in two gazettes in the State, if there be 'so many,
one of which shall be the gazette in which the laws
of such State shall be published by authority, if any.
suchtthere be, to proceed to sell, &c.
The purchaser ought to preserve these gazettes,
and the proof that these publications were made. It
is imposing no greater hardship on him to iequire it,
than it is to require him to prove, that a power of attorney, in a case in which his deed has been executed by an attorney, was really given by the principal. But to require from the original proprietor
proof that these acts were not performed by the collector, would be to impose on him a task always
difficult, and sometimes impossible to be performed.
Although this question may not have been expressly, and in terms decided in this Court, yet decisions
have been made which seem to recognize it. In the
case of Stead's Executors v. Course," in which Was
drawn into question the validity of a sale made under
the tax laws of the state of Georgia, this Court said,
"it is incumbent on the vendee to prove the authority
1819.

a 4 Cranch, 403.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

to sell."

And in Parker v. Rule's Lessee," where a

1819.

sale was declared to be invalid, because it did not ap-

pear in evidence, that the publications required by the .
9th section of the act, had been made, the Court inferred, that they had not been made, and considered
the case as if proof of the negative had been given by
the plaintiff in ejectment. The question, whether
the deed was primdfacie evidence, it is true, was not
made in that case; but its existence was too obvious
to have escaped either the Court or the bar. It was
not made at the bar, because counsel did not rely on
it, nor noticed by the judges, because it was not supposed to create any real difficulty.
It has been said in argument, that in cases of sales
under the tax laws of Kentucky, a deed is considered by the Courts of that state, as prima facie evidence that the. sale was legal. Not having seen the
case or the law, the Court can form no opinion on
it. In construing a statute of Kentucky, the decisions of the Courts of Kentucky would unquestionably give the rule by which this Court would be
guided; but it is the peculiar province of this Court
to expound the acts, of congress, and to give the rule
by which they are to be construed.
Judgment affirmed, with costs.
a 9 Cranch, 64.

v.
Peyton,

