OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
evidence. Under what circumstances these rules permit the
11.
vol.
a;te,
seen,
be.
may
depositions,
and
papers
invocation of
Weigh:man
Jppendix, note 1. p. 23.
V.
Caldwell.

(COluON LAW.)

WEIGHTMAN V. CALDWELL.
,. B. C., having an interest in a cargo at sea, agreed with J. W. for

the sale of it, and J. V. signed the following agreement in writing:
" J. W. agrees to purchase the share of E. B. C. in the cargo of
the ship Aristides, W. P. Z., supercargo, say at 82,522 83, at

fifteen per cent. advance on said amount, payable at five month,
from this date, and to give a note or notes for the same, with an
approved endorser." In compliance with this agreement, 3. W.
gave his notes for the sum mentioned, and in an action upon the
notes, the want of a legal consideration under the statute of frauds
being set up as a defence, on the ground of the defect-of mutuality
in the written contract; the Court below left it to the jury to infer

from the evidence an actual performance of the agreement, the
jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and the Court below rendered
judgment thereon. The judgment was affirmed by this Court.

ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of

Columbia.
This cause was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr. Key,
for the plaintiff in error,a and by Mr. Caldwell, and
Mr. Swann, for the defendant in error.'
a They cited Wain v. Warlters, 5 East, 10. Champion v.
Plummer, 1 N ew Rep. 252. Symonds v. Ball, 8 T. R. 151.
Saunderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos. 4' Pid. 238. Bayley and Bo-

VASES IN THE SUPREM9 COURT
1819.
Weightman

v.,

Caldwell.

Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of the
The suit below was instituted on a promissory note by the defendant in error. Although it is,
in fact, an indorsed note, and so declared on ; yet it

SCourt.

is admitted to have originated in a negociation between the maker and indorser, and whatever defence
would be good as against the promisee, is admitted to
be maintainable against this indorser, the indorser
standing only on the ground of a security or ordinary
collateral undertaker to the maker. The defence set
up is the statute of frauds, not under the supposition
that a promissory note is a contract within the statute, but on the ground that this note was given for
a consideration which was void under the statute.
The case was this: Caldwell having an interdst in a
cargo afloat, agrees with Weightmai for the sale of
it, and Weightman signs the following memorandum,
expressive of the terms of their agreement: " John
Weightman agrees to purchase the share or interest
of Elias B. Caldwell, in the cargo of.the ship Aristides, W. P. Zantzinger, say, $2,522 83, at fifteen per cent. advanced, on said amount, payable
at five months from this date, and to give a note or
notes for the same, with an approved indorser.
JOHN WEIGHTMAN.
"JWashington,May 20, 1816."

gert v. Ogdens, 3 Johns. Rep. 399.

Roberts on Frauds, 113.

116.

b They cited Ballard v. Waller, 3 Johns. Cas. 60. Leonard
Slingerland v. Morse,
v. Vredenburgh, 8 Johns. Rep. 29.
Ves. 189. Roberts on
14
Minet,
7 Johns. Rep. 463. Exparge
Frauds, 117. Note, 58. lb. 121. Stapp v. Lill 1 Camp, N.
P. R. 242.

'OF THE ,UNITED 'STATES.

In compliance with that agreement, Weightman
gives his note for the sum agreed upon, which is afterwards renewed, and this note taken, on which this

action is-instituted. At the trial below, Weightman's
counsel moved the Court to instruct the jury, that,
1 If no bargain or agreement for the sale of the plaintiff's share of the said ship Aristides, nor any note or
memorandum in writing, of the same, was ever sigAed by the plaintiff, binding him in writing to sell his
said share to defendant, and if defendant did never actually receive or accept any part of said cargo,
and gave nothing in earnest to bind said bargain, or
in part payment, and if plaintiff has never made or
tendered any written transfer or bargain of his said
share to the defendant; but if the entire obligation, reciprocally binding plaintiff to sell said share,
was verbal, and formed the sole consideration for the
said note, then there is no adequate consideration for
the said note, and plaintiff is not entitled to recover
upon said note. This instruction the Court refused to
give ; but instructed the jury, that, if they should be
of opinion, from the evidence, that the defendant executed and delivered to the plaintiff the note upon
which this action is brought, and that the said note
was given in consideration of the purchase of the
plaintiff'S share or interest in the said cargo of the
said ship Aristides, as stated in the aforesaid writing,
•&c., and that the said cargo was then on the high
seas on its passage from France to the United States,
and that the same has since arrived, and has never
come to-the possession of the plaintiff;
that the

181g.
WVeightman

V.

CASES IN T1E SUPREME COURT
1819.
Weightman

v.

Caldwell.

plaintiff had an interbst in the said cargo, anti that
the defendant never demanded of the plaintiff any
written assignment of his share of the said cargo,
then the statute of frauds is no bar to the plaintiff's
recovery, and that the said note is not, by reason of
the said statute, void, as being given without consideration.
Taking the charge prayed for, and the charge given,,
'together they appear to make out the following case:
The defendant moved the Court to instruct the
jury that the note which was he cause of action,
wa$ void for want of consideration; inasmuch as it
was given in, compliance with an agreement signed
by one party, and not the other, and which being unattended with any actual delivery of the article sold,
was, as he contended, void under the statute of
frauds. The Court, without denying the principles
laid down by the defendant, submit the whole case
to the jury; and instruct them, that, upon that -evidence they were at liberty to inter an actual execution of the agreement by both parties, and thus take
the case entirely out of the operation- of the statute
of frauds. Under this construction of the bill of exceptions, for it must, like all other instruments, be
the subject of construction, we are decidedly of
opinion, that the judgment below must ,be affirmed.
Wrhether right or wrong, the defendant had all the
benefit of the law that his case admitted of, and, there-aI
upon to express,
fore, this Court is ht called
judgment on its :correctness. The Court :below
wereclearly right in submitting the question of exe-,
cution-to the jury. If there had ever been a doubt

OF THE UNITED STATES.:

1819.
entertained on this point it is now removed by numeWeghme
rous adjudications.
•
" Weightman
V.
Judgment affirmed.'
'
Caldwell,
a The 17th section of the statute of frauds, 29 Car. 11. c. 3.
which has been incorporated into the laws of most of the States,
provides, " that no contract for the sale of any goods, wares,
and merchandizei, for the price of 10 pounds or upwards, shall
be good, except the buyer shall accept part of the goods, and
actually receive the same, or give something in earnest to bind
the bargain, or in part payment, or that some note or memorandum in writing of the bargain be made and signed by the parties to be charged by the contract, or their agents thereunto
lawfully authorized."
[That no contractfor the sale, 4,c.] -It was formerly'supposed,
that executory contracts, (that is, where time is given for the
delivery of the goods,) were not within this section of the statute ; but that it only related to executed.contracts, or where
the goods were to be delivered immediately after the sale.
Towers v.. Osborhe, Str. 506. Clayton v. Andrews, 4 Burr.
2101. But this distinction has been since exploded ; and it is
now settled, that where the goods bargained for are complete,
and e isting insolido, ready for delivery at the time of the contract, it is within the statute ; but that where they are not complete and ready for delivery, but are either to be made, or work
and labour is required to be done, and materials found, in order
to put them into the state in which they are contracted to be
sold, such a contract is out of the statute,
and need not be in
writing. Rondeau v. Wyatt, 2 H. Bl. 63. Bennett v. Hull.
10 Johns. Rep. 364. Groves v. Duck, 3 Maule 4- Selw. 178.
Cooper v. Elston, 7.7. R. 14.
[Of any goods, wares, and mnerchandizes, 4-c.] Qucere, whe.
ther shares of a company or public stock, -re comprehended
under the words " goods, wares, and merchandizes." Pickering v. Appleby, Com. R. 354. Mussell v. Cooke, Prec. in
Chan. 533. Rob. on Frauds, 185. Colt v. Netterville, 2 P.
Mrns.' 307. This point, appears never to have been decided'
VOL. IV.
12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1019.
*v

[Excepi the buyer shall accept part of the goods, and actually
receive the same, 4-c.j A'delivery without an ultimate accept-

Weightmas
and such as completely affirms the contract, is not suffiV. ,ance,
Caldwell. cient. Kent v. Huskinson, 3 Bos. & Pull. 233. Where the
goods are ponderous, or from some other circumstance incapable of being immediately handed over from one to another,
there need not be an actual acceptance of the goods by the
vendee, but a symbolical delivery will be sufficient to dispense
With a written agreement signed by the parties. Searle v.
Keeves, 2 Esp. N. P. C. 598. Anderson v. Scott, I Camp. .
P. 235. note. Chaplin v. Rogers, 1 East, 195. Hinde v.
Whitehouse, 7 East, 558. Elmore v. Stone, I Taunt. 458.
Vide ante,' vol. I. p. 84. note d. And in the sale of a ship or
goods at sea, (like the principal case in the text,) the delivery is
always by such symbohcal means as the circumstances allow.
Ex parte Matthews, 2 Ves. 272. Atkinson v. Maling, 2 T. R.
462. Ex parte Batson, 3 Bro. Ch. Cas. 362. So, if the purchaser deals with the commodity as if it were in his actual possession, it is considered as an acceptance. Chaplin v. Rogers,
1 Eqst, 192. And it is no objection to a constructive delivery
of goods, that it is made by words parcel of the parol contract
of sale. If, therefore, a man bargain for the purchase of goods,
and desire the vendor to keep them in possession for a special
purpose for the vendee, and the vendor accept the order, it is
a sufficient delivery within the statute of frauds. Elmore v.
Stone, 1 Taunt. 458. But the delivery of a sample, if it be
considered.as no part of the bulk, is not a delivery within the
statute. Cooper v. Elston, 7 T. R. 14. But if the sample be
delivered as a part of the bulk, it then binds the contract. Tal.
ver v. West, I Holt's R. 178. And qu&,re, whether part, performance of the agreement will take the case out of the statute
at law ? There is a dictum to that effect by Mr. Justice Buller,.
in Brodie v., St. Paul, I res. jun. 433. ; but it is. denied by
Lord ELDON, in Cooth v. Jackson, 6 ,es. 3A., and by Mr. Chief
Justice (now Chancellor) KENT, in Jackson v. Pierce, 2 Johns.,
Rep. 224; and the principle is considered as a~plicable in a
Court of Equity only. But in the principal case in the text
there was a complete execution of the agreement, as far as

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1819.
practicable, the goods being at sea, and only capable of a symbolical delivery."
V. [Or give somnething in earnest•to bind the bargain, or in 'part Weightrnas
payment.] Where the defendant, on the purchase of a horse, Cidwell.
offered the plaintiff's servant a shilling to bind the bargain,
which was returned ; this was held not to be a sufficient compliance with the statute. Blenkinsop v. Clayton, I B..Moore's R,
328.
[Or that some note or memorandum in writing of the bargain
be made, &c.] Under the 4th section of the statute, which provides that no('action shall be brought in certain cases, unless
"the agreement upon which such action shall be brought, or
some memorandum or note' thereof, shall be in writing, and
signed by the party to be charged therewith, or some other
person thereunto by him lawfully authorized," it has been held,
in a celebrated case, that the term " agreement" includes the
consideration upon which the promise is founded, and that,
therefore, it is necessary the consideration should be expressed
upon the face of the written memorandum. Wain v. Warlters,
5 East, 10. S. P. Sears v. Brink, 3 Johns. Rep. 210. But
this strictness of construction is not applied to a contract for the
sale of goods under the 17th section, the word " bargain" being there substituted for agreement, and it is thus distinguished
from the 4th section. Egerton v. Matthews, 6 East, 307. Indeed, the case of Wain v. Warlters itself has been questioned
by high judicial authority, ,(per Lord ELDON, ex parte Minet,
Ves. 286.) and by very emi14 Jres. 189.,.and exparteGordon, lIr
nent elementary writers. Roberts on Frauds, 117, note 58. Fell
on.Mercantile Guaranties,246. Appendix No. IV. And it manifestly did not meet the approbation of Lord Chief Justice.
GiBns, in' Minis v. Stacey, (1 Holt's.R. 153.) who said, " do not
think it necessary in this case to overrule the decision in Waine.
V. Warlters." It is also doubted by Mr. Chief.Justice PARSONS,
in Hunt v. Adamson, 5 Mas. R. 358. It has been expressly held,
that no engagement need appear on the face of the memorandum in writing, on the part of the person to whom the proine is made, to do that which is the consideration for
the other
the con-'
of
mdtuality
the
party's promise. In other words,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tract need not appear on the face of the memorandum. It i.
1819.
%.',-v-60 sufficient that the party to whom the promise is made, in point
of facti does that, which is the consideration for the other parWeightman
V.

CaidwelI

ty's undertaking. Stapp v. Lill, Camp. X. P. 242. Egerton
v. Matthews, 6 East, 307. And in the princilal case in the
text, (Weightman v. Caldwell,) the actual performance of that
which was the consideration of the other party's undertaking,
was properly left by the Court to the jury, as a question of
fact. Printing or writing with a lead pencil, is a sufficient wri.ting within the statute. Saunderson v.,Jackson, 2 Bos. 4. Pull.
238. Clasonv. Bailey, 14 .rohns. Rep. 484. Merrit v. Clason,
lf Johns. Rep. 102. A letter, by whomsoever written, and to
whomsoever :addressed, if written by-the assent-of one party,
for the.purpose of being communicated, .and actually communicated to the other,. is a note or memorandum in writing, within
the statute. Moore- v..Hart, 2 Ch. Rep. J47. I Pern. 110.
Hodgeon v. Hutchinson, 5 Vin. 5622. Coleman v. Upcott,
5Yi. 627. Wankford v. Fotherly, 2 Vern. 322. But a letter
not written to be communicated to the other party, nor actually communicated to him, is not a Fufficient note or memorandum. Ayliff v. Tracy, 2 P. Wins. 6:5. If, however, the letter
serforth the terms of anagreement, and recognize it as already
actually cbncluded by the party, although not written to the other
party, or with a view of being communicated'to him, it is suffi-cient. Welford v.. Beazeley, 3 A&t. 603. Afthough the letter
itself does not state the terms of the agreement, yet if it refers
to another paper that does, and the letter is -signed by the party
!to be charged, it is sufficient. Saunderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos.
Pul. ~238. Tawney v. Crowther, 3 Bro. C. Cas. 161. 318.
v. Cooke, 1 Scho.4 Lefr. 22. Nor is it material, whieC 6linn

ther the party writing the letter intended to recognize the previous written agreement.: It is sufficient if he does in fact recognize it as, a past transaction. S !nnderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos.
&1Wl.: 238. Coles v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. -234. 250. But eithr' the letter,, or the writing it refers- to, must contain the
terms of the agreement; and it is not sufficient that they merely recognize that there was some agreement. Clark v. Wright,
I,tk. 1. 1dse v, Cunningham, I1 Vaa. 540. Parkhurst v

OF THE UNITED STATES.

93

1819.
Van Cortlandt, I Johns. Oh. Rep. 273. And there mustbe such
a reference in the letter or other paper signed, to the one containing the contract, as to show the letter to be the contract, Weighta
referred to, without the interposition of parol evidence, except Caldwell.
merely as to thte identity of the paper. Brodie v. St. Paul,
Boydell v. Drummond, 11 East, 142.
I Ves. Jun. 333.
Clinan v. Cooke, I Scho. 4 Lefr. 29 Nor can parol testimony
be admitted to'contradict, add to, or substantially vary the note
or memorandum of the bargain. Binsted v. Coleman, Bunb.
65. Pantericke v. Powlet, 2 .1tk. 3.83. Meres v. Ansell, 3
Wain v.
Wils. 275. Preston v. Mercean, 2 W. BI. 1249.
Warlters, 5 East, 10. Rich v. Jackson, 4 Bro. Ch. Cos. 514.
Brodie v. St. Paul, 1 Ves. Jun. 333. Powell v.. Edmiunds,
12 East, 6. Parkhurst v. Var Cortlandt, l Johns. Ch. Re'p. 273.
But parol evidence is admissible with respect to the time, or
other circumstances of delivery, which, though not essential
parts of the contract, are frequently expressed in the memorandum, yet may be varied by paroi testimony of a subsequent
agreement. Warren v. Stagg, cited, 3 T. R. 591. Cuff v.
Penn, 1 Maule 4- Selw. 21. Keating v.'Price, 1 Johns. Cas. 22.
So, also, by the French law, (which reluires certain contracts
to be in writing,) it is held, that in a case where it becomes
necessary to show the place where the bargain was made it
not being expressed in the written memorandum, parol evidence
of that fact is admissible : " le lieu et le temps auquel un
marcbh est fiute n'etant que des circonstances extdrieurs de !a
convention contenue dans 'acte." Pothier, des Oblig. No. 761.
But Pothier observes, " Cette decision souffre difficult4." ib.
Where, however, a Court of Equity is called upon to decree a
specific performance, the party sought to be charged may
prove that, by reason of fraud, surprise, or mistake, the written
ingtrument does not correctly express the contract; or, that
after signing the written instrument, he made a verbal contract
varying the former, provided the variation has been acted
vpon, so that the original contract can no longer be enforced
without fraud upon the defendant. Clinan v, Cooke, I Scho.
& Lf. 39. Clarke v. Grant, 14 Ves. 524. Joyneg'v. Statham,
3 tk. 388. Marquis of Townsend v. Stangroom, 6 Ves, 328

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Woollam v. Hearn, 7 Ves. 211. As, however, the, Court of
Chancery in England d6es not-except in some peculiar cases,
enforce the specific performance of agreements relative 'to
Weightian
V.
1819.

~

Caldwell.

personal chattels, (vide ante, vol. I. p. 154. note a.) it is,conceived that fraud would not take a case of the sale of goods out
of the statute. Fraud will, undoubtedly, vitiate any agreement, whether required by the statute to be in writing or not;
but in the case of the sale of goods, ther is no instance either at
law or in equity, where fraud has been admitted as a ground
for setting up a contract not in writing, or to vary the terms of
a contract as expressed in the written memorandum.
[And signed,, 4"c.] The 'agreement or memorandum need
only be signed by that party who is sought to be charged. Hattonv.,Gray, 2 Johns. Ch. Gas. 164. Allen v. Bennett, 3 Taunt.
,169. -Fowlerv. Freeman, 9 Ves. 351. Seton v. Slade, 7 Ves.
265.. -Saunderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos. 4 Pu. 238. Cotton v.
Lee, cited, 2.Bro. Ch. Cas. 564. Ballard v. Walker, 3 Johns.
Cas. 60. Lawrenson v. Butler, I Scho. 4"Lefr. 13. In this
last case, Lord Redesdale expresses doubts as to those cases in
equity where nothing has been done in pursuance of the agreel
ment. But those doubts have not-been adopted by other
judgesQf equity. Western v. Russell, 3 Ves.- 4. Beames, 192.
Ormond v. Anderson, 2 Ball 4- Beatty, 370. ,Several of these'
cases arose upon contracts respecting the sale of lands under
the 4th section of the statute, where the words are, "signed by
the, prty to*'.be charged therewith ;", whereas, the Words
are in the 17th section, "signed by the parties to be charged
therewith. ' !, However, no distinction has been taken between
the~two sections as to this point; and in several cases on the
17th section, the objection that it tvas not signed by both parties,.has been expressly overruled. Allen v. Bennett, 3 Taunt.
169. Egerton v. Mathews, 6 East, 307. Champion v. Plu'mmer, 4 Bos. 4m Pul. 252. Schneider v. Norris, - .Maule 4
Selw. 286. Roget v. Merritt, 2 Caines' Rep. 117. Bailey v.
Ogden, 5 Johns. Rep. 399-i As to what is a sufficient signing, it is
settled,,that if the name of the party to be charged appears in
the note or memorandum, and is applicable to the whole 'substance of the writing, and is put there by him, or by his' autho-

96

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1919.
rity, it is immaterial in what part of the instrument the name
"
appears, whether at the top, in the middle, or at thebottom.
Weightman
It should, however, appear, that it was a complete agreem
or instrument, not merely the sketch of one, and unfinished Caldwell.
in its terms.' 'Fell on Guaranties, ch. 4. p. 69. pl. 3., Knight
v. Crockford, Esp. N. P. R. 190. Saunderson v. Jackson,
2 Bos. 4- Pul. 238. Welford v. Beazley, 3 ./itk. 503. Stokes v.
Moore, 1 P. Wins. 771. note. Lemaine v. Stanley, 2 Bos.
4, Pul. 238. Coles v. Trecotbick, 9 Fes. 239. Morrison Y.
Tumour, 18 Ves. 175. Clasonv. Bailey, 14 Johns. Rep. 484.
Making amark is a signing. Harrison v. Harrison, 8lVes. 185.
Addy v. Grix, ib. 504. Wright v. Wakeford, 17 Ves. 454.
And, qutrre, whether, if a party be in the habit of printing, instead of writing his name, the insertion of his name in print in a
bill of parcels, is not of itself a signing within the statute ?
Saunderson v. Jackson, 2 Bos. de Pul. 238. But, 'it all events,
if in a bill of parcels printed with the name of the vendor, he
insert the name of the vendee, this is a sufficient signing and
recognition of the printed signature to bind the vendor.
Schneider v. Norris, 2 .TIlaule 4. Sew. 286. And, queere, whether sealing, in the presence of a witness who attests it, is
equivalent to a signing within, the statute ? Lemaine v. Stan*'

ley, 3 Levinz, 1.

1 Roll. Ibr. 245. s. 25.

Sealing without

signing would certainly not be a good signature within the statute of wills. Wright v. Wakeford, 17 Yes. 454. Ellis v. Smith,
1 Ves. Jun. 11.
[By the parties to be charged by the contract, 4-c.] The word
party or parties to the contract is not to be construed party, as
to a deed, but person in general. Welford v. Beazley, 3 .Atk.
503. S. C. I Ves. 6. Therefore, where a party, or principal,
or person, to be charged, signs as a witness, he shall be bound.
This, however, is true only where such person is conusant
.of the contents of the agrcement,. and it would be a fraud on
the other party not to be bound by it. Welford v. Beazley,
3 A'tk. 503 S. C. 1 Ves. 6. Coles' v. Trecothick, 9 Ves. 234.
And if a person properly authorized as an agent to sign an
agreement, sign it as a witness, it is sufficient to bind his principal; if it appear that he knew the contents of the instrument

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

96
1819.

and signed it, recognizing it as an agreement binding on his
principal, as if he say, "witness

A. B. agent for the sellers,"

Weightman and the paper be signed by the purchaser or his agent. Colcs
I V.

Caldwell.

v. Trecothick, 8 Ves. 234. Lord -Eldon, indeed, in this case,
collects the doctrine to be, that where either the party himself,
or his agent, ascertains the agreement by a signature, not in the
body of the instrument, but in the form of an addition to it, that
signature, though not a signing as an agreement, yet sufficiently
ascertains the agreement, and is sufficient within the statute of
frauds. Ibid.
[Or their agents thereunto lawfully authorized.] The agent
who is authorized to sign, need not be constituted by writing.
Rucker v. Camayer, Esp. N. P. R. 105. Coles v. Trecothick,
9 Ves. 250. Laurenson v. Butler, 1 Scho. 4. Lefr. 13. Merritt
v. Clason, 12 Johns. Rep. 102. -As to who is ar agent lawlfully authorized, it has been, held, that a broker employed by
one person to sell goods, who agrees with another person for
the sale of them, and.makes out and signs a sale note, (containing the substance of the contract,) and delivers one to each
party, is a sufficient agent for both parties. Rucker v. Camay,
er, Esp. N. P. R. 105. And where a broker'had been em-

ployed by one party to sell, and by another to buy goods, and
had entered' and signed the terms of the contract in his
book, it was determined that such entry and signature was a

contract binding upon both parties ; although'one of them,
upon having a bought note sent to him, which Avas a copy of the
contract, immediately objected to the termsi and returned the
note. Hayman v. Neale, 2 Camp. XN.P. R. 337. An auctioneer who writes down the name of the purchaser at a publie sale, has also been considered the gent of both parties!
No doubt ever could be, whether he was the agent of the vendor, for that was quite clear-; and the cases turn on the point,
whether he is. also the agent of the purchascr ; and it is settled
in the affirmative. Simon v. Motivos, (or Mfetivier,) 3 Burr.
1 W. Bl: 599. Bull. X. P. 280. Rondeau v. Wyatt;
1921.
.2 H. Bl. 63. Hinde v. Whitehouse, 7 East, 558. Independently of.the circumstance, of the auctioneer being considered
as a sufficient agent of both parties, and his writing -down the

OF THE. UNITED STATES.

97

1819.
name of the purchaser as a sufficient memorandum and signa"
ture, it has been sometimes said, that sales at auction are not
Weightmabgi
•
V.
within the statute of frauds, on account of the peculiar solemnity of that mode of sale precluding the danger of perjury. Per Caldwell
Lord MANsFIELis and Mr. Justice WILMoT, in.Simon v. Motivos,
1 WV.Bl. 599. But this idea, is repudiated by Lord ELLEN-.
BOROUGH, in Hinde v. Whitehouse, (7 East, 568.) though he
does not question the principle, that the auctioneer is to be
considered as the agent of both parties, and his memorandum
as a sufficient note in writing ; but only denies, that auctions,
abstractedly considered, are not within the statute. (lb. 572.)
There is some slight difference in the phraseol6gy of the 4th
and 17th sections of the statute, which has been made the
ground of a supposed distinction, in this respect, between the
sale of lands, (which is included in the 4th section,) and the
sale of goods in the 17th. The nisi prius case of Symonds v.
Ball, (8 T. R. 151.) and Walker v. Constable, (I Bos. 4. Pil.
306.) seem to inculcate the doctrine, that the auctioneer writing down the name of the purchaser, is not sufficient to satisfy the statute in a sole of lands. (Buckmaster v. Harrop,
7 Ves 341 ) Lord Eldon, however, has questioned the authority of these cases in Coles v. Trecothick. (9 Ves. 249.)
And in White v. Proctor, (4 Taunt. 208.) it was expressly held,
that an auctioneer is, by implication, at) agent duly authorized to
sign acontract for lands on behalf of the highest bidder. (S. P. Emmerson v. Heelis, (2 Taunt. 28.) And that his writing down his
name in the, auction book is a sufficient signature to satisfy the
statute oIfrauds. (Id.) And whether the first mentioned cases are
to .be considered as Jaw, or not, in respect to a sale of lands, there
can be no doubt, that in a sale of goods, the auctioneer writing
down the name of the purchaser, is a signing by an authorized
agent of the parties.
But the agent must be some third person, and one of the contracting parties cannot be agent for the.
other. As where the plaintiff made a note of the bargain, and
the defendant overlooking him while he was writing it, desired
him to make an alteration in the price, which he accordingly
did. It was contended, that the defendant, who was the party
sought to be charged, had made the plaintiff his agent, for the

VOL. IV.

13

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
'ROUGH

The Sybil.

purpose of signing the memorandum. But Lord ELLENBOwas of opinion, that the agent must be some third person, and could not be either of the contracting parti'es ; and,
therefore, nonsuited the plaintiff. (Wright v. Dannah, 2 Camp.
N. P. R. 203. See also Bailey v. Ogden, 3 Johns. Rep. 399.)

(INSTANCE coURT.)

The SYBIL.-DANGERFIELD

et al., Claimants.

in a case of civil salvage, where under its peculiar circumstances, the
amountofsalvage is discretionary, appeals should not be encouraged
upon the ground of minute distinctions of merit, nor will the Court
reverse the decision of au inferior Court, unless it manifestly ippearsthat some important error has been committed.
The demand of the ship owners for freight and general .average, in such
a case, is to be pursued against that portion. of the proceeds of the
cargo which is adjudged to the owners of the goods, by a direct libel,
or petition; and not by a claim interposed in the salvage cause.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of South Caro-

lina.
This was a case of civil salvage, in which the District Court decreed a moiety of the net proceeds, as
salvage, to be distributed in certain proportions among
the~salvors; which was reversed by the Circuit Court
on appeal, and one fourth decreed as salvage, to be
divided among the respective salvors, in proportions
somewhat different from those ordered by the District Court.
The cause was submitted to this Court without
argument.
Feb. 01Uh.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi-'

