CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.
'ROUGH

The Sybil.

purpose of signing the memorandum. But Lord ELLENBOwas of opinion, that the agent must be some third person, and could not be either of the contracting parti'es ; and,
therefore, nonsuited the plaintiff. (Wright v. Dannah, 2 Camp.
N. P. R. 203. See also Bailey v. Ogden, 3 Johns. Rep. 399.)

(INSTANCE coURT.)

The SYBIL.-DANGERFIELD

et al., Claimants.

in a case of civil salvage, where under its peculiar circumstances, the
amountofsalvage is discretionary, appeals should not be encouraged
upon the ground of minute distinctions of merit, nor will the Court
reverse the decision of au inferior Court, unless it manifestly ippearsthat some important error has been committed.
The demand of the ship owners for freight and general .average, in such
a case, is to be pursued against that portion. of the proceeds of the
cargo which is adjudged to the owners of the goods, by a direct libel,
or petition; and not by a claim interposed in the salvage cause.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of South Caro-

lina.
This was a case of civil salvage, in which the District Court decreed a moiety of the net proceeds, as
salvage, to be distributed in certain proportions among
the~salvors; which was reversed by the Circuit Court
on appeal, and one fourth decreed as salvage, to be
divided among the respective salvors, in proportions
somewhat different from those ordered by the District Court.
The cause was submitted to this Court without
argument.
Feb. 01Uh.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opi-'

OF THE UNITED STATES.

nion of the Court. This is a case, in which, under
its-peculiar circumstances, the amount of salvage is
almost impossible
discretionary.' In such cases, it is
that different minds, contemplating the same Subject,
should not form different conclfisions as to the amount
of salvage to be decreed, and the mode of distribution., Appeals should not be encopiraged upon the
ground of minute distinctions; nor would this Court
choose to reverse the decision 6f a Circuit Court,
in this class of cases, unless it manifestly appeared,
that some important error had been committed. In
this particular case, the Courtis well satisfied, both
with the amount of salvage decreed by the Circuit
Court, and with the mode of distribution ; and the
decree is, therefore, affirmed, with costs.

18i9.

Decree affirmed.
A question afterwards arose, upon a claim of the
ship owners for freight, &c.
Mr. Justice JOHNSON delivered the opinion of Feb.20th.
the Court. In this case, the attention of the Court
has been particularly called to the claim, interposed
by the ship owners, for freight and average.
This Court, as at present advised, are very well
satisfied that no freight was earned, and that average
may have been justly claimed. But in the case then
depending, the Circuit Court could -not have awarded either of those demands. The question is inter
alios. There was no. pretext for claiming either, as
against the salvors; and the ship owners ought to

100
1819.

"'"The Caledonian.

gASES IN THE SfJBRIMF COURT

have pursued their rights fibhb'7 ol- petition by way
of libel, against the portion of the proceeds of the
cargo which was adjudged to the shippers. These
parties were entitled to be heard upon such a claim,
and could only be called upon to answer in that

mode.
But the ship owners are not yet too late to pursue
their remedy. The proceeds are still in the possession of the law, and may be subjected to any maritime claim or lien in the Court below.
Claim rejected.

(PRIzE.)

The

CALEDONIAN.-DICKEY,

Claimant.

A vessel and cargo, which is liable to capture as enemy's property, or
for sailing under the pass or license of thc enemy, or for trading with
the enemy, may be seized after her arrival in a port of the United
States, and condemned as prize of war. The delictun is not purged
by the termination of the voyage.
Any citizen may seize any property forfeited to the use of the government, either by the municipal law, or as prize of war, in order to
enforce the forfeiture; and it depends upon the government whether
it will act upon the seizure ; if it proceeds to enforce the forfeiture
by legal process, this is a sufficient confirmation of the seizure.

APPEAL
Peta. 3d.

from the Circuit Court of Rhode Island.

Tis cause was argued by Mr. D. B. Ogden for

