CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

,a,
ess
Van Ness

V.
13uel

JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on

the transcript of the record

on consideration whereof,"

it is adjudged and ordered, that the Writ of error be,
and the same is, hereby dismissed, with costs, the
plaintiff having submitted to a nonsuit in the Circuit
Court.a
a Vide Box 'v. Bennett, 1 H. BL. 432.
ley, 4 T. R. 436.

Kempland v. Macau-

(COMMON LAW.)

VAN NE*ss against BUEL.
A collector of the customs, who makes a seizure of goods for an 9sserted forfeiture, and before the proceedings in rem are consummated by
a sentence of condemnation, is removed from office, acquires an inchoate right by the spizure, which by the subsequent decree of con
'demnation gives him an absolute vested right to his share of the forfeiture, under the collection act of the 2d of March, 1799.

to the Circuit Court of Vermont.
This was an action of assumpsit, in which the defendant in error, Buel, declared against the plaintiff in
error, Van Ness, in the money counts, and gave evidence
that the sums of money, for the recovery of which this
suit was brought, were the proceeds of a moiety of a
certain seizure of goods as forfeited, which seizure was
made in the district of Vermont, on the 6th of July,
1812, while the plaintiff below was collector of the
ERROR

OF THE UNITED STATES.

customs for said district, &c. which goods were libelled in September, 1812, in the District Court, and
condemned at the October term of the Circuit Court,
1813. That the plaintiff below was appointed collector on the 16th of March,' 1811, and remained in
office until the 15th of February, 1813, when he was
removed from office by the president, and tie defendant below appointed to the same office; and received
the proceeds of the goods condemned. That various
other parcels of goods were seized, and libelled while
the plaintiff below was collector, but were condemned after his removal from office, and the proceeds
received by the defendant below. The Court belo,
charged the jury, that the defendant in error was entitled to recover a moiety of the seizures so made by
him during his continuance in office, and condemned
after his removal. The jury found a verdict, and
judgment was rendered for the plaintiff below; and
a bill of exceptions having been taken to the charge
of the Court below, the causewas brought by writ.
of error to this Court.
The cause was submitted without argument.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the
Court. Thiscase differs from that of Jones v. Shore's
Executors, in two circumstances; first, that this is
the case of a seizure of goods for an asserted forfeiture ; and secondly, that before the proceedings in ren
were consummated by a sentence, the collector who
made the seizure was removed from office. In ou.
a I Wheat. 42.

1819.
Van"Ne ss'

V.
Bue].

Feb. U
A.

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT
Vn19.

Vant Nc

v.

uel

judgment, neither of these facts affords any ground
to except this case from the principles which were
established in Jones v. Shore's Executors. It was
there expressly held, that the collector acquired an
inchoate right by the seizure, which by the subsequent decree of condemnation gives him an absolute
vested title to his share in the forfeiture.' Without
overturning the doctrine of that case, the present is
not susceptible of argument; and we, therefore,
unanimously affirm the decision of the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.
b Under the collection act of the 2d of larch, 1799, c. 128.
and other laws adopting the provisions of that act, the 89th
section of which enjoins the collector, within whose district
a seizure shall be made or forfeiture incurred, to cause suits
for the same to be commenced without delay, and prosecuted to
effect ; and authorizes him to receive from the Ccurt, in whioh
a trial is had, or from the proper officer thereof, the sums so
received, after deducting the proper charges, and on receipt
thereof, requires hiih to pay, and distribute the same without
delay, according to law, and to transmit, quarterly or yearly, to
the treasury, an account of all the moneys received by him for
fines, penalties, and forfeitures, during such quarter. The
91st section declars, that all fines, penalties, and forfeitures,
recovered by virtue -ofthe act,. and not otherwise appropriated,
shall, after deducting all proper costs and charges, be disposed
as follows " one moiety shall be for the use of the United
States, &c., paid into the treasury thereof by the collector receiving the same; the other moiety shall be divided between,
and paid in equal proportions, to the collector and naval officer
of the district, and surveyor of the port, wherein the same.
shall have been incurred, or to such of the said officers as there
may be within the same district; and in districts where only
one of the said officers shall have been established, the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.
moiety shall be given, to such officer."

Then follow provi-

sions concerning the distribution, where the recovery hasbeen
j tad in pursuance of information g'iven by an informer, or by
any officer of a revenue cutter.

--.

1819.
Williams
V.
Peytot,

*,:o-.--.

(COAMONr
LA11P.)

WILLIAMS

(4

(11. V. PEYTON'S lessee.

in the case of a naked power, not coupled with an interest, the law
requires that every pre-requisite to the exercise of that power
should precede it.
The party who sets up a title must furnish the evidence necessary to
support it. If the validity of a deed depends on an act in pais, the
party claiming under it is as much bound to prove the performance
of the act, as he would be bound to prove any matter of record on
which the validity of the deed might depend.
In the case of lands sold for the non-payment of taxes, the Marshal's
deed is not even primafacie evidence, that the pre-requisites required by law have been complied with; but the party claiming under it must show positively that they have been complied with.

THIs

cause was argued by Mr. Jones and Mr.
Talbot, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr. Taylor,
for the defendant in error.

Feb. 2d.

The opinion of the Court was delivered by Mr.

Feb. 8t,.

Chief Justice MARSHALL.
This is an ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
for the district of Kentucky, by the original patentee,
against a purchaser at a sale made for non-payment
of the direct tax, imposed by the act ofCongress of

