OF THE UNITED STATES.

5o3
1819.
Wheaton
v,

(COMMO N-LAW

WHEATO$q V. SEXTON'S

Sexton.

Lessee.

A sale, under a fa., duly issued, is legal as respects the purchaser,
proyided the writ be levied upon the property before the return day,
although' the sale be made after the return day, and the writ be
never actually returned.
A deed, made upon a valuable and'adequate consideration, which is
actually paid, and the change of property is bona.fide, or such as it
purports to be, cannot be, considered as a conveyance to defraud
creditors.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
This was an action of ejectment brought in the
Court below by the defendant in error, Sexton,
against the plaintiff in error, Wheaton, to recover
the possession of a parcel of ground, in the city of
Washington, being lot number 17, in square 254,
containing 8254 3-4 square feet, with the buildings
thereon. At the trial, the plaintiff produced and
read in .evidence to the jury, a deed of bargain and
sale of the premises from John P. Van Ness and
wife, and C. Stephenson, to Sally Wheaton, the wife
of the defendant in ejectment ;and a deed from one
Watterston to the same, of the same premises; a
writ offi.fa. against the goods, chattels, lands and
tenements of the defendant, issued from the Court
below upon a judgment obtained by Sexton, against
Wheaton, with a return thereon by the Marshal:
'December tho30th, 1815, sold the real property

504
1819.

Wheaton
V.
Sexton.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in square 254, to Francis F. Key, esq. for three
hundred dollars; sales of real property in square
253, countermanded by said Key; sold personal property," &c. The writ was never actually returned,
but for the first time produced by the Marshal in
Court, at the trial of this cause, The sale took
place after the return day mentioned in the writ. The
plaintiff also produced and read in evidence a deed
from the Marshal to the plaintiff in ejectment, dated
30th May, 1816, he having been the highest bidder,
.by Key his attorney, The defendant's counsel
prayed the Court to instruct the jury, that the lessor
of the plaintiff could not recover. The Court refused to give such instruction, but instructed the
jury, that if they should be of opinion, from the evidence thatthe writ of f. fa. was levied by theMarshal, upon the property in question, before the return
.day of the w'it, it was lawful for him to sell the
same under and by virtue of said writ, and that the
facts respecting the said sale might be proved by parol. To which instruction the defendant excepted.
,The defendant, toshow the legal title of the preAnises to be in :one E.B. Caldwell, and not in the
lessor of the plaintiff, gave, in evidence a deed from
the defendant in ejectment to said E. B. Caldwell,
made and executed ionthe 23d of December, 1811,
conveying the premises to the said E. B. C., reciting
the deeds from Van Ness, &c.and that it was under'stoodat the time of 'making those deeds, that the
property should be absolutely: for the sole use of 'said
Sally Wheaton, &c.; but, it had been. apprehended
Sand, suggested that the said Joseph Wheaton might

505

OF THE UNITED STATES..

have a life estate therein to carry into effect the ori,inal intent of the conveyances, and for the consideration of five dollars, paid to him by E. B. Caldwell, the said Joseph Wheaton conveys to him all
his right, title, and interest, in trust for the use of
said Sally Wheaton., Whereupon the Court instructed the jury, that if the jury should be of opinion, from the evidence,* that the said deed was

1819.
We'

V.
Soito .

made by the said J. W. without a valuable conside-

ration therefor, oR was made by him with intent
to' defeat - and delay, or defraud his creditor, the
said Sextoni of his debt aforesaid,then the said deed
was void in law as to the said.;Sexton: to which the
defendant excepted. The jury found a verdict, and
the Court rendered a judgment for the lessor of the
plaintiff. The cause was then brought to this Court
by writ of error.'
The cause was submitted without argument.
Mr. Justice

JOHNSON

delivered the opinion of the March 12h.

Court.

bThe suit below was ejectment, and the defendant
in this Court recovered under a title derived from
a' sale by the marshal of this District. The mar-.
shal's deed conveys the life estate of Wheaton in the
lands in question. And the plaintiff below proved
the title in the defendant's wife, Under conveyances
executed after marriage.
The defence set up was a conveyance executed by
Wheaton, to a trustee, for the sole and-separate use of
his wife, and her heirs, and' the deed purports to have
been executed in consideration of, and to carry into
VOL. IV.

'

64

506

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1819.

effect, an -original intention in the parties, that the
S~conveyances

Wheatou

v.

Sexton.

to his wife should enure to the'same

uses, although the conveyances in law operate otherwise.

But ther6 is no other evidence of this fact

than what is contained inthe deed, and it was executed but two days before the judgment. At the
trial,.two bills of -exception were taken ; the first of
which brings up the question, whether a Sale by the
marshal, after, the return day of the: writ, was legal.
The Court charged that it was, provided the levy
was made betbre the return 'day. And on this
point the Court can only express its surprise that

any doutbt could he entertained. TheCourt below
.were unquestionably right in this iistruction. The
,purchaser depends on the judgment, the levy, and
the deed. 'All other questions ar .between the parties to the judgment and the marshal. Whether the
marshal -sells before or after the return- whether he
makes a correct return, or any return at at], to the
writ, is immaterial to the purchaser, provided the
writ was duly issued, and the levy made before the
return.
,The second bill of exceptionLbrings up the question, whether 'the deed, to Caldwell, in trust for Mrs.
Wheaton,,was noi fraudulent and v~iid as againt
creditors. In ordinary cases, a voluntary conveyance
of a man'to the use of his wife, when circumstanmed
as Wheaton was, would unquestionably be Void.
But it is contended, that, in -this instance, a Court' of
Equity would' have decreed! Wheatoqto make the
conveyance he: did execute, and, therefbre, it was not
a' voluntary. conveyance. That there ,ae cases 'in

6i07

OF -THE UNITED STATES.

which the Court would lend its aid to protect the
acquisitions of a wife frQnm the creditors of a busband, may well be admitted ; but on this case it is
upon
enough to observe, that if the husband may,
his own recital, make out such a case there wotutld
no longer exist any difficulty in evadiiig the rights of
creditors. Yet this Court is not satisfied that the
Court below has given an instruction that comports
with the law of the case.
The instruction of the Court, given on motion of
the plaintiff below, is, that the deed was void in law,
" if it was made by the said Joseph Wheato:t vithout a valuable consideration therefor, or was made
by him with intent to defeat, delay, or defraud his
creditors'." Had the conjunction and been substituted in this instruction for or, it would have been
entirely unimpeachable; but as it now reads, it must
mean, that even had a valuable consideration been
paid, if the ndeed was made with intent to defeat
creditors, it was void. We know of no law which
avoids a deed where a valuable (by which, to a general intent, must also be understood adequate) consideration is paid, and the change of property be bona
fide, or such as it professes to be. Of such a contract it cannot be predicated that it is with intent to
defeai or defraud creditors, since, although the property itself no longer remains subject 'to the judgment, a substitute is furnished by which that judgment may be satisfied. Nor is it an.y impeachment
of such a deed that it is made to the use of the family of the maker. The trustee, in that case, becomes the benefactor, and not the husband. It is

1819
W keaton

sexton.

,.08
1s19.
-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

not a-provision made by him for his family, but by

•another.
Bd.
Although, from, any thing that appears in this
Biddle.cause, this Court can see no ground on which the
jury could have found otherwise than they did, yet
if the .instruction was erroneous, and to the prejudice
of the defendant below, as this Court cannot estimate its influence on the minds of the jury, the
judgment must be reversed.
Judgment reversed.

(PRACTICE.)

SERGEANT's Lessee v. BIDDLE et a.
Dipositions, taken according to the proviso in the 30th sec. of the Judiciary act of 1'189, c. 20., under a dedimuspote tiem, "according to
common usage, when it may be necessary to prevent a failure or
delay of justice," are under no circumstances to be considered as
taken.de Uene ease, whether the witnesses reside beyond the process
of the Court or within it; the provisions of the act relative to depositions de bene esase. being confined to those taken under the enacting part of the section.
Marh.9a.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Martin and Mr.

C. J. Ingersoll, for the plaintiff, and by Mr. Hopkinson and Mr. Sergeant, for- the defendants. The
facts are fully stated in the opinion of the Court.
omarch 1h.

Mr. Justice
the Court.

WASHINGTON

delivered theopinion of

