OF THE UNITED STATES.'
1819:"
(PRIZE.)

The Friend

-The FRiENDStHAFT.-MOREIRA, Claimant.
The property of a house of trade established in the enemy's country is
condemnable, as prize, whatever may be the personal domicil of the
partners.

APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of North Ca-

rolina.
The shipment in this case was made on the 31st
of March, 1814, at London, by the house of trade
of Moreira, Vieira & Machado, of that city, on account and risk of the house, to Mr. Moreira, one of
the partners, who was a native of, and domiciled at
Lisbon, in the kingdom of Portugal. The shares of
the two partners, Messrs. Vieira & Machado, who
were domiciled at London, were condemned as prize
of war in the Court below, without appeal. The
share of Mr. Moreira, thea partner domiciled at Lisbon, was condemned ii the Court below; but the
claimant was allowed to make farther proof to be offered to this Court, and to be admitted or rejected in the.
discretion of the Court, as to his proprietary interest and connexion with the house of trade in the
enemy's country. On the production of the farther
proof, the proprietary interest of Mr. Moreira in one
third part of the goods was clearly proved, and also
the fact of his personal domicil at Lisbon.
Mr. Iolinson, for the claimant, relied upon this
evidence as sufficient to show, that the claimant was
entitled to restitution of his share, on account of his
personal donicil, notwithstanding his being a partnex
VOL. IV.

14

Fb. 20/h

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1819.

in the house of trade established in the enemy's
Country.

The Friendschaft.

Mr. D. B. Ogden, and Mr. Wheaton, contra, insisted, that the shipment being made by a house of
trade established in the enemy's country, for the account and risk of that house, the neutral domicil of
one of the partners would not avail to save his share
from condemnation as prize.," In the British tribu.nals, this principle is recognized by the highest authority known to the prize law, that of the Lords of
Appeal, and if it be material, (as it seems to have
been intimated by this Court,b) to distinguish whether the decision was pronounced before, or since our
independence, the onus is thrown upon the claimant
to show, that the case of Mr. Coopman, decided in
1798, was determined contrary to former practice, or
former precedents. It does, indeed, appear, that an
erroneous notion had been adopted by some persons,
that the domicil of the party was all that the prize
Court had a right to consider. But in Coopman's
case, that motion was exploded by the lords, and the
true principle on which the cases from which it had
been imbibed,.were determined,was explained as applying to cases merely at the commencement of a war;
whilst the rule, applicable to a neutral partner entering into a house of trade in the enemy's country
during the war, or continuing that connexion after
a The Nancy, claim of Mr. Coopman, cited in the Vigilantia,
The Indiana, cited in

I Rob. 14, 15. The Susa, 2 Rob. 255.
the Portland, 3 Rob, 44.

h 9 Cranc&, 198.

OF TIHE UNITED STATES.

-adeclaration of war, is developed, not as a new rule
then for the first time prescribed, but as the application of an anciently established principle."

Isig.
The Friend4

acht,

Mr. Justice SToRY delivered the opinion of the Feb. 25tk,
Court. The shipment in this case was made by
Moreira, Viera, & Machado, a house of trade established in London, on the account of the house, to
Moreira, one of the partners in the house, who was
a native of, and domiciled in, Lisbon, in the kingdom
of Portugal ; and the, only question is, whether the
share of Moreira in the shipment is exempted frona
condemnation by reason of his neutral domicil., It
has been long since decided in the Courts of Admiralty, that the property of a house of trade established
in the enemy's country, is condemnable, as prize,
whatever may be the domicil of the partners. The
trade of such a house is deemed essentially a hostile
trade, and the property engaged in it is, therefore
treated as enemy's property, notwithstanding the neutral domicil of any of the company. The rule then,
being inflexibly settled, we do not now feel-at liberty
to depart from it, whatever doubt might have been
entertained, if the case were entirely new,
Decree affirmed with cot
a I Rob. 12. 14, 15.

