SUPREME

$44

COURT.

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

By various efforts and contrivances, the stock of the first
company was advanced to $5,000,000, but, as might be expected,
after such an inflation, the stock proved to be worth nothing,
and the owners became insolvent.
Under the American Iron Company, which succeeded the
first company, extensive works have been established, and a
prosperous business in mining is carried on.
On a full consideration of this complicated case, there seems
to be no ground of equity on which relief can be given to the
complainants. On the contrary, their equity appears to have
been extinguished by negligence, in not paying the consideration, by the sale of the property by the sheriff, also under a
decree of a court having jurisdiction of the case, and also by a
conveyance of the Missouri Iron Company. A minute statement of the facts would be tedious, and cannot be necessary, as
the case is free from doubts by the outline above given.
The decree of the circuit court, which dismissed the complainant's bill, is affirmed.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the ciruit court of the United States for the district of
Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said circuit court in this caue be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

PETER

J. BURCHELL, APPELLANT, V. STEVART C. MARSH,
ALEXANDER FREAR, AND WILLIAM M. ARBUCKLE.'

If an award is within the submission, and contains the honest decision of the arbitrators, after a full and fair hearing of the parties, a court of equity will not set it
aside for error, either in law or fact.
In this case, one of the parties sued the other for debt, who, in his turn, claimed
damages for the manner in which he was sued. The submission was broad enough
to cover all these demands on either side.
One of the claims made by the party who was sued, was for damages for the violence
of the agent of the creditors; and the referees heard evidence upon this subject.
Even if this had been beyond the submIssion, there was nothing in the record to
show that the arbitrators made any allowance for this violence and slanderous
language.
The charges of fraud and corruption made in the bill are denied in the answer, and
the award is not so outrageous as of itself to constitute conclusive evidence of fraud
or corruption. Error of judgment in the arbitratots is not a sufficient ground for
setting aside an award.
SMr. Chief Justice TA.NY and Mr. Justice WAx-r,

did not sit in this cause.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

345

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

Tis was an appeal from the circuit court of 'the 'jnited
States for the district of Illinois.
The,bill was filed by Marsh, Frear, and Arbuckle, to set aside
an award made by arbitrators chosen by them upon the one
part, and Burchell upon the other, to hear all matters of claim
of either party, upon or against the other, in the law or in equity.
The facts in the case were these There were two commercial firms in New York, carrying o.
business under The names of Marsh and Frear, and Alexander
Frear and Co. The first was composed of Stewart C. Marsh
and Alexander Frear ;and the second, of Alexander Frear and
William AL Arbuckle. Burchell was a retail country merchant,
having a store at St. Charles, in Kane county, Illinois, and
another store at Cherry Valley, in Winnebago county, Illinois.
Burchell had been in the habit, for several years, of purchasing
goods from the firms in New York, and of making payments
on account
In March, 1852, the two firms brought suits in the circuit
court of the United States for Illinois, against Burchell, by
summons. At April term, 1852, at Chicago, Burchell filed an
affidavit fora continuance, stating that he could prove by absent
witnesses that the debt was not due when the suit was brought
in March, nor until the April following. Whereupon the plain-.
tiffs submitted to a nonsuit.
In May, 1852, the two firms renewed their suits, but filed the
affidavits required by law, and commenced the suits by writs of
capias ad restxrndendum, under which Burchell was arrested and
held to bail. The. amount claimed by Marsh and Freer was
$12,000, and by Freer and Arbuckle, $2,014. These suits were
brought by R. V. L Cross, as agent and attorney for the plaintiffs.
In July, 1852, the court being held at Springfield, the causes
were continued upon affidavit, of the defendant.
In October, 1852, there'was an agreement for a reference to
arbitrators, which, however, was afterwards revoked by Freer.
In December, 1852, the parties agreed upon another award.
The agreement recited the claims of the firms upon Burchell,
and the suits, "by which the said Burchell claims to have sustained damages by reason of having been sued by said firms as
aforesaid, and by reason of the doings of the said firms towards
him." The agreement then proceeded thus :Now, therefore,.in consideration of the premises, and to put
an end to all further controversies, and for a full and final adjustment of all differences between them, this article of submission,
made and entered into this 15th day of December, A. D. 1852,
between Alexander Freer, william M. Arbuckle, and Stewart
C. Marsh, of the one part, and Peter J. Burchell, of the other

346

SUPREME COURT.
Burchell v. Marsh et al.

part, witnesseth, that the said parties have agreed to and do
hereby submit all demands, suits, claims, causes of action, controversies, and disputes between them, to the arbitrament, determination, and award of F. B. Mosley, Oliver V. Butler, and
such other person as the said Mosley and Butler may select, who
are within sixty days from the day of the date hereof, and on
such day as they or a majority of them shall select, meet at St.
Charles, Kane county, (of the time of which meeting notice shall
be given to the said parties or their attorneys,) and the said arbitrators shall hear all matters of claim of either party upon or
against the other, founded in law or equity. And the said
award shall direct and determine what, if any thing, is due or
owing from said Burchell to said firms, or what, if any thing,
shall be due from either or both of said firms to the said Burchell, &c., &c.
Evidence was given before the arbitrators, of the accounts, of
the credits, the institution of the suits, of the time when the
goods were to be paid for, of Burchell's pecuniary condition, of
the arrest under the capias, and bail, of the violent declarations
of Cross, the agent of the plaintiffs, the opinions of witnesses,
how much injury Burchell's credit had sustained by reason of
the suits, &c., &c.
In February, 1853, the arbitrators awarded as follows, namely:
"First, that all claims, demands, controversies, and disputes,
between the respective parties, or between the said Burchell and
the firm of Marsh and Freer, and also between the firm of Alexander Freer and Co. and the said Burchell, should cease and
be determined by the said award. Second, that as between
Stewart C. Marsh and Alexander Freer (the firm of Marsh and
Freer) and the said Burchell, that there was due from said firm
of Marsh and Freer to the said Peter J. Burchell, the sum of one
hundred dollars, which said sum they did direct that the said
Marsh and Freer should pay in money to the said Peter J. Burchell, in one month from the date of said award. Third, as between Alexander Freer and William M. Arbtckle, (the firm of
Alexander Freer and Co.,) that there was due from said firm
of Alexander Freer and Co. to said Burchell, the sum of twentyfive dollars, which said sum they did direct that your orators,
Alexander Freer and William M. Arbuckle, should pay in money
to said Burchell, in one month from the date of the said award.
Fourth, that the costs of said arbitration should be paid as follows: That the firms should pay all the costs which they had
made or occasioned, and should also pay the said Burchell his
costs expended in and about said arbitration.
In February, 1853, the firms filed a bill, on the equity side of
the court, to set aside this award. The bill was answered, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

347

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

the cause came up, upon bill and answer, in May, 1853, when
the court decreed that the award should in all things be vacated,
annulled, and set aside; and that Burchell should absolutely refrain °and desist from counting upon, or in any manner plead.
ing said award, in any suit or proceeding, in law orequity.
Burchell appealed to this courL
It was argued by 2r. Gillet, for the appellant, and by _Mr.
Carlisle and-Mr. Washbirne, for the appellees.
ilfr. -Gillet made the following points: 1. The arbitrators had full power to act upon all "demands,
suits, claims, causes of action, controversies, and disputes between the parties."
2. Under this submission, the arbitrators were constituted by
the parties sole judges of the facts and the law, and equity aris.
ing from them.
3. That an award is made in ignorance of the rights of the
parties, and of the duties and powers of the arbitrators, is no
ground for setting it aside.
4. A court of equity will only interfere to set aside an award
on a voluntary submision, for corruption or improper conduct
of the arbitrators; and on a hearing, upon bill and answer, when
these are charged and denied, the award cannot be set aside.
5. Every thing is to be presumed and every legal intendment
madedin favor of an award.
6. Where the submission is general, the power to award costs
is a necessary incident to thepower of the arbitrators.
7. Where an award covers matters not submitted, but is good
in other respects, such matters will be rejected as surplusage,
and the residue of the award will be good.
8. Where the whole or a part of an award is not within the
terms of the submission, the party can obtain redress at law, and
a court of equity has no jurisdiction.
The counsel for the appellees stated the case as follows: The answer admits Burchell's indebtedness to the firm of
Marsh and Freer, to the amount of $3,822, and interest, and to
the firm of Freer and Co., $1,014.80, being less than the
amounts claimed by them respectively in the bill; but no proof
appears in the record to countervail the answer in this xespect.
There is no pretence in the record of any debt (technically)
by the appellees, or either of them, to Burchell; nor of any demand (in the largest sense) against them, or either of them, except such asmay have accrued by reason of an alleged anticipation of the maturity of his debts to them respectively, and the
alleged premature institution of suits against him thereon.

SUPREME COURT.
Burehell v. Marsh et al.

The award (as alleged and admitted bi supra) was as follows:First. That all claims, demands, controversies, and disputes,
between the respective parties, or between the said Burchell and
the firm of Marsh and Freer, and also between t1he firm of Alexander Freer and Co. and the said Burchell, should cease, and be
determined by the said award.
Second. That as between Marsh and Freer, and said Bur.
chell, there was due from said firm to said Burchell the sum of
$100; which sum should be paid, &c.
Third. That as between A. Freer and Co. and said Bur.
chell, there was due from said firm to said Burchell, W26, to be
paid, &c.
Fourth. That the appellees should pay the costs.
The case was heard on bill, answer, exhibits, and replication.
It is only necessary to read the bill and answers, to be persuaded of the gross injustice which has been done to the appellees.
But it is not contended that the court could exercise any
power in the nature of appellate jurisdiction merely, to correct
this injustice. It is admitted that the award must stand, unless
it can be impeached upon some distinct and recognized ground
of relief in equity.
For the appellees it is submitted: First. That their relief, if any, must be in equity; because,
as wdill presently be shown, it is principally claimed upon matters dehors the award, and which, therefore, could not be taken
advantage of at law. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 1452, and cases there
cited; 2 Wils. 148; 2 Johns. Ch. I. 367; 8 East' 344; McCormick v. Gray, 13 How. 27.
2. The record shows a case of gross partiality and misconduct on the part of the arbitrators, and this is ground of relief
in equity.
I. As to the law. 2 Story's Eq. Ju. § 1452; Herrick v. Blair,
1 Johns. C. R. 101; Walker v. Frobisher, 6 Ves. 70; Van Cortlandt v. Underhill, 17 Johns. R. 411, per Spencer, Ch. J.
IL As to the facts.
These appear upon the allegations of the bill, and the admissions of the answer in part; and in other part by the insufficient
and evasive denials of the anlswer.
From all which it clearly appears, that no evidence whatever
was offered to the arbitrators of the damages sustained by Burchell, " by reason of having been sued by said firms as aforesaid,
or by reason of the doings of the said firms towards him." Evidence was received and heard, under objection by the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

349

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

of certain offensive language and harsh proceedings, by one
Cross, an attorney employed by the appellees for the collection
of their debts against the appellant, and witnesses, who appear
to have been certain bystanders for that purpose, weie sworn
that they "should think, judging from the evidence they had
heard 'given before said arbitrators, that said Burchell had sustained damages by reason of being sued as aforesaid, and by
the statements of said Cross, in injury to his business and credit,
to the amount of $10,000."
Ar. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was'submitted on bill and answer.. The appellees,
who were complainants below, pray the court to set aside an
award made between the parties, as 1fraudulent-'Ed -oid." The
bill charges that "the award was made either ,from improper
and corrupt motives, with the design of favoring said Burchell,or in ignorance of the rights of the partes to said subnission,
and of the duties and powers of the arbitrators-who signed the
said award."
The answer denies "that the arbitrators acted unjustly, or
with partiality or ignorance, in making their award; but avers
that they acted justly, fairly, and with a due considerati6n of
the rights of the parties." This allegation of the answer mustbe taken to be true, unless it appears, from other facts admitted'
by it, that this conclusion or averment founded on them is
incorrect.
In the consideration of this case, it will not be necessary to
incumber it with a history of the facts charged and admitted or
denied by the pleadings, except as they shall be incidentally noticed.. The general principles, upon which courts of equity
interfere to set aside ,awards, are too well settled by numerous
decisions to admit of doubt. There are, it is true, some anomalous cases, which, depending on their peculiar circumstances,
cannot be exactly reconciled with any general rule; but such
cases can seldom be used as precedents.
Arbitrators are judges chosen by the parties to decide the
matters submitted to them, finally and without appeal. As a
mode of settling disputes, it should receive every encouragement
from courts of equity. If the award is within the submission,
and contains the honest decision of the arbitrators, after a full
and fair hearing of the parties, a court of equity will not set it
aside for error, either in law or fact. A contrary course Would
be a substitudon of the judgment of the chancellor in place of
the judges choseni by the parties, and would make an awardL the
commencemen, not the end, of litigation.- In order, says Lord
Thurlow, (Knox v. Symmonds, 1 Yes. Jr. 369,) "t5 induce'the
VOL. XVIL

30

350

SUPREME COURT.
Burchell v. Marsh et al.

court to interfere, there must be something more than an error
of judgment, such as corruption in the arbitrator, or gross mistake, either apparent on the face of the award, or to be made out
by evidence; but in case of mistake, it must be made out to the
satisfaction of the arbitrator, and that if it had not happened, he
should have made a different award."
Courts should be careful to avoid a wrong use of the word
"mistake," and, by making it synonymous with mere error of
r.cm) 1 : ume to fhemselves an arbitrary power over awards.
The same result would follow if the court should treat the arbitrators as guilty of corrupt partiality, merely because their award
is not such an one as the chancellor would have given. We
are all too prone, perhaps, to impute either weakness of intellect
or corrupt motives to those who differ with us in opinion.
1. The first objection to the award in this case is, that it is
not within the submission. But we are of opinion this objection is without foundation.
The submission recites that controversies and disputes had
arisen between the firm of Marsh and Freer, and of Freer and
Arbuckle, with Burchell. It states the controversies to have
arisen from suits brought by said firms against Burchell, to
recover certain detits claimed to be due by him to the firms,
respectively, "and the said Burchell claims to have sustained
damages by reason of having been sued by said firms and by
reason of the doings of the said firms towards him." The parties, therefore, agreed to submit "all demands, suits, claims,
causes of action, controversies, and disputes between them, to
the arbitration and award of F. B. Mosley," &c., "who are to
hear all matters of claim of either party, upon or against the
other, in law or equity."
On the hearing, the arbitrators received evidence of the debts
alleged to be due from Burchell to the two firms, and of the
alleged oppressive and ruinous suits brought against him by
one Cross, who acted as agent of the firms. The witnesses, in
proving these transactions, were permitted to state certain slanderous language used by Cross in speaking to and of Burchell,
charging him with dishonesty and perjury. When this testimony was offered, the complainants' counsel agreed that it might
be received, subject to exceptions.
It has been argued, that because the arbitrators received evidence of the slanderous language used by Cross, that, therefore,
they included in-their award damages for his slanders, for which
us principals would not be liable; and that, therefore, they had
iaken into consideration matters not contained in the submission. But the answer to this allegation is, that the record shows
no admission or proof that the arbitrators allowed any damages

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

351

Burchell v. Marsh et al.

for the slanders of Cross. 'Mhether the complainants were liable,
and how far they were justly answerable for the conduct of their
agent, were questions of law and fact submitted to'the arbitra.
tors. All these questions were fully argued before them by
counsel. Whether their decision on them was erroneous, does
not appear. The transactions which were testified to, -ith
regard to the suits brought against Burchell, and whether they
were oppressive, wrongful, and ruinous to him, was one of the
very matters submitted to the arbitrators. The words as -well
as the acts of Cross made part of the res geste, and could not
well be severed in giving a history of them. Every presumption
is in favor of the validity of the award. If it had stated an account, by which it appeared that the arbitrators had made a
specific allowance of damages for the slanders of Cross, it would
have been annulled, to that .extent at least, as beyond the submission. But it cannot be inferred that the arbitrators went
beyond the submission, merely because they may have admitted
illegal evidence about the subject-matter of it.
We are of opinion, therefore, that there is nothing on the
record to show that the arbitrators, in making this award,
exceeded their authority, or went beyond the limits of the submission.
2. The charges of fraud, corruption, or improper conduct in
the arbitrators, as we have seen, are wholly denied by the answer, which must be assumed to be true, unless facts are admitted from which they are a necessary or legal inference. We
can see nothing in the admitted facts of the case from which
any such inference can be justly made. The damages allowed
for the alleged oppression of Burchell, and the ruin of his business as a merchant, may seem large to some, while others may
think the sum of 'four, or even five thousand dollars as no
extravagant compensation for such injuries. It may be admitted, that, on the facts appearing on the face of the record, this
court would not have assessed damages to so large an amount,
nor have divided them so arbitrarily between the parties; but
we cannot say that the estimate of the arbitrators is so outrageous as of itself to constitute conclusive evidence of fxaud or
corruption. .Damages for injuries of this sort cannot be measured by any rules, nor can the court properly impute coxrption
to others, because they differ with them in their estimation of a
matter which depends on discretion rather than calculation. It
is enough that the parties have agreed to trust the discretion
and judgment of neighbors acquainted with them, and their
relative standing and credit. The admission of witnesses to
prove their estimate of the damages (even if it had been in the
face of the objection of counsel, and not'by consent) may have

352

SUPREME COURT.
Burchell v. Marsh et al.

been an error in judgment, but it is no cause for setting aside
the award; nor can the admission of illegal evidence, or taking
the opinion of third persons, be alleged as a misbehavior in the
arbitrators which will affect their award. If they have given
their honest, incorrupt judgment on the subject-matters submitted to them, after a full and fair hearing of the parties, they are
bound by it; and a. court of chancery have no right to annul
their award because it thinks it could have made a better.
In fine, we are of opinion that this record furnishes no evidence of corruption or misbehavior in the arbitrators, nor of
"ignorance," (as charged in the bill,) or of any such mistake as
would justify a court of chancery in annulling it.
The decree of the court below is therefore reversed, and the
record remitted with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint,
with costs, but without prejudice to any legal defence.
Mr. Justice McLEAN and Mr. Justice NELSON dissented.
Mr. Justice NELSON.
I do not agree to the judgment of the court in this case. I
think the damages allowed against the complainants, by the
arbitrators, are so extravagant, disproportioned, and gross, as to
afford evidence of passion and prejudice, and justified the judgment of the court below, in setting aside the award. It is
difficult, if not impossible, to see, upon any other ground, how
between four and five thousand dollars should have been allowed
against one of the firms in the submission, and but some one
thousand dollars against the other, under the circumstances of
the case.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Illinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court that
the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same
is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause be and the
same is hereby remanded to the circuit court, with directions to
dismiss the bill of complaint, with costs, but without prejudice
to any legal defence which the parties may have.

