SUPREME COURT.
MeBlair v. Gibbes et al.

H.

MoBLAIR, ADMINISTRATOR OF LYDE GOODWIN,
l. GIBBES AND CHARLES OLIVER,
DECEASED, V. ROBERT
EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.

CHARLES

In 1816 an association, called the Baltimore Company, was organized in Baltimore
for the purpose of furnishing advances and supplies in fitting out a military expedition under General Mina, against Mexico, then a part of the dominions of the
King of Spain. See 11 How. 529, and 12 Tb. 111 ; 14 lb. 610.
An assignment of a share in this company, made in 1829 to a bond fide purchaser for
a valuable consideration, was valid.
Although the transaction was illegal 'a 1816, and had not changed its character in
1829, yet the assignment was not tainted with any illegality. The claim against
Mexico, as being one of the efforts to establish her independence of Spain, rested
entirely upon her sense of honor in acknowledging the obligation after her independence was achieved; but after the debt was admitted, the bond fide assignee
became substituted to all the rights of the original shareholder.
The cases examined, showing how far a bondfide assignee of an illegal contract can
.claim and enforce his contract of assignment.
An assignment of "all my undivided ninth part, right, title, and interest, of every
kind whatever, in the claim," carried with it an assignment of a claim to commissionsas well as the share itself.
Aforeover, the original holder, or his representatives, would be estopped from claiming
the proceeds, after they had been received by his 6onifide assignee.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Maryland, sitting as a court of equity.
The controversy related to a share in the Mexican Company,
which was held by Goodwin, and also to a claim on his behalf,
to a commission of five per centum upon the proceeds in virtue
of his agency, and under an agreement with the company.
The nature of this case* has already been explained in the
preceding volumes of these reports, and is again touched upon
in the opinion of the court in the present case. The reader is
referred to 11 How. 529 ; 12 1b. 111; and 14 Tb. 610.
The bill was originally filed by McBlair, in a state court, but
was removed into the circuit court of the United States by
Gibbes and Oliver, who stated themselves to be citizens of the
State of New York.
On the 13th of March, 1852, McBlair took out letters of
administration upon the estate of Lyde Goodwin, from the
orphans' court of Baltimore city; and filed his bill to recover
from the executors of Oliver, the proceeds of Goodwin's share
in the company, and also his commission of five per centum.
The claim rested upon the allegation that all the assignments
which Goodwin had made to Oliver were void, as was also the
purchase by Oliver, of Goodwin's interest from his trustee in
insolvency. If these were void, the proceeds of the share would
of course belong to Goodwin's personal representatives.
On the 3d of December, 1853, the circuit court dismissed the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

233

McBlair v. Gibbes et al,

bill -with costs, whereupon the complainant appealed to this
court.

It.,was argued by L11r. Davis and Mr. Robert I:. llartin,for
the appellant, and by 1"fr. Campbell and 2Mlr. John on, for the
appellees. Only those points of the argument will .be noted,
upon which the opinion of the court- rested, viz : the validity
or. invalility of the"assignments to Oliver.
The counsel for the appellant contended that the assignment
from Goodwin to Oliver, made in 1829, was void, because : It must be considered as settled by this court1. That the purposes and dealings of the Mexican Company,
were illegal, and by the laws of the United States, not less than
those of Maryland, void.
2. That till some change was wrought the claim of the company was not assignable, but that an- assignment was void.
3. That no such change as made the claim either valid or
assignable, was wrought by any act prior to the treaty of 1839.
4. That neither the treaty nor the award operated retroactively
to make valid prior acts. Therefore the assignments. -are void,
and nothing passed by them. Gill v. Oliver, 11 How. 529;
Williams v. Oliver, 12 lb. 111; Deacon v. Oliver, 14 lb.. 610;
Kennet v. Chambers, 14 lb. 38, 49, 51, 52. The assignment of
1829 was not binding on Goodwin, because there is no proof
of the release of the debt on the books of Oliver.
Upon this branch of the case, the counsel for the appellee
contended, as a 5th point:5. But conceding,- for argument sake, that the appellant may
urge without impediment the illegal act of him whom he represents, on what ground does he assail the assignment of
Goodwin of 1829?
That the claim was not validated till 1839, if true, will not
avail him, because equity will not permit an assignor to defeat
his own assignment by procuring a good title subsequently for
his own benefit, but will hold such subsequent acquisition to
enure to the assignee's benefit.
2 Smith's Leading Case's, 464; 1 McLean, 384; 2 Story.
630; 11 How. 32-5; 3 Story, 175; 2 Serg. and Rawle, 507; 2
Barr, 325.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the Bpinion ofthe court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The bill was filed by the administrator of Lyde Goodwin
against the executors of Robert Oliver, to recover the proceeds
of a share in an association called the Baltimore Company,20*

SUPREME COURT.
McBlair v. Gibbes et al.

which had a claim against the Mexican government, that was
allowed under the convention of 1839, "for the adjustment of
claims of citizens of the United States against the Mexican
Republic." The claim of the company was founded on a contract with General Mina, in 1816, for advances and supplies in
fitting out a military eipedition against the dominions of the
King of Spain. The bill also sought to recover a commission
of five per centum, which the members of the company had
agreed to give to Goodwin, for his services as agent in soliciting the claim against Mexico. The share and commissions, as
charged, amount to $67,337.15.
The executors of Oliver set up a right to retain the fund for
the benefit of the estate, under and by virtue of a purchase of
Goodwin's share in this company, and also of his right to the
commissions, by their testator, in 1829. The purchase and
transfer took place the 30th May, in that year, for a good and
valuable consideration.
A question was made on the argument, whether or not the
assignment of Goodwin was sufficiently comprehensive to include a right to the commissions as well as to the proceeds of
the share. We are satisfied that it is. The language is very
broad: " All my uxidivided ninth part, right, title; and interest,
of every kind whatever, in the claim on the government of Mexico," &c. And again :, "The object and intention of this agreement is to make a full and complete transfer to the said
Robert Oliver, of all my right, title, and interest aforesaid," &c.
The commissions were dependent upon the allowance of the
claims of the company against Mexico, and, of course, an interest intimately connected with them; without the allowance of
the one, the other wQuld be valueless.
The understanding of Goodwin himself, of the intention and
effect of the assignment, accords with this view, as derived from
his deposition taken in behalf of the claims of the company, and
used before the board of commissioners; and also from his testimony in the proceedings before the Baltimore county court, foy
the distribution of the fund among the several claimants.
This share of Lyde Goodwin in the company, and his commissions, have heretofore been the subject' of consideration in
this court. The case is reported in 11 How. 529. George M.
Gill, the permanent trustee of Goodwin, who had taken the
benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland in 1817, claimed this
fund before the Baltimore county court as part of the estate of
the insolvent, against the right and title of the executors of Oliver, claiming under this assignment of 1829. The Baltimore
couity court held that the fund passed by the insolvent assignment of 1817, to Gill, the permanent trustee. The case was

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

235

McBlair v. Gibbes et al.

taken To the court of appeals of Maryland, where the decree was
reversed, and the fund distributed to Oliver's executors, the appellate court holding that the cdntract of the company with
General Mina was made in violation of the neutrality act of
the United States of 1794, and, being thui founded upon an
illegal transaction, constituted- no part of the property or estate
of the insolvent within thQ meaning of the Maryland insolvent
laivs. Gill brought {he case to this court under the 25th section
of the judiciary act, for the purpose of revising that decision;
but the court dismissed the case for want of jurisdiction, a
majority of the judges holding that the only question involved
in the decision below was the true construction of a statute of
the State, and that it belonged to the Maryland court to interpret its own statutes. Whether that interpretation was right or
wrong, was a matter with which this court had no concern.
Gill, the permanent trustee, having thus failed to establish a
title to the fund under the Maryland insolvent laws, the litigation is again revived respecting the fund, in behalf and for the
benefit of the personal representatives of Goodwin, on the ground
that the moneys realized upon the contract with General Mina,
from the Mexican government, is to be regarded as a subsequent
acquisition of property by the insolvent, belonging to his estate,
and to be dealt -with accordingly.
Hence this bill filed against the executors of Oliver to recover
possession of the fund. The defence set up to this demand of
the administrator of Goodwin, and which it is .insisted.is conclusive against him, is the assignment of the contract of General
.Mina, by Goodwin himself, to Robert Oliver, in 1829, which has
been already referred to; that having thus parted with all his
right or claim to that contract, for a full and valuable consideration, the proceeds thereof derived from the recognition and
fulfilment by the Mexican government belong to the estate of
Oliver, and not to that of Goodwin; and vested his executors
with the equitaile right to receive the moneys and which have
been paid accordingly under the decree of the court of appeals
of Maryland, in making a distribution of the fund.
It is urged, however, in answer to this view, that the contract
with General Mina being illegal, -the sale and assignment of it
from Goodwin to Oliver niust also be illegal, and consequently
that no interest therein, equitable or legal, passed to Oliver's
executors.
But this position is not maintainable. The transaction, out
of which the assignment to Oliver arose, was uninfected with
any illegality. The consideration paid was not only legal, but
meritorious, the relinquishment of a debt due from Goodwin tc
him. The assignment was subsequent, collateral to, and wholly

SUPREME COURT.
M fllair v. Gibbes et al.

independent of, the illegal transactions upon which the principal
contract was founded. Oliver was not a party to these transactions, nor in any way connected with them.
It may be admitted that even a subsequent collateral contract,
if made in aid and in furtherance of the execution of one infected
with illegality, partakes of its nature, and is equally in violatio.n
of law; but that is not this case. Oliver, by the assignment,
became simply owner in the place of Goodwin, and as to any
public policy or concern supposed to be involved in the making,
or in the fulfilment of such contracts, it was a matter of entire
indifference to which it belonged. The assignee took it, liable
to any defence, legal or equitable, to which it was subject in the
hands of Goodwin. In consequence of the illegality the contract was invalid, and incapable of being enforced in a court of
justice. The fulfilment depended altogether upon the voluntary
act of Mina, or of those representing him.
No obligation existed, except what arose from a sense of
honor on the part of those deriving a benefit from the transaction out of which it arose. Its value rested upon this ground,
and this alone. The demand was simply a debt of honor. But
if the party who might set up the illegality chooses to waive it,
and pay the money, he cannot afterwards reclaim it. And, if
even the money be paid to a third person for the other party,
such third person cannot set up the illegality of the contract on
which the payment has been made, and withhold it for himself.
In Faikney v. Renous, 4 Burr. 2069, where twb persons were
jointly concerned in an illegal stock-jobbing business with a
third, and a loss having arisen, one of them paid the whole, and
took a security from the other for his share, the security was
held to be valid as a new contract, uninfected by the original
transaction. And in Petrie v. Hannay, 3 T. R. 418, where one
of the partners, under similar circumstances, paid the whole at
the instance of the other, he was allowed to recover for the proportionate share.- These cases are examined and approved in
Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Vh. 258.
In Tenant v. Elliot, 1 B. and P. 3, the defendant, a broker,
effected an insurance for the plaintiff which was illegal, being in
violation of the navigation laws; but on a loss happening, the
underwriters paid the money to the broker, who refused to pay
it over to the insured, setting up the illegality, upon which an
action for money had and received was brought. The plaintifi
recovered, on the ground that the implied promise of the defend
ant, arising put of the receipt of the money for the plaintiff, wa,
a new contract, not affected by the illegality of the origina
transaction. The same principle was applied and enforced ii
the case of Farmer v. Russell, 1 B. and P. 296.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

237

McBlair v. Gibbes et al.

In Thomson v. Thomson, 7 Yes. 470, there had been a sale
of the command of an East India ship to the defendant, and as
a consideration he stipulated to pay an annuity of £200 to the
previous commander so long as he should continue in command
of the ship.
This contract of sale. was illegal. Subsequently the defendant relinquished the conmand, and another person waz
appointed in his place. But, under the regulation adopted by
the East India Company to prevent the sale of the commands
of thleirahips, an allowance was made to the defendant, on his
retiring, of £3,540.
The bill in this case was filed for the purpose of procuring a
decree for the investmea# of a portion of this fund to satisfy
the annuity of £200, praying that the value of it might be ascertained and paid out of the money allowed by the company.
The objection made was, that the con rect providing for the
annuity was illegal, and a court of equity therefore would not
interfere.
The master of the rolls, Sir William Grant, agreed that the
contract was illegal; he admitted there was an equity against
the fund, if it could be reached by a legal agreement; but observed, "you have no claim to this money, except through the
medium of an illegal agreement, which, according to the deter.
minations, you cannot support" "If the case," he further
observed, "could have been brought to this, that the company
had paid this into the hands of a third person for the use of the
plaintiff, he might have recovered from that third person, who
could not have set up this objection as a redson for not pdrforming the trust;" "but in this instance the money is paid to the
party." " There is nothing collateral in respect to which, the
agreement being out of the question, a collateral demand arises,
as in the case of stock-jobbing differences."
So, in -Sharp v. Taylor, 2 Ph. Ch. IL 801, the bill was filed,
among other things, to recover a moiety of the freight money,
the whole of which had come into the hands of one of the joint
owners. The defence set up was, that the trade in which the
vessel had been engaged, and in which the freight had been
earned, was in violation of the navigation laws, and illegal.
But Lord Chancellor Cottenham answered, that the plaintiff
was not asking for the enforcem'ent of an agreement adverse to
the provision of the act of parliament, nor seeking compensation
and payment for an illegal voyage; that, he observed, was disposed of whon Taylor (the defendant) received the money; the
plaintiff was seeking only his share of the realized profit.
Again, he observed, can one of t o partners possess himself
of the property of the firm, and be permitted to retain it, if he

238

SUPREME COURT.
McBlair v. Gibbes et al.

can show that, in realizing it, some provision in some act of
parliament has been violated? The answer is, that the transaction alleged to be illegal is completed and closed, and will
not be in any manner affected by what the court is asked to do
as between the parties. The difference, he observes, between
enforcing illegal contracts, and asserting title to the money
which has arisen from them, is distinctly taken in Tenant v.
Elliot, and Farmer v. Russell, and recognized by Sir William
Grant, in Thompson v. Thompson.
These cases show that the assignment of Lyde Goodwin to
Robert Oliver, in 1829, being collateral to, and disconnected
from the illegal transaction out of which the Iina contract
arose, was valid and binding upon Goodwin, and vested in
Oliver all the benefits and advantages, whatever they might be,
derived f.m that contract.
The assignment from Goodwin to Oliver, though the assignment of an illegal contract-which cohtract, therefore, imposed
no legal obligation, and rested simply upon the honor of the
parties-was not within the condemnaticn of the Maryland
insolvent laws, as expounded by her courts, as the right was not
derived under but entirely inde, endent of them. Those laws
have no application to this assignment.
And further, that the money having been realized by his executors, according to the purpose and object of the assignment,
becomes a part of the assets of the estate, which belong to the
personal representatives.
Another ground may be briefly stated, which, in our judgment
is equally conclusive against the complainant. The assignment
of 1829, of the Mina contract, not being tainted with illegality,
and therefore obligatory upon Goodwin, if he were alive and
claiming the fund against the representatives of Oliver, having
parted with all his right in the subject to their testator, for a
valuable consideration, would be estopped from setting up any
such claim, and, of course, his personal representatives can be
in no better situation.
We have not deemed it necessary to look into the case for
the purpose of ascertaining whether Goodwin, at the time of
the proceedings in the Baltimore county court, had such notice
of them as required that he should have appeared there and
asserted his right; and hence, that the decree of that court, in
the distribution of the fund, was conclusive upon such right.
That question is unimportant, inasmuch as, in our opinion, the
executors of Oliver have, independently of that ground, established a complete title to the fund in controversy.
We think the decree of the court below was right, and should
be affirmed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

239

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
I shall state my opinion in this case, in the cases of Williams's
administrator, and Gooding's adminj.rator, as the three cases
are nearly connected, and depend on the same principles.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed -with costs.

JOHN S. WILLIAMS, ADmiN.STRATOR OF JAMES WILLIAMS,
DECEA ED, APPELLANT, V. ROBERT M. GIBBEs AND CfARLES
OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
In 1816, an association called the Baltimore Company, was organized in Baltimort,
for the purpose of furnishing advances and supplies in fitting out a military expedition under General Mina, against Mexico, then a part of the dominions of the
Ring of Spain. See 11 How. 529, and 12 Tb. 111.
One of the shareholders having become insolvent, in 1819, his trustee sold the share
in 1825. The original transaction being illegal, the share could not be considered,
M
by the laws of aryland, as property passing.by the insolvency to the trustee.
Consequently, th, ,ale by the trustee passed nothing to the assignee. The court of
appeals of Maryland so decided, and this court adopts their construction of their
own laws.
An act of the Legislature of Maryland, passed in 1841, made the sale of 1825 Talid,
so far only as defects existed for the want of a bond, by the tfustee in insolvency,
and the want of a ratification of the sale by the court. But it did not purport to
cure other defects in the title of the trustee. Nor did the cqurt of appeals decide
that it went any further than to cure the two defects above mentioned.
In 1846, theBaltimore county court distributed the fund, and awarded the proceeds of
the share in question to the executors of the assignee. This decree was affirmed
by thl court of appeals in 1849. But. during this time there was no person authorized to protee the interest of the insolvent. He had diedin 1836, and no letters of
administration upon his estate were taken out until 1852.
In the distribution of a common fund amongst the several parties interested, an absent
party, who had no notice of the proceedings, and who was not guilty of wilful laches
or unreasonable neglect, will not be concluded by the decree of distribution from
the assertion of his right by bill or petitiosi hgainst the trustee, executor, or administrator; or, in case they have distributed the fund in pursuance of an order of the
court, against the distributees.
The English and American cases upon this point examined.
The present claim being made by the administrator of -the insolvent, against the executors of the assignee, it is not necessary, under the circumstances of the case, to
turn, the plaintiff over, for his remedy, against the distributees.

TIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for -the district of Maryland.

