274

SUPREME

COURT.

John Gooding, Jr. v. Charles Oliver et al.
tion whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

JOHN GOODING, JUNIOR, ADMINISTRATOR de bonis qnon of JOHN
GOODING, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. CHARLES OLIVER AND
ROBERT AL GIB:Es, EXECUTORS OF RoBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
The decision in the preceding case, of Williams, administrator of Williams v.
Oliver's executors, again affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
In its leading features, it was identical with the preceding
case of Williams, administrator of Williams, against the same
defendants.
Oliver had purchased Gooding's share in the Mexican Company, from Winchester, the trustee in insolvency, which was
passed upon by the Baltimore county court and the Maryland
court of appeals, under the same circumstances and at th2 same
time with the preceding case.
Gooding died intestate, on the 15th of February, 1839, and
John Glenn administered upon his estate on the 15th of February, 1852. John Gooding, Junior, the appellant, afterwards
became the administrator de bonis non.
The circuit court dismissed the bill filed by the appellant,
and it was argued in this court together with the preceding
case.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The case involves the same questions, and is in all respects
the same, as the case of the administrator of Williams against
the executors of Oliver, just decided.
The decree of the court below is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to the court below.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL, dissented.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

275

Stafford et ux:. v. Union Bank of Louisiana.

For the opinions of Mr. Chief Justice Taney and Mr. Justice
Daniel, see the preceding case of Williams, administrator of
Williams, v. Gibbes and Oliver, executors of Robert Oliver,
deceased.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, and was argued by counsel On consideratiQn whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court for further proceedings to be had therein, in confortity
to the opinion of this court.

IN THE 1_ATTER OF JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTE KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS, v. THE UJNION BANK OF

LoUIsIANA.
Where an appeal from a decree in chancery is intended to operate as a supersedeas,
the security given in the appeal bond must be equal to the amount of the decree, as
it is in the case of a judgment at common law.
Where the security is insufficient, this court will, upon motion of the appellee, lay a
rule upon the judge below, to show cause why a mandamus should not issue, cominanding him to carry into execution the decree of the court below.
Upon cause shown by the judge that, having taken what he considered to be good
and sufficient security, the cause was appealed to this court which removed it from
his jurisdiction, and that he had no power to make an order in the case, this court
will order a peremptory mandamus.
But as the security given was sufficient to bring the case before this court by appeal,
a mot. in to dismiss the appeal must be overruled.

THIS -was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the State of Texas.
It was before the court at tile last term, and is reported in
16 How, 135.
It will be seen, by a reference to that case, that the court
expressed its opinion, that where there was a decree in chancery from which an appeal was taken, in order to make that
appeal operate as a supersedeas, the security given in the
appeal bond must be equal to the amount of the decree, as it is
in the case of a judgment at common law.
It will also be seen, that a motion to dismiss the appeal could
not be entertained, because the time had not expired within
which the appellant was allowed to file the record; nor could a
motion be entertained to award a procedendo.

