DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

17

Udall v. Steam-ship Ohio.
JAMES UDALL, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT, v. THE STEAM-SHIP
OHIO, HER TACKLE, &C., MARSHALL 0. ROBERTS AND OTHERS,

CLAIMANTS.
Where a libel was dismissed by the district court, -which decree was affirmed by
the circuit court, and it appeared that the claim in the libel amounted only to sixteen
hundred dollars, an appeal to this court must, upon motion, be dismissed for the
want ofjurisdiction.
In order to give jurisdiction, the damages must appear on the face of the pleading on
which the claim is made. Interest cannot be added, in computing the amount,
unless it is specially claimed in the libel.
It is too late, when the cause -has reached this court, to amend the libel by inserting
a special claim for interest. The 24th admiralty rule ought not to be construed to
extend to cases where an amendment would give jurisdiction, which would not
exist ,withoutsuch amendment.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a libel filed in the district court, for furnishing
for the steam-ship Ohio.
A motion was made by .Mr. Guttiig, and opposed
Bradley, with whom was Mr'. Benedict, to dismiss the
for the want of jurisdiction.

United
articles
by .Mr.
appeal,

The points made vere the same as those in the succeding
case, and there was an affidavit of value made by .Mr.Benedict.
The affidavit also set forth "that the rules of the district court
required libels to be sworn to, so that it is necessary, in stating
the amount claimed, to state the same as it actually and in
truth exists at the time the libel is sworn to, and on such
libels the court, in its final decree, gives such amount as the
libellant shall be entitled to recover on his case, whether the
same lie more or less than the amount in the libel."
The amount of the claim aid the history of the-case are stated
in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered te opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of New York, in admiralty.
The libel was filed in the district court, which stated that in
the years 1847 and 1848, the steam-ship Ohio, then being in
process of construction by Bishop and Simonson, the libellant
furnished, at the city of New York, for the building of said
vessel, a large quantity of materials, timber, and ree-nails. That
said articles, at a fair price, amounted in the whole to the
sum of $2,973.57, of which sum there is still due $2,159.28,
less tree-nails, which npt having been used were to be received
back by the libellant, amounting to the sum of $468. That,
2*

18

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Udall v. Steam-ship Ohio.

the balance of $1,691.28, the owners, or those in charge of
said vessel, have refused to pay, &c.
The appeal states the claim to be, at the time of the trial in
the circuit court, interest included, $2,164.86.
The libel was dismissed in the district court, and the case
was appealed to the circuit court. In that court, the decree of
the district court was affirmed, from which an appeal was taken
to this court.
A motion is now made to dismiss the appeal, for want of jurisdiction.
It is stated by the counsel opposed to the motion, that it is
the uniform practice in the southern district of New York, to
establish, on the hearing, only the liability of the defendant, and
to have the amount of the damages ascertained on a reference
to a commissioner, as the proofs in the record are not the full
proof, as to the amount of the damages.
It is not perceived how the practice in the circuit court can
affect the question of jurisdiction. The decree of the district
court, which dismissed the libel, having been affirmed by the
circuit court, we must 'look to the claim of the appellant, in his
libel, whether it exceeds the sum of two thousand dollars. The
balance of the account claimed, only amounts to the sum of
$1,691.86. But it is insisted ihat if the interest on this sum be
computed, up to the time of trial in the circuit court, the sum
would exceed the amount required to give jurisdiction.
Where the claim is founded on dollars and cents, whether it
be a libel, a bill in chancery, or an action at law, the damages
must appear, to give jurisdiction, on the face of the pleading on
which the claim is made. No computation of interest will be
made to give jurisdiction, unless it be specially claimed in the
libel. If not intended to be included in the claim of damages,
it should be specially stated. This would certainly be the case
in an action at law, and no reason is perceived why the rule
should be relaxed in a case of libel.
Under the 24th admiralty rule of this court, it is suggested,
the libel may be amended at any time, as of course, on application to the court. And if this be necessary, the counsel now
moves to amend the libel by inserting, "together with the interest to the time of the final decree in this court, or any appellate
court."
It has not been the practice of this court to allow amendments,
except by the consent of parties; though, in the case of Kennedy
et al. v. Georgia State Bank, 8 How. 610, this court say, "there
is nothing in the nature of an appellate jurisdiction, proceeding
according to the common law, which forbids the granting of
amendments, &c. but the practice has been to remand the cause
to the lower court for amendment.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

19

Olney v. Steam-ship Falcon et al.

If amendments be allowed, so as to give jurisdiction to this
court, where there was no jurisdiction when the trial was had
and the appeal taken, parties would be taken by surprise, and
litigation would be encouraged. The plaintiff, under such
circumstances, would never fail to sustain the jurisdiction of
this court, on his appeal.
On the ground that the matter in dispute does not appear, on
the face of the libel, to exceed two thousand dollars, the appeal
is dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

JAMES N. OLNEY, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT, v. THE STEAMSHIP FALCON, HER TACKLE, &C.,
AND GEORGE LAW AND
MARSHALL 0. ROBERTS, CLAIMANTS.
Where it was alleged in a libel, that the libellant was "entitled to recover from the
vessel the damages by him sustained, which amount to the sum of eighteen hundred
dollars and upwards," the sum was not sufficient to bring the dese within the jurisdiction of this court.
Interest, not being specially claimed, cannot be computed, for it is considered as a
part o' the damages, being merged in that claim, and is not estimated as a distinct
item.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
A libel was filed in the district court, by Olney, alleging the
shipment and non-delivery of a box of merchanidise, in consequence of which he was entitled to recover the damages by him
sustained, which amounted to the sum of eighteen hundred
dollars and upwards.
The district court dismissed the libel, and the circuit court
affirmed the decree. The libellant appealed to this court.
Mlfr. C(utt'ng"moved to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground
that the amount in controversy appeared, by the record, to be
less than two thousand dollars,-exclusive of costs.
The motion was argued by Mr. GttiWg, in support thereof,

