464

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Farmer et al.

enlarged to embrace civil as well as criminal cases; and he
insists that the court should depart from the adjudications heretofore made upon this subject. But this cannot be done. There
is no error in the record, and the judgment of the supreme court
is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard -onthe transcript of the record
from the supreme court of Pennsylvania, and was argued b
counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered,
adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said
supreme coijrt in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.
with costs.

JAMEs

RIHODES,

FAR MER,

COMPLAINANT

WILLIAM

AND

APPELLANT, .2.

FELLOVS, AND

CORNELIus

WILLIAM

B.

FELLOWS.

Where a complainant sought to recover by bill in chancery the proceeds of a judgment hhich he alleged that his debtor had against a third person, and it turned out
that his debtor had only an interest of one fourth in this judgment, which fourth was
collected and the proceeds paid over to the solicitor of the complainant during the
pendenoy of the suit, the bill was properly dismissed at the cost of the complainant.
The assignment of the judgment was, in reality, conditional, although absolute on its
face; and the present bill being in the nature of a bill to carry that assignment into
effect, in such a case parol evidence is admissible to rebut or explain an equitable
interest.
The judgment was nominally assigned to the debtor, but his equitable interest 'n
it was only one fourth, which was all that the complainant was entitled to. This
fourth being paid before the decree, together with costs up to that time, it was
proper to dismiss the bill at the cost of the complainant.

THIs was an appeal from the district court of the United
States, for the northern district of Mississippi.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips, for the appellant, and by M7fr.
Bibb, for the appellee.
Mr. Phillips made the following points: A judgment creditor is entitled in equity to attach a debt due
to the debtor. Bayard v. Hoffman, 4 John. C. 453; Eg~erts v.
Pemberton, 7 Ib. 209; Hudson v. Plets, 11 Paige, 182; Candler
v. Petit, 1 Ib. 170.
Parol evidence was inadmissible to contradict the assignment
It is conceded that the design was to invest the party with a
"legal title." 1 Story's Eq. §§ 113- 115; 6 Ves. 332; 1 Pet.
16; 3 Greenleaf's Ev. 368.
The evidence offered by defendant that .his object wa to

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

465

Rhodes v. Farmer et al.

enable Farmer to use the judgment as a set-off, while he remained the owner thereof, shows an attempt to commit a fraud
upon the law. 1 Poth. on Obl. 415; Barb. on Set-off, 37, 58;
7 Cow. 469,481; 1 Paige, 289.
The agreement set up is equally obnoxious to the charge of
champerty. 2 Sims and Stu. 244; ,15 Ves. 156; 2 Story's Eq.
1049.
The new agreement offered to be set up being in itself illegal,
will not be admitted as an answer to the prayer of the bill. 7
Ves. 470; 2 Story's Eq. §§ 298, 305, 697.
As to costs, courts of equity are governed by "general rules
and former precedents; and when a question of costs is connected witlh a substantial ground of appeal, the party -may
succeed with the former question though he fail with the latter.
2 Hagg. Ecc. Rep. 374; 4 Russel, 180.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery, from the district court of the
United States for the northern district of Mississippi.
Rhodes, the complainant, recovered two judgments, in 1850,
against Sneed, Wright, James E. Farmer, and William B. Farmer, in the district court- one for the sum of $1,308.68, the
other for $3,179.19- on which executions wer6 issued and
returned, nulla bona. Prior to this, W. and C. Fellows, in the
name of McKewen, King, and Company, had recovered a judgment against James Strong and others, for $3,937.75, in the
same court; and Strong, with the view of placing-his property
beyond the reach of the judgment, conveyed it to his wife. This
conveyance, on an issue being made, under the practice of Mississippi, was set aside.
In t ie trial of the above issue, the complainant states it ap.
peared in proof that William B. Farmer fvas the owner of the
judgment against Strong and others, it having been assigned to
him by W. and C. Fellows; and the complainant alleged that
his judgment against Farmer, being unsatisfied, was a lien in
equity upon the interest and claim of William B. Farmer, to
the judgment assigned to him. And the complainantprayed that
said judgment might be held by Farmer and W. and C. Felloxvs,
subject to his judgments, and that they might be enjoined from
paying it over, &c.
William B. Farmer, in his answer, admits that the judgments
against him had been obtained, and that executions on them
had been teturned, nulla bona. He denies that the judgment
against Strong was ever sold to him; but he states that, in 1848,
being sued for a large debt, which he supposed to belong to
Strong, and wishing to urocure a set-off, he applied to W. and

466

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Farmer ot al.

a Fellows for the control of said judgment, offering to pay them
three fourths of the amount that he might realize of the judgment, should he be able to use it as a set-off, wbich was
agreed to by them; and that he executed a penal bond, to pay
to the said W. and C. Fellows three fourths of the amount so
recovered on their judgment.
Defendant also -states that the complainant received from
James E. Farmer, a co-defendant, a sum of money, on the
receipt of whcth he released the judgments; and the defendant
submits, whether such release does not exonerate the other defendants.
He also states that he had made a verba assignment of the
judgment to William Cathron, as an attorney, for collection;
and he submits whether the judgment can be made liable by the
complainant to the satisfaction of his judgments. Other matters are set up in the answer, and he prays that the answer may
be considered a cross-bill, &c.
The condition of the penal bo"4d, given to W. and C. Fellows,
stated that they had transferred -Co Farmer the judgment against
Strong et al., for the sum $3,937, subject to credits of about
$763. Now, if the said obligors shall pay to W. and C. Fellows, or their assigns, in two equal instalments, on the 27th of
January, 1849, and on the 27th of January, 1850, three fourths
of the amount which may be secured or realized by said Farmer
out of said judgment, bearing interest at six per cent., deducting
costs and attorney's fees which may be incurred, &c., then the
obligation to be void.
In their answers, W. and C. Fellows deny that their co-defendant, William B. Farmer, is the owner of the whole of their
judgment against Strong and others, but admit that he has an
interest of one fourth part, &c.
During the pendency of this suit, the following receipt was
given by John S. Topp, counsel for the complainant: "June 9, 1852. Received of Messrs. Boston and Stearns,
$1,052.59, being the one fourth part of the balance left in the
marshal's hands, in the case of W. and C. Fellows v. Strong
and wife, after deducting $700 for fees, as provided for in the
within agreement."
The district court, in its decree, says: " It appearing to the
court that from the written admissions of Mr. Topp, solicitor
for the complainant, since his filing the bill in this cause, recovered one fourth of the amount of the judgment of W. and C.
Fellows v. James Strong and Mary A. Str6ng, his wife, which
is enjoined in this cause, and that the complainant is entitled to
no further relief in the premises, the injunction was dissolved,
and the bill dismissed at the complainant's costs.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

497

Rhodes v. :Farmer et al.

The judgment of W. and C. Fellows v. -Strong was assigned
to Farmer without condition, and it is contended that parol evidence was not admissible to alter the terms of the assignment.
There is a good deal of testimony on the contract of assignment. Some of the statements are soniewhat conflicting, but
they are reconcilable; and the result of the whole is, that the
assignment was made of the judgment to enable Farmer to usit by way of set-off to a demand against him which he supposed
belonged to Strong. But it was understood that Farmer should
have one fourth of the amount recovered from Strong, after deducting the costs. for his labor and trouble in collecting the
money, and for the payment of the residue of the judgment he
gave bond and securiry.
The assignment of the judgment was good in equity, and
though absolute on its face, the bond given expressed the conditions, and showed that Farmer's interest in the judgment against
Strong extended only to one fourth part of it, after deducting
costs.
The bill of th6 complainait. is in the nature of a bill for a
'specific execution of the assignment of the judgment, and in
such a case parol evidence is. admissible .to rebut or explain
in equity. But the penal bond given to W. and C. Fellows,'
by Farmer, with Brown as security, sufficiently explains the
transaction.
The judgments obtained by the complainant against William
B. Farmer and others constituted no lien, equitable or legal, on
the judgment against Strong, after it was assigned to Farmer;
and no relief could be given to the complainant against the
assigned judgment, beyind the equitable interest of Farmer.
He is represented to have been insolvent at the time the decree
was ei tered. As one fourth of the judgment, after paying costs,
was paid to the complainant before the decree, we think that
the decree of the district court dismissing the bill at the complainant's costs, was correct.
. The defendants were not liable to pay more than. one fourth
of the judgment, and as that amount was paid, about the time
it was collected on the judgment against Strong, te defendants
were not in default.
There is" no evidence of a payment to the complainant by
James E. Farmer, a co-defendant of William B. Farmer, on
which' a release of the judgments was executed by the complainant, as. alleged in Farmer's answer. Nor is there any
ground of defence, from the alleged verbal agreement.with
C.athron, who, as an attorney, was employed to collect the judgment against Strong.
The complainant, both in prosecuting the suit in the district

SUPREME COURT.
Wickliffe v. Eve et al.

court, and also by his appeal to this court, sought to recover the
whole amount of the judgment against Strong, or at least so
much of it as would satisfy his two judgments against Farmer
and others. But he can in this mode of proceeding reach only
the equity of his judgment debtor in the assigned judgment;
and having received that, he can claim nothing more. The
decree of the district court is affirmed, at the costs of the complainant
Oraer.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

ROBERT WICKLIFFE, ADMINISTRATOR, WITH THE WILL ANNEXED,
OF LUKE TIERNAN, DECEASED, COMPLAINANT

v.

BENJAIVIIN EVE, IN

HIS OWN

AND

APIELLANT,

RIGHT AND AS ADMINISTRATOR

OF JOSEPH EVE, DECEASED, RICHARDSON
OF RANDOLPH ADAMS, DECEASED, ROBERT
BALLINGER, AND FRANKLIN BALLINGER.

A-DAMs,

P.

EXECUTOR
LETCHER, JAMIES

Where a judgment had been obtdined in the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky, in a suit brought by a citizen of Maryland against certain
persons in Kentucky, and the judgment was afterwards perpetually enjoined at the
instance of the defendants, avid a bill was filed by a citizen of Kentucky against the
original defendants, who were also citizens of Kentucky, this bill was properly dismissed by the court for the want of jurisdiction.
The circumstance that the complainant claimed that this was in the nature of a bill
of review of the decree which was passed in -a suit between .citizens of different
States, was not sufficient to devest it of the character of an original bill.
Moreover, the administrator of a deceased partner had no right to interpose and claim
a debt due to the partnership. It was the right of the surviving partner to settle
up the concerns of the firm.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .1r. Preston, for the appellant, and by- ir.
Blair, for the appellees.
It would be difficult to report the arguments of counsel without giving a detailed history of the transactions between the
parties. They are, therefore, omitted.

