DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

443

Hendrickson -v. Hinckley

Undoubtedly the sureties in the second term of office are not
responsible for a default committed in his first. But if any
part of the balance now claimed from him was, misapplied
during that period, it was incumbent on the plaintiffs in error to
prove it. No officer, without proof, will be presulned to have
violated his duty; and if Bruce had done so, Steele had a right,
under the opinion of the circuit court, to show it and exonerate
himself to that amount;. but it could not be presumed, merely
because there appears by the accounts to have been a balance
in his hiands at the expiration of his first term.
We see no error in the opinions of the circuit court, and the
judgment must therefore be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court
that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with interest at the same rate
per annum that siruilar judgments bear in the courts of the
State of Missouri.

RICHARD

L HENDRICKSON, COMPLAINANT AND APPELLANT, V.
SAM'UEL L.

HINCKLEY.

A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at law, unless the complainant
has an equitable defence of which he could not avail himself, at law, because it
did not amount to a legal defence, or had a good defence at law which he was
prevented from availing himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed with negligence
of himself or his agents.
Therefore, t bill was properly dismissed where the complainant sought relief from a
judgment at law, fr the following reasons:
1. Where he alleged that he had been defrauded in the sale of the property, for the
purchase of which he gave his notes. The fraud was pleaded at law, and the
verdict against him. Moreover, six years elapsed between the sale and suit, and
n6 effort was made to rescind The contract.
2. Certain verbal promises alleged, to have been made by the agent of the vendor.
These were not admissible in any court to vary a written contract. This defence
was also set up at law, and failed.
3. That certain letters from a co.defendant were read to the jury as admissions.
This ground of relief was also untenable.
4. That certain claims of set-off existed which he purposely abstained fiixi using in
the trial at law. If he voluntarily waived this defence, relying upon a separate
action, he has no right now to ask a court of equity to interfere.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Ohio.
On the 26th of October, 1851, Hendrickson, as survivor of
Hendrickson and Campbe filed a bill hi the United States cir-

444

SUPREMIE

COURT.

Hendrickson v. Hinckley.

cuit court, for the district of Ohio, alleging that on the 21st
day of April, 1848, Hinckley brought a suit on the law side of
said court, on three promissory notes against said Hendrickson and one Andrew Campbell. That said Hendrickson and
Campbell set up in their pleadings, and on the trial, for defences, the want of consideration, fraud in obtaining the notes,
and payment. That the case was tried on these issues, by a
jury, and thereupon a judgment was recovered against said
defendants for $2,386.11, and costs of suit. That afterwards
said Campbell and Hendrickson moved for a new trial, which,
on consideration, was refused. That Campbell has since died
insolvent. That before, and after said suit was brought, said
Campbell and Hendrickson had a good set-off against said
Hinckley, amounting to $3,337.85. That before the trial they
consulted their counsel respecting it, and that both counsel and
client. concluded not to set it up on that trial. That, on the
trial, said defendants were surprised, by the introduction, on
the part of the plaintiff, of letters written by said Campbell, and
to which the jury gave undue weight. That Hinckley is a
non-resident of the State of Ohio, and has no property besides
said judgment, in said State.
The bill then prays for a full discovery from the defendant,
as to all the facts alleged, and on the grounds of fraud, surprise, non-residence of the defendant, Hinckley, and the equitable jurisdiction of courts of chancery over claims of only setoff, prays that the judgment be enjoined, and his claim be
liquidated -and
he- offers to pay any balance which may be
found to be due said Hinckley, on such final adjustment.
September 26, 1851, the writ of injunction issued. On the
7th of May, 1852, the defendant, Henckley, filed his answer,
denying, seriatim, all the material allegations in the bill, and,
under the rule of court, denied all equity therein, and prayed to
have the same benefit from his answer as if he had demurred to
the bill.
At the October term, 1852, the case was heard on the demurrer, the injunction dissolved, and .the bill dismissed. From
this decree said complainant appealed to this court.
The case was submitted, on printed arguments, by Mr. Hart,
for the appellant, and Mr. Mills, for the appellee.
In order to explain the points made by counsel, it would be
necessary to enter into a particular statement of the facts in
the case. They are therefore omitted.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant filed his bill in the circuit court of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Hendrickson v. Hinckley.

United States, for the district of Ohio; and that court having
ordered the bill to be dismissed, on a demurrer, for want of
equity, the complainant appealed.
The object of the bill is to obtain relief against a judgment
at law, founded on three promissory notes, signed by the complainant, and one Campbell, since deceased.
A court of equity does not interfere with judgments at law,
unless the complainant has an equitable defence, of which he
could not avail himself at law, because it did not amount to a
legal defence, or had a.good defence at law, which he was prevented from availing himself of by fraud or accident, unmixed
with negligence of himself or his agents. Marine Ins. Co.
v. Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 333; Creath v. Sims, 5 How. 192;
Walker v. Robbins et al. 14 How. 584.
The application of this rule to the case stated in the bill,
leaves the complainant no equity whatever.
The contract.under which these notes were taken was made
in December, 1841. One of the notes is dated in December,
1841, and the others in January, 1842. In April, 1848, suit
was brought on the notes. In October, 1850, the trial was had
and judgment recovered. The reasons alleged by the bill for
enjoining the judgment are: 1. That the consideration of the notes was the sale of certain
property, and the complainant and Campbell were defrauded
in that sale. Bat this alleged fraud was pleaded, in the action
at law, as a defence to the noteg, and the jury found against
the defendants. Moreover, upwards of six years elapsed after
the sale, an' before the suit was brought; and the vendees,
who do not pretend to have been ignorant of the alleged fraud
during any considerable part of that period of time, did not
offer to rescind the contract, nor did they, at any time, either
return or offer to return the property sold.
2. The bill alleges certain promises to have been made by
an agent of the defendant, concerning the time and mode of
payment of the notes when they were given. These promises
could not be availed of in any court, as a defence to the notes;
for, to allow them such effect, would be to alter written contracts by parol evidence, which cannot be done in equity any
more than at law, in the absence of fraud or mistake. Sprigg
v. The Bank of Mount Pleasant, 14 Pet. 201.
But whatever substance there was in this defence, it was set
up, at law, and upon this, also, the verdict was against the
defendants; and the same is true of the alleged partial failure
of consideration.
3. The next ground is, that or the trial at law, letters from
the joint defendant, Campbell, containing admissions adverse
VOL. XVII.

38

SUPREME

COURT.

Hendrickson v. Hinckley.

to the defence, were read in evidence to the jury; and the bill
avers that Campbell was not truly informed concerning the
subjects on which he wrote, and that, until the letters were
produced at the trial, the complainan" was not aware of their
existence, and so was surprised.
To this there are two answers, either of which is sufficient.
The first is, that the complainant and Campbell being jointly
interested in the purchase and ownership of the property for
which these notes were given, and joint defendants in the
action at law, and there being no allegation of any collusion
between Campbell and the plaintiff in that action, the complainant cannot be allowed to allege this surprise. If he did
not know what admissions Campbell had made, he might, and
with the use of due diligence, would have known them; and he
must be treated, in equity as well ns at law, as if he had himself made the admissions.
Another answer is, that if there was surprise at the trial,
motion for delay, as is practised in some circuits, or a motion
for a new trial, according to the practice in others, afforded a
complete remedy at law.
4. The complainant asserts that he has claims against the
defendant, and he prays that, inasmuch as the defendant resides
out of the jurisdiction of the court, these claims may be set off
against the judgment recovered at law by the decree of the
court upon this bill. But upon this subject the bill states,
speaking of the action at law: "Yoar orator frequently conferred with L. D. Campbell, one of his attorneys, in reference
to the said cause, and frequently spoke to him of the claims
which your orator and said Andrew Campbell had against the
said Hinckley, as hereinafter specifically set forth; but the
said Campbell, attorney, regarded the defence pleaded as so
amply sufficient as that neither he nor your orator ever thought
it necessary to exhibit said demands against said Henckley as
matter of defence, could it even have been done consistently
with the defence made as aforesaid."
He purposely omitted to set off these alleged claims in the
action at law, and now asks a court of equity to try these unliquidated claims and ascertain their amount, and enable him
to have the same advantage which he has once waived, when it
was directly presented to him in the regular course of legal
proceedings. Courts of equity do not assist those whose condition is attributable only to want of due diligence, nor lend
their aid to parties, who, having had a plain, adequate, and
complete remedy at law, have purposely omitted to avail themselves of it.
It is suggested that courts of equity have an criginal juris-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

447

Stevens v. Gladding et al.

diction in cases of set-off, and that this jurisdiction is not taken
away by the statutes of set-off, which have given the right at
law. This may be admitted, though it has been found exceedingly difficult to determine what was the original jurisdiction
in equity over .this subject. 2 Story's Eq. 656, 664. But
whatever may have been its exact limits, there can be no doubt
that a party sued at law has his election to set off his claim, or
resort to his separate action. And if he deliberately elects the
last, he cannot come into a court of equity and ask to be
allowed to make a different determihation, and to be restored
to the right which he has once voluntarily waived. Barker
v. Ekins, 1 John. Ch. R. 465; Greene v. Darling, 5 MA~ason, 201.
Similar considerations are fatal to the plaintiff's cnim for
relief, on the ground that the defendant resides out of the
State, and that therefore he should have the aid of a court of
equity, to subject the judgment at law to the payment of the
complainant's claim. When the complainant elected not to
file these claims in set-off in the action at law, he knew that
defendant, who was the plaintiff in that action, resided out of
the State. If that fact was deemed by the complainant insufficient to induce him to avail himself of his cdmplete legal
remedy, it can hardly be supposed that it can induce a court of
equity to interpose to create one for him. The question-is.not
merely whether he now has a legal remedy, bat whether he
has had, one and waived it. And as this clearly appears, equity
will not interfere.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel On considera.
tion whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JAMES STEVENS, APPELLANT, V. ROYAL GLADDING AND ISAAC T.

PRouD.
Whether patent-rights and copyrights, held under the laws of the-United States, are
subject to seizure and sale on execution, is a question upon which the court do.eg
not express an opinion in the present case.

