DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

447

Stevens v. Gladding et al.

diction in cases of set-off, and that this jurisdiction is not taken
away by the statutes of set-off, which have given the right at
law. This may be admitted, though it has been found exceedingly difficult to determine what was the original jurisdiction
in equity over .this subject. 2 Story's Eq. 656, 664. But
whatever may have been its exact limits, there can be no doubt
that a party sued at law has his election to set off his claim, or
resort to his separate action. And if he deliberately elects the
last, he cannot come into a court of equity and ask to be
allowed to make a different determihation, and to be restored
to the right which he has once voluntarily waived. Barker
v. Ekins, 1 John. Ch. R. 465; Greene v. Darling, 5 MA~ason, 201.
Similar considerations are fatal to the plaintiff's cnim for
relief, on the ground that the defendant resides out of the
State, and that therefore he should have the aid of a court of
equity, to subject the judgment at law to the payment of the
complainant's claim. When the complainant elected not to
file these claims in set-off in the action at law, he knew that
defendant, who was the plaintiff in that action, resided out of
the State. If that fact was deemed by the complainant insufficient to induce him to avail himself of his cdmplete legal
remedy, it can hardly be supposed that it can induce a court of
equity to interpose to create one for him. The question-is.not
merely whether he now has a legal remedy, bat whether he
has had, one and waived it. And as this clearly appears, equity
will not interfere.
The decree of the court below is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Ohio, and was argued by counsel On considera.
tion whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JAMES STEVENS, APPELLANT, V. ROYAL GLADDING AND ISAAC T.

PRouD.
Whether patent-rights and copyrights, held under the laws of the-United States, are
subject to seizure and sale on execution, is a question upon which the court do.eg
not express an opinion in the present case.

448

SUPREME COURT.
Stevens v. Gladding et al.

The seizure and sale, under execution, of " one copperplate for the map of the State
of Rhode Island," did not carry with it the right to print and publish the map.
It is distinguishable from a volnitary sale of a plate by the owner thereof.
The ownership of a plate and the ownership of th- copyright are distirct species of
property; and the plate may be used without infringhig .ron the copynght of printing and publishing the map.
But the penalties imposed by the 7th sect:on of the act of congress, paosed on the
3d of February, 1831, namely, the forfeitura of the printed copies and the sum of
one dollar for each sheet unlawfully printed, cannot be enforced in a court of equity.
Under a prayer for general relief, the court can decree for an account of profits. This
right is inciden to the right to an injunction in copy and patent-right cases.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island.
It was a branch of the case of Stevens v. Cady, reported in
14 How. 528, and the difference between the two cases is stated
in the opinion of the court.
The decree of the circuit court was as follows: Decree.
be
heard on the bill, answer, replicaon
to
This cause came
tion, depositions, and other papers in the case, and after the
hearing, it is ordered by the court that the following entry be
made on the minutes in relation to the same: " The court differ in opinion as to the effect of the sale of the
copperplate, but agree that injunction cannot issue without a
rezurn of tbe money paid for the plate."
And afterwards, at the same term, Mr. Stevens having the
election to return the price of the plate or not, elected not to
return the same, upon which the respondents move that the bill
be diwm . ei, which is dismissed as follows This cause- having been heard on the bill, answer, and other
pleadings therein, and the complainant having refused to return
the price of the plate of the map in question as required by the
court:
It is now, on motion of the respondents, and by the consideration of the court, ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
said bill be and the same is hereby dismissed, -ith costs.
November term, A. D. 1849.
From this decree, Stevens appealed to this court.
It was submitted on a printed argument by the appellant, and
argued by Mr. Ames, for the appellees.
iLfr. Ames made the following points: 1. The 7th section of the act of congress, approved February
3, 1831, entitled "An act to amend the several acts respecting
copyrights," (4 Stats. at Large, 438,) inflicting forfeiture and
penalties upc." those who shall sell any map, &c., "without the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

449

Stevens v. Gladding et al.

consent of the proprietor or proprietors of the copyright thereof,
first obtained in writing, signed in the presence of two credible
witnesses," applies only to persons claiming the right of sale by
act of party, and not to those claiming and proving such Xight
by act or operation of law. 4 Stats. at Large, 435, § 1; Hesse
v.Stevenson, 3 Bos. and Pal. 56, 578; Bloxam v. Elsee, 1 C.
and P.'578; S. C.11 Eng. C. L. R. 468; S. C. in Error, 6 B..
ght v. Amatt,
and C.69; S. 0. 13 Eng. C. L. R. 133; Ca
2 Bos. and Pd. 43; Sawin et al. v. Guild, 1 Galison, 485; Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646; Webster on Patents, 21-23,
82, u. n.; Godson on Patents and Copyright, 2d ed. 219, 221,
377, 430; 2 Renouard Trait6 des Droits d'Auteurs, oh. 3, ,§ 4,
arts. 204, 205, p. 348, and onwards.
2. Copyrights and patent-rights are, by the law of England,
and in conformity to the principles of justice and policy prevailing there, as well as in countries of the civil law, liable, as goods
and chattels, to the payment of the debts of the authors or inventors who may hold them. As goods and chattels they pass
to assignees in bankruptcy, and to provisional assignees in insolvency, as "the assignees" or "representatives' " of the balkupt
or insolvent author or inventor; and, both in England and in
France, may be seized and sold on execution or decrees of
seizure issued against.him. Hesse v. Stevenson, sijpra; Bloxam
v. Elsee, supra; Cartwright v. Amatt. supra; Mary York v.
Twine, Cro. Jac. 78; Sewall, Office of Sheriff, 225,46 Law Lib.;
Webster on Patents, 21-23; Godson -on Patents and Copyright, 219, 221,'incl. 430 ; Renouard T-ait6 des Droits d kuteurs,
348, 349, &c., ch. 3, § 4, arts. 204, 205.
3. After an author has printed his book, or map,,in performance of the contract of copyright with the public, and it has thus
passed from the condition of a thought or conception still under
deliberation, as well as after a patented macine has been completed and sold by the inventor, in fulfilment of the contract of
his letters-patent, and he has, in any manifest form, clothed his
incorporeal right with a valuable corporeal substance, and, abstracting other values for the purpose, has brought it into the
condition of property, in the nature of a.personal, tangible good
or chattel, he thereby has made the right to use and sell the
same, appurtenant thereto; and public policy, common honesty,
attention to the true interests of the author or proprietorof the
copyright, as well as of his creditors, and every legal analogy,
require that the two should not be dissevered, for the purpose of
enabling him to defeat the rights of his creditors, sought through
the remedies provided by law. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How.
682, 684; Bloomer v. MeQuewai et al. 14 1b. 549, 560, 553,
38*

SUPREME COURT.
Stevens v. Gladding et al.

554; 2 Renouard Trait6 des Droits d'Auteurs, 348, and onwards, ch. 3, § 4, arts. 204, 205.
4. That the engraving of a map upon copperplate brings it
fairly within the pr iiciple and policy, that the proprietor having
made the right to use the plate appurtenant to the same, and to
the right of property therein, such right will pass with the right
of property in the plate, whenever that right passes by act or
operation of law in forms appropriate to such act or operation.

5. That, at least, the condition of relief annexed by the cout

below was, under the circumstances of this case, a perfectly
equitable one, and, upon non-compliance therewith by the complainant, the bill ought to have been, as it was, dismissed with
costs. Origin of rule imposing terms of relief on complainant.

I Spence, Equitable Jurisdiction of Chancery, 216, 422, 423,
and notes. Though equity cannot relieve against common law
or statute penalties and forfeitures, (Peacy v. Duke of Somerset,
1 Stra. 447; Keating v. Sparrow, 1 Ball and Beatty, 372, 373,

374,) yet it does, in the case of usurious bonds and instruments,
grant relief against them only on condition of payment of the
principal and legal interest of the amount borrowed; in other
words, only upon waiver of the statute forfeitures. 1 Story's
Eq. Jurisp. 64 c. and cases cited; Rogers v. Rathbone, 1 Johns.
Ch. R. 365; Tupper v. Powell, Ib.439; Morgan v. Schermerhorn, 1 Paige, 544; Livingston v. Harris, 3 Ib.528; Campbell
v. Morrison, 7 Tb. 158; Judd v. Seaver, 8 Tb. 548; Cole v. avage, 10 Ib.583.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant filed his bill in the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Rhode Island, to restrain the defendants from printing and publishing a map of that State, whereof
he claimed to be the exclusive proprietor, under the act of congress of February 3, 1831, concerning copyrights of maps, &c.
The defendants admit that they have sold such maps, but allege
that a copperplate, owned by the plaintif, was duly sold on an
execution which issued on a judgment recovered against the
plaintiff, in the court of common pleas for the county of Bristol,
in the State of Massachusetts, and that one Isaac H. Cady was
the purchaser of the plate under that sale; that Cady has used
the plate to print the said.maps, and the defendants have sold
them; and they insist that, by the purchase of the copperplate,
Cady acquired the right to print maps therewith, and to publish
and sell them; and that, therefore, the defendants have not infringed on a..y exclusive right of the complainants.
By reference to the case of Stevens v. Cady, reported in 14
How. 528, it will be seen that the same title, now asserted by

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Stevens v. Gladding et al.

these defendants, was tried on that case, between the complainant and Cady. But, as is stated in the report of that case, no
counsel then appeared or was heard in support of Cady's title;
and Mr. Justice Woodbury, who sat in the cause in the circuit
court, having deceased, this court was not apprised of the
grounds and reasons on which the decree of that court dismissing the bill rested; and when this cause was called, counsel
having appeared and desired to be heard, though he frankly
avowed that the question passed on in the former case was the
only one which could be raised, the court readily assented, and,
having now considered the argument of the respondents counsel, the court directs me to state its opinion in the cause.
The positions assumed by the respondent's counsel are, that
copy and patent-rights are subject to seizure and sale on execution; and that, whenever the. owner of a copyright of a map
causes a plate to be made which is capable of no beneficial use
except to print his map, he thereby annexes to the plate the
right to use it for printing that map, and also the right to publish and sell the copies when printed; and that when the plate
is sold on execution, these rights pass with the plate, and as
incidents or accessories thereto, though no mentioh is.made of
them in the sale.
There would certainly be great difficulty in assenting to the
proposition that patent and copyrights, held under the laws of
the United States, are subject to seizure and sale on execution.
Not to repeat what is said on. this subject, in 14 How. 531, it
may be added, that these incorporeal rights do not exist in any
particular State or district; they are coextensive with the
United States. There is nothing in any act of congress, or in
the nature of the rights themselves, to give them locality anywhere so as to subject them to the process of courts having
jurisdiction limited by the lines of States and districts. That
an execution out .of the court of common pleas for the county
of Bristol, in the State of Massachusetts, can be levied on an
incorporeal right subsisting in Rhode Island, or New York, will
hardly be pretended. That by the levy of such an execution,
the entire right could be divided, and, so much of it as might be
exercised within the county of Bristol, sold, would be a position
subject to much difficulty. ,
These are 'important questions, on which we do not find it
necessary to express an opinion, because, in this case, neither
the copyright, as such, nor ahy part of it, was a-++'rnpted to be
sold. The return of the officer on the execution is, that he
seized -and sold "one copperplate for the map of the State of
Rhode Island." The defendants must, therefore,..stand upon
the" second 'position assumed by their counsel, that the right to

SUPREME
Stevens v.

COURT.

Gladding et al.

pint and publish the map passed by the execution sale with
the plate.
There are no special facts in this case to distinguish it from
any case of a sale on execution of copper or stereotype plates.
It appears that the plaintiff owned the plate; whether ," made
it, or caused it to be made, or purchased it after it haci 'ieen
made, does not appear.
Nor should the case be confounded with one where the owner
of copper or stereotype plate sells them. What rights would
pass by such a sale would depend-on the intentions of its parties,
to be gathered from their contract and its attendant circumstances. In this case, the owner of the copyright made no
contract of sale, and necessarily had no intention respecting its
subject-matter.
The sole question is, whether the mere fact that the plaintiff
owned the plate, attached to it the right to print and publish the
map, so that this right passed with the plate by a sale on execution.
And upon this question of the annexation of the copyright to
the plate it is to be observed, first, that there is no necessary
connection between them. They are distinct subjects of property, each capable of existing, and being owned and transferred,
independent of the other. It was lawful for any one to make,
own, and sell this copperplate. The manufacture of stereotype
plates is an established business, and the ownership of the plates
of a book under copyright may be, and doubtless in practice is,
separated from the ownership of the copyright. If an execution
against a stereotype founder were levied on .such plates, which
he had made for an author and not delivered, the title to those
plates would be passed by the execution sale, and the purchaser
might sell them, but clearly he could not print and publish the
book for which they were made. The right to print and publish
is therefore not necessarily annexed to the plate, nor parcel
of it.
Neither is the plate the principal thing, and the right to print
and publish an incident or accessory ther-%f. It might be more
plausibly said that the plate is an incident or accessory of the
right; because the sole object of the existence of the plate is as
a means to exercise and enjoy the right to print and publish.
Nor does the rule that he who grants a thilg, grants impliedly
what is essential to the beneficial use of that thing, apply to this
case. A press, and paper, and ink, are esscntial to the beneficial use of a copperplate. But it would hardly be contended
that the sale of a copperplate passed a press, and paper, and .ink,
as incidents of the plate, because necessary to its enjoyment.
The sale of a copperplate passes the right to such lawful use

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Stevens v.

453

Gladding et al.

thereof as the purchaser can make, by reason of the ownership
of the thing he has bought; but not the right to a use thereof, by
reason of the ownership of something else which he has not
bought, and which belongs to a third person. If he has not acquired a press, or paper, or ink, he cannot use his plate for printing, because each of these kinds of property is necessary to -enable
him to use it for that purpose. So, if he has not acquired the
right to print the map, he cannot use his plate for that purpose,
because he has not made himself the owiner of something as
necessary to printing as paper and ink, or as clearly a distinct
species of property as either of those articles. He may make
any other use of the plate of which it is susceptible. Re may
keep it till the limited time, during which the exclusive right
exists, shall have expired, and then use it to print maps. He
may sell it to another, who has the right to print and publish,
but he can no more use that right of property than he can use a
press, or paper, which belongs'to a tlird person.
The cases mentioned at the bar, in which incorporeal rights
have been held to pass with corporeal property, do not apply.
By the lbvy of an execution on a mill, the incorporeal rights
actually annexed to the mill, and necessary to its use, pass
with the mill. So does whatis parcel of the mill, though tenporarily removed from it -as
a mill-stone, which has been
taken from its place to be picked. These, and many other
such case8, are collected In Broome's Legal Mlaxims, 19,, 205.
But the right in question is not parcel of the plate levied on,
nor a right merely appendant or appurtenant thereto; but a distinct and independent property, subsisting in grant from the
government of tile United States, not annexed to any other
thing, either by the act of its owner or by operation of law.
For these reasons, as well as those stated in 14 How., our
conclusion is, that the mere ownership of a copperplate of a
map, by the owner of the copyright, does not attach to the plate
the exclusive right of printing and publishing the map, held
under the act of congress, or any part thereof; but the incorporeal right subsists wholly separate from and independent of
the plate, and does not pass with it by a sale thereof on execution.
The next- question is, whether the c-omplainant can have a
decree in accordance with the prayer of his bill, for the penalties
imposed by the 7th section of the act of February 3, 1S31.
The bill prays specifically for a decree for these penalties. We
speak of the f6rfeitire of the printed copies, as well as of the
sum of one dollar for each sheet unlawfully printed, as penlalties; for, under the law of the tnited Stares, it is clear that
the complainant can have no title to either of them, except by
way of penalty.

SUPREME COURT.
Stevens v. Gladd'ing et al.

There being no common law of copyright in this country,
whatever rights are possessed by the proprietor of the copyright
must be derived from some grant thereof, in some act of congress, either nominalim. or by a satisfactory implication; and3
looking to the act of congress applicable to this subject-matter,
it appear.; that the rights claimed by this bill are expressly conferred by way of forfeiture. Its language is: "The n such
offender shall forfeit the plate or plates on which such map,
&c., shall be copied, and also all and every sheet thereof so copied or printed as aforesaid, to the proprietor or proprietors of the
copyright thereof; and shall further forfeit one dollar for every
sheet of such map, &c., which may be found in his or their possession, printed, &c., contrary to the true intent and meaning of
this act; the one moiety thereof to the proprietor or proprietors,
and the other moiety to the use of the United States, to be
recovered in any court having competent jurisdiction thereof."
In the case of Colburn v. Simms, 2 Hare, 554, Mr. ViceChancellor Wigram came to the conclusion, that since the decision of the house of lords in the case of Miller v. Taylor,
the right to a decree for the delivery up of copies muir be rested
by the complainant upon some statute provision; and that inasmuch as courts of equity do not enforce forfeitures by an exercise of their ordinary jurisdiction, such a jurisdiction also must
be derived from an act of parliament. And though the 8th
section of the act of 1 and 2 Vict. c. 59, as well as the preceding
act of 54 Geo. III, c. 156, § 4, allows the forfeited copies to be recovered in "any court of record in which an action at law, or a
suit in equity, shall be commenced by such author or author"s,
or other proprietor or proprietors," &c.; yet it was admitted, in
Colburn v. Simms, that no such order had ever been made, in
is a significant fact that coninvitum, in a court of equity. 'It
gress, in legislating on this subject, though manifestly acquainied
with The phraseology of the act of Geo. III., and though in some
particulars it adopted that phraseology, yet omitted to confer
upon courts of equity power to enforce either of the forfeitures
provided for, butleft them to be recovered "in any court having
competent jurisdiction th.eredf." And the only equitable jurisdiction, as to copyright, conferred upon the courts of the United
States, is by the act of February 15, 1819, which gives original
cognizance to the courts of the United States, as well in equity
as at law, of cases arising under, any law of the United States
granting to authors or inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings, inventions, and discoveries; and, upon any
bill in equity filed by any party aggrieved in any such ease, shall
have authority to grant injunctions according to the course and
principles of courts of equity, to prevent the violation of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Stevens v. Gladding et al.

rights of any authors or inventors secured to them by any laws
of the Unitea States, on such terms as the said courts may deent
fit and reasonable. Though 'the substance of this enactment
is incorporated into the 17th section of the patent act of July
4, 1836, so far as it related to inventors, and so far as it related to the subject of patent-rights, is no longer in forc6, proprio
vigore, vet, so far as it gave cognizance to the courts of the
United States of cases of copyright, it still remains in force, and
is the only law conferring equitable jurisdiction on those courts
in such cases; for the 9th section of the act of February 3,
1831, protects manuscripts only.
I There is nothing in this act of 1819, which extends the equity
powers of the courts to the adjudication of forfeitures; it being
manifestly intended, that the jurisdiction therein conferred should
be the usual and known jurisdiction exercised by courts of equity
for the protection of analogous rights. The prayer of this bill
for the penalties must therefore be rejected.
The remaining question is, whether there ought to be a decree
for an account of the profits. The complainant has not prayed
for such an account, nor have the defendants stated one in their
answer; but the bill does pray for general relief.
The right to an account of profits is incident to the right to
an injunction in copy and patent-right cases. Colburn v. Simms,
2 Hare, 554; 3 Dan. Ch. Pr. 1797. And this court has held,
in Watts et al. v. Waddle et al., 6 Pet. 389, that where the bill
states a case proper for an account, one may be ordered under
the prayer for general relief. See also 2 Pet. 612; 14 lb. 156;
16 lb. 195; 9 How. 405.
The decree of the circuit court must be reversed, and the cause
remanded to tie circuit court, with directions to award a perpetual injunction as prayed for in the bill, and to take an account
of the profits received by the defendants from the sales of the
map.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court, with directions to award a perpetual injunction, as prayed
for in the bill filed in this case, and to take an account of the
profits received by the defendants from the sales of the map,
and for such further proceedings in conformity to the opinion of
this couit, as to law and justice shall appertain.

