D'CBEMBER TERM, 1854.
Stafford et ux. v. New Orleans Canal and Banking Cbmr.any.

IN THE MATTER OF JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JEANNETTE KiRKLAND, HIS WIFE, APPELLANTS, V. THE NEw ORLEANS CANXL
AND BANKING COIPANY.
The decision in the preceding case of Stafford and Wife v. The Union Bankof
Louisiana, again affirmed.

Tis, like the preceding case of Stafford and Wife v. The
Union Bank of Louisiana, was an appeal from the district
court of the United States for the State of Texas, and vas, in
fact, a branch of the same case.
It is unnecessary, therefore, to recite the circumstances of it,
which were similar to those of the preceling case,

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal is subject, in principle, to the objections stated
in the above case of Stafford and. Wife v. The Union Bank of
Louisiana; and, for the reasons stated in that case, a-peremptory mandamus is ordered in this one, to carry into bffect the
decree entered in the district court. The motion to dismiss this
appeal is overruled.
Order,
The Honorable John C. Watrous, district judge of the United
States for the district of Texas, having failed to file any return
to the rule granted at the last term, in this case, requiring him
to appear and show cause, if any he had, why a mandamus
should not be awarded, requiring and commanding him to
cause the decree rendered by the said court, on the 2d day of
March, A. D. 1854, in a cert' in case therein then depending,
between the said New Orleans Canal and Banking Company,
as complainant, and Josiah S. Stafford and Jeannette Kirkland,
his -wife, as defendants, to be at once carried into execution,
according to the terms thereof, notwithstanding the appeal from
said decree taken by the said defendants to this court, and the
order of the said court that the appeal bond, filed by the said
defendants on the said appeal, operated as a supersedeas to the
said decree of the said court; and, after due deliberation thereupon had, it appearing to the court that it was the.duty of the
judge, in allowing the appeal, to take security .or the appeal in
the sum decreed, and, not having "done so, that the appellant
was not entitled to a supersedeas Of any process necessary to
carry the decree into execution, and that the judge .was bound
to issue the proper process, on the application of the complain-

284

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Guthrie.

ant. It is, therefore, now here directed and ordered by this
court, that a mandamus be awarded to the district judge of the
United States for the district of Texas, requiring and commanding the said judge forthwith to carry the aforesaid decree
of the said district court, of the 2d of March, A. D. 1854, into
effect.
After -Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the district of
Texas; and it appearing to the court here that a stipulation,
by the counsel of the respective parties, to dismiss this appeal,
at the costs of the appellants, has been filed in this cause, it is
thereupon, on the motion of AIk-. Coxe, of counsel for the appellee, now here ordered and decreed by this court, that this appeal
be and the same is hereby dismissed, with costs.

THE UNITED STATES, AT RELATION OF AARON GOODRICH,
PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES GUTHRIE, SECRETARY OF THE
TREASURY.
The circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, had not the
power to issue a writ of mranhnas, commanding the secretary of the treasury to
pay a judge of the territory of Minnesota his salary, for the unexpired term of his
office, from which he had been removed by the President of the United States.
No court has the power to command the withdrawal of money from the treasury of
the United States, to pay any individual claim whatever.
A mandamus can issue only in cases where the act to be done is merely ministerial,
and with regard to which nothing like judgment or discretion, in the performance
of his duties, is left to the officer.
The question, whether or not the President has power to remove a territorial judge,
argued, but not decided in the present case.

Tis
case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
The facts were these On the 19th March, 1849, the President appointed, by and
with the advice and consent of the senate, A. Goodrich, to be
chief justice of the supreme court of the Territory of Minnesota, for four years, which appointment was accepted.
On 21st of October, 1851, the President of the United States
thought proper to remove
rI. Goodrich, and to appoint Jerome
Fuller to the office; of which removal Mlr. Goodrich was
informed by an official letter from the department of state,
dated 22d October, 1851, and received by him on 30th November, 1851, as stated by him.

