596

SUPREME COURT.
Hays v. The Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company.

ought regularly to have been heard at the same time; and if
an appeal was prosecuted from the decree to this court, by any
party who supposed himself to be aggrieved, the whole suit
would necessarily be brought up.
Here the, cross-bill was heard and dismissed, pending the
original suit of which it was part. The decree pronounced
was partial; and as no appeal lies from any but a final decree,
and this decree not being final, the consequence is, that this
court has no jurisdiction to examine the merits presented and
insist6d on in the argument. All that we can properly do is
to dismiss the appeal, because it brought lip nothing. Now, as
to the matters discussed in the opinion just delivered, founded
on a copy of the proceedings had below, and filed in this court,
I can only say tha I have no opinion in regard to them, never
having even r~ad the record further than to ascertain that this
court had no jurisdiction in the supposed case presented to us:
I therefore concur in the judgment that the case shall be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction, without going further.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern

district of M\'ississippi, and was argued by counsel.

On con-

sideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and de-

creed by this court, that this cause be and the same is hereby
dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

JOHN C. HAYs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. THE PACIFIC MAIL
STEAM-SHIP COMPANY.
The acts of congress require that every vessel shall be registered by the collector of
the district in which is the port nearest to the place where her owner or owners
reside. The name of this port must be painted on her stern, in large letters ;
and every bill of sale of her must be recorded in the office where she is registered.
Where a company, incorporated by New York, (all the stockholders being residents of
that State,) owned vessels which were employed in the transportation of passengers,
&c., between New York and San Francisco, in California, and between San Francisco and different ports in the territory of Oregon ; all of which vessels were
ocean steam-ships, and duly registered in New York ; that they remained in California no longer than was necessary to land their paqsengers and freight, and prepare for the next voyage ; these vessels are not liable to .sessment and taxation
under the laws of California and authorities of San Francisco.
They were there but temporarily engaged in lawful trade and commerce, with their
shus at the home port, where the vessels belonged, and where the owners were
liable to be taxed for the capital investcd, and where the taxes had been paid.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the district

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

597

Hays v. The Paeific Mail Steam-ship Company.

court of the United States for the northern district of California.
The cas& is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .Mr.Brent and Mr. May, for the plaintiff in
error, and by M9r. Daiddge and M r. Vinton, for the .defendants.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the district court for the northern
district of California.
The suit was brought in the district court, by the company,
to recover back a sum of money which they were compelled to
pay to the defendant, as. taxes assessed in the State of Califorma, upon twelve steam-ships belonging to them, which were
temporarily within the jurisdiction of the State.
The complaint sets forth, that the plaintiffi are an incorporated company by the laws of New York; that all the stockholders are residents and citizens of that State; that the principal office for transacting the business of the company is
located in the city of New York, but, for the better transaction
of their business, they have agencies in the city of Panania,
New Grenada, and in the city of ,San Francisco, California;
that they have, also, a naval dock and ship-yard at the port of
Benicia, of that State, for furnishing and repairing their steamers; that, on the arrival at the port of San Francisco, they
remain no longer than is necessary to land their passengers,
mails, and freight, usually .done in a. day; they then proceed to
Benicia, and remMn for repairs and refitting until the commencement of. the next voyage, usually some ten or twelvd
days; that the business in which they are engaged is in the
transportation of passengers, merchandise, treasure, and the
United States mails, between the city of New York and the
city of San Francisco, by way of Panama, and between San
Francisco nd different ports in the Territoiy of Oregon; that
the company ar6 sole owners of the several vessels, and no
portion of the interes t is owned by citizens of the State. of California; that the vessels are all ocean steam-srhips, employed
exclusively in navigaxtingA the waters of the ocean; that all of
them are duly registered at the custom-horse in New York,
where the owners reside; that. takes have been assez ed upon
all the capital of the plaintiffs represented by the steamers in
the State of New York, under the laws of that State, ever since
they havo'been employed in the navigation, down to the present
time; that the said steam-ships have been assessed in the State
of California and county of San Francisco, for the year beginning 1st July, 1851, and ending 30th June, 1852, claiming the

598

SUPREME COURT.
Hays v. The Pacific Mail Steam-ship Company.

assessment as annually due, under an act of the legislature of
the State; that the taxes assessed amount to $11,962.50, and
were paid under protest, after one of the vessels was advertised
for sale by the defendant, in order to prevent a sale of it.
To this complaint the defendant demurred, and the court
below gave judgment for the plaintiffs.
By the 3d section of the act of congress of 31st December,
1792, it is provided that every ship or vessel, except as thereafter provided, shall be registered by the collector of the district,
in which shall be comprehended the port to which the ship or
vessel shall belong at the time of her registry, and which port
shall be deemed to be that at or nearest to which the owner, if
there be bui. one, or, if more than one, nearest to the place
where the husband, or acting and managing owner usually resides; and the name of the ship, and of the port to which she
shall so belong, shall be painted on her stern, on a black ground,
in white letters of not less than three inches in I -ngth; and if
any ship or vessel of the United States shall be ibund without
hav'inrg her name, and the name of the port to which she belongs, painted in the manner mentioned, the owner or owners
shall forfeit fifty dollars.
And by the act of 29th July, 1850, (9 Stats. at Large, 440,)
it is provided that no bill of sale, mortgage, or conveyance of
any vessel shall be valid *against any person other than the
grantor, &c., and persons having actual notice, unless such bill
of sale, mortgage, or conveyance be recorded in the office of
the collector of the customs where such vessel is registered or
enrolled.
These provisions, and others that might be referred to, very
clearly indicate that the domicile of a vessel that requires to be
registered, if we may so speak, or home port, is the port at
which she is registered, and which must be the nearest to the
place where the owner or owners reside. In this case, therefore,
the home port of the vessels of the plaintiffs was the port of
New York, where they were duly registered, and where all the
individual owners are resident, and where is also the principal
place of business of the company; and where, it is admitted,
the capital invested is subject to State, county, and other local
taxes.
These ships are engaged in the transportation of passengers,
merchandise, &c., between the city of New York and San
Francisco, by the way of Panama, and between San Francisco
and different ports in the territbry of Oregon. They 6re thus
engaged in the business and commerce of the country, upon the
highway of nations, touching at such ports and places as these
great interests demand, and which hold out to the owners suf-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Hays v. The Pacific AMail Steam-ship Co.

ficient inducements by the profits realized or expected to be
realized. And so far as respects the ports and harbors within
the United-States, they are eitered and cargoes dischArged or
laden on board, independently of any control over them, except
as it respects such municipal and sanitary egulations of the
local authorities as are not inconsistent with the coflstitution
and laws of the general government, to which belongs the
regulation of commerce with foreign nations and between the
States.
Now, it is quite apparent that if the State of Ciaifornia
possessed the authority to impose the tax in question, any
other State in the Union, into the ports of which the vessels
entered in the prosecution of their trade and business, might
also impose a like tax. It may~be that the course of trade or
other circumstances might not occasion as great a delay in
other ports on the Pacific as at the port of San Francisco. But
this is a matter accidental, depending upon the amount of
business to be transacted at the particular port, the nature of it,
necessary repairs, &c., which in no respect can affect the question as to the situs of the property, in view of the right of taxation by the State.
Besides, whether the vessel, leaving her home port for trade
and commerce, visits, in the course of her voyage or business,
several ports,.or confines her operations in the carrying trade to
one, are questions that will depend upon the profitable returns
of the business, and will furnish no more evidence that she has
become a part of the personal property within the State, and
liable to taxation at one port than at the others. She is
within the jurisdiction of all or any one of them temporarily,
and for a purpose wholly excluding the idea of permanently
abiding in the State, or changing her home port. Our merchant
vessels are not unfrequently absent for years, in flie foreign carrying trade, seeking cargo, carrying and unlading it from port to
port, during all the time absent; but they neither lqse their
national character nor their home port, as inscribed upon-their
stern.
The distinction between a vessel in her home port and when
lying at a foreign one, or in. the port of another State, is
familiar in the admiralty law, and she is subjected, in many
cases, to the application of a different set of principles. 7 Pet.
324; 4 Wheat. 438.
We are satisfied that the State of California had no jurisdiction over these vessels for the purpose of taxation; they were
not, properly, abiding within its limits, so as to become incorporated with the dther personal piroperty of the State; they
were there but temporarily, engaged in lawful trade and com-

SUPREME COURT.
Hays v. The Pacific Mail Steam-ship Co.

merce, with their situs at the home port, where the vessels belonged, and where the owners were liable to be taxed for the
capital invested, and where the taxes had been paid.
An objection is taken to the recovery against the collector, on
the ground, mainly, that the assessment under the law of California, by the assessors, was a judicial act, and that the party
should have pursued his remedy to set it aside according to the
provisions of that law.
We do not think so. The assessment was not a judicial,
but a ministerial act, and as the assessors exceeded their powers
in making it, the officer is not protected.
The payment of the tax was not voluntary, but compulsory,
to prevent the sale of one of the ships.
Our conclusion is, that the judgment of the court below is
right, and should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented, and Mr. Justice CAMPBELL concurred in the judgment of the court, upon the
groiimd stated in his opinion.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I dissent from the decision of the court in this case, it being
my opinion that neither the circuit court nor this court could
take jurisdiction over the parties to. this suit; and that, therefore, this cause should be remanded to the district court, with
directions to dismiss it for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I concur in the judgment. But I concur only in consequence
of the facts stated in the declaration, and which are admitted
by the demurrer. The material fact is, that the vessels were in
transitu,having no situs in California, nor permanent connections with its internal commerce.
Order,
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of California, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and, adjudged by
this court that the judgment of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs, and
interest until paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the courts of the Stafe of California.

