322

SUPREME

COURT.

Booth v. Clark.

action accrued to the assignee in bankruptcy against Clark,

until he got possession of the money, and as he never held the
fund adversely, it follows that the act does not apply; but if
it did, the fund had if existence till the award was made, which
was only thirty days before the suit was brought. We order
that the decree of the circuit court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on transcript of the record from

the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered,

adjudged, and decreed by this court that the decree of the said
circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed,

with costs.

WILLIAM

A. BOOTm, APPELLANT,

V. FERDINAND CLARK.

There was a judgment recovered in the supreme court of New York, 'spon which a
fieri facias was issued, the return to which was, "no goods, chattels, or real estate
of the defendant to be levied upon."
The creditor then filed a creditor's bill before the chancellor of the first circuit in
the State of New York, to subject the equitable assets and choses in action of the
debtor to his judgment. The bill was taken pro confesso, and, in 1842, a ieceiver
was appointed. The debtor was also enjoined from making any disposition of his
estate, legal or equitable; but the court had not been applied to, either by the
creditor or the receiver, for any order upon the debtor, in personam, to coerce his
compliance with the injunction or decree.
In 1843, the debtor went into another State and took the benefit of the bankrupt law
of the United'States. An, assignee was appointed, and, after his death, another
person to succeed him.
In 1851, a sum of money was awarded to the debtor for a claim accruing anterior to
the judgment, by the commissioners under the Mexican treaty, which was claimed
by the receiver and also by the assignee in bankruptcy, both prosecuting their
claims in the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
The assignee in bankruptcy has the best right to the fund.
A receiver is an officer of the court which appoints him, but cannot sue, in a foreign
jurisdiction, for the property of the debtor.
The proper course would be to compel obedience to the injunction, by a coercion of
the person of the debtor, obliging him either to bring the property in dispute within the jurisdiction of the court, or to execute such a conveyance or transfer thereof,
as will be sufficient to vest the legal title as'well as the possession of the property,
according to thd lex loci rei sitc.
The New York and Eiglish cases upon this subject examined.
The distinction between a receiver in chancery under a creditor's bill and an assignee
in bankruptcy explained.
In England, an assignee in bankruptcy is held to be vested with the personal property
of the bankrupt which is in foreign countries ; and her courts acknowledge the validity of the title of a foreign assignee to property in England, when sch title
emanates from a country which has a bankrupt law similar to her.own.
But this rule does not prevail in the Uned" States, either as regards a foreign assignee
. or an assignee under the laws of another State in the Union. The reason is

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Booth v. Clark.
stronger for declining to give such efficacy to a receiver under a creditor's bill.
And, moreover, there was in this case a want of vigilance in the creditor and receiver, by their omitting to proceed in the regular chancery practice against the
person of the debtor, as above stated.

Tuis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county
of Washington.
The dispute was about the same sum of money which was
in controversy in the preceding case of Clark v. Hackett.
Booth filed his bill in the circuit court, claiming the money
in virtue of his character of receiver, appointed by the chancellor
of the first circuit in the State of New York. All the circumstances of the case are recited in the opinion of the court.
On the 29th of March, 1853, the circuit court dismissed the
bill, and Booth appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mfr. Bradley, for the appellant, and
by Mr. Lawrence and Mr. May, for the appellee.
The counsel for the appellant contended:1. That by the proceedings in the court of chancery of New
York the property of Clark was vested in the receiver, Booth,before Clark petitioned for the benefit of the bankrupt act, and
the right of Booth was not affected by the voluntary bankruptcy
and discharge of the defendant. 2 Rev. Stat. 173, §§ 38, 39,
in margin; Storm v. Waddell, 2 Sandf. ch. 494, 510, 512, and
cases cited.
The order of the court works the transfer of the title. Mann
v. Pentz, 2 Sandf. ch. 257, 271, 272.
The subsequent discharge did not devest the title thus created.
Marcy v. Jordan, 2 Denio, 570.
It i- like an execution in the hands of the sheriff, not levied,
which, by the "settled law of the State," binds the property.
Savage's Assignees v. Best, 3 How. 111.
Or the attachment in a New Hampshire suit. Peck et al. v.
Jenness et al. *7 How. 612, 619, 622.
It is the settled law of the State of New York, 2 Sandf. ch.
519.
II. The receiver could maintain any action in relation to the
property, and-rights of property, which the debtor himself could
have had. 6 Rirb. Sup. Ct. R. 542, 544; 3.Sandf. 311, 316, 317.
III. The matter in controversy was a chose in action at the
time of the appointment of the receiver, was personal property,
followed th, person of the owner, and passed to the receiver.
The term chose in action is broad enough to pass the claim
in question, whether the evidence of the debt was in his possession or not, at the time of the appointment of the receiver. Na-

324

SUPREME COURT.
Booth v. Clark.

than v. Whitelock, 9 Paige, 159; North v. Turner, 9 Ser. and
Raw. 244; and the authorities there cited. 19 Wend. 75; Gillett v. Fairchild, 4 Denio, 80, 82, and cases cited.
A claim upon a foreign government would be embraced in
such an assignment. 4 Denio, supra, and cases cited. Couch
v. Delaplain, 2 Coins. 397, 402, 403; Milner v. Metz, 16 Pet.
321; Comegys v. Vass, 1 Pet. 193, 2 Story's Eq. § 829, 1040.
The fund not being the subject of manual possession, an appropriation of it is all that is required. 5 Binn, 392,. 398.
But it was not merely a loose unsettled demand of redress
for injuries. The treaties of 1839 and 1843, gave it a fixed
character.
Having no locality, the validity of its transfer depends on the
law of the place where the transfer was made. 2 Kent's Comm.
570, 7th ed.; Story's Confl. § 362, 383, 399; Van Buskirk v.
Hartford Fire Insurance Co. 14 Conn. 583, 586, 587, 588, 590.
"According to the law of the place where made." Black v.
Zacharie, 3 How. 483; Oakey v. Bennett, 11 Ib. 44.
The court of chancery in New York had jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and of the person. IL carried with it jurisdiction
over his personal effects. Holmes v. Renesen, 4 Johns. ch. 485;
S. C. 20 Ib. 262; Hooper v. Tuckerman, 3 Sandf. Sup. Ct, Rep.
311, 317; Hoyt v. Thompson, 1 Selden, 320; Story's Confl. 420;
Life and Letters of Joseph Story, vol. 1, p. 380, Letter to Chancellor Kent.
The defendant resided in the city of New York. He was
engaged in business there. His original domicile was in Massachusetts; his next, a domicile for commercial purposes, in Havana; next, from 1841 to 1844, his residence and.domicile for
business was in New York.
And while so residing and doing business in New York, he
appeared in the chancery court, in this cause.
There is rfo evidence to show any other residence or domicile
elsewhere, from 1841 to 1843. In the absence of such proof,
primd facie he was a domiciled citizen of New York, and his
rights over his personalty are to be governed by the laws of that
State.
We assume, upon these points, that if this cause was in a
New York court, the right of receiver would not admit of dispute.
IV. The circuit court of the District of Columbia had jurisdiction of this case; was bound to enforce the rights of the
receiver according to the law of the State of New York, and
ought to have rendered a decree in favor of the appellant.
1. It had jurisdiction of the cause, if the right of the receiver
was complete under the laws of the State of New York. Holmes

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

825.

Booth v. Clark.

v. Renwer; Hooper v. Tuckerman; Hoyt v. Thompson; Story's
Confl. 419, 420,421, already cited; Thomas v. Mlerchant's Bank,.
9 Paige, 216; McLaren v. Pennington, 1 Ib.102; Bank of Augusta v. Earle, 13 Pet 520, 5S9, 590, 591 ; Mletz v. Miner, 16
lb. 321.
2. There were no confficting claims on the part of any-citizen
of the District of Columbia, and the court was bound to give
effect to the foreign assignment, not only by the comity of
nations, but by the peculiar federal relations existing in this
country.

3. The policy of the law of this District shows an enlarged
comity. Executors and administrators, by statute act, (24th
June, 1812, § 11, 2 Stats. at Large, 758,) and assiunees of insolvents in the several States, have always been aowed by the
courts to sue here. The receiver in this case is not a commcn
law receiver, but a receiver by statute, as in case of insolvency.
4. The court had jurisdiction under the act of 3d March, 1849.
The title of Booth being consummate, and the fund enjoined,
and locked up in the treasury, at the instance of.the creditors of
Clark, it was subject to the claims of other creditors giving
notice and flng their bonds.
The design was to keep the money in the treasury, in order
that claimants should have a reasonable time to prosecute their
rights; the risk ran was that it should be paid over. As regards
the claimant, it was merely directory. Time was not of the
essence of the law.
" There is a known distinction between circumstances which
are of the essence of a thing required to be done by an act of
parliament, and clauses merely directory. The precise time, in
many cases, is not of the essence." Rex v. Loxdale, 1 Burr, 447.
The provisions of a law which are merely directory, are not
to be construed into conditions precedent. Laws are construed
strictly to save a right or avoid a penalty, but liberally to give
a remedy, or effect an object declared in the law. Whitney v.
Emmett, 1 Bald. C. C. B. 316.
The intention of the legislature should be followed, whenever
it can be discovered, although the construction seem contrary to
the letter of the statute. Dwarris on Stat. 718; The People v.
The Utica Insurance Co. 15 Johns. 380.- See also 6 Cranch,
307; "3How. 565.
By the court: "Courts are not to construe an act so liberally
as to work'injustice; but so liberally as to prevent the mischief,
and advance the remedy." Jackson v. West, 10 Johns. 466.
Negative words will make a statute imperative; words in the
affirmative are directory only. Rex v. Leicester, 9 DowL and
Ry. 972; 7 Barn. and Cress. 12.
VOL. XVII.

28

SUPREME

COURT.

Booth v. Clark.

Where a statute directs a person to do a thing in a given
time, without any negative words restraining him from doing it
afterwards, the naming of the time will be considered as directory to him, and not as a limitation of his authority. Pond v.
Negus, 3 Mass. 230; Smith's Com. § 670, et seq.; Stinson v.
Huggins, 16 Barb. 61.
When an act is to be done within a given time, it may be
done afterwards, if nothing have occurred to prevent it. Griffith
v. Minor, 1 Louis. R. 350; Proseus v. Mason, 12 Ib. 16.
Under a directory statute, a duty not performed at the time
specified, may be valid if performed afterwards. Webster V.
French, 12 Illinois, 302.
Remedial statutes have been made to extend, by an equitable
construction, to other persons, to other things, to other places,
and to other times than those expressly mentioned in the statute. Dwarris, 721-726.
Apply these rules to this statute and the facts of this case,
and the conclusion is inevitable, that so long as the fnd continied in the treasury, the court had jurisdiction to entertain and
adjudicate on the complainant's claim to it. It was of no importance that the proceedings should be instituted within any
specific time after the award, though it was essential that they
should be, while the money was in the treasury. The intent
was to prescribe the length of time the money should remain
without any claim. It was not a condition precedent, to give
the notice within thirty days. There is nothing in the statute
to restrain its being done afterwards.
Finally: The circuit court had jurisdiction by reason of the
general powers conferred upon it by statute.
It has all the powers given to the circuit courts of the United
States by the act of 13th February, 1801. " Cognizance of all
cases in equity between parties, both or either of which shall be
resident or be found within said district, (act of 27th February,
1801, § 5; 2 Stats. at Large, 106,) to proceed against non-residents in the same way as they are proceeded against in the
general court, or in the supreme court of chancery in the State
of Maryland. Act of 3d May, 1802, § 1; 2 Stats. at Large, 193;
and see Kendall v. The United States, 12 Pet. 524.
Clark was here litigating the case of B. C. Clark, (now in
this court,) and appeared and answered in this case. The fund
itself had been enjoined, and was subject to the decree of the
court, and was a fund in court The court had jurisdiction.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended: 1. That the bill was properly dismissed, because the complainant had not filed his bill of complaint, given notice to the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Booth v.

327

Clark.

secretary of the treasury, or filed his bond, as required by the
8th section bf the act of 3d March, 1849, (9 Stats. at Large,
394.)
No notice was given to the secretary, the bill was not sworn
to or filed till the 29th of May, 1851, and the bond on the same
day,-being about fifteen days after the expiration of the thirty
days limited in said section.
2. The proceedings in the chancery court of New York, being.
proceedings in rnem, could only affect property within the territorial jurisdiction of the State. Story's Conft. Laws, § 543.
Indeed, the authorities in New York seem to go to the extent
that the decree operates only on property discovered by the proceedings, even within the jurisdiction of the court. Storm v.
Waddel, 2 Sandf. 495; 4 Ed. Ch. R. 658; 1 Paige, 637; 2 Ib.
567; 7 lb. 47, 513; 8 b. 569, 475.
It will be seen by the record that the only return made by the
receiver of any property of Clark was dated June 30, 1851,
which was six years after the sale and eight years after the discharge of Clark in bankruptcy.
In fact, no action was taken in this chancery proceeding, from
the year 1842 until 1851.
At the time that this receiver was appointed in New York,
the claim now in controversy was a claim against the Republic
of Mexico.
Clark's native domicile was Massachusetts. He resided for a
while in Havana, and afterwards returned to his native State,
and then took up his abode in New Hampshire. See Story's
Conft. Laws, §§ 591, 592.
3. The bankrupt court having taken jurisdiction of the claim
in controversy, and it having been disposed of under its decree,
the property has effectually passed. City Bank of New Orleans
v. Houston, 6 How. 486.
4. There was not, by the decisions in New York, any specific
lien on the property in question by virtue of the appointment of
a receiver; and if there had been, it should have been presented
in the district court, and would have been .there recognized. Ex.
aarts Christy, '3 How. 316; Savage v. Best, 3 lb. 119; Norton
v. Boyd, 3 lb. 436;" Wiffler v. Best, 3 lb. 111; Jeness v. Peck,
7 Tb. 612.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We learn from the record of this case that Juan de la Camara
recovered a judgment in the supreme court of New York, against
Ferdinand Clark, for $4,688 49s with interest at 7 per cent.; that
afterifaeias-was issued upon the judgmentI and that there was
a return upon it -of 'fno goods, chattels, or real estate of the de-

328

SUPREME COURT.
Booth v. Clark.

fendant to be levied upon." Upon this return, Camara filed a
creditor's bill, before the chancellor of the first circuit in the
State of New York, setting out his judgment and the return
upon the fierifacias,in which he seeks, under the laws of that
state, to subject the equitable a-sets and choses in action of
Clark to his judgment; and he asks for a discovery of them
from Clark, for an injunction, and the appointment of a receiver.
Notice of this proceeding, and of the action upon it, wert. served
upon the solicitor of Clark, and the bill of complaint was taken
as confessed, upon the defendant's default in not answering.
Booth, the present complainant, was appointed receiver on thi
3d August, 1842. Clark had been previously enjoined under
the proceeding from making any disposition of any part of his
estate, legal or equitable. Thus matters stood from the time of
the receiver's appointment, in 1842, until June, 1851. Then
Booth, as receiver, reports that no effects of Clark had come to
his knowledge, except a claim upon Mexico, whiah had been
adjudged to Clark by the United States commissioners, under
the'treaty with Mexico; and that, as receiver, he was contesting
it; and he asks from the court authority to proceed for that
purpose, which was granted. Such is an outline of the case in
New York, containing every substantial part of it.
We will now state the proceedings of this suit at the instance
of the receiver, in the circuit court of the United States for the
District of Columbia, from the decision of which, dismissing the
receiver's bill, it has been brought to this court for revision.
On the 29th May, 1851, Booth, the receiver, filed his bill in
the circuit court for the District of Columbia, reciting so much
of the proceedings of the New York courts as was deemed
necessary to support his suit. He declares that Clark, when
the original suit was instituted against him by Camara, and
from that time until after he had been appointed receiver, had
resided in New York. That his effects consisted principally, if
not wholly, of the claim upon Mexico, and that he claimed that
fund as receiver for the purposes of that appointment. Clark
answered the bill. He denies that the proceedings against him
in the courts of the State of New York created any lien in behalf of Camara, or the receiver, upon the fund in controversy.
He admits that no part of his property ever came into receiver's
hands, under those proceedings, and that he had the claim upon
Mexico whilst the suits were pending against him, and when
the receiver was appointed under Camara's creditor's bill; but
that all the evidences and papers in support of his Mexican
claim were then in the public archives at Washington. He also
states, that the board of commissioners under the act of congress
of March 3, 1849, entitled "An act to carry into effect cer-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

329

Booth v. Clark.
tain stipulations of the treaty between the United States and
the Republic of Mexico, of the 2d February, 1848," had made an
award in his favor for the sum of $86,786 ',, which sum was then
in the hands of the secretary of the treasury of the United States.
He then alleges that, being a resident of the State of New Hampshire, he filed in the clerk's office of that district, on the 2,'th
January, 1843, his petition to be declared a bankrupt. That he
had been declared a bankrupt on the 22d March following, pursuant to the "act to 6stablish an uniform system of bankruptcy
throughout the United States," passed August 19, 1841. He
then recites that there had been attached to his petition in the
bankrupt's court, a schedule of his property, rights, and credits
of every kind and description, in which his Mexican claim had
been stated; and that it wes upon that claim th6 commissioners
had awarded to him the sum before mentioned. He declares
that, under the decree of the court in bankruptcy, one John
Palmer had been appointed assignee; and that, having given
his bond in compliance with the order of the court, he was
vested, as assignee, in virtue of the operation of the bankrupt
law, of all the defendant's property, for the benefit of his creditors,
including the Mexican claim. It is also stated in his answer)
that notice of all the proceedings in his 'matter of bankruptcy
had been published in the leading newspapers of New Hampshire, and that the name of Juan de la Camara, and his residence,
was placed among the list of his creditors attached to his petition to be declared a bankrupt. And he avers that all of his
creditors had had notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy. That
-neither Camara nor. any other creditor had filed or made any
objections to those proceedings, or to the action of the assignee, until after the award had been made upon the Mexican
claim.
It is not necessary, for the purposes of this opinion, to state the
defendant's recital of the sale of his effects by Palmer, the assignee; his purchase of them, including the Mexican claim, or
the rights claimed by the defendant under his purchase, all
relating to the same having been fully acted upon by this court
at this term, in the case of Ferdinand Clark'v. Benjamin 0. Clarkand W. H. Y. Hackett., We state, however, that Palmer, the
original assignee in Clark's bankruptcy, having died, he had
beeij succeeded by the appointment of, Hackett as assignee.
This suit, then, is substantially between Hackett, as the a signee
of Clark in bankruptcy, and Booth, the xeceiver under Camara's
creditor's bill; that it may be determined by this court which
of them has the official right to the Mexican fund, for the distribution of it between the creditors of Clark, or whether Booth,
as receiver, shall have from that fund a sufficient sum to pay
28*

SUPREME COURT.
Booth v. Clark.

Camara's entire debt, leaving the residue of it for distribution
between Clark's other creditors.
It appears also from the record that Booth, the receiver, took
no steps to execute his official trust, from the time of his appointment in 1842, until 1851, after the award of the Mexican
claim had been made in Clark's favor. And, also, that the court
of chancery, acting upon the creditor's bill brought by Camara,
had not been applied to, either by Camara or by the receiver, for
any order upon Clark in personam, to coerce his compliance
with its injunction and decree.
Upon this statement of the case we will now consider it.
There is no dispute concerning the regularity or binding operation of the judgment obtained by Camara against Clark. None
in respect to the proceedings under the creditor's bill. The
leading point in the case is the eflct of the proceedings under the
last, to give a right to the receiver, in virtue of a lien which he
claims upon the property of the debtor, to sue for and to recover
any part of it, legal or equitable, without the jurisdiction of the
State of New York. In other words, as an officer of a court
of chancery, for a particular purpose, will he be recognized as
such by a foreign judicial tribunal, and be allowed to take from
the latter a fund belonging to a debtor, for its application to
the payment of a particular creditor within the jurisdiction of
the receiver's appointment, there being other creditors in the
jurisdiction in which he now sues, contesting his right to do so.
Or can he as receiver claim, in virtue of a decree upon a creditor's bill given in one jurisdiction, a right to have the judgment
upon which the creditor's bill was brought paid out of a fund
of a bankrupt debtor in a foreign jurisdiction; because his appointment preceded the bankrupt's petition.
It is urged that the receiver in this case, by the decree of the
.ourt in New York, was entitled officially to the entire property
of Clark, real, personal, or equitable, both within and without
the State of New York. That he could, as receiver, maintain
any action for the property and rights of property of the debtor
which the latter could have done. That the fund now in controversy was a chose in action belonging to the debtor when the
receiver was appointed, and, though not within the State of
New York, that it followed the person of the owner and passed
to the receiver, because the owner was domiciled in New York.
And it was also said that, having such official rights or liens
upon the property of the debtor, the comity of nations would
aid him in the .assertion of them in a foreign tribunal. The
counsel for the receiver cited from the reports of the State of
New York several cases in support of the foregoing propositions.
We have perused all of them carefully, without having been

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

831

Booth v. Clark.

able to view them altogether as the learned counsel does.
Whatever may be the operation of the decree in respect to the
receiver's powers over the property of the debtor within the
State of New York, and his right to sue for them there, we do
not find any thing in the cases in the New York reports showig the receiver's right to represent the creditor or creditors of
the debtor in a foreign jurisdiction. It is true that the receiver
in this case is appointed under a statute of the State of New
York, but that only makes him. an officer of the court for that
State. He is a representative of the court, and may by its direction take into his possession every kind of property which may
be taken in execution, and also that which is equitable,-if of a
nat-are to be reduced into possession. But it is not considered
in every case -that the right to the possession is transferred by
his appointment, for where the property is real, and there'are
tenants, the court is virtually the landlord, though the tenants
may be compelled to attorn to the receiver. Jeremy's Equity
Jurisprudence, 249. When appointed, very little discretion is allowed to him, for he must apply to the court for liberty to bring
or defend actions, to let the estate, and in most cases to lay out
money on repairs, and he may without leave distrain only for
rent in arrear short of a year. 6 Vesey, 802; 15 lb. 26; 3 Bro.
C. C. 88; 9 Ves. 335; 1 Jac. and W. 178; Morris and .Elme,
1 Yes. jun. 139; 1 Tb. 165; Blunt and Clithero, 6 Yes. 799;
flughes and Hughes, 3 Bro. C. C. 87; 5 Madd. 473.
A receiver is an indifferent person between parties, appointed
by the court to receive the rents, issues, or profits of land, or other
thing in question in this court, pending the suit, where it does
not seem reasonable to the court that either party should do it
Wyatt's Prac. Reg. 355. He-is an officer of the court; his appointment is provisional.. He is appointed in behalf of all
parties, and not of the complainant or of the defendant only.
He is appointed for the benefit of all parties who may establish
rights in the cause. The money in his hands is in custodia
legis for whoever can make out a title to it. Delany v. Mansfield, 1 Hogan, 234. It is the court itself which has the care of
the property in dispute. The receiver is but the creature of the
court; he has no powers except such as are conferred upon him
by the order of his appointment and the course and practice of
the court; Verplanck v. Mercantile Insurance Company, 2 Paige,
C. R. 452. Unless where he is appointed under the statute of
New York directing proceedings against corporations, (2 R. S.,
438) and then he is a standing assignee, vested with nearly all
the powers and authority of the assignee of an insolvent debtor.
Attorney-General v. Life and Fire Insurance Co. 4 Paige, C. B.,
224. In the case just cited, Chancellor Walworih says, that

SUPREME COURT.
Booth v. Clark.

the receiver has "no powers except such as are conferred upon
him by the order of his appointment and the course and practice
of the court." In the statement which has been made of the
restraints upon a receiver, we are aware that they have been
measurably qualified by rules, and by the practice of the courts
in the State of New York, as may be seen in Hoffman's Practice;
but none of them alter his official relation to the court, and, so
far as we have investigated the subject, we have not found
another instance of an order in the courts of the State of New
York, or in the courts of any other State, empowering a receiver
to sue in his own name officially in another jurisdiction for the
property or choses in action of a judgment debtor. Indeed,
whatever may be the receiver's rights under a creditor's bill, to
the possession of the property of the debtor in the State of New
York, or the permissions which may be given to him to sue for
such property, we understand the decisions of that State as con.
fining his action to the State of New York.
Such an inference may be made from several decisions. It
may be inferred from what was said by Chancellor Walworth,
in Mitchell v. Bunch, 2 Paige C. R. 615. Speaking of the property which might be put into the possession of a receiver, and
of the power of a court of chancery to reach property out of the
State, he declares the manner in which it may be done, thus:
" The original and primary jurisdiction of that court was in personata merely. The writ of assistance to deliver possession, and
even the sequestration of property to compel the performance of
a decree, are comparatively of recent origin. The jurisdiction
of the court was exercised for several centuries by the simple
proceeding of attachment against the bodies of the parties to
compel obedience to its orders and decrees. Although the property of a defendant is beyond the reach of the court, so that it
can neither be sequestered nor taken in execution, the court
does not lose its jurisdiction in relation to that property, provided
the person of the defendant is within the jurisdiction. By the
ordinary course of proceeding, the defendant may be compelled
either to bring the property in dispute, or to which the defendant
claims an equitable title, within the jurisdiction of the court, or
to execute such a conveyance or transfer thereof as will be sufficient to vest the legal title, as well as the possession of the property, according to the lex loci rei site." It is very obvious,
from the foregoing extract, that up to the time when Mitchell v.
Bunch was decided, in the year 1831, it had not been thought
that a court of chancery in the State of New York could act
upon the property of a judgment debtr in a creditor's bill which
was not within the State of New York, but by the coercion of
hia person when he was within the jurisdiction of the State;

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

833

Booth v. Clark.

and that it had not-been contemplated then to add to the means
used by chancery to enforce its sentences, in respect to property
out of the State of New York, the power to a receiver to sue
in a foreign jurisdiction for the same. It is truie that the jurisdiction of a court of chancery in England and the United States,
to enforce equitable rights, is not Confined to cases where the
property is claimed in either country, but the primary movement
in the chancery courts of both countries to enforce an injunction
is the attachment of the person of the debtor, where he is amenable to the jurisdiction of the court.
We find in the 2d volume of Spence on the jurisdiction of
the court of chancery in England, (6, 7,) this language: When,
therefore, a case is made out against a person resident within
the jurisdiction of the court, in respect to property out of it,
but within the empire, or its dependencies, which would call for
the interference of the court of chancery if the property were
situate in the country, the court, as it had the power, has assumed
the jurisdiction, when such an interference is necessary to the
ends of justice, of enforcing the equitable rights of the parties to
or over property out of its- jurisdiction, by the coercion of the
person and sequestration of his property here, in the same manner as it would have done had the property been situate in this
country. And Sir John Leach said: "WWhen parties defendants
are resident in England, and are brought upon subpcena here,
the court has full authority to aot upon them *personally, with
respect to the subject of the suit, as the ends of justice require,
*and with that view to order them to take or to omit to take any
steps or procetdings in any other court ofjustice, whether in this or
in a foreign country. This court does not pretend to any interference with the other courts." It acts -upon the defendant by
punishment for his contempt, for his disobedience of the court.
The court of chancery has no power directly to affect property
out of the bounds of its jurisdiction. Roberdeau v. Rous,
1 Atk. 544; 2 Spence. We believe such to be the proper
course, in chancery, in cases of injunction-, and that its jurisd ction, by injunction, rests entirely on the coercion of the
person. Such, however, was not the course pursued in this
case, though the debtor was then a resident of the State of New
York, and amenable to the jurisdictioi of the court. No motion
was made to force Clarke to comply with the injunction which
Camara had obtained under the creditor's bill. The matter was
allowed to rest for seven years, Camara being aware that Clarke
had a pecuniary claim upon the Republic of Mexico, at least as
early as in the year 1843. The receiver during all that time took
no action. His first movement is an application to be permitted
to sue for the fund in the hands of the government, which had
been .awarded to Clarke by the commissioners under the treaty

334

SUPREME

COURT.

Booth v. Clark.

with Mexico. Permission was given to sue. He has brought
his bill accordingly, and it directly raises the question, whether
he can, as an officer of the court of chancery in New York, and
in his relation of receiver to Camara, be permitted to sue in
another political jurisdiction.
We have already cited Chancellor Walworth's opinion as to
the course which is to be pursued in New York upon an injunction in a creditor's bill. Mr. Edwards, in his excellent work on
receivers in chancery, after citing the language used in Mitchell
v. Bunch, says: " Still, the difficulty remains as to a recognition of the powers or officers of the court, by persons holding a
lease upon the property, especially realty, out of the jurisdiction.
Then in Malcolm v. Montgomery, 1 Hogan, 93, the master of
the rolls observed, that a receiver could not be effectually appointed over estates in Ireland, by the English court of chancery,
hi any direct proceeding for the purpose; and that attempts had
often been made to do so by serving orders made by the English
court of chancery, but that they had failed, because the English
court of chancery has no direct means of enforcing payment of
rent to its receiver, by tenants who reside in Ireland. The attorneygeneral and another counsellor also said, that to their knowledge
such attempts had been frequently made, but had been uniformly
given up as impracticable. A conflict might also arise between
the receiver out of the jurisdiction and creditors, and also other
persons out of the jurisdiction. The comity of nations and
different tribunals would hardly help a receiver."
We also infer, from the case of Storm and Waddell, in 2 Sandford, 494, that the receiver's right to the possession of the property of a debtor in the State of New York, and his right to sue
for property there, is limited to that jurisdiction. The chancellor,
in the last case mentioned, after having given an epitome of the
cause of proceeding in a creditor's bill, and speaking of equitable
interests and things in action belonging to the debtor, without
regard to the injunction, says: " The property of the defendant
is subjected to the suit, wherever it may be, if the receiver can
lay hold of it, or the complainant can reach itVby the decree.
The injunction, when served, prevents the debtor from putting
it away or squandering it." This language indicates the receiver's locality of action. Taken in connection with that of
Chancellor Walworth, in Mitchell v. Bunch, it shows that the
receiver's right to the possession of the debtor's property is
limited to the jurisdiction of his appointment, and that he has
no lien upon the property of the debtor, except for that which
he may get the possession of without suit, or for that which,
after having been permitted to sue for, he may reduce into possession in that way. Our industry has been tasked unsuccess-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Booth v, Clark.

"fullyto find a case in which a receiver has been permitted to
sue in a foreign jurisdiction for the property of the debtor. So
far as we can find, it has not been allowed in an English tribunal; orders have been given in the English chancery for
receivers to proceed to execute their functions in another jurisdiction, but we are not aware of its ever having been permitted
by the tribunals of the last.
We think that a receiver has never been recognized by a
foreign tribunal as an actor in a suit. He is not within that
comity -which nations have permitted, after the manner of such
nations as practise it, in Yespect to the judgments and decrees
of foreign tribunals, for FI of them do not permit it in the same
manner and to the same7 extent, to make such comity international or a part of the laws of nations. But it was said that receivers in New York are statutory officers, as assignees in bankrupty are. That being so, he had, as assignees in bankruptcy
have upon the property of the bankrupt, a lien upon the property of a judgment debtor, under an appointment in a creditor's bill. But that cannot be so. An assignee in bankruptcy
in England, and in this country when it had a bankrupt law, is
an officer made by the statute of bankruptcy, with powers,
privileges, and duties prescribed by the statute, for the collection
of the bankrupt's estate for an equal distribution of it among
all of his creditors.
In England, the property of the bankrupt is vested in the
assignees in bankruptcy by legislative enactment Where commissioners have been appointed, it is imperative upon them to
convey to the assignees the property of the bankrupt, wherever
it may be or whatever it may be, and it is done by deed of bargain and sale, which is afterwards enrolled. It vests the assignees -with the title to the property from the date of the
conveyance, it having been previously vested in the commissioners for conveyance by them to the assignees. As to the
bankrupt's personal estate, the statute *looks beyond the debts
and effects of a trader within the kingdom, and vests them in
the commissioners in every part of the world. The last is done
in England, upon the principle that personal property has no
locality, and is subject to the law which governs the person of
the owner. As by that law the property of a bankrupt becomes
vested in the assignee, for the purposes of the assignment, his
title to such property out of England is as good as that which
the owner had, except where some positive law'of the country,
in which the personal property is, forbids it. Cullen, 244.
In claiming such a recognition of assignees in bankruptcy
from foreign courts, England does no more than is permitted in
her courts, for they give effect to foreign assignments made

336

SUPREME

COURT.

Booth v. Clark.

under laws analogous to the English bankrupt laws. Solomons
v. Ross, 1 H. B. 131, n.; Jollet v. Deponthieu, lb. 132, n. But
such comity between nations has not become international or
universal. It was not admitted in England until the middle of
the last century in favor of assignees in bankruptcy; Lord
Raymond decreed it in 1811, in the case of a commission of
bankruptcy from Holland. Sir Joseph Jekyll, in 1715, said, the
law of England takes no notice of a commission in Holland,
and therefore a creditor here may attach the effects in the city
of London, and proceed to condemnation. 3 Burge, 907. Lord
Mansfield, in Warring v. Knight, (sittings in Guildhall, after
Hilary term, Geo. III, Cooke's Bank. Laws, 300, 3 Burge, 907,)
ruled, that where an English creditor proceeded, subsequent to
an act of bankruptcy, by attachment in a foreign country, and
obtained judgment there and satisfaction by the sale of the
debtor's personal property, the assignees in an action in England could not recover from such creditor the amount of the
debt which had been remitted to him. Again, his lordship
ruled, that the statutes of bankrupts do not extend to the colonies or any of the king's dominions out of England, but the
assignments under such commissions are, in the courts abroad,
considered as voluntary, and as such take place between the
assignee and the bankrupt, but do not affect the rights of any
other 6reditors.
So the law stood in England until the case of Folliott v. Ogden, 1 H. Bl. 123, when Chancellor Northington stimulated it
into a larger comity, by giving effect to a claim to the creditors
of a bankrupt in Amsterdam over an attaching creditor in England, who had proceeded aft er the bankrupt had been declared
to be so, by the proper tribunal in Amsterdam. England had
just then become the great creditor nation of Europe, and of
her provinces in North America. Her interest prompted a
change of the rule, and her courts have ever since led the way
in extending a comity which had before been denied by them.
The judicial history of the change, until the comity in favor of
assignees became in England what it now is, is given in 3
Burge, ch. 22; Bankrupt Laws, 886, 906 - 912, inclusive, and
from 912- 929. It may now be said to be the rule of comity
between the nations of Europe; but it has never been sanctioned in the courts of. the United States, nor in the judicial
tribunals of the States of our nation, so far as we know, and
we know that it has been repeatedly refused in the latter. Our
courts, when the States were colonies, had been schooled, before
the Revolution, in the earlier doctrines of the English courts
upon the subject. The change in England took- place but a
few years before the separation of the two countries.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

337

Booth v. Clark.

That comity has not yet reached our courts. We do not
know why it should do so, so long as we have no national
bankrupt laws. The rule which prevailed whilst these States
were colonies still continues to be the rule in the courts of the
United States, and it is not otherwise between the courts of
the States. It was the rule in Maryland, before the Revolution.
It is the-rule still, as may be seen in Birch v. McLean, 1 Harris
and McHenry, 286; Wallace v. Patterson, 2 H. and McHenry, 463. An assignment abroad, by act of law, has no
legal operation in Pennsylvania. We find from McNeil and
Colquhoon, 2 Haywood, 24, that it has been the rule in North
Carolina for sixty years. South Carolina has no other. 3 Const.
Rep. S. C. 283; 4 McCord, 519; Taylor v. Geary, Kirby, 313.
In Massachusetts, the courts will not permit,an assignment in
one of the States, whether it be voluntary or under an insolvent
law, to control an attachment in that State of the property of
an insolvent which was laid after the .assignment -and before
payment to the assignees. The point occurred recently in the
circuit court of the United States for that district, in the case
of Betton, assignee, v. Valentine, 1 Curtis, 168; and it was ruled
thatthe assignee of an insolvent debtor, appointed under the law
of Massachusetts, does not so far represent creditors in the
State of Rhode Island as to be able to avoid a conveyance of
personal property in the latter State, good as against the insolvent, but invalid as against creditors, by the law of Rhode
Island.
In New York, the "ubiquity of the operation of the bankrupt
law, as respects personal property," was denied in Abraham v.
Plestoro, 3 Wend. 538. Chancellor Kent considers it to be a
settled part of the jurisprudence of the United States, that a
prior assignment under a foreign law will not be permitted to
prevail against a subsequent attachment of the bankrupt's
effects found in the United States. The courts of the United
States will rot subject their citizens to the inconvenience of
seeking their dividends abroad, when they have the means to
satisfy them under their own control. We think that it would
prejudice the rights of the citizens of the States to admit a contrary rule. The rule, as it is with us, affords an admitted exception to the universality of the rule that personal property has no
locality, and follows the domicile of the owner. This court, in
Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, disclaimed the English
doctrine upon this subject; and in Harrison v. Sterry, 5 Cranch
R. 289, 302, this court declared that the bankrupt law of a
foreign country is incapable of operating a legal transfer of
property in the United States.
Such being the rule in the American courts, in respect to
VOL. XVII.

29

SUPREME COURT.
Booth v. Clark.

foreign assignments in bankruptcy, and in respect to such
assignments as may be made under the insolvent laws of the
States of the United States, there can be no good reason for
giving to a receiver, appointed in one of the States under a
creditor's bill, a larger comity in the courts of the United States,
or in those of the States or Territories. On the contrary, strong
reasons may be urged against it. A receiver is appointed under
a creditor's bill for one or more creditors, as the case may be,
for their benefit, to the exclusion of all other creditors of the
debtor, if there be any such, as there are in this case. Whether
appointed as this receiver was, under the statute of New York,
or under the rules and practice of chancery as they may be, his
official relations to the court are the same. A statute appointment neither enlarges nor diminishes the limitation upon his
action. His responsibilities are unaltered. Under either kind
of appointment, he has at most only a passive capacity in the
most important part of what it may be necessaryfor him to do,
until it has been called by the direction of the court into ability
to act. He has no extra territorial power of official action;
none which the court appointing him can confer, with authority
to enable him to go into a foreign jurisdiction to take possession
of the debtor's property; none which can give him, upon the
principle of comity, a privilege to sue in a foreign court or
another jurisdiction, as the judgment creditor himself might
have done, where his debtor may be amenable to the tribunal
which the creditor may seek.
In those countries of Europe in which foreign judgments are
regarded as a foundation for an action, whether it be allowed
by treaty stipulations or by comity, it has not as yet been extended to a receiver in chancery. In the United States, where the
same rule prevails between the States as to judgments and
decrees, aided as it is by the first section of the 4th article of
the constitution, and by the act of congress of 26th May, 1790,
by which full faith and credit are to be given in all of the courts
of the United States, to the judicial sentences of the different
States, a receiver inder a creditor's bill has not as yet been an
actor as such in a suit out of the State in which he was appointed. This court considered the effect of that section of the
constitution, and of the act just mentioned in McElmoyle and
Cohen, 13 Pet 324 -327. But apart from the absence of any
such case, we think that a receiver could not be admitted to the
comity extended to judgment creditors, without an entire departure from chancery proceedings, as to the manner of his appointment, the securities which are taken from him for the performance
of his duties, and the direction which the court has over him in
the collection of the estate of the debtor, and the application

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Booth v. Clark.

and distribution of them. If he seeks to be recognized in
another jurisdiction, it is to take the fund there out of it, without
such court having any control of his subsequent action in
respect to it, and without his having even official power to give
security to the court, the aid of which he seeks, for his faithful
conduct and official accountability. All that could be done
upon such an application from a receiver, according to chancery
practice, would be to transfer him from the locality of his
appointment to that where he asks to be recognized, for the
execution of his trust in the last, under the coercive ability of
that court; and that it would be difficult to do; where it may
be asked to be done, without the court exercising its province
to determine whether the suitor, or another person within its
jurisdiction, was the proper person to act as receiver.
Besides, there is much less reason for allowing the complainant in this case to be recognized as receiver for the fund out of
the State of New York, and in this jurisdiction, even if the
practice in chancery in respect to receivers was different from
what we have said it was. The remedies which the judgment
creditor in New. York had under his creditor's bill against his
debtor, were not applied as they might have been in that State,
according to the practice in chancery in such cases. When
Clark had been enjoined under the creditor's bill, and the receiver had been appointed, both judgment creditor and receiver
knew at the time, - certainly, as the record shows, in a short time
afterwards, -that Clark had a pecuniary claim upon the Republib of Mexico. No attempt was made, according to chancery
practice, to coerce Clark by the attachment of his person under
the injunction, to make an assignment of that claim for the
payment of Camaras judgment. It cannot be said that Clark
had not property to assign, andthat it was therefore unnecessary
to att-ch him. That would make no difference; for whether
with or without property, he might have been compelled to
make a formal assignment, even though he had sworn that he
had none. It was so ruled in Chipman v. Sabbaton, 7 Paige,
C. R. 47, and in Fitzburgh v. Everingham, 6 Paige, 29.
There was a want of vigilance in this matter, which does not
make any equity whidci he may have in New York upon Clark's
property, superior to-that of Clark's creditors, who are pursuing
the funds in this district. Nor, according to the rule prescribed
in the United States, that personal property has no locality on
account of the domicile of the owner, to transfer it under a foreign assignment, can the receiver have in this case any thing.:in
the nature of a lien to bind the property of Clark not within
the State of New York. When we take into consideration
also the origin of the fund in controversy, the manner of its

SUPREME COURT.
Boone v. The Missouri Iron Company.

ultimate recovery from Mexico, the congressional action upon
it, in every particular, to secure it, after the awards were made, to
those who might be entitled to receive it; the jurisdiction given
to the circuit court of this district, with an appeal from its
decision to this court, upon the principles which govern courts
of equity to adjudge disputes concerning it, and that such cases
were to be conducted and governed in all respects as in other
cases in equity, we must conclude that the complainant in this
case, as receiver, cannot be brought under the rule prescribed
for our decision. We concur with the court below in the dismission of the bill.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree
of the said circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby
affirned with costs.

LEvi D.

BOONE, ADMINISTRATOR OF JESSE B. THOMAS, DECEASED, AND THE HEIRS OF J. B. THOMAS, COMPLAINANTS
AND APPELLANTS, v. THE MISSOURI IRON COMPANY.

Where a bill was filed for the specific execution of a contract, and it appeared that
the notes givep for the purchase of the property had never been paid, and the property was sold for the payment of the consideration-money, the bill was properly

dismissed-.
No principle in equity is better settled, than that he who asks a specific execution of
his contract must show a performance, on his part, or that he has offered to perform.

Neither of these was done in this case.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Missouri.
The bill was filed by Thomas, in his lifetime, and referred to
a complicated history of transactions, running from 1836 to
1848, the date of the bill. A condensed narrative of these
transactions is given in the opinion of the court.
The circuit court dismissed the bill, and the comaplainants
appealed to this court.
The case was argued by MJr. Britton A. Bill, for the respondents, no counsel appearing for the appellant.
The argument of .Mr. tHill was so intimately connected with
the facts in the case, upon which he founded his legal infer-

