SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Sanderson.

think the rule dividing the loss the most just and equitable, and
as best tending to induce care and vigilance on both sides, in
the navigation.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall
appertain.

JAMES B. PECK, WILLIAM: HEILMAN, AND EDWIN H. FRESMUTH,
OWNERS OF THE STEAM11-SHIP COLUMBUS, A.PPELLANTS, V. JOHN
SANDERSON, LIBELLANT.
In a collision which took place at sea between a steam-ship and a schooner, by means
of which the schooner was sunk and all on board perished, except the man at the
helm, the evidence shows that it was not the fault of the steamer.
Although the night was starlight, yet there was a haze upon the ocean, which prevented the schooner from being seen until she came within a distance of two or
three hundred yards. She was approaching as closehauled to the wind as -she
could be. Under these circumstances, the order to stop the engine and back,
Was judicious.

THIS was An appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The circumstances of the case are particularly set forth in the
opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting, for the appellants, and
submitted, on a printed brief, by Mr. T M
Mrray Bush, for the
appellee.
The arguments of the counsel turned entirely upon questions
of fact, as deduced from the evidence in the case. There were
no principle3 of law disputed, and unaer these circumstances the
reporter has deemed it unadvisable to condense the arguments.
Mr. Chief Zustice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case trises out of a collision between the schooner
Mission, of Eaenton, in North 'Carolina, and the steam-ship
Columbus, of lhiladefhia. The schooner sunk immediately,

DECEMBER TERI; 1854.,

149

Peck et al. v. Sanderson.

and all on board perished, with the exception of Wils6n G.
Burgess, a seaman, who succeeded in getting on board of The'
Columlus.' The libel is fifed by the owner of the schooner, and
charges that -he collision was occasionedbythe fault of the
'steam-ship. The circuit court sustained the libel and directed
the respondents to pay the full vale of The Migsion and her.
cargo. And from that decree this appeal has been taken.
I The only witness examined by the libellant is the seaman
above mentioned. It appears from his testimony that the
schooner was bound from Rum Key to Edenton, with a cargo
of salt and some specie. -The crew consisted of the captain,
one mate, two able and one brdinary seamen, aCcook, and a son
of the captain, about twelve years old. About 12 o'clock, on
the night of the collision, Burgess, and a seaman named Brown,
and the master, came from below, it being their watch on deck.
The master soon went below again, and remained there till
after the collision, l6aving no one on deck but the two seamen.
Brown took the wheel and Burgess wen, forward; and at two
o'clock in the morning, Burgess took the wheel and Brown went
forward. Burgess states that it was a pretty clear night, with
a moderate wind from northwest, the schooner heading north
by east. The sails were trimmed flat aft; and the schooner
was as closehauled to the wind as she could be. He could see
nothing on the larboard side, because the sails intercepted his
view. She carried no lights.
He' had been at the wheel about half an hour -when the collision took place. He"heard a heavy crash; the wheel turned,
flew out of his hands, and knocked him down. Heran forward,
and saw a large vessel into them. Her bowsprit was betwien
the schooner's jib and foremast, and extended over. their forecastle .eck. 'He got hold of her bowsprit shroud and got upon
her deck. The schooner went down, and the rest of the crew
perished.
Burgess states that he neither saw nor heard the stearmer until
the vessels came together.- The Columbus was on the larboard
side, and the sails of the schooner prevented him from seeing
her. He never saw or heard Brown after he went forward, and
hIe gave the witness no notice of the approach of the steam-ship.
On the part of The Columbus several witnesses were examined, and among them the mate, a seaman stationed on the
look-out, and the engineer. There is no material discrepancy
in their testimony, and the result of it is this: The steam-ship was a propeller, and a regular pocket between
Philadelphia and Charleston. She was on her voyage from the
former place to the latter, with freight and passeigers on board.
On the night of the -collision, it waswthe mate's watch, from

SUPREME

COURT.

Peck et al. v. Sanderson.

twelve o'clock to four o'clock in the morning.

He came from

below at twelve o'clock, and saw that his men were keeping a
look-out forward, and was also on the look-out himself. The
wind was west-northwest, varying one or two points, and the
steamer was heading southwest, and going at the rate of about
eight and a half knots an hour. There was a heavy head sea,
and the night was starlight, but not very clear, somewhat hazy.
The ship carried a signal-light, (a globe lamp,) such as they
usually carried, which was burning, and all the state-rooms were
lighted. These lights could be seen from a distance, variously
estimated by the witnesses from one to five miles. Her usual
watch were on deck; two of them stationed on the forecastle
deck on the look-out, and the mate was standing on the top of
the skylight looking out for Cape Lookout light, the ship being
then about ten miles from Cape Lookout breakers, and on
soundings.
The Mission was first seen by one of the look-out, who immediately ran aft two or three steps, and sang out, "' vessel right
ahead." She was then at a distance of two or three hundred
yards. Andon such a night, a vessel like The Mission, with her
sails hauled flat aft, and coming towards The Columbus edge on,
and without lights, could not be seen at a greater distance.
The mate, as soon as the look-out cried "sail right ahead,"
jumped from the skylight, ordered the engineer to stop the engine, and ran forward. He saw The Mission a point or a point
and a half on the larboard bow, apparently standing west by
north, distant, as he conjectured, about two hundred yards. He
dould not see her very plain, her sails being presented to them
edgewise. $h6 was rather to windward of the steam-ship, and
He judged that he could not clear her by shifting
closehauled.
the helm, and he ordered the engineer to back. The orders were
instantly obeyed, and The Columbus was backing when the collision took place. It took place in less than a minute from the
time the schooner was first seen.
The witnesses testify, that when at night the look-out cries
out, " sail ahead," it is the duty and practice of steam vessels,
when the'y are uncertain of the way the sail is standing, to stop
the engine and back; and it is not usual or proper to change
her course, before the course which the other vessel is steering is
first ascertained. And among the witnesses who thus testify is
a seaman who had been a pilot in the Bay of Delaware many
years, and wao happened to be on board The Columbus as passenger when this disaster happened.
Upon this statement of facts, gathered from the testimony on
both sides, we see no just ground for imputing this unfortunate
collision to negligence - want of skill in the management of The

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

181

Peck-et al. v. Sanderson.

Colurmbus. She was well lighted, and could be seen at a great
distance. She'had a sufficient look-out, properly stationed.
But it is said it was a starlight night, and if the look-out had
been watchful, The Mission ought to have been seen at a .grater
distance. Undoubtedly there are nights in wbich such a vessel
might be seen much further off; and in the night of -which we are
speaking, she might have been'seen at a greater distance, if the
whole breadth of her sails had been presented to the approaching vessel. But there are nights which may properly be called
starlight, when there is a haze on the surface of the ocean which
obstructs the vision. And the court cannot undertake to say.
that in any night, whenever the stars are shining, a vessel like

The Mission may be seen at a greater distance than two or three
hundred yards, although she is approaching head on with her
sails drawn flat, and without a light. The distance must de-.
pend on the state of the atmosphere, and vary with it. And no
one can know or form a safe opinion- as to the distance at whch
the schooner might have been seen, on the night of which we
are speaking, unless he was at the place of collision at the timeit happened, or derives his knowledge from persons who were
there. And when the witnesses on board. The Columbus testify
that she could not e seen further off, there is no reasonabfe
ground for doubting the truth of their testimony. It is a fact.
proved by eye-witnesses, whose testimony is not impeached.
Neither can the order to stop the engine and back, instead of
changing the course of the steam-ship, be regarded. as a fault.
It -would evidently have been unwise to change her course, until
the course of the approaching vessel was ascertained. She
might be approaching at an angle that would clear the steamship, and a change in the course of. the latter might produce a
collision instead of preventing it. And stopping the engine lessened the rapidity with which the vessels were nearing each
other, and gained time, while he was ascertaining the distance
of the sail, and the direction in which it was stecring. When
he had done this, if there was sufficient distance between them
to enable him to avoid her, it was unquestionably his duty to
change the course of The Columbus, and allow the schooner to
pass on, in the course in -hich she was steering. But, in his
judgment, this could not be done.
The testimony shows that he was an experienced and trustworthy seaman. And there is no evidence to impeach the correctness of his opinion in this particular. And if it was impossible to avoid the schooner, by changing the course of his vessel,
the order to back was evidently judicious. as it gave more space
for the schooner to change her course, and Thereby escape the
impending danger. Her course could be changed in a much
VOL. XVII.

16

182

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Sanderson.

shorter space than that required for a steam-ship of the size of
The Columbus.
It is, without doubt, the general rule, that a sailing vessel
should keep her course when approaching a steamboat, and it
is the duty of tb D latter to keep out of her way. But this rule
presupposes that the steamer discovered, or ought to have discovered, the sailing vessel when at a sufficient distance to avoid
her, by changing her own course. But where, as in the present
case, they are brought suddenl3 and unexpectedly close to each
other, and the ordinary rules of navigation will not prevent a
collision, it is the duty of each to act according to the emergency, and to take any measure that )vill be most likely to attain
the object. Experienced seamen testify that the mode adopted
on the part of The Columbus was the usual and best one; and
we see no reason to doubt it. And if The Columbus had been
seen from The Mission when the engine was stopped, she might,
it'appears, have passed her in safety. Not a m ment appears
to have been lost on board of the steamer, in giving or in executing the orders which the occasion called for; and we think she
is not, in any degree, responsible for the disaster.
In this view of the case, it is unnecessary to inquire whether
any blame can be attached to The Mission. For, whether she
was or was not managed unskilfully, or negligently, The Columbus not being in fault, is not liable for any damage sustained by
the schooner.
But yet it is evident that there was great negligence on her
part. For it is impossible that a vessel, lighted up like the
steamer, would not have been seen from the schooner before she
actually. came in collision, if there had been ordinary care and
watchfulness on board. It may indeed have happened that
Brown, who went forward as the look-out, fell overboard by
some accident, without the knowledge of Burgess, before The
Columbus was in sight; and so, the want of a look-out might
have been occasioned by misfortune, and -not by carelessness.
But the conduct of the captain, in going below during his watch,
and not remaining on deck to see that the seamen were at their
posts and attending to their duty, was hardly consistent with
good seamanship. And it is difficult to believe that the approach of the steamer could be unknown to Burgess, who was
at the helm, until the actual collision, unless he was asleep at
his post. The sails of his vessel might have hid the lights, but
it is hardly credible that a wakeful and watchful seaman at the
wheel would not have heard the noise of her machinery before
he felt the collision. We do not, however, pursue this inquiry,
because it is not material to the decision. And as, in the opinion of the court. no fault is iputable to The Columbus, the

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

183

Iasigi et al. v.Brown.

decree of the circuit court must be reversed, and the libel dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel, On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to dismiss the libel, with costs in that
court.

JOSEPH IASIGI AND 'THOMAs A. GODDARD, PLAINTIFFS IN ERRORI

v. JAMES BROWN, AND THOVAs

B. CURTIS, TRUSTEE OF SAID

BROWN.*
Where an action was brought against a person for making false representations of
the pecuniary condition of a certain party, whereby the plaintiff had been induced
to sell goods upon credit, and had incurred loss, evidence conducing to show that
the statements of the defendant were false, ought to have been all.owed to go to
the jury.
The defendant having written to his own agent, ahd headed the letter confidential, it
was for the jury to say whether or not it was intended for the exclusive perusal of
the agent.
It was also for the jury to say, on a thorough examination of fle letters and the facts
and circumstances connected with them, whether they were calculated to inspire,
and did inspire, a false confidence in the pecuniary responsibility of the party, to
which the writer knew he was not entitled.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The entire history of the case is given in the opinion of thd
court.

It was argued by ir. Bartlett, and there was also a printed
brief by Mdr. Lawrence, for the plaintifl in error, and by Mir.
Lord and Mir. .Terwin, .for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error, made the three following points, of which the reporter has only room to give the
argument upon the first.
I. That the rejection of the proffered testimony by the district
judge, "as immaterial, and ds insufficient, when taken in connection with the other evidence, to authorize the jury to find a
M
Mr. Jus *cE CArnox did not sit in this cause.

