DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

239

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.
I shall state my opinion in this case, in the cases of Williams's
administrator, and Gooding's adminj.rator, as the three cases
are nearly connected, and depend on the same principles.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed -with costs.

JOHN S. WILLIAMS, ADmiN.STRATOR OF JAMES WILLIAMS,
DECEA ED, APPELLANT, V. ROBERT M. GIBBEs AND CfARLES
OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
In 1816, an association called the Baltimore Company, was organized in Baltimort,
for the purpose of furnishing advances and supplies in fitting out a military expedition under General Mina, against Mexico, then a part of the dominions of the
Ring of Spain. See 11 How. 529, and 12 Tb. 111.
One of the shareholders having become insolvent, in 1819, his trustee sold the share
in 1825. The original transaction being illegal, the share could not be considered,
M
by the laws of aryland, as property passing.by the insolvency to the trustee.
Consequently, th, ,ale by the trustee passed nothing to the assignee. The court of
appeals of Maryland so decided, and this court adopts their construction of their
own laws.
An act of the Legislature of Maryland, passed in 1841, made the sale of 1825 Talid,
so far only as defects existed for the want of a bond, by the tfustee in insolvency,
and the want of a ratification of the sale by the court. But it did not purport to
cure other defects in the title of the trustee. Nor did the cqurt of appeals decide
that it went any further than to cure the two defects above mentioned.
In 1846, theBaltimore county court distributed the fund, and awarded the proceeds of
the share in question to the executors of the assignee. This decree was affirmed
by thl court of appeals in 1849. But. during this time there was no person authorized to protee the interest of the insolvent. He had diedin 1836, and no letters of
administration upon his estate were taken out until 1852.
In the distribution of a common fund amongst the several parties interested, an absent
party, who had no notice of the proceedings, and who was not guilty of wilful laches
or unreasonable neglect, will not be concluded by the decree of distribution from
the assertion of his right by bill or petitiosi hgainst the trustee, executor, or administrator; or, in case they have distributed the fund in pursuance of an order of the
court, against the distributees.
The English and American cases upon this point examined.
The present claim being made by the administrator of -the insolvent, against the executors of the assignee, it is not necessary, under the circumstances of the case, to
turn, the plaintiff over, for his remedy, against the distributees.

TIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for -the district of Maryland.

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

It was, in some respects, similar to the preceding case of McBlair, administrator of Goodwin v. Oliver's executors; but it
differed from it in the important point that the original holder
of the share, namely, Williams, never made any assignment of it
to Oliver. The title of the latter was derived exclusively from
a purchase made by him from George Winchester, the trustee
of Williams in insolvency.
The Mexican Company consisted originally of ten persons,
each holding one share. One of the parties declining to pay
up, the remaining nine a.vanced the necessary amount, and
thus the company was rediited to nine persons or firms, namely,
D'Arcy and Didier, Hollins and McBlair, Descoves and Mercier,
Dennis A. Smith, Jeremiah Sullivan and John Sullivan, John
Gooding, James Williams, Thomas Sheppard, and Lyde Goodwin.
In 1819, James Williams applied for the benefit of the insolvent laws of Maryland, and George Winchester was appointed
his trustee, from whom Mr. Oliver purchased the share, in 1825,
for $2,000. Winchester had omitted to give bond or to have the
sale ratified by the court, and an act was afterwards passed by
the legislature of Maryland, to cure these defects.
Williams died in 1836, and no letters of administration were
taken out until 1852, when the present appellant became his
administrator, and filed the bill in the present cas
The ground
assumed was the same with that taken by McBlair, in the preceding case, namely, that if the assignment to Oliver made by the
trustee in insolvency was void, the interest of Williams must
remain in his personal representatives.
On the 4th of October, 1841, a bill was filed on the equity
side of the county court of the sixth judicial district of Maryland
state court, by Philip E. Thomas and John White, trustees of
Dennis A. Smith, against the following persons interested in the
share of Dennis A. Smith, namely: Dennis A. Smith, James W.
McCulloh, administrators; Job Smith, the President and Directors of the Mechanics' Bank of Baltimore, John Glenn, David
1VL Perine, William Gwyn, and James W. McCulloh, trustees;
Mrs. Smith, William Brown, James Brown, John Patterson,
Walter Smith, executor; Clement Smith, George Brown, Herman Perry, Virgil Maxcy, Samuel Nevins, Nevins, Joshua
Lippencott, John S. Smith, Richard Harding, and A. H. Lawrence, and the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank
of the United States. The bill set forth the deed, the amount
awarded to D. A. Smith, and the whole amount awarded to
Glenn and Perine, the existence of charges and claims affecting
in common their share of the fund and the residue in the hands
of Glenn and Perine ; and after suggesting, in general terms,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

241

Williams v. Gibbes I et al.

that they were advised there were other interests represented by
Glenn and Perine, connected with the claims of Dennis A. Smith,
of the particulars whereof they were not informed, but which
Glenn and Perine could state, and which were proper subjects
-for distribution by the court, they pray for a proper distribution
of the certificate, &c., growing out of the awards aforesaid, for
allowance of commissions for notice to the persons interested
as aforesaid to present their claims before the auditor, and for
general relief.
Glenn and Perine filed their answers, admitting the fact6 set
forth in the bill ; expressing their willingness to have the proceeds
of the awards therein mentioned distributed under the direction
of the court-to the persons entitled theretQ, including the award
in favor of those respondents under the agreement in the bill;
and joined in the prayer for a reference to the auditor.
A notice was ordered by the court, and published on the 28th
of October, 1841, requiring, all persons interested in the claims
of D. A. Smith and the Mexican-Company, on Mexico, to present
their vouchers, properly authenticated, on or before the 1st
Japuary, 1842.
The cause was continued, from time to time, until the 23d of
January, 1842, when Nathaniel Williams intervened, as the permanent trustee of James Williams, appointed in the place of
ie claimed the proceeds of the share of
George Wincheter.
James Williaifs; upon the ground that the assignment to Oliver,
by Winchester, was irregular and void.
It is not necessary , to state the numerous claimants who presented themselves, or the grounds upon which they rested their
claims.
Another order was published on the 5th of September, 1843,
giving notice to all persons having claims on the funds awarded
to the Mexican Company of Baltimore and Dennis A. Smith,
to file their claims, -withthe vouchers and proofs, on or before
the 5th October, 1843, else they might be barred from the benefit
of the distribution of the find.
On the 5th of December, 1846, the court pronounced its decree,
awarding, amongst other things, that the proceeds of the share
of James Williams should be paid to the executors of Oliver,
claiming under the assignment from Winchester, the defects of
whish were cured by an act of the legislature.
'Upon an appeal from this decree to the court of appeals of
Maryland, the decree of the county court, in the above respect,
was affirmed.
In August, 1852, John S. Williams, as administrator of James
Williams, deceased, filed his bill against the executors of Oliver,
in the supreme court of Baltimore city. The executors removed
VOL. XVII.

21

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

the cause into the circuit court of the United States, upon the
allegation that they were citizens of the State of New York.
The part of the bill which brought up the question in the cause
was the following:Your orator further states to your Honor, that the said James
Williams departed this life on or about 20th day of September;
in the year 1836, in Harford county; that no letters of administration were ever taken out upon hi* estate, until they were in
due form of law granted to your orator by the orphans' court
for Harford county, on the 15th day of March, in the year 1852.
That he has given bond, approved by said court, for the faithful
performance of the trust reposed in him.
That neither said Williams nor your orator were ever present,
or parties to, or in any manner bound by any proceeding, or
order, or decree, had or passed in the aforesaid suit of Thomas
White v. Dennis Smith and others, in Baltimore county court,
as a court of equity, or in any appeal from -the doings of
said court, to the court of appeals for the western shore of
Maryland, and that any thing done or enacted in either of said
courts was transacted in the absence of the said Williams and
your orator; that the settlement and adjustment of the amount
of the partnership funds of the said Mexican Company, and of
the charges, and commissions, and costs, to which they were
liable in solido, and the distribution of the remainder of said
funds by the decree of the co art, into the several shares to which
each member of said company was entitled, are in no manner
binding upon, or even evidence against the said Williams or
your orator, &c., &c.
The respondents answered the bill, setting forth various
grounds of 'defence, and particularly ielying upon the decree
of the court of appeals, affirming the judgment of the county
court. The opinions of the judges of the court of appeals
have beeni published, in extenso, in one of the preceding volumes
of Howard's Reports, and therefore need not be repeated here.
On the 3d of December, 1853, the circuit court dismissed the
complainant's bill, with costs, and the complainant appealed to
this court.
It wa* argued by X'. Davis, and lAfr. Dulany, with whom
was Mr. MWartin, for the appellant, and by Mr. Campbell, and
Mr. JohnsOn, for the appellees.
Only such of the arguments of counsel can be reported a;
related to the point upon which the decision of the court turned.
The counsel for the appellant contended: II. The decree of the court of appeals is not a bar.
1. It, is no estoppel, as res adjudicata. For Gooding and

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

243

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

Williams were not parties named in the bill, nor petitioners
under the decree; and no notice, actual or constructive, of. the
pendency of the suit is shown or averred. Hollingsworth v.
Barbour, 4 Pet. 475; Aspden . Nixon, 4 How. 467, 497, 498.
2. Both Williams and Gooding were dead before the suit
was instituted; and no administration existed till after final
decree.
The decree, therefore, cannot bind them as either parties or
privies.
3. The title decided on was different. The title of Gooding
and Williams was never in issue. The only issue on the record
was, the validity of an assignment of a prior insolvent trustee,
questioned -by a subsequent insolvent trustee.
No matter what the court might have thought or said, on
such an issue the decree could not conclude a title paramount
to both the litigants. For our title originated in the award
subsequent to the insolvent assignment.
IIL The decree does not bar the complainants as a final disposition of a fund in court for distribution, by reason of their
failure to intervene. For,
1. The suit did not profess to be on behalf of all the claimants of the Mexican Company's fund.
It contains no description of the fund, of the parties entitled,
or of the Mexican Company; and no prayer for the administration of the fund..
Its allegations and averments look to the administration of
the share and private fund of D. A. Smith, under the deed to
Thomas and White, among the creditors of D. A. Smith, who
are parties; and to have included in that suit the allegations
requisite to enable the court to administer the whole fund of
the M ;xican Company among the members, would have made
the bill multifarious and demurrable. Only a few loose phrases
allude to any thing outside the trusts of the deed to Thomas
and White.
Thus Williams and Gooding were neither bound nor entitled
to come in under the decree. The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126; Good
v. Blewitt, 13 Ves. 397 ; Ib.19 Yes. 336 ; Hays v. Miles, 9 G.
and J. 193,197,198 ; Chalmers v. Chambers, 6 H. and J. 29, 30.
2. Had the bill been expressed to be by a few on behalf of
all the claimants of the fund, yet
(a). It is not a case where a few could sue for. all; for the
members of the company were only nine, were all known, and
could and should have been made parties by name or by their
representatives.
(b) But even if it were a case where a few may sue for all,
and the bill properly framed, yet the decree in a suit by a few

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

for distribution of a fund among all interested is not ever, in
itself, a bar to one who did not come in.
(c) Its only effect is to protect the trustee, and shift the
remedy from him or the fund against the party to whom it was
awarded. Gillespie v. Alexander, 3 Russ. 130; David v. Frowd,
1 Myl. and Keene, 200; Greig v. Somerville, 1 Russ. and Myl.
338.
(d) It has never been held conclusive upon the right of a
party, unless the failure to intervene has been wilful, after
actual notice, and without adequate reason; and even then the
delay after the decree and distribution was the main ground
of exclusion; and the only case going so far was reversed on
appeal. 2 Danl. C. P. 1453; Sawyer v. Birchmore, 1 Keen,
391, 825.
But in these cases,
(a) Both parties were dead before the suit was brought, and
so could be in no default.
(b) No administration existed on the estate of either, till
after final decree.
(c) No notice is shown to have been brought home to any
one creditor or distributee, interested in either estate.
IV. The decision of the court of appeals is not such an
authority of a local tribunal, on a local law, as compels the
supreme court, irrespective of its own opinion, to hold Oliver's
title better thai that of the complainants. For
1. The opinion does not declare the title of Oliver to be
good, but really pronounces it invalid.
It decides the claim to be so corrupt as to be utterly void,
and that, therefore, it will not pass to an insolvent trustee. Rec.
Williams v. 'Oliver, 807, 308.
This is decisive, that Winchester never had any interest in
the fund at.all; and, consequently, could assign none.
The court then say, in consideration of the peculiar nature
bf the contest between two trustees of the same party, hypothetically, if we are wrong in supposing the claim never
vested, in that event, if it could vest, it was assignable; and,
being so, it passed to Oliver by the first trustee's assignment
But they expressly declare it did not vest in him at all; and
merely add this subsidiary and hypothetical ground to show
that the complainant, on his own hypothesis, had not the best
title before the court. Rec. Williams v. Oliver, 82-84. The
supreme court have so construed this opinion. Williams v.
Oliver, 12 How. 111.
If it be argued,
2. That the court, in the face of this opinion, awarded the
fund to Oliver, we reply: -

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

245

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

(a.) The question now relating merely to matter of authbrity,
such a decision, if it really were tenable on no other hypothesis
than an affirmance of the validity of Winchester's assignment,
would so contradict the opinion, as to destroy all weight of
either as authority. It makes the court say one thing, and do
its diametrical opposite.
(b.) But the question is not what might have been, but in
fact was not held, but what, in point of fact, was the opinion
of the court about Oliver's title; nothing shows that they did
hold Oliver's title good. For,
They may have decreed Glenn and Perine to convey to
Oliver, in the absence of a.better title, on their confession of
a trust for them, and the language of the award, which, in the
absence of any one else appearing to be concerned, declared
them trustees for Oliver's executors.
It would seem demonstrable that, whatver may be thought
of its correctness, this was the only ground on which the court
did, in fact, rest their decree.
For, if the court considered the question of title at all, they
must be presumed to have confined themselves to those titles
which alone appear on the pleadings.
Those titles are: 1. The award and deed of trust and confession of Glenn
and Perine, that they hold in trust for Oliver's executors, not for
Oliver.
2. The title of Oliver, under the assignment of Winchester,
first insolvent trustee.
3. The title of Williams, second insolvent trustee.
The court, therefore, in making the decree, must have held,
either
1. That the question lay between two insolvent trustees of
the same man; and the fund being in the hands of trustees,
confessing . trust for that trustee who had the better right of
the two, the court would not take it from a better, and give it to
a worse title.
This court has countenanced this view, and it is consistefit
with the opinion of the court of appeals.
2. That a title vested in Winchester, which passed to Oliver
by his assignment.
But this could be only on one of two gTounds (a.) That the AIexican claim was asignable in 1819, and
Passed to Winchester, on the insolvency of Grooding and IVilHams.
But this they have expressly declared not to be the law. Or,
They held that the treaty related back. and made valid what
211

246

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

before was invalid; and the treaty and act of 1841 together
gave a good title.
But this is directly in contradiction with the very words of
their opinion. For,
They turned Gill out of court, though he was assignee in
1817, prior to Oliver's assignment, on the express ground of
the original turpitude of the transaction, which would have
been absurd, if that original sin had been cured by relation.
Therefore,
1. They did not pass on the absolute title of any one; but
only awarded the fund to the party for whom the possessors
confessed a trust, and the award itself showed a primd facie
claim.
In neither aspect of the case has the act of 1841, ch. 309,
any thing to do with this point.
(c.) Such an opinion is not such a declaration of settled local
law, as will relieve or preclude this court from giving its own
opinion fair play.
It was only a decree by three, out of a court of six; and they
differed on the grounds of the decision. Rec. Williams v.
Oliver, 306-308; Craig v. Missouri, 4 Pet. 427; Carroll v. Carroll, 16 How. 275.
It has never been held, that the mere fact of a decision in a
state court, on the same papers, binds the United States courts.
It is mere matter of authority; and that only when it relates
to some state statute or usage, or real estate title, or peculiar
local law. And, in all such cases, the authority depends entirely
on the question actually passed on by the court, not what might
have been, but in fact was not decided.
That is the exact difference between a decree operating to
bind an interest, whether by technical estoppel or negligence to
appear on notice, and the operation of the opinion of the same
court, in the same case, as an authority declaring the law of the
State. It may be that the pleadings and'decree may estabLEh,
between the parties, a result in which the court never contemplated affirming, hor considered as the law in general; for example, here the decree is binding on the trustee, whether the court
be right or wrong in giving the fund to Oliver; but, for this
suit, the very question is not what they did, but why -on
what principle, they did it ?
(a.) If, in fact, the cout did affirm the validity of the assignment. of Winchester, it is demonstrated that the decision was
not on the local insolvent law, but one directly on the laws
of the United States, and so peculiarly within the cognizance
of this court.
For a decision affirming the validity of any assignment

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

247

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

impeaches that operation of the United States laws, -hich
annuls every contract in violation of them. Armstrong v. Toler,
11 Wheat. 258; Craig v. Missouri, 4 Pet. 410; Green v. Neal,
6 Ib. 297; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Ib. 1; Foxcroft v. Mollet, 4 How.
379; Nevins v. Scott, 13 Tb. 268; Trumbo 'v. Blizzard, 6 G. and
J. 23.
V. There can arise no question of the effect of Winchester's assignment as a contract, which, though not capable of
being enforced, may yet protect Oliver by estoppel. :For
Williams's title is not as insolvent trustee, but as administrator, and since the contract of Winchester, and for property never
vesting in him.
No question of estoppel can exist. Fairtitle -v. Gilbert, 2 Term
R. 171; Pen. Del. Md. Co. v. Dandridge, 8 G. and J. 248;
1 Atk. 354.
Neither does the original turpitude of the claim bar us; for
We do not rest on the le.xican contract. Our tile, and our
only tile, is the award.
Our relation to the lexican Company is referred to merel"
as matter of description. The award gave the funds to the
members of that company, or those legally representing them.
To insist on the original turpitude is to ammi the awird, and
to impeach the right which it created.
VI. The death of Gooding, in 1838Q, and Williams, in 1839,
just before the treaty, does not oust-their title.
No treaty meant to colfihe a benefit thirty years old to the
very persons originally claiming. Nearly all the company were
dead. The personal representative stands in the place of the
deceased; and the award is of a fund, in augmbntation of the
estate.
There is no question of relation-; the administrator takes as
of the date -of the treaty or award. It is like a partnership
claim, awarded to one partner after the death of another, without administration. It enures to deceased's estate.
On this principle the court proceeded, when they resolved the
abandonment of Stevenson's share, and confined the division to
the other nine. Campbell v. -i-ullett, 2 Swanst. 5-51; Stevens
v. Bagwvell, 15 Ves. 140; Murray v. East Jersey Co. 5 B. and
Ald. 204.
VII. That the bar of limitation does not apply, in the
absence of a personal representative. Fishwick '. Sewell, 4 H.
and J. 393; Angell's Lim. i7o, 184, 185; Has.lett v. Glenn, 7 H.
and . 17; Ruff v. Bull, Id. 16; 2 Salk. 421 ; Murrdy v. East
Jersey Co. 5 B. and Ald. 204.
Tile view which the counsel for the appellees took of th6
point in question was the following :

248

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

1. The decree of the Maryland court of appeals, in the distribution suit originating in Baltimore county court, adjudging
Williams's share in the Mexican Company to Oliver's executors, is conclusive, as to their title, upon all persons, in all jurisdictions.
The bill in the distribution suit (Record in Goodwin's case,
18) prays: "That the funds growing out of the award may be
properly distributed, under the direction and authority of the
court, among the persons entitled thereto, whether as cestuis que
trust, under the indenture aforesaid, subscribing the same, or as
otherwise interested, in the view of a court of equity, in the proceeds of said award."
The answer of Glenn and Perine (Record in Goodwin's case,
28) says: That "they are willing and desirous that the proceeds
of the -awards therein mentioned may be distributed am6ng the
parties entitled thereto."
Of the character of this proceeding this colut has already
expressed its opinion, in 12 How. 122, where it declined to
take jurisdiction of it It characterizes it as a suit far distribution dependent on the laws of Maryland, which involved and
decided the right and title to the shares claimed in it under
those laws.
It was not, then, a proceeding simply meant to distribute the
fund in court among the parties bringing it in, or those they
represented; but a suit to ascertain who were really entitled to
the money in court, and to give it to those whom the court, the
custodiary of the fund, should find so entitled. It was, in other
words, a proceeding in rem, and the final action of the court upon
the res must be, and was meant to be, conclusive on all the
world, as to notice, parties, title, and every thing else that was
adjudicated by it; the court in which the proceeding took
place having undoubted jurisdiction over the subject-matter of
it. Tongue v. Morton, 6 H. and J. 23; 2 Maryland IL 451;
2 How. 333; 3 Wheat. 246; 9 How. 348.
The title of Oliver's executors to Williams's,share, which is
now denied, is the same title which the court of appeals
affirmed; and it is impossible for this court to deny that title,
without, at the same time, affirming that the court of appeals
of Maryland ought not, on the facts before it, to have decreed
in favor of the executors. It is respectfully submitted, that no
other court can thus impeach the decree of the court of appeals
of Maryland, which, with full jurisdiction in the premises,
determined Oliver's executors to be the owners of Williams's
share absolutely, and not as between them and any one else.
The distribution of the fund was a proceeding in rem, and
the presence of parties was not necessary. We could not

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

249

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

compel administration to be taken out. Must the whole fund
wait till they chose to administer? The other side must show
that they were not guilty of laches. They only know the
reasons why they were not, and the bill sets forth no sufficient
excuse. Although these parties may not have beeh before the
court, yet their title was; because the executors of Oliver set
forth the assignment to them by the trustee.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This- is an appeal from a -decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The bill was filed in the court below to recover of the defendants the proceeds of the share of James Williams, in what is
called the Baltimore Company, which had a claini against the
Mexican government, that was allowed under the convention
of 1839. The claim was similar to th6 one under consideration
in the case of the administrator of Lyde Goodwin against these
defendants, just disposed of. The proceeds of the shaie, as
charged, amount to $41,306.41.
The main grounds of defence set up in this case are 1. The sale of this share in the company to Robert Oliver,
for a valuable consideration, by George Winchester, permanent
trustee of Williams, -who had taken the benefit of the insolvent
act of Maryland, in 1819, which was made in pursuance of an
order of the court having jurisdiction in cases of insolvency
under that act. The sale took place on the 2d April, 1825.
2. A decree of the court of appeals in Maryland, at the June
term, 1849, affirming a decree of the Baltimore county court,
which, in the distribution of the fund arising from this claim
of the Baltimore Company, assigned the proceeds of the share
in question to the executors of Oliver.
If the appellees fail to maintain their title to this fund, upon
one or the other of these grounds, then the right to the share of
Williams in the Baltimore Company, for aught that appears,
still belonged to him at the time of his decease, in 1836, and
passed to his legal representatives as a part of his estate; and
although originally of no legal value, on account of the illegality of the transaction out of which the contract arose, yet, as
the illegality has been waived and the money realized, we have
seen, from the principles stated in the previous case of Lyde
Goodwin, it belongs to Williams's administrator.
As it respects the first grund-the sale of the share of Williams, by the provisional trustee, to Robert Oliver, under the
insolvent act- we have seen, in the case of Lyde Goodwin,
the court of appeals of Maryland held, that this contract of the
Baltimore Company with General M1ina, being in violation of

250

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

the neutrality act of the United States, of 1794, was so tainted
with turpitude and illegality, it could not be recognized under
their insolvent laws as property; and that no right to or interest
in the share passed to the trustee. And, that this being the
construction of the statute by the highest cqurt of the state, and
which had a right to interpret its own laws, this court felt bound
by it, without inquiring whether that interpretation was correct
or, not; and, consequently, as Goodwin's interest in the share
did not pass to the insolvent trustee, it remained in Goodwin
himself, and passed to the executors of Oliver, by virtue of his
assignment to their testator, in 1829.
In this case the executors of Oliver are obliged to make title
to the share in'question, under the insolvent trustee of Williams ;
the assignment to Oliver, their testator, having been made by
the trustee, and not by Williams himself. And it is now insisted
on behalf of the exhcutors, that the court of appeals of Maryland
in this case reversed their opinion delivered in the case of Goodwin, and held that the interest in the share did pass under the
insolvent laws to the trustee, and consequently that the proceeds
of the share vested in them under his sale and assignment to
their testator in 1825.
Had this been the decision of the court of appeals in the case
o,f the share of Lyde Goodtviri, the interest and proceeds would
have passed to Gill, the permanent trustee, instead of to the executors of Oliver.
These-re§ults, so contradictory and inconsistent, claimed too as
flowing from the judgments of the highest court in a State,
should not be admitted unless compelled, after the most careful
and deliberate coisideration.
The decision in both cases was made at the same term,
June, 1849; the one in the present case subsequent to that in
the case of Goodwin. The court in their opinion state, that
the grounds upon which they affirmed the judgment in this- case
were, first, for the reasons assigned by them for their decree in
the previous case of Oliver's executors against Gill, permanent
trustee of Goodwin.
The grounds for that decree are stated in the record, and as
far as material are as follows: " They are of opinion that the
entire contract (the Mina contract) upon which the claim of the
appellee (Gill, the trustee,) is founded, is so fraught with illegality and turpitude as to be utterly null and void; conferring
no rights or obligations upon any of the contracting parties,
which can be sustained or countenanced by any court of law or
equity in this State; that it has no moral obligation to support
it, and that, therefore, under the insolvent laws of Maryland, such
claim does npt pass to or vest in the trustee of an insolvent

DECEMBER TERM,

251

1854.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

-

petitioner. It forms no part of his property or estate, within the
meaning of the legislative enactments constituting our insolvent
laws."
N~thing can be more explicit or decisive against the. title of
the insolvent trustee, or of those setting up a claim"under him,
to a share in this Baltimore Company. The court say: " It has
no legal or moral obligation to support it, and that, therefore,
under the insolvent laws of Maryland, such a claim does not
pass to or vest in the trustee of arinsolvent petitioner. It forms
the meaning of the
'ithin
no part of his property or estate,
legislative enactments constituting our insolvent system." And
this opinion is reaffirmed, ipssimis verbis, in giving the judgthe trustee of Williams, theui before the court,
against
mentwithl
which we are now dealing; and yet it is gravelymiand
decided
the court
made
on made
the contrary,
as was
but,was
in this case
of such
Goodwin;
case no
deciion
in
the that
sisted
that the. interest in the.share of Williams did pass under the
invested
insolvent laws to the trustee; that he becam thereby
with the title, and was competent to transfer it-to Robert Oliver,
the testator of the defendants.
The supposed contradiction and inconsistency of the determination of the court is founded upon the second paragraph in
the opinion delivered. It is as folliws: 2. "Because, under
the proceedings based on or originating from the insolvent petiGooding and James Williams, and the act of
of Jfohn
tions
applicable thereto, Robert Oliver acquired a valid title
assembly
to all the interest of said James Williams and ohn Gooding in
the fund in controversy, for the reasons assigned by Judge Martin
as the basis of his opinion in those cases."
hudge naroin had dissentedfrom the opinion of the majority
of the court, in the case of Lyde Goodwin, being of opinion
that the interesGin his share passed under the insolvent laws to
the trustee; and had maintained the samc opinion in respect to
the
share of Wailliams, in the case then before the court. And
it is supposed that this opinion was adopsed by the other members, in.the determination of the case.
Jue do not agree' that this is a proper apprehension of the
judgment given by the two members of the court; but, on the
contrary, are satisfied that the opinion delivered may well warnatural and consistent interpretation.
rant a more
The true meanhig will be apparent, we think, from the folas we have seen, had purlowing explanation. Robert Oliver,
chased the share of Williams of the insolvent trustee, in 1.A5,
and, consequently, if the interest in his share passed under the
insolvent laws to the trustee, it had become vested in "Over
and of course, on his death, in the executors.

252

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

The question before the court was between the insolvent
trustee and the executors. The court, after reaffirming their
opinion in the case of Lyde Goodwin, namely, that no interest
in the share passed to the trustee under the insolvent laws, and
therefore that he was disabled from making out a title to it, go
onl in substance to say, that if in error as to this, and the opinion
of Judge Martin should be adopted, namely, that the interest
did pass to the trustee, it could make no difference in the result,
inasmuch as the executors of Oliver would then be entitled to
the proceeds, under his purchase of the share from the trustee
himself, in 1825. Therefore, viewing the case in either aspect,
qizacunque via data,the insolvent trustee had failed in establishing any interest in the fund.
It appears to us that this is obviously the meaning intended
to be expressed, though we admit the terms used in the expression of it furnish some plausibility for the criticisms to which it
has been subjected. The two opinions, the one in the case of
Goodwin, and the otter in the case of Williams, were given at
tile same term, and upon the same question; and, if the interpretation of the defendants is right, are diametrically opposite to
each other ; and not only so, as the first opinion is incorporated
in the second, the judgment rendered in the case of Williams ig
founded upon two opposite constructions of the same statute,
in one and the same opinion.
We prefer the explanation we have given to this extraordinary
and absurd conclusion, as it respects the proceedings of a respectable court, and one possessing the highest jurisdiction in
the State.
The change of opinion upon a question of law, or in the construction of a statute, is no disparagement to a judge, or a court,
however eminent or experienced. The change is oftentimes a
matter of commendation, rather than of reproach. But the
case here presented, and upon which we are asked to turn the
decision of the question, is, that two opposite constructions of
a statute have been given by the court in the same cause, leading necessarily to opposite results, andboth relied on as grounds
for the judgment rendered. We have already -assigned our
reasons for disbelief in any such conclusion, and shall not again
refer to them.
It has been suggested that the statute of Maryland, of 1841,
confirming certain defective proceedings in insolvent cases,
operated to confirm the sale of the trustee to Oliver, in 1825, and
that the opinion of the court of appeals in the case of Williams
is founded upon this statute. Winchester, the permanent trustee
at the time of the sale, had not given a bond, with surety, for
the faithful. execution of his duty, as required by the law; and,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

253

Williams v. Gibbes etal.'

under the decisions of the courts of Maryland, this omission
dLsabled him from dealing with the estate of the insolvent.
The act of 1841 was passed to remedy defects of this description. It provided that all sales and transfers of property and
claims, theretofore made by any permanent trustee, &c., under
the insolvent laws of the State, shall be valid and effectual, notwithstanding such trustee shall not have given a bond with
security, &c.; and the 3d section provides that the act shall not
be so construed as to cure any other defect in the proceedings
than the failure to give a bond, with security, or the Want of
any ratification by the court of any sale made by such trustee..
It is quite apparent from the provisions of the act, that it was
not designed to confirm all sales previously made by the trustee
under the insolvent laws, azid render them valid and effectual,
but simply to confirm, so far as respected any defect arising out
of the omission of the trustee to give the proper security, and
also as respected any' omission on the part of the court to confirm the sale. These two defects in any previous proceedings
were cured by the statute, but in all other respects the proceedings were valid, or otherwise independently of it It is impossible to maintain that the statute looked to any such informality
in the title of the trustee, as that held by the court of appeals in
the case of Lyde Goodwin, as well as in the present one. And,
besides, it is inconceivable why the court should have reaffirmed
their opinion in the case of Goodwin, as a ground for denying
the title to the trustee, if they had -intended to hold that it
passed by forcL -f the acifof 1841" We have nobelief that such
was the opinion intended to be expressed.
The decree of the court affirming the judgment of the court
below has been referred to as favoring the. view of the decision
contended for by the appellees. This decree adjudges and decrees, that the judgment below awarding the,,share of Williams
to the executors of Oliver be affirmed, and that Glenn and
Perine, the general trustees of the fund, pay the proceeds of the
share to the said executors.
It will be remembered that the only question before the court
r~spectng this share was between the executors on the .one side,
and the insolvent tr istge of Williams on the other; and as the
executors were the apparent owners of the fund, unless a title
could be maintained by the trustee, so far as respected the
pa ties before the court, the former exhibited the better ttle;
at least, the better title to take the possession and charge of the
fund in the. distribution among the claimants. The form of the
decree, therefore, was very much a matter of course, in the aspecet
of the case as then presented.
This view will be more fully appreciated when we refer, to
VOL. XVII.

22

254,

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

a~other branch of this case, presently to be considered. We
-will simply add, in our conclusion upon this part of the case,
that the opinion now expressed was the one entertained by us
when the case involving this share of Williams was formerly
before the court, and which will be found in 12 How. 111, 12.
On page 123 we observed "the counsel for the plaintiff in error
sought to distinguish this case from the previous one, the case
of Lyde Goodwin, and to maintain the jurisdiction of the court,
upon the ground that the act of the legislature of Maryland of
1841, confirming the authority of Winchester, the permanent
trustee, was in contravention of a provision of the constitution
of the United States, as "a law impairing the obligation of
contracts."
But we observed in answer, " admitting this to be so, which
we do not, still, the admission would not affect the result; for
the decision of the court of appeals upon a previous branch of
the case denied to the plaintiff any right to or interest in the
fund in question, as claimed under the insolvent proceedings as
permanent trustee, and hence he was deemed disabled from
maintaining any action founded upon that claim.
'It was of no importance, therefore, as it respected the plaintiff,
in the distribution of the fund, whether it was rightfully or
wrongfully awarded to Oliver's executors. He had no longer
any interest in the question."
Our conclusion, therefore, upon this part of the case is, that
according to the law of Maryland, as expounded by .the hignest
court of the State, no title to or interest in the share of Williams
in the contract of the Baltimore Company, under General Mina,
passed under the insolvent laws of that State to the insolvent
trustee; and, consequently, no interest in the same became
vested in the executors of Robert Oliver, by force of the assignment from the trustee to him in 1825.
2. The next question is as to the conclusiveness of the decree
of the Baltimore county court, making a distribution of the
fund among the several claimants, and which was affirmed by
the court of appeals, upon the rights of the administrator of
Williams to the proceeds of his share in the fund. The decree
in the Baltimore county court was rendered in December, 1846,
and affirmed June term, 1849.
Williams died in 1836, and no letters of administration were
taken out upon the estate till 1852. It appears, therefore, that
Williams had been dead ten years when the first decree was
made, and thirteen at the date of the second; and no representative was in existence to whom notice of the proceedings could
affect in any way the interest of the estate in the fund.
Now, the principle is well settled, in respect to these proceed

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

255

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

ings in chancery for the distribution of a common fund 'among
the several parties interested, either on the application of the
trustee of the fund, the executor or administrator, legatee, or
nekt of kin, or on the application of any party in interest, that
an absent party, who had no notice of the proceedings , and not
guilty of wilful laches or unreasonable neglect, will not be concluded by the decree of distribution from the assertion of
his right by bill or petition against the trustee, executor, or administrator; or, in case they have distributed the fund in pursuance of an order of the court, against the distributees. David
v. Frowd, 1 Miln. and Keen, 200; Greig v. Somerville, 1 Russ.
and MVL 33S; Gillespie v. Alexander, 3 Russ. 130; Sawyer v.
Bichmore, 1 Keen, 391; Shine v. Gough, 1 Ball. and B. 436;'
Finley v. Bank of the United States, 11'Wheat. 304; Story's
Eq., Pl. § 106, Wiswall v. Sampson, 14 How. 52, 67.
The general principle governing courts of equity, in proceedings of this description, is more clearly stated by Sir John Leach,
master of the rolls, in David v. Frowd, above referred to, than in
any other case that has come under our notice.
That was a case where one of the next of kin, who had no
notice of the administration suit, filed d bill against the admiristratrix and distributees to obtain her share of the estate. The
bill was filed some two years after the decree for distribution
had been made and carried into effect.
The master of the rolls observed, that "the personal property
of an intestate is first to be applied. in payment of his debts,
and then distributed among his next of kin. The person who
takes out adninistratidn to his estate, in most cases, cannot
know-who are his' creditors, and may not know who are -his
next of kin; and the administration of his estate may be ex.?
posed to great delay and embarrassment. A court of equity
exercises a most wholesome jurisdiction for 'the prevention of
this delay and embarrassment, and for the assistance and protection of the administrator. Upon the application of any
person claiming to be interested, the court refers it to the master, to inquire who are creditors, and who are next of kin, and
for'that purpose to cause advertisements to be published in the
quarters where creditors and next of kin are most likely to be
found, calling upon such creditors and next of kin to come
in, and make their claims before the master, within a reasonable
time stated; and when that time is'expired, it is considered
that the be,; possible means having been taken to ascertdin the
parties really entitled, the administrator may reasonably proceed
to distribute the estate among those who have, before the
master, established an apparent title. Such proceedings having
been taken,,the court will protect the administrator against any
future claim."

SUPREME
Williams v.

COURT.

Gibbes et al.

"But itis obvious," he remarks, "that the notice given by advertisements may, and must in many cases, not reach the parties
really entitled. They may be abroad, and in a different part of
the kingdom from that where the advertisements are published,
or, from a multitude of circumstances, they may not see or hear
of the advertisements, and it would be the height of injustice
that the proceedings of the court, wisely adopted with a view
to general convenience, should have the absolute effect of conclusively transferring the property of the true owners to one
who has no right to it."
The master of the rolls further observed. "that if a creditor
does not happen to discover the proceedings in the court, until
after the distribution has been actually made, by the order of
the court, amongst the parties having, by the master's report, an
apparent title,-although the court will protect the administrator, who has acted under the orders of the court- yet, upon a
bill filed by this creditor against the parties to whom the property has been distributed, .the court will, upon proof of no
wilful default on the part of such creditor, and no want of
reasonable diligence on his part, compel the parties, defendants,
to restore to the creditor that which of right belongs to him."
The master of the rolls then applied this principle to the right
of the next of kin, the complainant in the bill, and observed,
"that it had been argued that the case is extremely hard upon
the party who is to refund, for that he has a full right to consider the money as his own, and may have spent it; and that
it would be against the policy of the law to recall the money,
which the party had obtained by the effect of a judgment upon
a litigated title. But, he observed, there is here no judgment
upon a litigated title; the party who now claims by a paramount title was absent from the court, and all that is adjudged
is, that, upon -an inquiry, in its nature imperfect, parties are
found to have a primd facie claim, subject to be defeated upon
better information. The apparent title, under the master's
report, is, in its nature, defeasible. A party claiming under
such circumstances, has no great reason to complain that he
is called upon to replace what he has received against his
right."
In the case of Gillespie v. Alexander, also above referred to,
Lord Eldon observed, that, although the language of the decree, where an account of debts is directed, is, that those, who
do not come in, shall be excluded from the benefit of it; yet
the course is to permit a creditor, he paying costs, to prove his
debt, as long as their happens to be a residuary fund in court,
or in the hands of the executor, and to pay him out of the
residue. If the creditor does not come till after the executor

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

257

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

has paid away the residue, he is not without remedy, though he
is barred the benefit of that decree. If he has a mind to sue
the legatees, and bring back the fund, he may do so, but he
cannot affect the legatees, except by suit, and he cannot affect
the executor at all.
These principles are decisive of this branch of the case, as
they establish, beyond all controversy, the right of the administrator to assert the title of Williams, the intestate, to the proceeds of the share in question, notwithstanding the decree of
distribution by the Baltimore county court. There has been
no laches, on his part, or, on the part of those whom he
represents.
The cases above referred to relate to the rights of creditors,
and ziext of kin; but the principle is equally applicable to all
parties interested in a common fund brought. into a court of
equity for distribution amongst the several claimants.
It is worthy of observation in this connection that the decree,
however conclusive in its terms, in the distribution of the fund
amongst the apparent owners then before the court, possesses
no binding effect upon the rights of the absent party, whose
interests have not been represented on the subject bf litigation.
The opinion of the court given, and decree in pursuance
thereof, applies only to interests of those amongst whom the
fund is distributed.
These observations ftirnish an answer to the argument on
behalf of the appellees, drawn from a reference to the terms of
the decree of the court of appeals of Maryland, in tjhis case, by
which the fund is adjudged to the executors of Oliver. As
between all the parties then before the court, this adjudication
was doubtless proper, and conclusive upon their rights.
It is agreed in the case, that but five eighths of the fund in
controversy is in the hands of the executors, the residue having
been paid over in the administration of the assets of th e estate.
If this portion had been paid over by the executors in pursuance of an order of the court in an administration suit, the
defendants would be protected to that extent, and the complainant compelled to proceed against the distributees. But no
such fact appears in the case.
Without saying, at this time, that an executor, in all cases,
may be compelled to account to a . party making title to a-,
portion of the estate, after distribution, among the legatees and
next of kin, unless first procuring an order of the court having
charge of the administration, we -perceive no reason, under the
circtimstances of this case, for exonerating them, or turning him
round to a bill against the distributees.
Upon the whole, after the fullest consideration we haye been

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

able to give to this case, we think the decree of the court below
was erroneous, and should be reversed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL dissented.
John S. Williams, administrator of
James Williams, dec'd appellant,
Robert M. Gibbes and Chas. Oliver, 1
ex'ors of Robert Oliver, deceased. 3Appeals from the circuit
court of the United States
And
for the district of MaryJohn Gooding, Junior, administrator
land.
de bonis nm of John Gooding,
deceased, appellant,
Robert M. Gibbes and Chas. Oliver,
ex'ors of Robert Oliver, deceased.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion in these two cases; but they are so
intimately connected with the case against Lyde Goodwin's
administrator, just decided, that I shall be better understood by
considering the three together.
When the case of Gill (who was trustee of Goodwin under
the insolvent Iaws of Maryland) against Oliver's executors was
before the court, I did not concur in the judgment then given,
as will be seen by the report of the case in 1 Howard's
Reports, 529. It appeared to me unnecessary t that time -to
do more than simply express my dissent; but the course which
these cases have since taken, and the decisions now given, iaake
it my duty to state more fully my own opinion, and the grounds
upon which I passed the decrees that are now before the court
The history of the controversy is this: Goodwin, Gooding,
and Williams, were members of the Baltimore Mexican Company, which made the contract with Mina, in 1816. The character of that contract is fully stated in the eleventh and twelfth
volumes of Howard's Reports, and also the manner in which it
came before the commissioners under, the treaty with Mexico,
and their award upon it.
The commissioners awarded the sum menti6ned in their
award to the Mexican Company of Baltimore, as due "for arms,
vessels, munitions of war, goods,-and money furnished by the
company to General Mina for the service of Mexico in the years
1816 and 1817," and gave interest to the company according to

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

259

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

the stipulation in the contract -with Mina. I have given the
words of the award, because they show that the commissioners
affirmed the validity of this contract,.and directed the -amount
due by its terms, to be paid to the trustees therein named, for
the benefit of the parties interested in it.
Proceedings were soon after instituted in a Maryland court
of equity, against the trustees by persons claiming an interest
in the fund; and the money by order of the court was brought
into court to be distributed among the parties entitled. Many
claimants appeared, presenting conflicting claims for shares in
the company.
Goodwin, Gooding, and Williams, all became insolvent.
Goodwin in 1817, Gooding and Williams in 1819; auid their
respective trustees appeared in the Maryland court, and claimed
the amount due to the insolvent.
On the other hand, the executors of Oliver claimed these three
shares. Goodwin's under an assignment made to Oliver by
Goodwin in 1829, and the other two under assignments made
to him in 1825, by George Winchester, who was the trustee of
each of them.
The controversies which arose upon the distribution of. this
fund were removed to the Maryland court of appeals, which is
the highest court of the State. And in the trial there, it was
objected that the contract with Mina was in violation of law,
and therefore fraudulent and void, and vested no rights in the
meembers of the company which the. law would recognize, and
consequently that no right of property in it could vest in the
trustee when the party became insolvent.
It may be proper to remark, that under the Maryland insolvent
law, all the property, rights, and credits belonging to the insolvent .t the time of his petition, become vested in his trustee:
and he at the same time executes a deed to the trustee, conveying and assigning to him all his property, rights, and credits of
every description for the benefit of his creditors. And if the
persons above-named, at the times of their petitions in 1817 and
1819, had aily interest whatever, eitner legal or equitable, vested
or contingent, under this Mexican contract, it passed to their
trustees.
The coart of appeals decided that the contract with Mina
was fraudulent and void under our neutrality laws, and therefore
vested no right in the parties which a court of justice in this
country could recognize, and, consequently, that they had no
interest or property under it which could be transferred to or
vest in their trustees at the time of their insolvency. And upon
this ground they decided against the clim of the trustees, and
directed the whole amount of the tlree shares to be paid to
Oliver's executors.

260

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.
The ground upon which they supported the claim of Oliver's
executors to these shares is not stated fully in the opinion. It
was, I presume, upon the ground that, by the terms of the award,
the shares of these three persons were received by the trustees
named in the award, in trust for these executors; and that the
trustees, therefore, had no right to withhold it from them; as
neither they nor their testator had any participation in the
fraudulent contract out of which it had arisen. And if the
court was right in deciding, that neithe" the trustee of the insolvent nor any one else could derive a title to this money uftder
the contract with Mina, perhaps the language of the award,
together with the documents referred to in it, might justify this
decision. But I express no opinion on this point, and merely
suggest it in justice to the court of appeals, in order to show
that their opinions in these cases are not necessarily inconsistent
with each other, although the court may have reasoned erroneously, and decided incorrectly.
These decisions were brought to this court by the trustees of
the insolvents, by writs of error under the 25th section of the
act of 1789. Motions were made in each of them to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction; and the motions were sustained by the
majority of the couit, and the cases dismissed, as will appear in
the reports referred to.
I differed in opinion from the court; but undoubtedly, when
the cases came before me at circuit, upon bills filed by the administrators, it was my duty to conform in the inferior court to
the decision of the superior, as far as that decision applied to
the case presented by these complainants. It is true, that in my
own opinion, and according to the views of. the subject I had
always entertained, these bills, by the administrators of the insolvents, could not be maintained. But I dismissed them, not
only upon that ground, but also under the impression that I was
bound to do so upon the principles upon which this court had
decided them in the suits by the trustees. It appears, however,
by the opinion just delivered, that I was mistaken, and placed
an erroneous construction on the opinions formerly delivered.
It seems, therefore, to be due to myself to state not only my
opinion in the former cases, but also the interpretation I placed
upon the language of this court in deciding them. And I think
it will be found that the language of the former decisions was
fairly, susceptible of the construction I put upon it, although
that construction has turned out to be erroneous. I do not mean
to say that the construction which the majority of the court
puts upon its former decisions now, is not the true one; but
that the language used in it might lead even a careful inquirer
to a contrary conclusion.

DECEMBER TERM, .1854.

261

Williams v. "Gibbes et al.

I proceed, in the first place, to speak of the case of Gill, frustee of Lyde Goodwin. As I have already said, when that case
was before this court, I thought, and still think, we had jurisdiction; and proceed now to state the grounds of that opinion, and
how it bore on the decision of the suit by his administrator,
which is now before us.
The money in dispute was claimed under the contract -ith
Mlina. And the amount claimed was awarded to the 'Mexican
Company, or their legal representatives or assigns, by the commissioners appointed under the Mexican treaty, and the act of
congress passed to carry it into execution. The commissioners
were authorized to ascertain and .determine upon the validity
of the claims of American citizens upon the Mexican govern.
ment, and for which this government had demanded reparation.
Of course, it was their duty not to allow any claim for services
rendered to Mexico, or moiley advanced for its use, by American
citizens in violation of their duty to their own country, or in
disobedience to its laws. For the government would have been
unmindful of its own duty to the United States, if it had used
its power and influence td enforce a claim of that description,
of had sanctioned it by treaty. But the board of comniissioners
were necessaffly the judges of the lawfulness of the contracts,
and the validity of the claims presented. They were necessarily
to determine whether they were of the description provided for
in the treaty or not. They may have committed errors of judgment in this respect, and may ha.ve committed an error of
judgment in sanctioning the contract with MIina. But the law
under which they acted made them the exclusive judges on" tie
subject. There was no appeal from their decision. And if there
was no mal-practice on the part of- the commissiones, and the
award was not obtained by fraud aid misrepresentation, it was
final and conclusive. It. was like the judgment of any other
tribunal ha-fing jurisdiction of the subject-nmatter, and could not
be reexamiiied and impeached for error of judgment in any
other court which had no appellate power over it. And they
decided that fie contract of ilina was valid, and consequently
it vested from its date a lawful right to the money iil the membei. of the Mexican Company.
The objection, therefore, in the Maryland court, brought into
question the validity of an-authority exercised ilnder tle United
States; and as the decision of the state court was against its
validity, it was my opinion that a writ of error did lie unader the
25th section of the act of 1789. And regarding the award as
final and conclusive upon other tribunals, there was error in the
judgment of the state court which pronounced it invalid and
fraudulent. It will be observed that this errorwas the founda-

262

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

tion of the judgment of the state court. For if the court did
not look behind the award, and had regarded the contract as
valid, the right to Goodwin's interest undoubtedly passed to his
trustee in 1817, long before his assignment to Oliver. I therefore thought this court had jurisdiction, and that the judgment
of the court of appeals ought to be reversed, and this money
paid to the trustee, and not to Oliver's executors.
The majority of the court, however, entertained a different
opinion, and dismissed the cases, upon the ground, as I understand the opinion, that the construction of the treaty, or of the
act of congress, or the validity of the authority exercised under
them, did not appear to have been drawn into question in the
court of appeals; and that the case appeared to have been decided upon the effect and operation of their own insolvent law,
and upon their own laws regulating contracts and transfers of
property and credits within the State, over which we had no
jurisdiction upon the writ of error; that these matters were exclusively for the decision of the state tribunals, and their decision
final upon the subject.
Some remarks are made in the opinion in relation to grounds
upon which the state court might have decided without impeaching the award of the commissioners; and among others,
the fact that Goodwin had assigned his right to Oliver in 1829,
and that the Mexican congress had previously, in 1825, acknowledged its validity. There is an error in the date, but it is immaterial. The acts of the Mexican congress were in 1823 and
1824.
But I did not understand these remarks as intended to affirn
that the share of Goodwin passed to Oliver by this assig~ment,
but as suggesting grounds upon which the state court might,
whether erroneously or not, have decided in favor of the executors. Because, 9s the court held that it had no jurisdiction in
the case, I supposed that it intended to give no opinion upon
the merits. And I presumed that it did not intend to decide
that the acknowledgment of- Mexico, that Mina's contract was
binding upon the republic, could give any validity to it in the
courts of the United States. For the contract of the Baltimore
Company would have been liable to the same objections if it
had been made originally, in 1816, with the Mexican government
instead of General .Mina. And if it was void in 1817, and
Goodwin then had no interest under it it was equally void in
1829, when the assignment to Oliver was made; and it is due
to the court of appeals to say, that they have not indicated, in
any of their opinions, that the acts of the Mexican cohgress had
any influence oh their judgments.
Upon these considerations I dismissed the bill at circuit, upon

DECEIM[BER TERM, 1854.

263

Williams .v. Gibbes et al.

two grounds: 1. My own opinion is, that the interest of Goodwin passed-to his trustee, and consequently that the present
complainant (his administrator) can have no title. 2. This
court decided, upon a view of the whole case, that it had no
appellate power over this judgment, and that it had been decided
by the Maryland court upon its own construction of- is own.
laws. And that point being adjudged by this court, I did not
see upon what ground I could, in conformity to this opinion,
revise the judgment of the state court and reverse its decision.
It would, in substance, have been the exercise of an appellate
power at circuit over the decisions of the state courts, upon
their own laws, which this court had refused to exercise oh wr-it
of error; and, for the reason first above-stated; I now concur in
affirming the judgment here in the case of Goodwin's administrator.
I come now to the cases of the administrators of Gooding
and Williams, which are, in many respects, alike. These writs
were iso disrissed for want of jurishdiction, when formerly before the court; and in dismissing them, the court said that the.
title of the trustees to -the shares- of Gooding and Williams,
ccinvolted only a question of state law, and therefore was not
the subject of revision here, and was conclusive of his rights,
and decisive of the case." I quote the language of the court.
The want of jurisdiction was, therefore, the only point decided
in these cases, and they were dismissed on that ground
It is true that in these cases, as well as in that of Goodwin's
trustee, language is used, in the opinion of the court, which
would seem to -imply that the court was of opinion that the
contract was void originally, but had afterwards become valid
by the events referred to in the opinion. But I understood these
observations, as I did those made il Goodwin's case, merely as
suggesting considerations which might have led to the decision
of the state court, without impeaching the award of the commissi ners, but not as approving or sanctioning them as sufficient grcunds for their decree. For the court determined that it
had no jurisdiction, and consequently the merits of the case
were not before it, and I presumed it did not mean to express
any opinion concernhig the correctness or incorrectness of fhe.
judgment of the state court. Such I have understood to be
the established practice bf this conrt, and I was not aware that
this 'case "%;as intended 'o be an exception. The only p dint
decided was the conclusiveness of the judgment of the st4te
court upon the rights of the trustees.
The court of appeals assigned two reasons for their decision,
and taldng them literally, as they stand, they are inconsistent
with each other. But the opinion appears to have been haetily

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

written, and not sufficiently guarded in its words; and it is evident they meant to say, that, in the opinion of the court, no
interest vested in the trustee, because there was no legal or
equitable interest acquired by the contract that could vest anywhere, or in any person. But, if there was a legal interest, it
passed to his trustee, and by his assignment vested in Oliver.
This mode of decision upon alternative grounds, is an ordinary
and familiar one in courts of justice, and will often be found in
the decisions of this court.
And however the reasoning of the state court may be regarded, it is clear that, with the interest of the intestate before them
and under consideration, they decreed that the shares belonged
to Oliver's executors. Now it it is perfectly immaterial whether
the reasons assigned by the court were right or wrong. Here is
their judgment, their decree-a decree founded altogether on
state laws, as this court have said in their former decisions, and
made by a court of competent jurisdiction. Upon what principle, then, can a court of the United States, either it circuit or
her ,-undertake to revise it or reverse it for error? If we had
no appellate power upon the writ of error, and no right to reverse
the judgment for errors supposed to be committed by the state
court in interpreting and administering its own laws, how can
this court or the circuit court exercise this revising power over
the judgment in the form it now comes before us. It is doing
in another way what it is admitted cannot be done in the prescribed mode of proceeding by writ of error. And I am not
aware of any precedent for this exercise of power in a court of
the United States administering state laws, when the judgment
of the highest court of the State is before them upon the. same
case upon which the United States court is called on to decide.
It will be remembered that the appellate and revising power
of the courts of the United States over the judgments of state
courts stands upon very different principles from those which, in
England, govern the relation of superior and inferior tribunals,
andthev are not, therefore, always safe guides upon the revising
and reversing power which the courts of the United States may
constitutionally exercise over the judgments of state courts.
I know it is said that the administrators of these insolvents
who have filed these bills were not parties to the former proceedings, and are not therefore estopped'by the decree of the court
of appeals And a good deal of argument has been offered to
maintain that proposition; but that question cannot arise until
other questions which stand before it and control it are first disposed of. For this court held, upon the former writs of error,
that these cases were decided by the court of appeals exclusively
upon Maryland law; and, if that be the case, before we come

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

265

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

to the question of parties, other questions must be decided:
1. Whether in this form of proceeding you can examine into
the validity of the grounds upon which the state court decided
them, and reverse its judgment if you suppose it committed
an error in interpreting and administering its ownt laws; and,
if you are authorized to do -this, then, 2. Did it commit an
error in deciding that.those shares belonged to Oliver's executdrs ? The reasons the.y may have given for this opinion are
altogether immaterial; and if these two questions are decided
in the -affirmative, and this court reverses the judgment, upon
the ground that the shares belonged to the insolvents at the
times of their death, and not to Oliver's executors, thea the
administrators would undoubtedly have an interest, and are not
estopped by the former decree from claiming their rights. Nobody, I presume, disputes this. But, before you come to this
part of the case, you must take jurisdiction over the judgment
of the state court, and reverse it for error. Because, if that
judgment stands, then the intestates had nothing at the, times
of their death that could pass to the administrators; and there
would have been no more propriety in making them parties,
than any other stranger who had no interest in the fund. The
administrator of a vendor who has in his lifetime divested himself of. all right to property, can haTdly be supposed to be a
siecessary party in a controversy between purchasers under him
when neither of the claimants has a right to fall back for indemnity on his estate. The administrators offer no new evidence
of interest in them or their intestates, but present here the identical case, in all its parts, that was before the court of appeals
when it passed its decree.
Indeed, I cannot comprehend now the state court, or this court,
can award the fund to the administrators, if the contract was
fraudulent and void when the parties became insolvent. They
both died before the award was made ; but if, up to that time, the
contract continued open to examination in a courtof justice, and
was decided to have been fraudulent and a nullity when made,
nothing afterwards could have given it legal existence. .ilihum
ex nihilo oriaturis as true in law as in philosophy. If void at
first, it continued to be void ind a nullity to the tifne of the deaths
of the parties, and their administrators could derive no lawful
title from them. To say that a legal or equitable interest in a.
fraudulent contract can exist in a party and be transmitted to
his administrator, when used as legal language, is a solecism.
And if from necessity, upon any principle of law or equity,
the award related back, it would seem that those who purchased
the interest in these shares, at their full market value at the time,
and paid for it, should have the benefit of-the.relations.
VOL, XVII,

23

266

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes et al.

It may be said, perhaps, that although the acts of congress of
Mexico, in 1823 and 1824, could not make valid a contract
originally void and a nullity by our laws, yet these acts of the
Mexican legislature constituted a new and original contract
which at that time might lawfully be made by our citizens, and
that the rights of the parties take date from that contract. But
this view of the case would not obviate .the legal objections, but
on the contrary it would add to them. For it still assumes the
principle that the state court had a right to examine into the
testimony, not only to determine the rights of the parties under the
award, but to impeach the award itself. And upon this theory,
if they had not found these acts of the Mexican congress in the
proceedings of the commissioners, the state court might have
held the whole award erroneous and a nullity, vesting no rights in
any one, because it sanctioned an illegal contract. As I have
already said, a state court, in my judgment, has no such power.
The commissioners do not refer to the Mexican acts of congress, nor allow the claims of the company upon a contract
made by these laws. They award expressly upon the contract
with lina, and give interest according to that contract. And
unless their award may he impeached for error, and their decision upon the claim reexamined and reversed in the state court,
the rights of all the claimants depend upon this contract, and
take date from it. According to the award of the commissioners, it is this contract that gave the claimants rights, and
which must consequently govern the court in distributing the
fund.
It seems to be supposed that the decision of the court of ap.
peals declaring this contract to be fraudulent and void was
founded upon some local law of the State. But that is evidently
a mistake. It was founded on the breach of the neutrality laws
of the United States. They looked behind the award of the
commissioners, behind an authority exercised under the United
States, and impeached -its validity.
Besides, no other contract but this was under examination
in the state court. The court speak of no other in their opinion.
The parties, as appear by the proceedings, all claimed under it,
and the decisions of the court and the distribution of the fund
were founded upon it. Can another and a subsequent contract
be set up here, upon which the state court has passed no judg'ment, and has not acted, and under which none of the parties
before it claimed ? I-think not. And if their decision is to be
set aside for error, it must, I presume, be for error in deciding
upon the contract brought before them by the parties. And if
this court now reverse these decrees upon the ground that the
original contract with Mina was void, but became valid by sub-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

267 .

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

sequeit events, it reverses upon a new case, upon whidi the
state court has never decided. Moreover, it unsettles the whdle
proceedings in the state court, for the interest of the claimants,
in almost every instance, depended upon the time that a lawfA
right to this claim vested in the company.
And, if, notwithstanding these objections, this court may look
into- the judgment and reverse it for error, and ,they find it to
have been decided upofn two principles of law, consisteit or
inconsistent with each other, one, of which is erroneous and the
.other sound, ought not the judgment to be affirmed ?.
Now, as I have ai-eady said, the state court committed an
error, in my opinion, in going behind the award, and receiving
testimony to show that a contract was fraudulent and void which
a tribunal of the United States -having exclusive jurisdiction
over the subject had decided to he lawful and valid. Anil if
'this court have the power to revise -hat judgment, I think it
could not be supported on that ground.
But they put it upon another, and say, that if the 6riginal
contract is regarded as valid, then the interest of the insolvents
passed to their
trustee, and, by virtue-of his assignment, vested
Oliver.
in Robert
Now, in examining the judgment of an inferior tribunal in a
case of this description, would the appellate court lay hold of the
erroneous principle to reverse the judgment? Would they not
affirm it upon the other alternative, which placed it upon lawful
and tenable grounds? I think nobody would doubt that the
judgment would be affirmed. Ought not the same rule to be
applied to the Maryland judgment which this court is now revising ? And is not this court bound, under the award of the
commissioners, to regard the original contract as valid, when it
has been so decided by a-lawful tribunal of the United States,
having exclusive jurisdiction over the subject? If we are so
bound, and not authorized to impeach the judgment of the comrissioners, then the judgment of the Maryland court, in the cases
of Gooding and Williams, is right, and ought to be affirmed upon
the second ground stated in the opinion, even if we were sitting
here as an appellate tribuial.
it is true that the bill in the case of Williams's trustee was
filed in the state -chancery -court, which, by a change of the
law, represents the court where the fund was originally paid in
and distributed among the claimants; and was removed-to the
circuit court of the United States by the appellees, who reside
out of the State. And undoubtedly, the circuit court, in that
state of the case, possessed the same power over it, and were
bound to decide it upon the same principles that ought to have
governed the state court in which the bill was filed. .But there

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

was no new evidence, no new fact, no new interest or equity
porsented. There is a new name, indeed, but no new interest
or equity disclosed in the bill. And upon that case the court
of appeals had passed its decree. That decree was the law of
the case, in the inferior court, where this bill was filed. And
the court of appeals itself could not reverse its decree, signed
and enrolled at a former term, nor open it merely because a
new name was before them, which, according to its former
decree, had no interest in the fund, and consequently ought not
to have been made a party in the former proceedings. And if
we now reverse this judgment, we go further than the Maryland
court of appeals could have gone, and exercise what is essentially an appellate power over it, correcting the errors of an inferior court.
But in Gooding's case this. court go still further. The bifl in
this case was filed originally in the circuit court of the United
States. Yet the fund was never in that court, nor the money
paid to the appellees by its order. If the decree is to be opened
for error, aft r the fund is distributed by order of a court of
competent jurisdiction, ought it not to be done in the court that
passed the decree? And can a circuit court of the United
States compel the appellees to repay money which they hold
under the decree of a court of cordinate jurisdiction, made
upon the same case, with the same evidence before them ? I
think not.
Besides, Gooding became insolvent again in 1829. All the
property, rights, and credits which he had at that time, vested
in his trustees, who are still living. If Goodwin's interest in
1829 had become so far valid that it could -pass by his assignment to Oliver, why is not Gooding's also lawful and vested in
his trustees? Upon what principle can Goodwin's interest be
capable of assignment in 1829, and Gooding's remain fraudulent
until his death ? Yet if it was capable of assignment in 1829,
the complainant is not entitled. It passed to his trustees.
And if, as the court now say, Goodwin would be estopped
from impeaching his assignment to Oliver on the ground that
the original contract was illegal and fraudulent, why are not
Gooding and Williams, and their administrators, equally estopped from impeaching their assignments to their respective
trustee ? The assignment to the trustee for the benefit of their
creditors was equally meritorious with Goodwin's assignment
to Oliver. And if they had appeared as parties in the Maryland
court, would they have beeii permitted to impeach the title of
the trustee, who was then claiming it, and set up a right to the
moriev in themselves, upon the ground that the contract of their
respective intestates was fraudulent? Certainly, the principle

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

269

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

is well established in chancery that a party cannot set aside a'
contract upon the ground that he himself was guilty of a fraud
in making it. I do not cite cases to prove farmilar doctrines.
His administrator is in no better condition. And yet. he is
allowed, in this case, to defeat the operation of the intestate's
deed to the trustee, upon the ground that the contract, of which
the trustee claims the benefit, was a fraudulent one on the part
of his intestate. And here, in a court of equity-, these administrators support Lheir title and recover this money against their
trustees, as well as Oliver's executors, solely upon the ground
that their intestate was guilty of a fraud in making the contract
with Mina, and incapable, therefore, of assigning it. The party
defeats the operation of his own deed, upon the ground that he
himself committed a fraud. This doctrine cannot, I think, be
maintained, upon principle or authority, in a court of chancery.
We are not dealing with Mexican laws, or inquiring what a
Mexican tribunal or the Mexican government would decide in
relation to this contract, but we are inquiring how it stands in
a Maryland court, and what are the legal rights under it by the
laws of Maryland. And I understand this court to place its
opinion solely upon the ground that this contract was fraudulent
and void by the laws of Maryland, and that the parties acquired
no rights under it.
It may have been good in Mexico; a valid, binding obligation.
They may have been willing to reward our citizens for a
d-%v to their own country; but that could not cleanse
breach
it from of
thne offence against our own law, nor give legal rights to
there was no right in the intestate.
the
The administrator,
courts of the when
United States can hardly be authorized to
sanction
and enforce what are called honorary obligations of a
foreign nation,
when those obligations have arisen from tempta
tions offered to our own citizens to violate the laws of their own
country. Nor can I perceive how the opinion of the Maryland
courti declaring this contract to be fraudulent and void, can be
binding and conclusive upon this court and yet every other decision of the same court, in the same case, explaining or qualifying this opinion, still be open to examination and reversed for
error. I cannot, for myself, draw any line of distinction between
the relative conclusiveness of the opinions the ste
cort expressed, when olu of them were equally within its jurisdiction
and depended altogerhe othehe laws of the Staey; and all
upon points necessarily arising in the case they are then deciding.
Wihen these two cases were before the court, upon writs of
error brought by the trustees, I entertained the opinions I now
express. I then thoughtf that the court had jurisdiction, upon
23*

270

SUPREME COURT.
Williams v. Gibbes ot al.

the ground that the validity of the act of the Maryland legislature
of 1841, confirming a certain description of conveyances made
before that time by the trustees of insolvent debtors, was drawn
into question, as contrary to the constitution of the United
States, and their decision had been in favor of the validity of
the state law. And I still think so. But at the same time I
was of opinion that the law in question was valid, and that
although we had jurisdiction, the judgment of the state court
in these two cases ought to be affirmed, and the writs of error
not dismissed. For the trustee in whom the shares vested,
according to the opinion I have expressed as to Goodwin's case,
had transferred them to Oliver, and the state court was therefore
right in decreeing them to Oliver's executors. The majority of
this court thought otherwise, and dismissed them for want of
jurisdiction. And I did not state my dissent, because, as I then
understood the opinion, the dismissal finally disposed of them.
It was upon the grounds above stated that I.decided these
cases at the circuit, and supposed, at the time I was de.ciding
them, in conformity to the opinion of this court upon the conclusiveness of the judgment of the state court. The judgment
just pronounced, however, shows that so far as the shares of
Gooding and Williams are concerned, I misunderstood thp
opinion of the majority of this court. But with all the habitual
respect which I feel for the judgment of my brethren, the opinion
I held at the circuit remains unchanged. And I have the more
confidence in it, because this court, now, as heretofore, have
said that the questions in dispute depend altogether on Maryland
law; and every judge in Maryland who has been called upon
to hear and decide the cases of Gooding and Williams, of which
I am now speaking; the judge of the court of original chancery
jurisdiction, the judges of the court of appeals, all men of high
legal attainments and eminence; have clearly and unanimously
held, upon the same proofs now before us, that the executors of
Oliver were entitled to these two shares in the Mexican Company, and decreed that the money should be paid -o them.
And no one of these judges deemed it necessary that the administrators should be parties, or called before the court; acting
no doubt upon the established rules of chancery, that a person
who has no interest in the fund need not and ought not to be
rfade a party; and that the administrators could have no
interest, as the intestates themselves had none at the times of
their respective deaths. And that if they were before the court,
they could not be allowed to impeach the deed to the trustees by
alleging that their intestate had committed a fraud in making it.
I must, therefore, adhere to the opinions I enteriained when
the cases were betore me at circut, and dissent from the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

271

Williams v. Gibbes et al.
opinion just pronounced, in the cases" of Gooding's and Williams's
idministrators, And concurring in that of Goodwin's
administrator, for the reasons hereinbefore stated.

1
f
Oliver, I

John S. Williams, administrator of
James Williams, deceased, appellant,
V.

Robert VL Gibbes and Charles
executors of Robert Oliver, deceased. J.Appeals from the circuit
court of the United
and
States for the district
John Gooding, jr., administrator de
of Mryland.
bonis nm of John Gooding, deceased,
appellant,

}

Robert 1VL Gibbes and Charles Oliver,
executors of Robert Oliver, deceased.
t. Justice DANIEL dissenting.
When, at a former term, these cases were brought before this
court, in the name of Nathaniel Williams, trustee for the ordditors of James Williams, an insolvent debtor, and of the same
Nathaniel Williams, as trustee for the creditors of John Gooding, an insolvent debtor, the court, after argument and upon fall
consideration, dismissed them for the want of jurisdiction. - The
decision of the court then pronounced, commanded my entire
concurrence.
I still concur in that decision, and hold the
reasons on which it was founded as wholly impregnable.
Those reasons were specifically these: That the questions involved in the cases were purely questions arising upon the
construction of the insolvent laws of Maryland; questions
properly determinable, and which had been determined by the
highest tribunal of that State; and such, therefore, as vested
no jurisdiction in this court.
Such, then, being directly and explicitly the decision of this
court, as will be seen in the report of its decision in 12 How.
111, 125, it becomes a matter for curious speculation to inquire
by what view of the facts and the law of these cases, by what
process of reasoning upon the same facts and the same law, this
court have now arrived at a conclusion diametrically opposed
to that which had been formerly reached by them. The parties
in interest are essentially the same, varied only in name; it is
the same insolent law of Maryland which it is now, as it formerly Was, undertaken to interpret; and it is the identical exposition of the identical court, formerly examined and sanctioned
here, which this tribunal now assumes the right to reject and
condemn.

272

SUPREME

COURT.

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

Indeed, the field for discussion and criticism is now much
more narrow than was that which existed when these cases
were formerly before this court. At that time there were strenuously urged grounds for contestation, founded upon an alleged
construction of the Mexican treaty, and of the acts of the
commissioners under that treaty. At present, the claims of the
appellants, and the impeachment by them of the decision of
the state court, and of that of the circuit court of the United
States, have been rested chiefly, if not exclusively, upon the
fact, thatthe personal representatives of the insolvent assignors
were not made parties to the suits brought for the distribution
of the effects of the insolvents.
It cannot be correctly insisted on as a universal or necessary
rule, that in suits by assignees the assignors from whom they
derive title must be made parties. Cases may occur in which
there may be a propriety of joining the assignors in such suits,
but, without some apparent cause for such a proceeding, the
rule and the practice are otherwise. Indeed, the calling into
a controversy or litigation a person who can have no interest
in such litigation, would be discountenanced by the courts,
who would dismiss him from before them at the costs of the
person who should have attempted such an irregularity. And
it would seem that, if there could be a case in which such an
attempt would be irregular, it would be that in which the
person so made a party, had not, and could not have, any
interest in the controversy; in other words, should be an insolvent, who had transferred upon record every possible interest
he possessed in the matter in controversy. But suppose it be
ldmitted as the general rule, that an assignee should, in the
prosecution of an assigned interest, call in his assignor as a
voucher, or for any other purpose, how will these cases be
affected by such an admission?
The absence of the personal representatives of the' insolvent
assignors is the only circumstance imparting a shade or semblance of difference between the attitude of these cases as
formerly brought before us, and that in which they are now
-presented. Of what importance, either now or formerly, could
be the presence or absence of the personal representatives of
these insolvents, it might puzzle (Edipus himself to divine.
The rights or interests of the representative can never be
broader than are those of the person represented; and as the
persons represented in these cases are admitted on all sides,
and are shown upon record, to have nothing, by reason of the
transfer to their trustees of all that they had ever possessed, or
to which they had any claim -and
that, too, by a mode of
transfer which declared the inadequacy of their all for the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

273

Williams v. Gibbes et al.

liquidation of their debts -it
followed, that those who came
forward under these insolvents, jure representationis, merely,
could themselves be entitled to nothing, by representation, from.
their principals, nor claim anything in opposition to the universal and absolute assignments to the trustees of those debtors.
Had these personal representatives of the insolvents been
made parties to the suits for distribution, it is probable that
they would have been regarded -bythe court as mere men of
straw, used for the purpose of depriving the purchasers, for valuable consideration, from the trustees or assignees of the insolvent's interests, deemed, at the time of the sale by the trustees,
precarious and contingent, but which the progress of events had
subsequently rendered available.
But whatever may be admitted as the general rule applicable
to suits by an assignee; however that rule may be supposed to
require that in such suits the assignor, or his representative,
should be a party, still, we are brought back to the true characterof these cases, and of the rule of law peculiarly applicable to
them, namely, that they are controversies depending upon the
construction of the statutes of Marylar.d, which regulate the
administration of the effects of insolvent debtors. That, in the
construction of those statutes, it has been, by the supreme court
of the State, decided, that in suits by the purchasers or assignees from the statutory trustees of insolvent debtors, the
personal representatives of those insolvent debtors are not
necessarily to be made parties, but that such suits may be
prosecuted and decided -without participation or interference on
the part of such representatives; that in conformity with this
construction of the statute of Maryland, by the supreme court
of the State, the circuit court of the United States for the district c f Maryland, and this court, in the cases herein mentioned,
have concurrently ruled in direct opposition to the pretensions
of the appellants now advanced.
Regarding the decision just pronounced as in conflict with
all that has been heretofore ruled upon the subjects of this
controversy, and as transcending the just authority of this
court to reject the construction of the statute of Maryland proclaimed by the supreme court of that State, I am constrained
to declare my dissent from the decision of this court, and my
opinion that the decrees of the circuit court, in. these cases,
should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Maryland, aid was argued by counsel; on considera-

274

SUPREME

COURT.

John Gooding, Jr. v. Charles Oliver et al.
tion whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity
to the opinion of this court.

JOHN GOODING, JUNIOR, ADMINISTRATOR de bonis qnon of JOHN
GOODING, DECEASED, APPELLANT, V. CHARLES OLIVER AND
ROBERT AL GIB:Es, EXECUTORS OF RoBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
The decision in the preceding case, of Williams, administrator of Williams v.
Oliver's executors, again affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Maryland.
In its leading features, it was identical with the preceding
case of Williams, administrator of Williams, against the same
defendants.
Oliver had purchased Gooding's share in the Mexican Company, from Winchester, the trustee in insolvency, which was
passed upon by the Baltimore county court and the Maryland
court of appeals, under the same circumstances and at th2 same
time with the preceding case.
Gooding died intestate, on the 15th of February, 1839, and
John Glenn administered upon his estate on the 15th of February, 1852. John Gooding, Junior, the appellant, afterwards
became the administrator de bonis non.
The circuit court dismissed the bill filed by the appellant,
and it was argued in this court together with the preceding
case.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the circuit court of the
United States for the district of Maryland.
The case involves the same questions, and is in all respects
the same, as the case of the administrator of Williams against
the executors of Oliver, just decided.
The decree of the court below is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to the court below.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL, dissented.

