DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

369

Fontain v. Ravenel.

to the instructions thus given? We think that both their
authority and duty so to do admit of no doubt. The decree of
the circuit court, dismissing the bill of the complainant in that
court, being warranted by the view we have taken of the law and
the evidence in this case, we order that decree to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southerndistrict of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideratioftwhereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

FONTAIN, ADMINISTRATOR de bonis no cumn testa
OF FREDERICK KOHNE, DECEASED, APPtLLAN7
V. WILLIAM RAVENEL.

WILLIAM

mento anne xo

A resident in Pennsylvania made his will, in 1829, giving annuities to his wife and
others, and directing that his executors, or the survivor of them, after the decease of
his wife, should provide for the annuitants, thpn living, and dispose of the resjdue of
his property for the use of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvania and South
Carolina as they or he may deem most beneficial to mankind.
His wife and three other persons were appoihted executors.
The thrie other persons all died during the lifetime of the wife. No appointment
of the charity was made or attempted to be made during the lifetime of the executors.
The charity cannot now be carried out.
The exe utors were vested with a mere power of appointment without having any
special trust attached to it. In England, the case could only be reached by the prerogative power of the crown acting through the sign-manual of the king.
The English and American cases upon this subject examined.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
It was a bill filed by Fontain, as administrator de bonis no

eum testarnento annexo of Frederick .Kohne, deceased, against
Ravenl, one of the executors of Mrs. Kohne, the widow of the
deceased Frederick. The object of the bill was to.recover from
the defendant certain sums of money which came into the hands
of the widow, as executrix of her husband, for the purpose of
applying them to some charitable bequests made in the will of
Frederick Kohne. These are stated, as well as the other circumstances of the. case, in the opinion of the court, .and need
not be repeated.

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

(The circuit court dismissed the bill, and the complainant appealed to this court.

The case was argued, in print, by Mr. Hopper and I1 . 1eredith, for the appellant, and by 11r. Gerhard and Mr. Pettigru,
(with whom was Mr. Whaley, for the residuary legatee of Mrs.
Kohne,) for the appellee.
The following were the points and authorities relied upon
by the counsel for the appellant, in their original brief. An
elaborate reply was filed by the counsel for the appellee, and
then a rejoinder by the appellant's counsel. The reporter feels
it difficult, with this quantity of matter, to present a fair view
of the arguments without protracting the report to an unreasonable length.
Points and authorities for appllant.
As to domicile. An intention *o make a place his home, will
determine the domicile. Grier v. O'Daniel, 1 Binn.; see opinion
of Judge Rush, in a note, p. 351.
If the surviving executrix has rightfully distributed among the
next of kin, nothing more is to be said. If not, the administratrix cum testamento annexo, is entitled. Row v. Dawson,
1 Ves. 331; Ferran's Estate, 1 Ashmead, 319; Marshall v. Hoff,
1 Watts, 440; Act, 1834; Executors and Administrators, Dunlap's Penn. Digest, 524. The property here is held to abide the
event of this suit.
The right of the administrator de bonis non is exclusive. Commonwealth v. Strohecker, opinion of Kennedy, J., 9 Watts, 480.
Will took effect in 1829, by which the personal estate became
vested in the executors, and by reason of the power of sale in
the will and our act of assembly, March 31, 1792, § 4, (3 Smith's
Laws, 67,) the title to the real estate became vested in them
upon the trusts of the will; that is, to pay the legacies and annuities and invest for accumulation, the surplus until the death
of the widow, and then to distribute the surplus in charity.
The descent was broken. Silverthorn v. McKinster, 2 Jones, 72.
*The administrator de bonis non cum testamento annexo is empowered to sell the real estate, the same as'the executors. Act
of 24th February, 1834, § 13, (67 Dunlap, 518, 530,) and Act
of 12th March, 1800, § 3, (3 Smith, 434; ) Mr. Binney's opinion,
Hood on Executors, 241.
The objects are not very extensive or difficult of ascertainment.
They are incorporated institutions of the two States for the
purposes of charity; some of which are for the relief of colored
people, and do not include beneficial societies. Blenon's Estate,
Brightly, 340.
It is a settled principle that a trust shall never fail for want of

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

371

Fontain u. Ravenel.

a trustee. And the courts of equity will take upon themselves
the execution of the trust. 2 Story's Eq. § 1059, 1061, 1191.
The administrator with the will annexed is the trustee for the
settlement of the estate, and under the direction of the orphans'
court, the trust can be executed by him. 'He will have the personalty, &c.,'and can sell and get proceeds of the realty. This
power is in the orphans' court. Act 1832, § 4, Wimmer's Appeal, 1 Whart. 103, 104.
The personalty is under control of that court, (orphans' court,)
and the moneys may -be paid into that court for the uses of the
will. Act 34, § 19. It was so done in Tilghman's Estate, 5
'Wheat. 44.
These previsions meet ordinary cases.
But here as in England the courts' will go further in favor of
charities, than in ordinary cases. Our law favors charitable
uses. Constitution of Penn. 1776 and of 1790; Girard Will
case-, 177; Acts 1730, 1731; Pard. 1010; 7 Sm. Laws, 43,44.
Had the executors refused, they could have been compelled
to execute the trust. It should not be lost by accident. Poll's
Petition, 1 Ashmead, 346. See Welford Eq. Pleading, 110,
Lib. Law and Eq., as to information of attorney-general.
The court will assume the exercise of the discretion to ascertain the objects, where they are much less defined than here,
and where the executor intrusted, died in the lifetime of the
testator. Boyle on Charities, 220; Bak v. Whitbread, 16 Ves.
15, see 26, 27; Cole v. Wade, 16 Yes. 43; Brown v. Higgs, 8
Ves. 570; See Moggridge and Thackwell, 1 Ves. 464; 7 Ves.
36; Affirmed, 13 Ves. 416.
The court could regulate and control the exercise of the discretion by the executor; and if so, when he cannot exercise it all,
may ii not do so for him? Grandom's Estate, 6 Watts & S.
651; Waldo v. Caley, 16 Yes. 210, 211.
Here the objects have not failed, and there is no occasion to
resort to the doctrine of cy pres, or the royal prerogative.
. The only question is, whether the court or administrator
can select from the designated objocts. If either can, then the
trust is to be executed as if the executors had lived; or if either
cannot, then all the charitable institutions incorporated by the
two States must take.
In White v. White, 1 Bro. Ch. Cases, 12, the testator
bequeathed to the Lying-in Hospital, and i.f more than one,
to such of them as the executor should appoint; and named no
executor. The court is to appoint.
A bequest to a dharitable school to purchase Bibles, Testa-:
ments; and other religious books, held not too indefinite. 'This
diiected a religious purpose which was sufficiently certain.
Attorney-General v. Stepney, 10 Yes. 27.

372

SUPREME

COURT.

Fontain v. Ravenel.

So here there is at least a definite purpose as to objects in
respect'to the colored population, besides the definitiveness of
the charitable institutions of Pennsylvania and South Carolina,
which define the objects to be the purposes for which these
institutions have been established. Orphan Asylum v. McCartee,
9 Cowen, 440; King v. Woodhull, 2 Edw's Ch.R. 87.
A bequest is good where it is made to a class, as of such a
parent, or to such of them and in such shares as an executor
may appoint. Bartlett v. King, 12 Mass. 541; Brown v. fhiggs,
8 Yes. 570, 574. It is not the case of a mere power, but of a
trust accompanied by a power. In such case the trust is imperative and may be enforced; and is not lost by the refusal of the
trustee to exercise his power, or by his death. 2 Sugden on
Powers, 173, 175, &c.
There is nothing in the will that looks to the charity ending
upon any condition or contingency. The will gives not the
property over on any event.
He gives to the next of kin all that he intends they shall have,
and means that they shall get no more.
As our law stood in 1829, the executor of the surviving
executor would have taken the personalty, and administered it,
or an administrator with the will annexed would have done so,
and also have exercised the power to sell the lands and administer the proceeds. Act 1800, 3 Sm. Laws, 434, § 3.
The testator is presumed to have known the law of the place
where the will was to be executed, and he is presumed to have
known, that the law provided a substitute for his executors, to
carry out the trust.
There was no condition, the breach of which would give the
property to the next of kin, as in Porter's case, 1 Co. 21.
It was a trust and confidence, 'which the court will carry out
if the trustee fails, as in Martindale v. Martin, 7 Vermont, 291;
Cro. Eliz. 288.
And not only a trust, but a charity, "which never fa'.*leth;"
and not vague or indefinite, or to unincorporated societies.
In Martindale v. Martin, or Thetford School case, the executors refused the trusts, but it was held binding on them. See 7
Vermont, 298, 299.
If the intention to give to charity be declared absolutely, and
nothing is left uncertain but the mode of carrying it into effect,
the court will supply the mode. Mills and Farmer, 1 Meriv.
54, 94, 101, 102.
Thus in that case the testator directed the residue to be
divided for certain charitable purposes mentioned, "and other
cwaritable purposes as I do intend to name hereafter," and afterwards named no further purposes. Held, a disposition in favor

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

of charity, to be carried into execution by the court, having
regard to the objects particularly pointed out by the will.
Ib. 54.
There the objects pointed out were the promoting of the
gospel in foreign parts, and the bringing up ministers in different seminaries in England.
Here all the objects are pointed out, to wit: the charitable
institutions of the hvo States, so as to include a benefit to
part of the black population. Here is nothing to be supplied,
but a leave given to select some only of those institutions.
Bequests made to two corporate bodies, for the relief of certain classes of poor persons, by paying their rents, and giving
them gratuities according to selection. The societies renounce
the legacies. Yet held that the discretion of the trustees was
not of the essence of the trust, and that the court would carry
the trust into effect by a scheme. Reeve v. Attorney-General,
3 Hare, 191.
Where bequests are made to trustees for general charitable
purposes, the trust must be the subject of a scheme before the
master; but where the object is a charity without a trust interposed, the disposition is in the -crown, and must be made
according to the directions under the royal sign-manual. Paice
v. Archbishop of Canterbury, 14 Ves. 364, 371, 372.
This is not a case that in England would- come under the
king's
-within the jurisdiction of chancery, as
a trust.sign-manual,
It does notbut
depend upon the crown prerogative for its
execution, but upon the law of the land. Boyle on Charities,
ch. 14, p. 237, &c.
1827. In Pennsylvania, the law is settled in favor of charities far.enough to sustain the presenit bequests.
In Witman v. Lex, 17 Serg. and Rawlei 91, 92, it was decided that all that was contained in 43 Eliz., and more, was
contained in the common law of Pennsylvania, though it was
not then supposed, as afterwards found in the case of Sarah
Zane's will, and bf Vidal v. Girard's Executors, that at the
common law of England, the same breadth of law existed in
favor of charity.
And the cases are there cited as authoritative here, where
there was no trustee to take, but the court decreed the bequest
a devise to corporations for the charitable objects pointed out.
Tb. 92.
It is there said that so much more liberal is our system in
favor of bequests, though not strictly charitable, that our courts
would have found no difficulty in ruling in favor of the legatee. lb. 93; Morice v'. Bishop of Darham, 9 Yes. 399.
The, bequest in. 9 Ves. was for benevolent, not charitable
VOL..XVXIL

32

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

purposes. Here, it is for charitable purposes only; for it is to
go to charitable institutions for the purposes of their creation.
1829. In McGirr v. Aaron, 1 Pa. 49, there was no trustee
at all that could take for the purpose of charity, but the devise
was sustained and to become vested as soon as the charity
should acquire a capacity to take.
Here there was a trustee until all the executors died, and the
administrator de bonis non cum testamento annexo is the substituted trustee.
In the same year, the United States supreme court, in
Beatty v. Kurtz, sustained the dedication of a lot for the
Lutheran church in Georgetown; without any deed, grantee, or
trustee. 2 Pet. 566-583. And a committee of the congregation was held sufficient to maintain the bill. 584.
A trust may be created by will, to bind the title of the heir
or personal representative, and make him a trustee where no
other is named. Inglis v. Sailor's Snug Harbor, 3 Pet. 119.
But here were trustees named, and trustees who had no
object to defeat the trust, though they had a selection within a
limited range. Tb. Also, Malim v. Keighley, 2 Ves. Jr. 335.
1832. A trust in favor of an unincorporated religious society
is an available one. Meth. Ch. v. Remington, I Watts, 218.
1833. The case of Maguire ti. Brown, so elaborately decided
by Judge Baldwin, covers all this case. Brightly, 346.
Devises and bequests to unincorporated meetings of Friends
were held good; for the relief of poor members; of the Indians; inclosing a graveyard; purchasing a fire apparatus.
Charities are left free for the exercise of the jurisdiction of the
courts, according to the intention of the testator, disregarding
defects of form or designation of a party to take, and a devise
to the church is transferred to the parson where the church cannot take in mortmain. Or if it be to the poor who cannot take,
then to their hospital which could, as in McGirr v. Aaron, from
the.priest, who could not take, to the congregation, whea authorized. Brightly, 386.
The cases in -w;hich these principles were applied were before
the 43 Eliz. on prior statutes or the common law. lb. 387, 393.
Though there be none to take the heir and next of kin are
bound. lb. 407.
The administrator cum testamento annexo is the trustee, and
this court will make the distribution to the legatees. Tb. 408,409.
136. Martin v. McCord was decided in the supreme court
of Pennsvlvania. Charifie %tire sustained. 5 Watts, 495.
1843. k devise to an association for religious purposes, unincorporated at the testator's death, but since incorporated, is good
in Pennsyivania. Zimmerman and Anders, 6 Watts & S. 218.
1844. In Vidal v. The City, 2 How. 127, it was held that

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

although the corporation had been incompetent to take, the
heir could not take advantage of such inability, but the State
oxy in its sovereign capacity.
At the common law of England and ini Pennsylvania, such a
trust would be sustained without a trustee. 2 How. 192. See
cases in Binney's Argument, Girard Will case, SO.
We are neither dependent upon the Stat. 43 Eliz., or the
common law prerogative, to sustain such a charity. 2 How. 195.
" And general and undefined charities were sustained
before
the Statute 43 Eliz., by the inherent power of chancery, at common law. lb. 196.
And the law of the preceding cases is the law of South Carolina. Attorney-General v. Jolly, 1 Richardson, Eq. Rep. 99.
1848. Beaver v. Filson, S Barr, 327, 335. A lot dedicated
for a church and graveyard, without deed or trustee, held a valid
charitable use. Wright and iUnn, 9 Barr, 435-437.
1850. Where a tenant for life has power of disposition by
will, with two subscribing witnesses, and disposes by will to a
charity, without witnesses, the devise will be sustained in favor
of charity, though it would not in favor of an individual not for
charity. Pepper's Will, 1 Parsons's Eq. Cases, 433, 450' 451,
Other States. 4 Kent's Com. 6th ed. 509, note. Where
there is a trust for charitable purposes, the disposition is in
chancery, and not by the king, under sign-manual.
The power to enforce charities is in the court of chancery, by
virtue of the original constitution, independent of the statute of
43 Eliz. Wright t-. Trustees Mleth. Ep. Ch. 1 Hoff. Ch. . (N.
Y.) 202, 260; Dutch Ch. v. Mott, 7 Paige's Ch. R. (N. Y.) 77 ;
Burr v. Smith, 7 Vern. 241, 294, 29S, 300, 307, (cites AoreyGeneral v. Hickman, where trustee died before testator,) 308;
King v. Woodhull, 3 Edw. Ch. R. 79.
The jurisdiction rests upon the ground that such charities are
trus6ts. 1 Sandf. Ch. R. 439.
Trusts for charitable uses are favored by courts of equity, and
will be supported in the exercise of the extraordinary jurisdiction of the chancellor, where the trust would fail for uncertainty
were it not a charity.
The trust will-be sustained, though there be no person in
being capable of suing for the enforcement of the trust. Dickson v. Montgomery, 1 Swan's R. (Tenn.) 348.
The counsel for the appellee made the following points: I. What is the law of ordinary or private trusts, and its dif-.
ference from that of charitable trusts ?
II. The cy pres doctrine of the English chancery; and in connection herewith, the impossibility of executing this trust as a

876

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v.

Ravenel.

charity, in any other way than by an application of the property
ider the sign-manual; and, incidentally, it will be inquired,
whether this trust is a charity within the statute of 43 Eliz.,
which statute defines the charities of the English law, though it
did not originate the doctrines of charities, as recognized by that
system of jurisprudence.
I1. That the cy pres doctrine of the English court of
chancery, has not been adopted in Pennsylvania, South Carolina, or the other States of the Union, either as a part of the
common law or as an inherent power of a court of equity; and
herein of the law of charitable trusts in the United States generally, but particularly in the States of Pennsylvania and
South Carolina, and the whole of the difference between that
law and the doctrine of private trusts; and incidentally, the
impossibility of sustaining the case of the plaintiff under the
law of charitable or private trusts in the United States, and
particularly in either of the States just mentioned; or in any
other way than under the cy pres doctrine.
IV. That the doctrine of powers, or the Pennsylvania statutes
in relation to executors and administrators, are entirely inapplicable to the present case.
V. That if a bequest or devise, like the present, fails or
becomes void, it is like an ordinary lapsed legacy, and the next
of kin or heirs at law will take the bequest or devise.
(After discussing these points at great length, the counsel
concluded their argument with the following reply to the points
made on the other side) :Finally: It was intended to give here an answer, at longth,
to each, of the positions of the appellant; but as we have
endeavored to reply fully to his points in the preceding argument, we shall do little more now, than make references to such
parts of our argument as answer these points respectively.
The arrangement of the argument of our learned opponents
was substantially as follows : 1. That Philadelphia was Mr. Kohne's domicile.
2. That an administrator, de bonis non cum testamento annexo,
is clothed with the same trusts, and bound by the same duties
as the executors, even as to a power of sale of the real estate.
3. That the residuary bequest and devise in Mr. Kohne's will
is a trust, and for a charity-; and the courts will go further to
sustain this species of trust than any other, and will not suffer
it to fail for want of a trustee, particularly where there is no
uncertainty in the objects, as in the present case; those objects
(which are assumed to be the incorporated institutions of the
two States) not being, as they assert, very extensive or difficult
of aseertainment.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

877

Fontain v. Ravenel.

4. ,That the law of Pennsylvania favors charities.
5. That by the common law of England and Pennsylvania,
such a trust would be- sustained without a trustee.
6. "That the power to enforce charities is inherent in courts
of chancery independently of the statute of 43 Eliz., and without the aid of the royal prerogative.
1. That Philadelphia was l'ir. Kohne's domicile.
We have submitted that, in point of fact, that domicile was
South Carolina; but we have presented the case under the
law both of Pennsylvania and South Carolina, and as the law
of these -two States does not differ, in regard to the matters
material to this case, the question of domicile is of no importance.
2. That an administrator de bonis non cur testamnento annexo is clothed with the same trusts, and obliged by the same
duties, as the executors; even as to a power of sale of the real
estate.
No part of this proposition can be sustained, except its last
clause, which is acknowledged to be the law of Pennsylvania;
and we submit that it follows from the maxim expressio unius
exceptio alterius, that in Pennsylvania, such an administrator
has no powers other than the ordinary ones of an administrator, except as to the sale of real estate in the instances provided
for in the acts of assembly. The distinction between the
power of reducing property to money, and its distribution according tb the discretion of certain specified friends of the
testator, whom he names as executors of hi§ will, is too obvious
and conclusive to require any comment.
3. That the residuary bequest and devise in Mr. Kohne's will
is a trust, and for a charity; and the courts will go further to
sustain this than any other trusts, and will not suier it to fail
for want of a trustee, particularly where there is no uncertainty
in the objects, as in the present case, those objects (which are
assumed to be the incorporated institutions of the two States)
not being very extensive or difficult of ascertainment.
We have here grouped together, as we find them in the
argumeft of the appellant, a number of positions, some of which
are immaterial, and others are answered in the preceding arg-ument. The points here mentioned maybe classified as follows:L. The law of charities in Pennsylvania.
2. The assertion that the appellee denies the existence of a
trust-as to Ar. Kohne's -esidnary estate.
3. An effort to sustail the appellant's claim under the law
of powers, alleging that this is the case of a -power coupledwith an interest, and that such a power is a trust, and will be
enforced in equity.

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

.1. The law of charities in Pennsylvania.
This subject has been fully discussed, and the law of charity in
Pennsylvania stated to its fullest extent, but we have been unable
to discover in this law any thing to support the appellant's claim.
It is granted that a charitable bequest will not be allowed to fail
in that State from the mere want of a trustee; and it is admitted,
that the courts of Pennsylvania, would control the discretion of
trustees, so far as to prevent them frdm abusing a confidence
placed in them for one class of objects, by exercising that discretion in favor of another and entirely different class of objects, provided that confidence has been so definitely given as to allow such
restraint. But how can it be urged that hence it follows that
those courts can act for such trustees, when they do not act ?
It is submitted that we have affirmatively shown the contrary of
this proposition; and we again negative the assertion that those
courts will themselves assume the exercise of a discretion in the
application of property so uncertain as to the beneficiaries, as
the designed application of Mr. Kohne's residuary estate.
2. The assertion that the appellee denies the existence of a
trust as to Mr. Kohne's residuary estate, is a misapprehension.
We do not deny its original existence for the purposes pointed
out in the will; and we argue, that it now exists as a resulting
trust for the next of kin and heirs of Mr. Kohne.
3. The effort to sustain the appellant's case under the law of
powers, is already fully answered in our argument.
4. That the law of 'Pennsylvania favors charities.
This is true; and the extent to which its laws go to effect this
object, has been clearly shown; but this will not be sufficient
for the appellant, especially when the supreme court of that
State has declared that the principle for which the appellant
contends is "too grossly revolting to the public sense of justice
to be tolerated" in this country. Iethodist Church v. Remington, 1 Watts, R. 226.
5. That by the common law of England and Pennsylvania,
such a trust would be sustained without a trustee.
This is entirely opposed to all the authorities. The counsel
for the appellant, as to this point, relies upon the precedents tnder
the law of ordinary trusts, and these we have shown to be entirely inapplicable. We cannot add any thing to our remarks
on this point, nor can we conceive it necessary to speak further
on this topic.
6. That the powers to enforce charities is inherent in courts
of chancery, independently of the statute of 43 Eliz., and without the aid of the royal prerogative.
This proposition is not maintainable. The appellant's counsel have cited in support of this point, Burr v. Smith, 7 Verm.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

379

Fontain v. Ravenel.

R. 241. But the law of Vermont cannot govern, or even
influence the decision of the present question; and besides, the
point' decided in that case was merely that a charitable devise
or bequest to an unincorporated association is valid; which ha~s
been repeatedly held in Pennsylvania, and probably- is the law
of South Carolina; and though there is nothing in the opinion
given in favor of that decision to sustain the appellant's claim,
yet even that opinion it is expressly stated was not adopted by
any other judge.
Our opponents have likewise adduced on this head a mere
dictum, in a note to the sixth ed. of Kent's Com. 4 Kent's Com.
509, n. "In this country, the legislature or governmentof the
State, as parenspatri6v, has the right to enforce all charities of
a public nature, by virtue of its general superintending powei
over the public interest, where no other person is intrusted -ith
it." As this sentence follows the adoption by the author of the
opinion of Judge Story, in the Baptist Association v. Hart's
Executors, 3 Pet. R. 484, Appendix, it could not have been intended to state any principle inconsistent with the ruling -of this
court in that case, and still less with any doctrine of interest to
the appellee, in the present discussion. The author plainly refers
to the right of visitation of public charities, and correctly states
the law in regard to that right.
The latter part of the citation, indeed, states one of our positions in the strongest language. " The jurisdiction 'vestcd by
.he statute of Eliz. over charitable uses, is said to be personally
in the chancellor, and does not belong to his ordinary or extraordinary jurisdiction-in chancery." This proposition Would by
itself constitute a flat bar to the appellant's recovery.
All the other authorities relied on by the appellant's counsel,
-vhether under this or the other heads of his argument, we do
not consider of importance in support of the appellant's bill.
The case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors, 2 How. 127, is not
excepted from this remark; the appellant's counsel have in vain
sought to obtain from it any thing in support of their bill, as
will be seen by a reference to their argument. This is, however,
the most convenient place for us to acknowledge the great
assistance we have received from that case, in the investigation
of the law of charities. We might add, also, that the case ot
the executors of McDonogh v. Murdoch, 15 How. 367, has been
most carefully and minutely examined, but without obtaining
from it.
any thing at all pertinent to the present investigation.
Although this report is already protracted to an unusual
length, it is proper to state the notice which the counsel for the
appellant took of some of the -preceding points.
They were noticed as follows:-

380

SUPREAME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

3. This disposition for the benefit of charitable institutions,
was a lawful disposition, and one which would be supported by
the courts in England and Pennsylvania, and, it is believed, in
South Carolina. The difficulty in treating questions of this
kind is in avoiding a tedious repetition of things already familiar
to the court. Since the decision of Vidal v. The City, 2 How.
127, the principle may be considered perfectly established, which
never could have been a matter of doubt with any one who had
critically examined the early precedents, that the statute of
Elizabeth neither created nor enlarged the rule governing charitable bequests. The statute itself does not purport to have
done so, but merely to give an additional remedy. And it was
established, in the case referred to, that, from the earliest times,
chancery had, in an unbroken course of precedents, constantly
exercised jurisdiction over charities, and had supported them.
It is enough to say that such a gift as this is perfectly valid;
for which we refer to the cases stated in the original brief of
the appellant, and in the brief of the appellee. The court will
understand how far this principle is carried out in Pennsylvania,
by what is said in Witman v. Lex; 17 S. & R. 93, that our
courts would have found no difficulty in ruligg in favor of the
legatee iii Morice v. Durham, 9 Yes. 399. There, the bequest
was for the purposes of benevolence and liberality. In Beaver
v. Filson, 8 Barr, 327, it is said: " In Pennsylvania, religious
and charitable institutions have always been favored, without
respect to forms, and it is immaterial how vague and uncertain
the object may be, provided there be a discretionary power vested somewhere over the application of the testator's bounty to
these objects." It is utterly impossible seriously to deny that
this bequest is just as good in Pennsylvania as it would be in
England, and that it is perfectly valid in both.
4.. We take it to be equally clear, that this is a case in
which, in England, the court would itself superintend the proper
application of the fund, and that it is not a case in which the
crown, as parens patritv, would administer it And it is a case
in which the courts of Pennsylvania, we contend, would have
ample power to prevent a failure of the trust. It is nothing to
say that, in England, the chancellor, in administering -charities,
acts as the delegate of the crown, inasmuch as he discharges
all his judicial functions in that capacity; the theory of the
British constitution being, (as the practice originally was,) that
the king administers all the justice of the country, and emphatically is tho the case with that portion that is administered
in the court of chancery. But we are not to conclude that the
courts of this country have no jurisdiction over charities, because in England the king is said to have a general superin-

DECEMEBER TERM,

1854.

381

Fontain v. Ravenel.

tending power over them. The questi6n here is,.whether, in
this case, the court of chancery would superintend the execution of the trust. We conceive it to be so clear thiat it would,
that we do not think it necessary to enter on the argdment that,
even if. the disposition in this case would belong to the crown,
the State here would have the prerogative of the parens patri&e.
See 2 Story's Eq. § 1190 ; Wright v. Methodist Church, 1 Hoff.
Ch. R. 202; Going v. Emery, 16 Pick. 107; 2 Kent, (5th ed.)
288, note a; 4 fb. 508, note b; King v. Woodhull, 3 Edwards, 79.
The case of the Attorney-General v. Berryman, 1 Dickens,
168, can have but little application here. In that case, there
appears to have been no controversy. Lord Hardwicke decided
that the legacy was good, and suggested that the king be
applied to; who required .that the attorney-general move the
court of chancery to apply the money to such purposes as the
deceased executor had named in his lifetime. The chancellor
so ordered it. There appears to have been no contest, and no
argument in the case upon the point in question.
The case of the Attorney-General v. Baxter, 1 Vernon, 248,
has been strangely misunderstood by the learned cdunsel of tke
appellees. The king did, in that case, undertake to apply the
money, and declared his pleasure to be that it should go
toward the building of Chelsea College; but the lord keeper
ultimately disregarded the act of the crown, and decreed the
fund for the maintenance of a chaplain of Chelsea College, as
the report of the case in Vernon shows.
The authorities cited in the appellants' first brief, it is not
necessary to. repeat. Lord Eldon, in Moggridge v. Thackwell,
7 Ves. 86, makes a critical examination of all the previous
authorities, and finds himself bound, by the precedents for two
hundred years, to arrive at the conclusion which he states.
Nothing can show more clearly the binding force of those
precedents than Lord Eldon's statement, that, if he had sat in
the court of chancery two hundred years earlier, he might have
been inclined to make a different decision. In that case, which
was precisely, for the present pupose, this case, he affirms the
authority of the court itself to administer the charity, and proceeded accordingly to do so. The only difference between
Moggridge v. Thackwell and the present case is, that in the
former the devise was for objects not defined, as they are in this
case.

In our first brief, when it is stated that it is not necessary to
resort to the doctrine of cyp res, the context sufficiently shows
that the phrase "cy pres" is used, as it frequently has been,
to express the principle by which, when the objects designated.

382

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

by the testator have failed, by reason of illegality or otherwise,
the fund has been applied to purposes different from those
which he expressed or intended. In this sense, the phrase is
used in all our Pennsylvania cases, in which the doctrine of cy
pres is disclaimed.
(The counsel then examined the cases of Witman v. Lex,
17 Serg. and Rawle, 91; Wright v. Linn, 9 Barr, 433; Morrison v. Beirer, 2 Watts and Serg. 87; Pickering v. Shotwell, 10
Barr, 26.)
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery, from the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The case involves the construction of the will of Frederick
Kohne. He first settled in Charleston, South Carolina, where
he engaged in active business, and accumulated a large fortune.
For many years before his death, his residence was divided
between Charleston and Philadelphia. At the latter place, he
added much to his wealth, in the acquisition of real and personal property. He had furnished houses in both cities, and a
country house in the .neighborhood of Philadelphia. Until his
health became infirm, he resided a part of the year in the South,
and the other part in the North. In May, 1829, he died in Philadelphia, where his will was made and published, in the month
of April preceding his death. In his will, he declared himself
to be of the city of Philadelphia.
After giving several annuities to his wife and others, and
legacies to his friends in this country and in foreign countries,
to charitable objects, and providing for the payment of them,
he declares: " Forasmuch as there will be a surplus income of
my estate, beyond what will be necessary to pay my said wife's
annuity and the other annuities, I do therefore direct my said
executors to invest the said surplus income, and all accumulation of interest arising from that source yearly, for and during
all the term of the natural life of my said wife, in the purchase
of such stocks or securities of the United States, or the State
of Pennsylvania, or of any other State or States of the United
States, or of the city of Philadelphia, bearing an interest, as
they, in their discretion, may see fit; and from and immediately
after the decease of my said wife, then all the rest, residue, and
remainder of all my estate, including the fund which shall have
arisen from the said surplus income aforesaid, after payment of
the legacies hereinbefore directed to be paid, after the decease
of my said wife, and providing for the payment of the annuities hereinbefore given, of those annuitants who may then be
-till living, I authorize and empower my executors or the sur-

DECEMBER TEtM, 1854.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

393
.

_

vivor of them, after the decease of my said wife, to dispose of
the same for the use .of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvani . and South Carolina, as they or he may deem most beneficial to mankind, and so that part of the colored population in
each of the said States of Pennsylvania and South Carolina
shall partake of the benefits thereof." His wife, Eliza Kohne,
John Bohlen, and Robert Vaux, of the city of Philadelphia,
and Robert Maxwell, of the city of Charleston, were appointed
executors.
Mrs. Kohne survived her co-executors some years, and then
died, having made her last will and testament, and appointed
James L. Petig m and William Ravenel, the defendant, executors, the latter 6f whom obtained letters testamentary in the
couity of Philadelphia. And on the 15th of October, 1852,
William Fontain, the complainant, obtained letters of administration de bonis non, on the estate of Frederick Kohne, deceased,
he being the nearest of kin to the deceased, and one of his heirs
at law.
The bill is filed in the name of the complainant, by certain
charitable societies of Pennsylvania and South'Caiolina, under
the directions of the will, to recover from the defendant, as exequtor of Ms. Kohne, so much of the'property as came to her
hands as the executrix of her husband's will, and which she distributed, as undisposed-of property, after the death .of her
co-executors. And the question in the case is, whether the
residuary bequest in the will, whiph authorized his executors, or
the survivor of them, after the death of his wife, to dispose of
the surplus "for the use of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvania and South Carolina, as they might deem most beneficial to mankind," has lapsed, no such appointment having been
made, or attempted to be made, during the lfetime of the executors. This part of the property is understood to have amounted
toa large sum.
The domicile of the. testator, at the time of his death, seems
not to be a controverted question. He had so lived in the two,
States of Pennsylvania and South Carolina, and amassed-property in both, that his domicile might be claimed in either.
There is no evidence in which, if in either, he exercised the
right of suffrage. For two years previous to his death, he
resided in Pennsylvania.
The bequest under consideration was intended to be a charity. The'donoi, having entire confidence in his executors, substituted their judgment for his own., They, or the survivor of
them, was to designate such objects of his charity in the-two
States, "as would be most beneficial to mankind.'? It was to
be placed on the broadest foundations of human sympathy, not

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

excluding the colored race. It is no charity to give to a friend.
In the books, it is said the thing given becomes a charity where
the uncertainty of the recipients begins. This is beautifully illustrated in the Jewish law, which required the sheaf to be left in
the field, for the needy and passing stranger.
It may 1,e admitted that this bequest would be executed in
England. A charity rarely, if ever, fails in that country. The
only question there is, whether it shall be administered by the
chancellor, in the exercise of his ordinary jurisdiction, or under
the sign-manual of the crown. Thus furnished with the judicial and prerogative powers, the intent of the testator, however
vaguely and remotely expressed, if it be construed into a charity, effect is generally given to it. It is true, this is not always
done in the spirit of the donor; for sectarian prejudices, or the
arbitrary Nill of the king's instruments, sometimes pay little or
no regard to the expressed will of the testator.
The appellants endeavor to sustain this charity under the
laws of Pennsylvania. This is according to the course of the
court. The case of The Philadelphia Baptist Association v.
Hart's Executors, 4 Wheat. 1, was decided under the laws of
Virginia, which had repealed the statute of 43 Elizabeth. In
Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566, the pious use of a burial-ground
was sustained under the bill of rights of Maryland. The case
of Wheeler v. SmiLh, 9 How. 55, was ruled under the laws of
Virginia. And in the case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors, the
laws of Pennsylvania governed.
In Wheeler v. Smith, this court said, when this country
achieved its independence, the prerogatives of the crown devolved upon the people of the States. And this power still
remains with them, except so far as they have delegated a portion of it to the federal government. The sovereign will is
made known to us by legislative enactment. The State, as a
sovereign, is the parens patrite.
There can be no doubt that decisions have been made in this
country, on the subject of charities, under the influence of
English decrees, without carefully discriminating whether they
resulted from the ordinary exercise of chancery powers, or the
prerogatives of the crown.
The courts of the United States cannot exercise any equity
powers, except those conferred -by acts of congress, and those
iudicial powers which the high court of chancery in England,
acting under its judicial capacity as a court of equity, possessed
and exercised, at the time of the formation of the constitution
of the United States. Powers not judicial, exercised by the
chancellor merely as the representative of the sovereign, and by
virtue of the king's prerogative as parens patrie, are not possessed by the circuit courts.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

885

Fontain v. Ravenel.

In 2 Story's Eq. § 1189, it is said: "But as the court of chancery may also proceed in many, although not in all, cases of
charities by original bill, as well as by commission under the
statute of Elizabeth, the jurisdiction has become mixed in practice ; that is to say, the jurisdiction of bringing informations in
the name of the attorney-general, has been mixed with the jurisdiction given to the chancellor by the statute. So that it is not
always easy to ascertain in what cases he acts as a judge,
administering the common duties of a court of equity, and in
what cases he acts as a mere delegate of the crown, administering its peculiar duties and prerogatives. And again, there
'is a distinction between cases of charity, where the chancellor
is to act in the court of chancery, and cases where the charity.
is to be administered by the king, by his sign-manual. But in
practice the cases have often been confounded, from similar
causes."
" It is a principle in England, that the king, as parens patria,
enforces public charities, where no other person is intrusted
with the right. Where there is no trustee, the king, by his lord
chancellor, administers the trust, as the keeper of the king's
conscience ;, and it is not important whether the cliancellor acts
as the special delegate of the crown, or the king acts under
the sign-manual, his discretion being guided by the chancellor."
It may be well again to state the precise question before us.
"The executors, or the survivor of them, after the decease of
the testator's wife, was authorized to dispose of the property,
for the use of such charitable institutions in Pennsylvania and
South. Carolina, as they or he may deem most beneficial to
mankind."
No special trust is vested in the executors, by reason of this
power of appointment. It is separable and distinct from their
ordinary duties and trust as executors. It was to be exercised
after the death of Mrs. Kohne; but the executors died before
her decease, and consequently they had no power to make the
appointment. The conditions annexed by the testator rendered
the appointment impossible. Had the contingency of the death
of Mrs. Kohne happened, as the testator from her advanced age
contemplated, during the life of the executors or the survivor
of them, the appointment might have been made at his or their
discretion. But had they or the survivor of them failed to make
it, it might have become a question whether he or they could
have been coerced to do so by the exercise of any known chancery power in this country. The will contained no provision
for such a contingency, and it could not be brought under the
trust of executorship. Chancery will not compel the execution
of a mere naked power. 1 Story's Eq. § 169. But it will,
VOL. XVII.

38

386

SUIPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

under equitable circumstances, aid a defective execution of a
power. A power when coupled with a trust, if not executed
before the death of the trustee, at law the power is extinguished,
but the trust, in chancery, is held to survive.
The testator was -uv.'lling to give this discretion to select
the objects of his bounty, except to his executors. He relied on
their discrimination, their judgment, their integrity, and fitness,
to carry out so delicate and important a power. He made no
provision for a failure, in this respect, by his executors or the
survivor of them, nor for the contingency of their deaths before
Mrs. Kohne's decease. They died before they had the power to
appoint, and now what remains of this bequest, on which a
court of chancery can act?
There must be some creative energy to give embodiment to
an intention which was never perfected. Nothing short of the
prerogative power, it would seem, can reach this case. There
is not only uncertainty in the beneficiaries of this charity, but
behind that is a more formidable objection. There is no expressed will of the testator. He intended to speak through his
executors or the survivor of them, but by the acts -of Providence
this has become impossible. It is then as though he had not
spoken. Can any power now speak for him, except the parens
vatrim? Had he declared that the residue of his estate should
be applied to certain charitable purposes, under the statute of
43 Eliz., or on principles similar to those of the statute, effect
might have been given to the bequest, as a charity, in the State
of Pennsylvania. The words as to the residue of his property
were used in reference to the discretion to be exercised by his
executors. Without their action, he did not intend to dispose
of the residtie of his property.
It is argued, "that in England the chancellor, in administering charities, acts as the delegate of the crown, inasmuch as he
discharges all his judicial functions in that capacity." If, by
this, it is intended to assert that the chancellor, in affixing the
ign-manual of the king, or when he acts under the cy pres
power, is in the discharge of his ordinary chancery powers, it
does not command our assent.
The statute of 43 Eliz., though not technically in force in
Pennsylvania, yet, by common usage, and constitutional recognition, the principles of the statute are acted upon in cases
involving charities. Witman v. Lex, 17 Serg. and Rawle, 88.
In the argument, the case of Moggridge v. Thackwell, 7 Ves.
86, was cited, as identical with the case before us. "The only
difference between th? case and this one, it is said, is, that in
the former the devise was for objects not defined, as they are in
this ease." In this the counsel are somewhat mistaken, as the
case of Moggridge will show.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

387

Fontain v. Ravenel.

The devise in the will of Ann Cam was: 1And I give all the
rest and residue of my personal estate unto James Vaston, of
Clapton, Middlesex, gentleman, his executors and administrators, desiring him to dispose of the same in such charities as he
shall think fit, recommending poor clergymen who have large
families and good characters; and I appoint the said John Maggridge and Mr. Vaston, before mentioned, executors of this my
wll."
In the final decree, "upon a motion to vary the minutes, Lord
Thurlow declared, that the residue of the testatrix's personal
estate passed by her will, and ought to go and be applied to
charity," &c.
Now here was a trust created not only in Vaston, but in his
executors and administrators, to whom the residue of the estate
was bequeathed for the purposes of the charity. In this view,
Lord Thburlow might well say, "the residue of the personal
estate passed by the will.' This was true, though Vaston was
dead when the will took effect. This being the case, it is difficult to say that that case is identical with the one before us.
The case of Moggridge v. Thackwell was before Lord Eldon
on a rehearing. He entered into a general view d the subject
of charities, by the citation of authorities which showed the unreasonableness of the doctrine maintained by the courts, the
inconsistencies in the decisions in such cases,.and the gross perversions of charities by the exercise of the prerogative power;
but at last he says: "Therefore I rather think the decree is right.
I have conversed with many upon it I have great difficulty in
my own mind, and have found great difficulty in the mind of
every person I have consulted; but the general principle thought
most reconcilable to the cases is, that where there is a general
indefir ite purpose, not fixing itself upon any object, as this in 'a
degree does, the disposition is in the king by sign-manual; but
where the execution is to be by a trustee, with general or some
objects pointed out, there the court will take the administration
of the trust. -But," he observes, "it must be recollected that I
am called upon to reverse the d~cree of a predecessor, and of a
predecessor who, all the reports inform us, had great occasion to
consider thi's subject. I should hesitate with reference to that
circumstance; but where authority meets authority, and precedent clashes with precedent, I do bt whether I could make a
decree more satisfactory to my own diind than that which has
been made."
It will be perceived that this decision was made reluctantly,
and after much balancing of the law and the force of precedents;
and chiefly; as it would seem, in respect to the decxee of Lord
Thurlow. This decision of Lord Eldon was made in 1802, and
it is not known to have been recognized in this country..

SUPREME
Fontain v.

COURT.
Ravenel.

Neither the doctrines on which this decision is founded, nor
the doubts expressed by the chancellor, are calculated very
strongly to recommend it to judicial consideration. The case,
howeier, is different from the one before us, in this: the residuary estate of Mrs. Cam passed to the trustee; that of Air.
Kohne remained as a part of his estate in the hands of the executors, and descended to his heirs at law on the death of Mrs.
Kohne. The beneficiaries were not more definitely described in
the one case than in the other. In Kohne's case no trust was
created, except that which was connected with the executorship.
Where there is nothing more than a power of appointment
conferred by the testator, there is nothing on which a trust, on
general principles, can be fastened. The power given is a mere
agency of the will, which may or may not be exercised at the
discretion of the individual. And if there be no act on his part,
the property never having passed out of the testatol, it necessarily remains as a part of his estate. To meet such cases, and
others, the prerogative power of the king, in England, has been
invoked, and he, through the chancellor, gives effect to the
charity.
It would be curious, as well as instructive, on a proper occasion, to consider the principles, if principles they can be called,
which were first applied in England to charities. Their most
learned chancellors express themselves, in some degree, as ignorant on this subject. Lord Eldon said, in the case of Mtaggridge,
"in what the doctrine originated, whether, as Lord Thurlow
supposed, in the principles of the civil law, as applied to charities, or in the religious notions entertained formerly in this
country, I know not; but we all know there was a period when
a portion of' the residue of every man's estate was appropriated
to charity, and the ordinary thought himself obliged so to apply
it, upon the ground that there was a general principle of piety
in the testator."
In the above case, Lord Eldon again says: In Clifford v.
Francis, this doctrine is laid down: that when money is given
to charity, without expressing what charity, there the king is
the disposer of the charity; and a bill ought to be preferred in
the attorney-general's name. I cite this (he says) to show that
it contains a doctrine precisely the same as the Attorney-General v. Syderfin, and the Attorney-General v. Matthews. So
those three eases (he say's) seemed to have established, in the
year 1679, that the doctrine of this court was, that where the
property was not vested in trustees, and the gift was to charity
generally, not to be ascertained by the act of individuals referred to, the charity was to be disposed of, not by a scheme
before the master, but by the king, the disposer of such charities in his character of parens patrix.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

389

Fontain v. Ravenel.

Some late decisions in England, involving charities, evince-a
disposition rather to restrict than to enlarge the powers exercised on this subject. An arbitrary rule in regard to property,
whether by a king or chancellor, or both, leads to uncertainty
and injustice.
In a late case of Clark t-. Taylor, 21 .Eng. Law and Eq. 30S,
a gift, by will, to a particular charitable institution maintained
voluntarily by private means, the particular intention havingceased: held that the gift was not to be disposed of as a charitable gift cy pres, but failed and fell into the residue."
In the case of the Baptist Association, Chief Justice Marshall says, there can be no doubt that the power of the crown
to superintend and enforce charities existed in very early times;
and there is much "difficulty in marking the extent of this
branch of the royal prerogative before the statute. That it is a
branch of prerogative, and not a part of the ordinary powers of
the chancellor, is sufficiently certain." And in the case of the
Attorney-Gen&al v. Flood, Hayne's Rep. 630, it is said: "The
court of chancery has always exercised jurisdiction in nfiatters
of charity, derived from the crown as parcispatriw."
In the provisions of the act of Pennsylvania defining the
powers of a court of chancery, in 1836, it is declared, "that in
every case in which any court, as aforesaid, shall exercise any
of the powers of a court of chancery, the same shall be exercised according to the practice in equity, prescribed or adopted
by the supreme court of the United States."
In June, 1840, an act extended the jurisdiction of the supreme court within the city and county of Philadelphia, in
chancery, in cases of "fraud, accident, mistake, or account;"
and since then an act has been passed giving the orphans' court
power where a vacancy exists in a trust to fill it, and also to
dismiss trustees, executors, &c., for abuse of their trusts, &c.
But no statutory provision is found embracing the case before us.
The chancery powers are of comparatively recent establishment in the State of Pennsylvania, and it does not appear that
the cy pres power is given, and in the exercise of jurisdiction
it seems to be disclaimed.
In King v. Rundle, 15 Barb. 139, "there being a number of
charitable bequests to several charitable bodies, the remainder
was bequeathed or devised to the Protestant Episcopal society,
for certain purposes, &c.; the bequests to the rligious bodies
were held invalid, and so of the remainiler over, as not being
statutory tests. In Yates v. Yates, 9 Barb. '024, the court
say: "We come to the conclusion that, as a court of equitywe .possess no origmal inherent 'jurisdiction, to enforce the execution of a charitable trust void in law, as contravening the
33.

890

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

statute against perpetuities, as being authorized. In this case,
where the use is a pious one, additional reasons might be
urged against the exercise of such jurisdiction, were it important. Unless this trust will stand the statutory test to be
applied to it, it must fall.
In the will of Sarah Zane, ir. Justice Baldwin, sitting in
Pennsylvania, and speaking of trustees, says: " They will be considered as trustees, acting under the supervision of this court,
as a court of chancery, with the same powers over trusts as
courts of equity in England, and the courts of this State profess
and exercise." "When the fund shall be so ascertained as to
be capable of a final distribution, it will be directed to be applied exclusively to the objects designated in the will, as they
existed at the time of her death, and shall continue until a final
decree; if any shall then appear to have become extinct, the
portion bequeathed to such object must fall into the residuary
fund as a lapsed legacy. Its appointment to othe- purposes or
cestuis que trust than those which can, by equitable construetiori, be brought within the intention of the will of the donor,
is an exercise of that branch of the jurisdiction of the chancellor
of England which has been conferred on this court by no law,
and cannot be exercised, virtute ojicii, under our forms of government."
And again, in Wright v. Linn, 9 Barr, 433, Bell, J., says:
"Though the statute of 43 Elizabeth, ch. 4, relating to charitable
uses, has not, in terms, been recognized as extending to Pennsylvania, we have adopted, not only the principles that properly
emanate from it, but, with perhaps the single exception of cy
pres, those which, by an exceedingly liberal construction, the
English courts have engrafted upon it."
In the Methodist Church v. Remington, 1 Watts, 226, the
court says: " The original trust, though void; was not a superstitious one; nor if it were, would the property, as in England:
revert to the State for the purpose of being appropriated in
eadem genera, as no court here possesses the specific power
necessary to give effect to the principle of cy pres, even were
the principle itself not too grossly revolting to the public sense
of justice to be tolerated in a country where there is no ecclesiastical establishment."
In Ray v. Adams, 3 Mylne and Keen's R. 237, it was held,
"that where a power is by will given to a trustee, which he
neglects to execute, the execution of the trust devolves upon
the court; but if, in the events which happen, the intended
trustee dies before the time arrives for the execution of the
trust, and the trust therefore fails, the testator is fo be considered as having so far died intestate.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

-91

Fontain v. Ravenel.

In the case of Ommanney v. Butcher, 1 Turn. and Russ. R.
260, a testafor concluded his will, "in case there is any money
remaining, I should wish it to be given in private charity.'
Held, "if the testator meant to create a trust, and the frusi is
not effectually created, or fails, the next of kin must take."
There appears to be no law or usage in South Carolina that
It
can materially affect the question under consideration.
seems to be conceded that if this charity cannot be administered by this court, in the State of Pennsylvaia,'it cannot be
made available by the laws of South Carolina.
After the investigation we have been able to give to this
important case, embracing the English chancery decisions on
charities, as well as our own, and the cases decided in Pennsylvania, we are not satisfied that the fund in question ought to
be withdrawn from those who are in possession of it, as the
heirs of Frederick Kohne. There does not appear to us to be
any safe and established principle, in Pennsylvania, which,
under the circumstances, enables a court of chancery to administer the fund. It has not fallen back into the estate of the
testator, because it was not separated from it. It remains
unaffected by the bequest, because the means through wxhich it
was to be given and applied have failed. The decree of the
circuit court is, therefore, affirmed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY and Mr. Justice DANIEL concurred in the judgment of the court, but dissented from the
reasoning. Their opinions were as follows.
Opinion of Mr.Chief Justice TANEY.
I concur in the judgment of the court. But I do not, for
myself, desire to express an opinion upon either the law of
Pennsylvania or of South Carolina, in relation to charitable
bequests. For, assuming every thing to be true that is stated in
the complainant's, bill, and that the bequest is valid by the laws
of Pennsylvania, and would be carried into execution by the
tribunals of the State, yet I think the circuit court of the
United States had not jurisdiction to establish and enforce it;
and was right, therefore, in dismissing the bill. I propose to
show, very briefly, the grounds on which this opinion is formed.
Undoubtedly, a charitable bequest of this description would
be maintained in the English court of chancery.' The death of
the executors, in the lifetime of the widow, Wvould make no
difference. The bequest would still be good against the heirs
or representatives of the testator, and the fund applied to charitable purposes, according to a scheme approved by the chancellor, or authQrized under the sign-manual of the king.

392

SUPREM1E COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

But the power which the chancellor exercises over donations
to charitable uses, so far as it differs from the power he exercises in other cases of trust, does not belong to the court of
chancery as a court of equity, nor is it a part of its judicial
power and jurisdiction. It is a branch of the prerogative
power of the king as parens patrice, which he exercises by the
chancellor.
Blackstone in his Commentaries, 3d vol. 47, enumerating
what he states to be the extraordinary powers of the chancellor,
says: "He is the general guardian of all infants, idiots, and
lunatics, and has the general superintendence of all charitable
uses in the kingdom; and all this over and above the vast and
extensive jurisdiction which he exercises in his judicial rapacity in the court of chancery."
And in the same volume,
page 437, he says: " The king, as parens patrie,has the general superintendence of all charities, which he exercises by the
keeper of his conscience, the chancellor; and, therefore, whenever it is necessary, the attorney-general, at the relation of some
inf6rnant, files an ex officio information in the court of chancery to have the charity properly established."
So, too, Cooper, in his chapter on the jurisdiction of the
court, says: " The jurisdiction, however, in the three cases of
infants, idiots, or lunatics and charities, does not belong to the
court of chancery as a court of equity, but as administering the
prerogative and duties of the crown."
And in the case of the ,Baptist Association v. Hart's Executors, 4 Wheat. 1, this court, after examining many English
authorities upon the subject, affirm the same doctrine. And
Chief Justice Marshall, who delivered the opinion of the. court,
expresses it in the following strong and decisive language
(p. 48): -

"It would be a waste of time," says the- chief justice, "to
multiply authorities to this point, because the principle is
familiar to the profession. It is impossible to look in+o the
subject without perceiving and admitting it. Its extent may
be less obvious.
" We now find," he continues, " this prerogative employed in
enforcing donations to charitable uses, which would not be
valid if made to other uses; in applying them to different
objects than those designated by the donor, and in supplying
all defects in the instrument by which the donation is conveyed,
or in that by which it is administered."
Resting my opinion upon the English authorities above
referred to, and upon the emphatic language just quoted from
the decision of this court, I think I may safely conclude that
the power exercised by the English court of chancery "in

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

393

Fontain v. Ravenel.

enforcing donations to charitable use8, which would not be
valid if made to other uses," is not a part of its jurisdiction as
a court of equity, but a prerogative power exercised by that
court.

It remains to inquire whether the constitution h.s conferred
this prerogative power on the courfi of equity of the United
States.
The 2d section of the 3d article of the constitution declares
that the judicial power of the United States shall extend to
all cases in law and equity specified in the section. These
words obviously confer judicial power, and nothing more; and
cannot, upon any fair construction, be held to embrace the prerogative powers, which the king, as parens patrie, in England,
exercised through the courts. And the chancery jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States, as granted by the constitution, extends only to cases over which the court of chancery
had jurisdiction, in its judicial character as a court of equity:
The wide discretionary power which the chancellor of England
exercises over infants, lunatics, or idiots, or charities, has not
been conferred.
These prerogative powers, which belong to the sovereign as
parens patrice, remain with the States. They may legalize
charitable bequests within their own respective dominions, to
the extent to which the law upon that subject has been carried in England; and they may require any tribunal of the
State, which they think proper to select for that purpose, to
establish such charities, and to carry them into execution. But
state laws will not authorize the courts of the United States
to exercise any power that is not in its nature judicial; nor can
they confer on them the prerogative powers over minors, idiots,
and lunatics, or charities, which the English chancellor possesses. Nobody will for a moment suppose that a court of
equity of the United States could, in virtue of a state law,
take upon itself the guardianship over all the minors, idiots, or
lunatics in the State. Yet these powers in the English chancellor stand upon the same ground, and are derived from the
same authority, as its power in cases of charitable bequests.
State laws cannot enlarge the powers of the courts of the
United States beyond the limits marked out by the constitution. It is true that the courts of chancery of the United
States, in administering the law of a State, may. sometimes be
called on to exercise powers which do not belong to courts of
equity in England. And, in such cases, if the power is judicial
in its character, and capable of being regulated by the established rules and principles of a court of equity, there can be
no good objection to its exercise. It falls within the just inter-

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Fontain v. Ravenel.

pretation of the grant in the constitution. But, beyond this,
the state laws can confer no jurisdiction on the courts of
equity of the United States.
In the cases in relation to charities which have come before
this court, there has been a good deal of discussion upon the
question, whether the power of the chancery court of England
was derived from 43 Elizabeth, or was exercised by the court
before that act was passed. And there has been a diversity of
opinion upon this subject in England, as well as in this country.
In the case of the Baptist Association v. Hart's Executors, Chief
Justice Marshall, who delivered the opinion of the court, (vide 4
Wheat. 49,) and. Mr. Justice Story, who wrote out his own
opinion, and afterwards published it in the appendix to 3 Pet.
Rep., (ride p. 497,) were both at that time of opinion that it
was derived from the statute. But in Vidal v. Girard's Executors, 2 How. 127, Mr. Justice Story changed his opinion, chiefly
upon the authority of cases found in the old English records,
which had been printed a short time before by the commissioners on public records in England. It appeared from these
records that the power had been exercised in many cases long
before the statute was passed.
But this circumstance does not affect the question I am now
considering; for, whether exercised before or not, yet, whenever
exercised, it was in virtue of the prerogative power, and not
as a part of the jurisdiction of the court as a court of equity.
The statute conferred no new prerogative on the °crown. And
Lord Redesdale, 1 Bligh. 347, while he held that the power
existed in the chancellor before the statute, and had been frequently exercised, declares it to be a prerogative power, and
says:- " The king, as parens patri3, has a right by his proper
officer, the attorney-general, to call upon the several courts of
justice, according to the nature of their several jurisdictions,
to see that right is done to his subjects who are incompetent to
act for themselves, as in the case of charities and other cases."
Besides,.if it could be shown that at some remote period of
time the- court of chancery exercised this power as a part of its
ordinary jurisdiction as a court of equity, it would not influence the construction of the words used in the constitution.
For at the time that instrument was adopted, it was universally
admitted by the jurists in England and in this country, as will
appear by the references above made, that this extraordinary
and unregulated power in relation to charities was not judicial,
and did not belong to the court as a court of equity. The con.
stitution of th&'United States, as I have before said, grants only
judicial power at law and in equity to its courts; that is, the
powers at that time understood and exercised as judicial, in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

395

Fontain v. Ravenel.

courts of common law and equity in England. And it must
be construed according to the meaning which the words -used
conveyed at the time-of its adoption; and the grant of power
cannot be enlarged by resorting to a jurisdiction which the
court of chancery in England, centuries ago, 'may have
claimed as a part of its ordinary judicial power, but which
had been abandoned and repudiated as untenable on fhat
ground, by the court itself, long before the constitution was
adopted.
Case-s may arise in a circuit court of the United States, in
which it would be necessary to decide whether the English
doctrine, as to charities, was founded on the statute, or-was a
part of the law of England before the statute was passed.
And in a suit by an heir or representative of the testator,
(authorized from his place of residence to sue in a court of the
United States,) to recover property or money bequeathed toa
charity, the court must of .necessity examine whether the
bequest was valid or not by the laws of the State, and barred
the claim of the heir or representative. And if in such a case
it appeared that the State had not adopted the statute, it would
ba necessary to inquire whether the law in relation to these
bequests was a part of the common law before the statute, and
admini.stered as such by the English court of chancery, and
whether it had been adopted by the State as a part of its common law. For the prerogative powers of the English crown
in relation to minors, idiots, or lunatics, and charities, are a part
of the common law of England; and the people pf any State,
who deemed it proper to do so, might vest these powers in the
courts of the State.
Such an inquiry was necessary in the case of Vidal v.
Girard's Executors, and of Wheeler v. Smith. But the question of jurisdiction is a very different one when a court of the
United States is called upon to execute the duties of the sovereignty of the State, and to take upon itself the discretionary
powers which, if they exist at all by its common law br
statutes, belong to the official 'representatives of the arens
patriv, -that is, the state sovereignty. And in the case of
the Baptist Association v. Hart, although the court did not
expressly deny its jurisdiction to establish the charity, if it
had been valid by the laws of Virginia, yet it expressed its
doubts upon the subject, saying that the question could only
arise where the attorney-general was a party.
For these reasons a court of chancery of the United States
must, in my opinion, deal with bequests and trusts for charity
as they deal with bequests and trusts for other lawful purposes;
and decide them upon the same principles and by the same

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

rules. And if the object to be benefited is so indefinite and
so vaguely described, that the bequest could not be supported
in the case of an ordinary trust, it cannot be established in a
court of the United States upon the ground that it is a charity.
And if, from any cause, the cestui que trust,in an ordinary case
of trust, would be incapable of maintaining a suit in equity to
establish his claim, the same rule must be applied where charity
is the object, and the complainant claims to be recognized as
one of its beneficiaries.
I concur, therefore, in affirming the judgment of the circuit
court, dismissing the bill; but I concur upon the ground that
the court had no jurisdiction of the case stated by the complainant, and express no opinion as to the validity or invalidity
of this bequest, whether in this respect it be governed by the
laws of Pennsylvania or of South Carolina.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
Whilst I concur in the decision of this court, in affirming the
decree of the circuit court dismissing the bill of the appellants, in
portions of the argument by which this court have come to their
conclusion, I cannot concur. In expressing my dissent, I shall
not follow the protracted argument throughout its entire length;
my purpose is, chiefly, to free myself on any future occasion
from the trammels of an assent, either expressed or implied, to
what are deemed by me the untenable, and, in this case, the
irrelevant positions, which that argument propounds.
I readily admit that the courts of chancery of the United
States are vested with no prerogative power, can exercise no
power or function similar to those derived to the lord chancellor
in England, either by commission under tfie sign-manual of
the king, as parens patrice, or in the application of the oftenabused and oppressive doctrine of cy pres, or in virhie of the
provisions of the statute of 43 Elizabeth. But this concession, taken in its broadest extent, by no means establishes the
inference that the court of chancery in England, as a court of
equity, by virtue of its inherent, and, if I may so speak, constitutional powers, apart from the prerogative and apart from the
statute of Elizabeth, could not take jurisdiction of trusts, either
in the establishment or maintenance of those trusts, because
they expressed or implied a charitable end or purpose, or because the charitable objects were not defined with perfect precision. And if such a power inhered and existed constitutionally in the court of chancery in England as a court of equity,
does it not follow, ex consequenti, that, the constitution and
laws of the United States, constituting the courts of equity of
the United States with express reference to the character and

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

397

Fontain v. Ravenel.

functions of the court of chancery as a court of equity in England, have conferred upon the former the regular inherent powers
of the latter?
Much of the learned and elaborate opinion of this court,
delivered by the late Justice Story, in the case of Vidal et al. v.
Girard's Executors, 2 How. 127, nay, the great end and stress
of that opinion, as correctly apprehended, consisted in the maintenance of the position that, apart from the prerogative power
with which the lord chancellor was clothed, and independently
of the statute of Elizabeth, and long anterior to the enactment of
that statute, wherever there was a devise or bequest to a person,
natural or artificial, capable of taking, and a beneficiary under
the devise or bequest sufficiently certain and defined to be made
the recipient of such a g, the court of chancery, in the exercise of its regular and inherent jurisdiction, as a court of equity
in relation to trusts, (one of the great heads of equity jurisdiction,) would establish and protect such devise or bequest even
in cases where the objects thereof were somewhat vague in
their character, and although such devise contained a charity.
To this express point, too, are the numerous decisions produced
by the industry of the learned aild able and distinguished
couisel for the devisee, as the result of the researches made in
the records of the chancery court, by a commission created
under the authority of the British parliament. Indeed, the
decision of this court in the case of Vidal v.'Girard's Executors, would seem to be incomprehensible and without purpose
unless interpreted as asserting and maintaining, both upon
reasoni and authority, the regular jurisdiction of equity over
devises, wherever the devisee was capable of taking, and the
beneficiaries were sufficiently defined to render the directions
of the testator practicable, although these directions declared or
implied a charity.
It is somewhat curious to observe, that the opinion of Lord
Redesdale, in the case of the Attorney-General v. The Mayor
of Dublin, 1 Bligh, 312, is appe~1ed to in support of the doctrine now promulged, when that same case is avouched and
relied on in the case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors, in support
of the legitimate and regular powers of the courts of equity.
This application of the language of Lord Redesdale would
seem to grow out of the simple fact, that, in the case before
him, the attorney-general was a party. But what is the declaration of his lordship, in reference to the powers of a court of
equity over subjects like the one under his consideration? After
denying that the statute of Elizabeth created any new law, and
asserting that it only created a jurisdiction merely ancillary to
that previously existing in the chancery court, he observes that
VOL. XVII.

34

SUPREME COURT.
Fontain v. Ravenel.

the proceedings under that commission were still subject to
appeal to the lord chancellor,.and he might reverse or affirm
what had been done, or make such order as he might think fit,
reserving the controlling jurisdiction of the court of chancery
as it existed before the statute. He then continues, as pointing
out a different mode of effecting the same objects, and from a
different source of power, to declare, that the same thing might
be done by the attorney-general, by information, in virtue of the
prerogative.
So, too, it is affirmed by this court, nemine contradicente,in
the case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors, that Lord Chancellor
Sugden, in the case of the Incorporated Society v. Richards,
1 Drury and Warren, 258, upon a full survey of all the authorities-where the point was directly before him, held the same
doctrine as Lord Redesdale; and expressly decided that there
was an inherent jurisdiction in equity in cases of charity, anterior to and independently of the-statute of Elizabeth.
Upon a just understanding of the opinion of the court in the
case of Vidal v. Girard's Executors, and of the interpretation
given, in that opinion, to the English authorities relied on, it
seems impossible to escape from the conclusions, that devises
to persons ,capable of taking, in trust for beneficiaries sufficiently defined, and for purposes neither illegal nor immoral,
and where there exist no objections to parties such as would
exclude the jurisdiction of the courts in other cases, the courts
of the United States as courts of equity, in the exercise of
regular, inherent, equity powers in relation to trusts, will sustain and enforce such devises. These conclusions seem to follow inevitably from the ruling of this court in the case of Vidal
v. Girard's Executors. Indeed, they seem to be comprised
within the literal terms of that decision; and the decision now
made seems to me incomprehensible, unless understood as
designed to overrule that case, and every authority fr'om the
English chancery cited and commented upon in its support. For
such an assault upon the previous decision of this court, Nvielding a blow so trenchant and fatal at one great. and acknowledged head of equity jurisprudence, the head of trusts, my
mind is not prepared.
There is a principle, and, in my opinion, the correct principle,
on which the decision of this court may be placed, without the
innovation which is objected to. It is that on which my concurrence in the decree of this court is founded, and one, too,
which steers entirely clear of what is by me deemed exceptionable. That principle is this: That, by the wvill of Frederick Kohne, the devisees in trust were clothed with a merely
naked power, to be exercised by them as the special and exclu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

399

Bogart et al. v. The Steamboat John Jay.

sive depoitories of the testator's .confidence, and that power to
be dependent on conditions upon which, and on which alone,
they should have authority to act. In the progress of events to
which the devise was necessarily incident, the powers created
and to be executed by the devisees in trust, have become impracticable and void. These depositories of the testator's confidence are all dead. The conditions on which their powers
were made dependent, never did occur, and can by no possi
bility ever occur. It follows, therefore, that, in conformity with
the will, there is no person who can act, and no subject to be
acted upon, and no beneficiaries of the contemplated action.
My opinion, therefore, is, that the devise has lapsed, or, rather,
that no right ever came into existence under it; that nothing
was ever passed by it from the estate, which descends, of course,
to the testator's heirs.
Order.
This cause came on to bd heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit cotirt of the .United States for the eastem district of Pennsylvania, and -was argued by counsel. ' On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court
in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

SEBRA lM. BOGART, WILLIAM J. WILCOX, AND LEONARD F.
FITCH, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, 'V.. THE STEAMBOAT
JOHN JAY, HER TACKLE, &C. GEORGE LOGAN, CLAIMANT.
The courts of the United Staies, in the exercise of admiralty and maritime jarisdiction, canerot take cognizance of questions of property between the mortgagee of a
vessel and the owner.
The mere mortgage of a ship, other than that of an hypothecated bottomry, is a
contract without any of the characteristics or attendants of a maritime loan, and,
is entered into by the parties to it, without reference to navigation or perils of the
sea.
The admiralty courts in England now exercise a more ample jurisdiction upon the
subject of mortgages of ships, but it is under a statute of Victoria; and in the
United States the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction remains as it was before.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
It was a libel filed by the appellants of the steamboat John
Jay, to enforce payment of a mortgage upon the boat, under the
circumstances stated in the opinion of the court.
The district court dismissed the libel, which decree was

