SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

JOHN CHARLES FREMONT, APPELLANT, v. THE UNITED STATES.
By the act of congress passed on the 3d March, 1851, (9 Stats. at Large, 631,) to ascertain
and settle the private land claims in the State of California, it is made the duty of
every person claiming lands in California, by virtue of any right or title derived
from the Spanish or Mexican government, to present the- same to the commissioners (to be appointed under that act) who were 'o examine and decide upon the
validity of tl~e claim.
The commissioners, the district, and the supreme court, in deciding on any claim
brought before them, were directed to be goverued by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of the government from
which the claim is derived, the principles of equity, and the decisions of the supreme court of the United States, as far as they. are applicable.
Under this act, not only inchoate or equitable titles, but legal titles, also, were required to be passed upon the court. This was an essential difference from the act
of 1824, under which claims to land in Louisiana and Florida were decided, and
which related to inchoate equitable titles.
Grants of land in Louisiana and Florida were usually preceded by a concession and
survey; and until a survey took place, no title accrued to the grantee. Hencethis
court has always decided that where the grantee took no further steps in the matter, he had acquired no right, legal or equitable, to the lands under the Spanish
government.
The laws of these territories, under which titles were claimed, were never treated by
this court as foreign laws, to be decided as a question of fact; but the court held
itself bound to notice them judicially, as much so as the laws of a State of the
Union.
On the 29th of February, 1844, Micheltorrena, the governor of Califorihia, granted
to Juan B. Alvarado, the tract of land known by the name of Mariposas, to the
extent of ten square leagues within the limits of the Snow Mountain, (Sierra Nevada,) and the rivers known by the names of the Chauchilles, of the Merced and
San Joaquin, as his property, subject to the approbation of the most excellent
departmental assembly, and to certain conditions.
This grant conveyed to him a present and immediate interest. If any subsequent
grantee of tLe government had made a survey within the described limits, his tit1b
would have been paramount to that of Alvarado. But no such grant and survey
were made.
The case of Rutherford v. Greene's Heirs, 2 Wheat. 196, examined.
No further and definite grant, stating that the conditions had been complied with,
was necessary.
The conditions were conditions subsequent, but a non-compliance with them did not
amount to a forfeiture of the grant.
There was no unreasonable delay or want of effort, on the part of Alvarado, to falfil
the conditions, so that there is no room for the presumption that he intended to
abandon the property.
The reasons explained why Alvarado did not make a survey or a settlement, and
why Fremont, his vendee, did not.
One of the conditions was that Alvarqgo shuld not sell, alienate, or mortgage the
property. But this restriction was void, as being against the laws of Mexico,
and, moreover, at the time of the sale to Fremont, California was held by the
United States as a conquered country, and an American citizen had a right to
purchase property. Although Mexico might have avoided the sale, there is no
public law which could require the United States to do so; and any law which
,subjected an American citizen to disabilities was necessarily abrogated without a
formal repeal.
The question about the right to mines does not ariee), the present case.
The United States have to direct, by law, how the survey is to be made, in the form
and divisions prescribed for surveys in California, enbracing the entire grant in
one tract.

Mr. Justice DANIEL did not sit in this cause.

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

.W

Fremont v. The United States.

This was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
Fremont, the appellant, claimed title to a large tract of land,
and prosecuted his -claim before the board of commissioners,
who decided in his favbr. That decision having been reversed
by the district court, the case was now brought -here by appeal.
The title of Fremont was derived from. Juan Alvarado, to
whom a grant was issued, in 1844,'by Manuel Micheltorrena,
then governor and commandant-general of the department of
the Californias, purporting to be founded upon the patriotic
services of Alvarado. It appears that, as early as 1836, Alvarado was conspicuous in the commotions which took place in
California, resulting from the same proceedings of the government of Mexico which occasioned the revolution in Texas.
California declared itself opposed to the centralization of power
in Mexico, and Alvarado was proclaimed governor by the
provincial deputation. In 1837, he repelled the effort of Cavvillo to take possession of the government, who had been
appointed governor by Mexico; and Alvarado was afterwards
confirmed as constitutional governor by the authorities of
Mexico. He continued in authority until 1842, when Micheltorrena was appointed to succeed him, under whom Alvarado
was employed as first counsellor of the departmental junta,
with a salary of $1,500.
On the 23d of February, 1844,.Alvaxado petitioned Micheltorrena to grant him the land in question. And as this is one
of the first cases in this court of this description,-it is deemed
proper to insert in full the title under which the appellant
claimed. The documents are as follows :" Record of proceedings instituted by citizen Juan- Bautista
Alvarado, colonel of the auxiliary.nilitia, soliciting the tract
of land called 'Las Mariposas?
"Anno 1844. (Number 352.)
"To his Excellency the Governor: "1, Juan B. Alvarado, colonel of the auxiliary militia of this
department, to your E xcellency, with due respect, do represent,
that being actually the owner (by purchase which I made) of a
-very small tract of land, which is not sufficient to support the
cattle with which it is stocked, without injury to the estates
likewise there established, and being desirous of increasing it, at
the same tim' to contribute to the spreading of the agriculture
and industry of the country, I solicit your Excellency, according
to the colonization laws, to be pleased to grant me ten sitios de
ganado mayor (ten square leagues) of land, north of the River
San Joaquin, within the limits of the Snow Mountain, (Sierr.

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

Ne.vada,) in the same direction the River Chanchilles, in the
east part of the Merced, on the west, and the before-mentioned
San Joaquin, with the name of the Mariposas, offering to present to Y. E. the proper plan and draft thereof so soon as the
same shall be made with exactness, not doing it at this time for
the difficulty of being a wilderness country on the confines of
the wild Indians, arid because I desire that my claim for this
cause may not be delayed.
" Therefore, I hope from the good intentions of Y. E., in favor
of the improvements of the country, the most favorable result, if
it be in justice, by which I will receive favor.
" (Signed)
JUAN B. ALVARADO.
" Rancho del Alizal, 23d of February,1844."
" lVlonterey, 27th of February,1844.
"Let the- secretary of state report, and he may require such
other reports as he may deem expedient, should he need them.
MICHELTORRENA."
"1(Signed)
"As directed by his Excellency, the governor, let the preceding petitioner be referred to the first alcalde of San Jos, that
he may be pleased to report thereon.
" (Signed)
MANUEL JNIMENO.
"Monterey, 26th* of February,1844."
" To the Secretary of State:" The land solicited in this petition by Don Juafti B. Alvarado
is entirely vacant; it does not belong to any individual, town,
or corporation, and I believe that for these reasons, as well as
that of the petitioner being meritorious for his patriotic services
and commendable circumstances, there is no impediment for
granting him the said land in fee. This is all I have to report
to your Honor in answer to your preceding superior order, which
opinion I submit to the decision of your Honor, which will be
(Signed)
ANTONIO M'A PICo.
the most proper one.
" Town of San Tos, Gaudaloupe, February 29, 1844."
"To his Excellency the Governor " According to the report of the magistrate of San Jos6, and
the information I have acquired from persons who know the
land, it is ascertained the same may he granted to the petitioner,
who may be favorably considered for the services which he has
rendered to the department. The superior judgment of Y. E.
MANUEL JIMFNO.
will decide the expediency.
(Signed)
"MMonterey, 29th of February,1844."
* NOTE nT THE REPORTER. The dates of these muniments of title are as above,
in the printed record. If there be an error, the reporter has no means of knowing

where it is.

DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

545

Fremont v. The United States.

"lMonterey, 22d of February,1844.
"Let the title be issued, expressing that he (the petitioner) is
meritorious for his patriotic services, and consequently worthy
of preference.
(Signed)
MiCHELTORRENA."
"liMonterey, 29th of February,1844.
"Having considered the petition -which is at the beginning of
this record of proceedings, (espediente,) the preceding report,
and the patriotic services of the petitioner, with every thing
worthy of consideration in the premises, in conformity -with the
laws and regulations upon the subject, I declare Don Juan Bautista Alvarado owner in fee of the tract of land known by the
name of "Las Maiposas," within the boundaries of the Snow
Mountains, (Sierra Nevada,) and the rivers called the Chanchilles, thb Merced, and San Joaquin.
"Let the proper patent be issued, let it be registered in the
respective book, and let this record of proceedings be transmitted to the most excellent departmental assembly, for its approval.

!MANUEL MICHELTORRENA,
Brigadier-Generalof th7e Mexican Army, Adjutant-Generalof the
Staff of the same, Governor and Commandant-General
of the Department of the* Cal fornias.'

"Whereas, Don Juan B. Alvarado, colonel of the auxiliary
militia of this department, is worthy, for his patiiotic services,
to be preferred in his pretension for his personal benefit and that
of his family, for the tract of land known by the name of the
l..ariposas, to the extent of ten square leagues (sitios de ganado
mayor) within the limits of the Snow Mountain, (Sierra Nevada,) and the rivers known by the names of the Chanchilles, of
the Mer.ced, and the San Joaquin, the necessary requirements,
according to the provisions of the laws and regulations, having
been previously complied with, by virtue of the authority in me
vested, in the name of the Mexican nation, I have granted to
him the aforesaid tract, declaring the same by these presents his
property in fee, subject to the-approbation of the most excellent
the departmental' assembly, and to the following conditions: " 1. He shall not sell, alienate, or mortgage the same, nor
subject it to taxes, entail, or any other incumbrance.
"2. He may inclose it without obstructing the crossings, the
roads, or the right of way; he shall enjoy the same freely and
without hindrance, destining it to such use or cultivation as may
most suit him; but he shall build a house within a, year, and it
shall be inhabited.
"3. He shall solicit from the proper magistrate, the judicial
possession of the same, by virtue of this patent, by whom the
boundaries shall be marked out, on the limits of which he (the
grantee) shall place the proper landmarks.
46*

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

"64. The tract of land granted is ten sitios de ganadco mayor,
(ten square leagues,) as before mentioned. The magistrate
who may give the possession shall cause the same to be surveyed according to the ordinance, the surplus remaining to the
nation for the proper uses.
"5. Should he violate these conditions, he will lose his right
to the land, and it will be subject to being denounced by another.
" Therefore, I command that these presents being held firm
and binding, that the same be registered in the proper book, and
delivered to the party interested, for his security and other purposes.
" Given in Monterey, this 29th day of the month of February,
in the year of 1844.
MANL. M CHELTORRENA.
"MANUEL JIMENO, Secretary."
"This patent is registered in the proper book on the reverse
JIMENO."
of folio '6.'
The evidence showed that the land continued to be disturbed
by hostile Indians, until after the occupation of California by
the Americans, and until 1849.
On February 10, 1847, Alvarado executed a deed of the
above-described property to Fremont, with a general warranty
of title. The consideration stated was three thousand dollars.
In 1849, Fremont caused a map of the grant to be made, and
used efforts to have it settled.
On the 21st of January, 1852, Fremont filed his claim before
the commissioners to ascertain and settle the private land claims
in the State of California, sitting as a board, -inthe city of San
Francisco.
On December 27, 1852, the board decreed that the claim be
confirmed, to the extent of ten square leagues, being the same
land described in the grant and map filed in the office of the
United States surveyor-general for California, November 21,1851.
On the 20th of September, 1853, there was filed in the office
of the commissioners a notice from the attorney-general of the
United States, that an appeal from the decision of the commissioners to the district court of the United States for the
northern district of California, would be prosecuted; and in
consequence of that appeal, the decision of the commissioners
was reversed on the 7th of January, 1854. It was now brought
before this court by an appeal from the district court.
It was argued by iIr. Wilianb Carey Jones, Mr. Bibb, and
Mr.Crittenden, for the appellant, and by Mr. Cushing, attorneygeneral, for the United States.
The briefs filed in this c'ase were, as in the preceding case of

DECEMBER

TERM,

1854.

547

Fremont v. The United States.

United States v. Ritchie, very elaborate; and the reporter can
only notice the points made, without attempting to state either
the arguments or authorities by which they were sustained.
The following notice of the points made for the appellant, is
taker from the brief of .Mr. .ones.
1. The acts and deeds above.recited, of the Mexican authorities, vested a legal, valid title, independent of the approbation
of the departmental assembly; that being a means not of legaizing the title, but only of placing it beyond any power of
defeasance. Consequently, if the necessity of fulfilling the condition arose from the incompleteness of the title, the objection
falls to the ground. But2. The cendition is not warranted by the law, and hence was
not obligatory. The provision contained in § 11 of the regulations of 1828 refers only to grants to empresarios, for colonization.
3. Non-performance of the condition did not make the grant
void, but only opened the land to denouncement; that is, to an
information by a third person, who, finding the land vacant,
might wish to possess it, and on which a judicial inquiry would
be had; until which time (and a judicial forfeiture ascertained)
the grant remained good, and the land open to the occupation
of the grantee, and after his occupation the process of denouncement would not lie. The government did not reserve aIy right
of forfeiture to itself, and consequently could not convey any
to the United States.
4. Due diligence was used, both by -Alvarado and Fremont,
to fulfil the condition, and they did fulfil the requirements of
the law.
5. That if the grant had been defeasable under the former
goveri ment, through the dissent to it of the assembly and of
the supreme government, that mode of defeasance is now cut
off and made impossible by the non-existence of the assembly,
to which only belonged the initiative to that end; and if formerly defeasible by denouncement for non-performance of the
condition, that also is cut off by tie terms of the treaty of purchase, and because there was no denouncement prior to the
occupation, when the right lapsed. Moreover, the commission
and courts herein are not holding an inquest to enforce forfeitures,
but are sitting in equity to confirm rights-to carry out and
enforce a trust.
6. The cases from this court cited by the judge below ha~e
not the effect he imagines, but the contrary.
7. The governor was the officer who, at the time of this grant,
was authorized to concede lands in California; and there was
no law or regulation in force that required the concession to be

548

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

approved by the departmental assembly, nor was there any such
body in existence.
8. This grant was in consideration of public services, and
not subject to any condition. Aredondo's Ca. 6 Pet. 716, and
authorities cited; Menard v. Massey, 8 How. 293 ; Jones's Rep.
Sen. Doc. 18, 2d ses. 31st cong. 4 & 26; 2 Febrero Mexicano,
190, 191, §§ 19-21; Gamboa's Mining Ordinances of New
Spain, index sube voc. and vol. i. 29; vol. i. 76; lb. 103, et seq.;
opinion of the commission in case of Cervantes, Rec. of that
case, 33, 39, and authorities cited; case of Garcia v. Bon, cited
in opinion of Com. Hall, Rec. 28, 29; 1 Conejo, Diecionario
Derecho Real; Glen v. 'United States, 13 How. 250; De
Villemonte's Ca. 13 Th. 266; Boisdor6's Ca. 11 lb. 115; Sibbald's Ca. 13 Pet. 313; Bases of Tacubaya, 1 Observador
Judicial, 7: Instructions to Micheltorrena, printed in supplemental brief.
A second objection to the title was raised in the court below,
namely: That the tract had not been surveyed under the former
government, and its description and calls are insufficient to locate
it. But 1. This question is not before the court, because the act of
congress does not impose the question of location and boundaries on either the commission or the courts; thus differing (and
for sound reasons of policy and right.) 'from the acts which
opened the federal courts to the adjudication of claims in Florida,
Missouri, and Louisiana. 1 Cutis's Com. 448, 449; 10 Pet.
334, 335; 13 lb. 133; 15 lb. 182; 16 lb. 162, 166; Cong. Globe,
2d ses. 31st Cong. 375, Gwin's Rem.; Appendix to lb. 56, 58;
Ib. 134; Capt. Halleck's Rep. Sen. Doc. 1st ses. 31st Cong. No.
18 ; Jones's Rep. before cited; Instructions to the commission
by Secretary of Interior, before cited authorities in Mr. Lockwood's brief.
2. The description and calls are sufficiently definite; there has
been no difficulty in finding the particular place granted; it is
well known; the quantity, and the place where it is to be surveyed, arc both definite; the surveyor-general has ascertained
them by actual survey.
3. The claimant had a right of selection, under the law and
customs of California, of the quantity granted to hini, within
the boundaries, and at the place designated, leaving the overplus to the nation; and it is this overplus that is to be ascertained
by survey; until which, if the rights of either party be indefinite
within the given boundaries, they are those of the nation and
not those of the grantee.
4. The laws under which this grant was made did not contemplate surveys or exactness in the definition of the tracts

DECEMBER TERM.

1854.

549

Fremont v. Tite United States.

necessarily rude,
solicited or granted, but only a delineation
since there was no scientific person in the whole country to make
it-of the locality where the quantity was to be granted, and
the overplus, if any, afterwards to be ascertained and resumed;
and in this case, the designation and description supply the
place of, and are as certain as, any such rude sketch cdud have
been.
5. The whole matter of location and segregation, under and
according to the grant, is referred to the surveyor-general, and
he has already exercised that function, so as to show that there
is ho difficulty attending it.
2Mr. Cushing divided his argument into two branches; the
first, considering the grant as a concession of agricultural lands,
under the colonization laws of the Mexican Republic, and the
second, considering the land as mining land. The latter branch
is omitted from this case, as are the remarks of the opposite
counsel upon the same subject, as a grant of agricultural lands.
Sect. 1. Fremont's claim is on a gratuitous colonization grant,
by the Mexican governor of California, to one Alvarado, of
which there had been no survey; no plan; no occupation; no
site even; no confirmation by the proper public authority; no
performance of any of the conditions precedent or subsequent
annexed to the grant, violation of prohibiting conditions; a mere
naked initiatory concession, upon paper, at the date of the treaty
of Guadaloupe Hidalgo.
Such is the extraordinary pretension of paper title.
The pretension of location is yet more extraordinary. It is
of a right -to locate a tract of land, tn square leagues in dimension, anywhere at the discretion o. the grantee, and in any form
of combination of the subdivided sectional parts, so that they
touch one another, within a region of upwards of one hundred
square leagues.
The Mexican system of colonization included the following
principles :

The arants were made on conditions equitably combining
private and public utility.
The system was modified according to circumstances, but
always preserved the principle of grants on condition, The consideration of the grant being the performance of the conditions.
The system of settling polladores was applied to California.
Sect. 2. The concession to Alvarado was null for uncertainty
of description and incapability of definite location.
Alvarado petitioned for lands which lie had never seen and of
which he had no description. He asked for lands "north " of
the San Joaquin, supposing that river to run to the west, and
west of the Snow Mountains, and between the Chanchilas -and

550

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

Merced Rivers, apparently supposing that they run south and
enter into the first-named river, and that the tract contains ten
square leagues, when it includes over a hundred. The grant is
equally indefinite.
The land claimed in Fremont's petition is for the like quantity
lying on the "east" side of the San Joaquin, and claimed as
the " Las Mariposas" grant, without specific boundaries or
locality, other than being between the Snow Mountains and the
San Joaquin. There is no proof that the "Las Mariposas" had
been surveyed or had any specific boundaries. Not one witness
could give its boundary, size, or contents. The Chanchilas does
not empty into the San Joaquin, but runs westerly of the Snow
Mountains, and without an outlet spreads itself over the Tulare
Valley and is lost in it. 2 How. 63; 3 lb. 773; 13 Ib.251.
Sect. 3. The concession was not confirmed by the departmental assembly, and is not now entitled to confirmation.
By the terms of this grant, it was subject to tI'e approval of
the departmental assembly. Unless that was obtained, it was
not valid. Obtaining this was a condition precedent to the
perfection of the title. The governor had no power to excuse
this preliminary and essential condition. A failure to perform
a condition precedent, renders the grant null and' void. - There
is no pretence that this condition has been performed. Nor
was it repealed by the grantor or the act of God. No effort
was made to perform it, as shown by testimony, while by the
terms of the grant the whole would be void if not complied
with.
Sect. 4. This grant is void, because the conditions annexed to
and forming a part of it have never been performed.
The grant was under the colonization laws, for agricultural
purposes. The settlement and cultivation of a new country
were the leading motives to the grant. The government could
derive no advantage from granting lands, which were to remain
wild and unoccupied.
Hence the condition imposed in this grant, that, within the
first year, -Alvarado should build a house, and that it should be
inhabited. No such house was built, and, of course, none was
inhabited. There was no attempt to perform this condition.
He was required to solicit judicial possession of the land
from a magistrate, by whom the boundaries should be marked
out, on the limits of which the grantee was to place the proper
landmarks. No such possession was ever solicited or given. nor
limits fixed, or landmarks placed. The terms of this condition
have been wholly uncomplied with.
'o magistrate ever caused these ten square leagues to be surveyed, so as to separate the granted from the ungranted lands.

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

Fremont v. The United States.

This condition was important, with reference to further grants
and settlements. Without its performance, it could not be
known what remained open for grants and settlenfent. So far
from this condition being complied vitl, it is not even now
known where this grant is to be found.
Sect. 5. Until the governor-general confirmed the concession.
the title remained in the crown.
The court may refuse to confirm where lie would. Under
the act of 1824, applications to confirm imperfect titles have
been resisted, because conditions subsequent have not been
complied with.
Sect. 6. None of the excuses for non-performance, alleged ill
Alvarado's behalf, possess legal force.
Sect. 7. Alvarad6 could not lawfully convey to Fremont a
title, on which to call for a patent from the United States.
It is an elementary proposition in law, that a grantor can
confer no greater title than he held, and was authorized by law
to convey.
By the terms of this grant, if held valid, -Alvarado had no
transferable interest. The object of the government was to
insure settlement and cultivation, aid not to make grants that
might be transferred to speculators, or incumbered in the behalf
of creditors. Hence, tile first condition was that lie should not
sell; and, by the last, if he did, lie was to lose his right, and
then it would be subject to be granted to another.
If the departmental assembly had approved, and all the other
conditions had been fulfilled or exused, Alvarado could not
have been excused from this one, without the performing an
express act by one authorized by law for that purpose. I'nder
the colonization laws, under which this grant was mnadr, this
essential condition could not have been waived. It was deemed
so essential, that no-one was clothed with power to release the
grantor from it. No excuse is oflered for violating this condition. It was voluntary, and without the apology t impossibility or release.
Sect. 8. The decision of the commissioners is itself null and
void, for uncertainty and vagueness; and, if it should be confirmed, the land granted could not be located so as to be
patented.
Sect. 9. The grant to Alvarado was a gratuitous one, except
il so far as the performance of the conditions would relate back
to constitute a consideration.
Sect. 10. The original petition, the provisional grant, and tie
decree of the commissioners, each assumes a floating claim, not
as a grant of an identical tract of land, by metes and bounds.
all of which is %ithiout warranty of law.
-

552

SUPREME

COURT.

Fremont v. The United States.

Sect. 11. Under the foregoing authorities, it is maintained, in
opposition to the claim Qf Fremont, the petitioner: 1. The land in California passed, by conquest, to the crown
of Spain, subject to the occupancy of the Indians; so much of
it as remained ungranted, and not severed from the royal domain, passed to the Mexican Republic, by the fact of its independence of Spain, as national domain; and so much of it as
had not been severed from the national domain of Mexico, by
lawful grant or other sufficient title, passed to the United States
by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, and became public lands
of the United States.
2. Hence, according to the whole series of decisions under
the Louisiana and Florida treaties, and, by parity of reasoning,
under that of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, as all the land was, and is,
in the first instance, that of the prince or government standing
for the aggregate political society, whoever claims as against
the State, that is, against .the people of the United States, to
own any part of such land in severalty, and segregated from the
public domain, is held to show a "right or title," either at law
or in equity.
3. The grant to Alvarado was a donation, or gratuitous grant,
under the decree of 1824 and the regulations of 1828, concerning
colonization, and subject to all the limitations of those acts,
from which the departmental authorities could not derogate,
except in the particulars expressly authorized by the same.
4. The petitioner, Frerpont, has no claim on the equities of
the United States, in regard to the land donated to Alvarado,
unless the latter complied with the conditions of the Mexican
law, which constituted the inducement of the grant. This, in
point of fact, he did not do; and so the lands fall back into the
public domain of the United States.
Mr.Chief Justice TANEY delivered tne opinion of the court
The court have considered this case with much attention. It
is not only important to the claimant and the public, but it is
understood that many claims to land in California depend upon
the same principles, and will, in effect, be decided by the judgment of the court in this case.
A preliminary question has been raised, as to the jurisdiction
of the district court from which the appeal has been taken; but
the same question has been already examined and decided in
the case of the United States v.Ritchic, and it is unnecessary
to discuss it further. We think it very clear that the district
court had jurisdiction, and proceed to examine the validity of
the claim upon this appeal.
The 8th section of the act of March 3, 18.51, "to ascertain

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Fremont v. The United States.

and settle the private land claims in the State of California,"
directs: "That each and every person claiming lands in California, by virtue of any riaht or title derived from the Spanish or
Mexican government, shall present the same to the commissioners, (to be appointed under that act,) when sitting as a board,
together with such documentary evidence and testimony of witnesses as the said claimant relies upon in support of such claims;
and it shall be the duty. of the commissioners, when the ease is
ready for hearing, to proceed promptly to examine the same
upon such evidence, and upon the evidence produced in behalf
of the United States, and to decide upon the validity of the said
claim, and, within thirty days after such decision is rendered, to
certify the same, with the reasons on which it is founded, to the
district attorney of the United States in and for the district in
which such decision shall be rendered."
And the 11th section provides, that the commissioners therein
provided for, and the district and supreme court, in deciding on
any claim brought before them under the provisions of.that act,
shall be governed by the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, the law
of nations, the laws, usages, and customs of the government
from which the claim is derived, the principles of equity, and
the decisions of the supreme court of the United States, as far
as they are applicable.
The decisions of the supreme court, mentioned in this section, evidently refer to decisions heretofore-given in relation to
titles in Louisiana and Florida, which were derived from the
French or Spanish authorities, previous to the cesgion to the
United States. And as these decisions must govern the case
under consideration, as far as they are applicable, it is proper to
state the principles upon which they were made, before we proceed to examine it. In doing this, however, we do not propose
to refer separately to each of the numerous decisions which may
be found in the reports; nor is it necessary. They will be
found to have been uniformly decided upon certain fixed principles of law, applicable to those grants, which cannot always be
applied with justice and equity to a case, like the one before
us. The laws of congress, giving the jurisdiction, were different in one respect; and the condition of the countries, as well
as the laws and usages of the nation making the grants, were
also different.
It will be seen, from the quotation we have made, that the
8th section embraces not only inchoate or equitable titles, but
legal titles also; and requires them all to undergo examination,
and to be passed upon by the court. The object of this provision appears to be, to place the titles to land in California upon
a stable foundation, and to give the parties who possess them an
VOL. XVII.

47

554

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

opportunity of placing them on the records of the country, in a
manner and form that will prevent future controversy.
In this respect, it differs from the act of 1824, under which
the claims in Louisiana and Florida were decided. The jurisdiction of the court, in these cases, was confined to inchoate
equitable titles, which required some other act of the government to vest in the party the legal title or full ownership. If
he claimed to have obtained from either of the former governments a full and perfect title, he was left to assert it in the
ordinary forms of law, upon the documents under which he
claimed. The court had no power to sanction or confirm it
when proceeding under the act of 1824, or the subsequent laws
extending its provisions.
And the language of the court, in passing judgment upon
the claims in Louisiana or Florida, must always be understood
as applying to cases in which the government still held the
o-wnership of the land, and where the right of the party to
demand a conveyance, upon principles of equity and good faith,
must be shown by him, before he could claim it from the United
States.
The mode and form of granting lands in these provinces, and
the character and stability of the provincial governments, must
also be considered, before we can determine how fax the principles established in the decisions of those cases are applicable to
the grants by the Mexican authorities, after the country was
separated from Spain.
Grants of land in Louisiana and Florida were usually made
in the following manner: The party who desired to form a settlement upon any unoccupied land presented his petition to the
officer who had authority to grant, stating the quantity of land
he desired, the place where it was situated, and the purposes to
which it was to be applied. Upon the receipt of the petition, the
governor, or other officer who had the poyer to grant, issued
what is usually called a concession to the party, authorizing
him to have the land surveyed by the official surveyor of the
province. And it was the duty of this officer to ascertain
whether the land asked for was vacant, or the grant of it would
prejudice the rights of other parties; and, if the surveyor found
it to be vacant, and that the grant would not interfere with the
rights of others, he returned a plat, or figurative plan, as it was
called, and the party thereupon received a grant in absolute
ownership.
These grants were almost uniformly made upon condition
of settlement, or some other improvement, by which the interest
of the colony, it was supposed, would be promoted. But until
the survey was made, no interest legal or equitable. passed in

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

555

Premont v. The United States.

the land. The original concession granted on his petition was
a naked authority or permission, and nothing more. But
when he had incurred the expense and trouble of the survey,
under the assurances c6ntained in the concession, he had a just
-and equitable claim to the land thus marked out by lines, subject to the conditions upon which he had originally asked for
the grant. But the examination of the surveyor, the actual
survey, and the return Qf the plat, were conditions precedent,
and he had no equity against the government, and no just
claim to a grant until they were performed; for he had paid
nothing, and done nothing, which gave him a claim upon the
conscience and good faith of the government. There were
some cases, indeed, in which there were absolute grants of title
-with conditions subsequent annexed to them. The case cf
Arredondo, reported in 6 Peters, and of which we shall speak
hereafter, was one of this description. But the great mass of
cases which come before this court, and which have been supposed to bear on this case, were of the character above mentioned.
It necessarily happened, from this mode of granting, that
many concessions were obtained which the parties never afterwards acted on. A person who had contemplated a settlement,
or planting a colony, or making some other improvement in a
particular place, sometimes changed his mind, or found some
other situation more suitable, or found himself unable to comply with th-. conditions which, in his petition, ,he had proposed
to perform.
But these concessions or permissions were never recalled,
and remained in the possession of the party, although he had
abandoned all thoughts of acting upon them. And when the
United States obtained the'sovereignty of- these countries, and
the energy, enterprise, and industry of our citizens were rapidly
filling it, and lands which were of no value under the Spanish
government would be ample fortunes under the United States,
many persons, who for years had held these concessions without att6mpting to avail themselves of the authority they gave
him, came forward and claimed the right to do so under the
government of the union.
A few cases, which appear to have been relied on in the
argument in behalf of the United States, will show the character of most of them, and the principles upon which they were
decided in this court. In the case of Boisdord, (11 How. 63,)
he had obtained the authority or concession on which he relied
in. the year.1783. He had never caused a survey to be made
during the existence of the Spanish government although
twenty years had elapsed before its cession to thie coantry'

556

SUPREME

COURT.

Fremont v. The United States.

Nor was any step taken by him to obtain a title from the United States, nor any claim legally brought forward, for seventeen
years after the territory had been ceded to the United States.
And nothing like any serious attempt had been made to fulfil
the conditions upon which he had obtained the concession.
So, too, in the case of Glenn and others v. The United
States, 113 How. 250, (usually called the Clamorgan case,) the
grant was obtained in 1796, and no possession taken, and no
survey had, nor any of the stipulations into which he had entered
complied with, while the Spanish government lasted. Nor, indeed, was any claim made to it for several years after the-cession
to the United States; nor until the country in which it was
situated was filling up with an industrious population, and the
land becoming of great value.
So, again, in the case of Villemont against the United
States, (13 How. 266,) the concession or authority was made
in 1795, and there was an express provision in. the concession,
that unless the establishmeit he proposed in his petition was
made on the land in three years, the concession should be null.
Yet he did nothing during the continuance of the Spanish
government, although it lasted eight years afterwards; and
the excuse from Indian hostility could hardly avail him, because
no difficultv of that kind is suggested in his petition; and from
the character of the improvements he promised to make, it
would seem that one of the objects of this large grant was to
form -an establishment which would be useful in repelling
Indian hostilities from the neighboring Spanish settlements.
This brief statement of the facts in these cases shows that
the parties had acquired no right, legal or equitable, to these
lands under the Spanish government. The instruments under
which they claimed were evidently not intended as donations
of the land, as a matter of favor to the individual, or as a
reward for services rendered to the public. They were intended to promote the settlement of the territories, and to
advance its prosperity. But up to the time when Spain ceded
them, the parties had done nothing to accomplish the object,
or to carry out the policy of the government. They had evidently no claim, therefore, upon the justice or conscience of
the Spanish government. It had not granted them the land,
and they had done nothing which, in equity, bound that government to make them d tifle. And when Spain ceded the
territories to the United States, it held these lands as public
domain as fullv, and amply as if those concessions or authorities
had never been given; and the United States received the title
in the same full and ample manner; neither the lega. nor
equitable right to them, as public domain, had been impaired

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

557

Freqont v. The United States.

by any act of the Spanish authority, nor had any right been
conveyed to or vested in the claimants.
It is proper to remark, that the laws of these territories under
which titles were claimed, were never treated by the court as
foreign laws, to be decided as a question of fact. It was
always held that the court was bound judicially to notice them,
as much so as the laws of a State of the Union. 'In doing this,
however, it was undoubtedly often necessary to inquire into
official customs and forms and usages. They c6nstitute what
may be called the common or unwritten law of every civilized
country. And when there are no Vublished Xeports. of judicial
decisions which show the received construction of a statute,
and the powers exercised under it by the tribunals or officers of
the government, it is often necessary to seek information from
other authentic sources, such as the records of official acts,
and the practice of the different tribunals and public authorities. And it may sometimes be necessary to seek information
from individuals whose official position or pursuits have given
them opportunities of acquiring knowledge. But it has always
been held that it is for the court to decide what weight is to be
given to information obtained from any of these sources. It
exercises the same discretion and power, in this respect, which
it exercises when- it refers to the different reported decisions of state courts, and compares them together, in order to make up
an opinion as to the unwritten law of the State, or the construction giveri to one of its statutes.
With these principles, which have been adjudicated by this
court, lo guide us, we proceed to examine the validity of the
grant to Alvarado, :which is now in controversy.
There can be no question as to the power of the governor of
California to make the grant. And it appears to have been
made according to the regular forms and usages of the Mexican
law. It 'has conditions attached to it; but these are conditions
subsequent. And the first point to be decided is, whether the
grant vested in Alvarado any present and immediate interest;
and, if it did, then, secondly, whether any thing done or omitted
to be done by him, during he existence 6f the Mexican government in California, forfeited the interest he had acquired, and
revested it in the government? For if, at the time the sovereignty of the country passed to thle United States, any interest,
legal or equitable, remained vested in Alvarado or his assigns,
the United ?2tates are bound in good faith to uphold and protect it.
Now. the grant in question is not like the Louisiana and
Florida concessions -a mere permission to make a survey in a
particular place, and return a plat of the land he desires, with
47*

558

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

a promise from the government that he shall have a title to it
when these things are done. But the grant, after reciting that
Alvarado ,was worthy, for his patriotic services, to be preferred
in his pretension for his personal benefit, and that of his family,
for the tract of land -known by the name of Maripo as, to the
extent of ten square leagues, within certain limits mentioned in
the grant; and that the necessary requirements, according to
the provisions of the laws and regulations, had been previously
complied with, proceeds, in the name of the Mexican nation, to
grant him the aforesaid tract, declaring the same, by that instrument, to be his property in fee, subject to the approbation
of the departmental assembly and the conditions annexed to
the grant.
The words of the grant are positive and plain. They purport
to convey to him a present and immediate interest. And the
grant was not made merely to carry out the colonization policy
of the government, but in consideration of the previous public
a'.d patriotic services of the grantee. This inducement is carefully put forth in the title papers. And, although this cannot
be regarded as a money consideration, making the transaction
a purchase from the government, yet it is the acknowledgment
of a just and equitable claim.; and, when the grant was made
on .that consideration, the title in a court of equity ought to be
as firm and valid as if it had been purchased with money on
the same conditions.
It i's
argued -that the description is so vague and uncertain
that ncthing passed by the grant; and that he had no vested
interest until the land was surveyed, and the part intended to
be granted severed by lines or known boundaries from the
public domain. But this objection cannot be maintained. It
is true, that if any other person within the limits where the
quantity granted to Alvarado was to be located, had afterwards
obtained a grant from the government, by specific boundaries,
before Alvarado had made his survey, the title of the latter
grantee could not be impaired by any subsequent survey of
Alvarado.
As between the individual claimants from the
government, the title of the party who had obtained a grant for
the specific land would be the superior and better one. For,
by the general grant to Alvarado, the government did not bind
itself to make no other grant within the territory described,
until after he had made his survey. But, as between him and
the government, he had a vested interest in the quantity of land
mentioned in the grant. The right to so much land, to be
afterwards laid off by official authority, in the territory described, passed from the government to him by the execution of
the instrument granting it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

559

Fremont v. The United States.

This principle of law was maintained by the decision of this
court, in the case of Rutherford v. Greene's Heirs, reported in
2 Wheat 196. 'The State. of North Carolina, in 1780, passed
an act reserving a certain tract of country to be appropriated to
its officers and soldiers; and in 1782, after granting 640 acres in
the territory reserved to each family that had-previously settled
on it, and appointing commissioners to lay off, in one or more
tracts, the land a.lotted to the officers and soldiers, proceeded to
enact that 25,000 acres of land should be allotted for and given
to Major-General Nathaniel Greene, his heirs and assigns, within
the bounds of the lands reserved for the use of the army, to be
laid off by the aforesaid commissioners, as a mark of the high
sense the State entertained of the extraordinary services of that
brave and gallant officer."
In pursuance of this law, the commissioners allotted 25,000
acres of land to General Greene, and caused the tract to be
surveyed and returned to the proper :office. The manner in
which the title originated under vhich Rutherford claimed, is
n 6 t very clearly stated in the case. The -decision turned altogether on the validity of the title of General Greene, and the
date. at which it commenced. And the court said, that the general gift of 2,000 acres lying in the territory reserved, became,
by the survey, a particular gift of the 25,000 acres contained in
the survey. And, after examining the title very fully, the court.
in conclusion say: " It is clearly and unanimously the opinion
of the coukti that the act of 1782 vested a title in General Greene
to 25,000 acre.- of land, to be laid off within the boundaries allotted t6 the officers and soldiers, and that the'survey made in pursuance of that act, and returned March 3, 1783, gave precision
to that title, and attached it to the land surveyed."
There was a further objection taken to the title of General
Greene, upon the ground that, by the constitution of North
Carolina, there should be a seal of the State to be kept by the
governor and affixed to all grants. And it was objected, that
this grant by the legislature had not the formality required by
the constitution to pass the estate. But in answer to this, the
court said that this provision was intended for the completion
and authentication of an instrument attesting a title previously
created by law. That it was merely the evidence of prior legal
appropriation, and not the act of the original appropriation
itself..
The principles decided in this case appear to the court to be
conclusive as to the legal effect of the grant to Alvarado. It
recognizes as a general principle of justice and municipal law,
that such a grant for a certain quantity of land by the government to be afterwards surveyed and laid off within a certain

560

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

territory, vests in the grantee a present and immediate interest
In the language of the court, the general gift becomes a particular gift when the survey is made; and when this doctrine has
been asserted in this court, upon the general principles which
courts of justice apply to such grants from the public to an individual, good faith requires that the same doctrine should be
applied to grants made by the Mexican government, where a
controversy arises between the United States and the Mexican
grantee.
The act that the grant to General Greene was made by an
act of assembly, did not influence the decision; nor did the
court allude to it as affecting the question. It is the grant of
the State, whether made by a special law of the legislature, or
by the public officer authorized to make it.
Another objection has been made, upon the ground that the
8th article of the regulations of 1828 requires what is called a
definite grant, signed by the governor, to serve a's a title to the
party interested, wherein it must be stated that the said grant is
made in exact conformity with the provisions of the laws, in
virtue whereof possession shall bb given; and it is argued that
no title passed until this definite grant was obtained. But this
document is manifestly intended as the evidence that the conditions annexed to the grant have all been complied with. It is
not required in order to give him a vested interest, but to show
that the estate, conveyed by the original grant upon certain conditions, is no longer subject to them; and that he has become
definitely tie owner, without .any conditions annexed to the
continuance of his estate. It is like the patent required by the
laws of North Carolina after the original grant to General
Greene, which the court said was for the completion and authentication of an instrument attesting a title previously created
by law; and, like the case of General Greene, Alvarado had a
vested interest without it.
Regarding the grant to Alvarado, therefore, as having given
him a vested interest in the quantity of land therein specified,
we proceed to inquire whether there was any breach of the conditions annexed to it, during the continuance of the Mexican
authorities, which forfeited his right and revested the title in the
government.
The main objection on this ground is the omission to take
possession, to have the land surveyed, and to build a house on
it, within the time limited in the conditions. It is a sufficient
answer to this objection to say, that negligence in respect to
these conditions and others annexed to the grant does not, of
itself, always forfeit his right. It subjects the land to be denounced by another, but the conditions do not declare the land

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

561

Fremont v. The United States.

forfeited to the State, upon the failure of the grantee to perform
them.
The chief object of these grants was to colonize and settle the
vacant lands. The grants were usually made for that purpose,
without any other consideration, and -without any claim of the
grantee on the bounty or justice of the government. But the
public had no interest in forfeiting them even in these cases, unless some other person desired, and was ready to occupy them,
and thus carry out the policy of extending its settlements. They
seem to have ben intended to stimulate the grantee to prompt
action in settling and colonizing the land, by making it open to
appropriation by others, in case of his failure to perform therti.
But as between him and -the government, there is nothing in the
language of the conditions, taking them all together, nor in their
evident object and policy, which would justify the court in declaring the land forfeited to the government, where no other
person sought to appropriate them, and their performance had
not been unreasonably delayed; nor do we find any thing in the
practice and usages of the Mexican tribunals, as far as we can
ascertain them, that Would lead to a contrary conclusion.
Upon this view of the subject, we proceed to inquire whether
there has been any unreasonable delay, or want of effort, on the
part of Alvarado to fulfil the conditions? For if this was the
case,. it might justly be presumed, as in the Louisiana and
Florida concessions, that the party had abandoned his claim before the Mexican power ceased to exist, and was now endeavoring to resume it, from the enhanced value under the government
of the United States.
The petition of Alvarado to the governor is dated February
23, 1844; and, after passing through the regular official forms
requir d by the Mexican law, the grant was made on the 29th
of the same month. According to the regulations for granting
lands, it was necessary that a plan or sketch of its lines and
boundaries should be presented with the petition; but, in the
construction of these regulations, the governors appear to have
exercised a discretionary power to dispense with it under certain
circumstances. It was not required in the present instance.
The reason assigned for it in the petition was, the difficulty of
preparing it, the land lying in a wilderness country, on the confines of the wild Indians. This reason was deemed by the governor sufficient, and the grant issued without it; and in deciding
upon the vplidity of a Mexican grant, the court could not, without doing injustice to individuals, give to the Mexican laws a
more narrow and strict construction than they received from the
*Mexican authorities who were intrusted with their execution.
It is the duty of the court to protect rights obtained under them,

SUPREME COURT,
Fremont v. The United States.

which would have been regarded as vested and valid by the
Mexican authorities. And as the governor deemed himself
authorized, under the circumstances, to dispense with the usual
plan, and his decision, in this respect was sanctioned by the
other officers intrusted with the execution of the law, it must
be presumed that the power he exercised was lawful, and that
the want of a plan did not invalidate the grant. The fact that
the country where the land was situated was such a wilderness,
and bordered by such dangerous neighbors, that no plan could
then be prepared, is proved by these documents; and that fact,
officially admitted, is worthy of consideration, when we come to
the inquiry whether there was unreasonable delay in taking
possession. For, by dispensing with the plan or draft on that
account, whith was a condition precedent, it may justly be inferred that the conditions subsequent were not expected by the
governor to be performed, nor their performance intended to be
exacted, until the state of the country would permit it to be done
with some degree of safety.
Now, it is well known that Mexico, and California as a part
of it, had, for some years before, been in a disturbed and unsettled state, constantly threatened with insurrectionary and revolutionary movements; and in this state of things, the uncivilized
Indians had become more turbulent, and were dangerous to the
frontier settlements, which were not strong enough to resist
them. It is in proof that this state of things existed in the
Mariposas valley when this grant was made; that it was unsafe
to remain there without a military force; and that this continued to be the case until the Mexican government was overthrown
by the American arms. In the very year of the grant, a civil
war broke out in the province, which ended by the expulsion of
the Mexican troops; and Colonel Fremont entered California at
the head of an American force, in 1846, and the country was
entirely subdued, and under the military government of the United States, in the beginning of 1847, and continued to be so held
until it was finally ceded to the United States under the treaty
of Guadaloupe Hidalgo. In February, 1847, while California
was thus occupied by the American forces, Alvarado conveyed
to Colonel Fremont.
Now, it is very clear, from the evidence, that during the continuance of the Mexican power it was impossible to have made
a survey, or to have built a house on the land, and occupied it
for the purposes for which it was granted. The difficulties
which induced the governor to dispense with a plan when he
made the grant, increased instead of diminishing. We have
stated them very briefly in this opinion, but they are abundantly and in more detail proved by the testimony in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

563

Fremont v. The United States.
record. Nobody proposed to settle on it, or denounced the
grant for a breach of the conditions. And at the time when
the Mexican authorities were displaced by the American arms,
the right which Alvarado had obtained by the original grant
remained vested in him, according to the laws and usages of
the Mexican government, and remained so vested when the
dominion and control of the government passed from Mexico
to the United States. The same causes which made it impossible to take possession of the premises and obtain a survey,
made it equally impracticable to obtain the approval of the departmental assembly. The confusion and disorder of the times
prevented it fronm holding regular meetings. It is doubtful
whether it mhet more than once after this grant was made; and
its proceedings, from the state of the country, wer$ necessarily
hurried, and the assembly too much engrossed by the public
dangers to attend to the details of private interests. It does
not appear that the governor ever communicated this grant to
the assembly. At all events, they never acted on it. And the
omission or inability of the public authorities to perform their
duty, cannot, upon any sound principle of law or equity, forfeit
the property of the individual to the State. It undoubtedly
disabled him from obtaining what is called a definitive title,
showing that all the conditions had been performed; but it
could not devest him of the right of property he had already
acquired by the original grant, and revest it in the State.
And certainly no delay is chargeable to Alvarado or Fremont
after California was subjected to the American arms. The civil
and municipal officers, who continued to exercise their functions
afterwards, did so under the authority oT the American government The alcalde had no right to survey the land or deliver
judic -t possession, except by the permission of the American
authorities.
He could do nothing that would in any degree
affect the rights of the United States to the public property;
and the United States could not justly claim the forfeiture of
the land for a breach of these conditions, without showing that
there were officers iii California, under the military government,
who were authorized by a law.of congress to make this survey,
and deliver judicial possession to the grantee. It is certain that
no such authority existed after the overthrow of the Mexican
government. Indeed, if it had existed, the principles decided
in the case of Arredondo, 6 Pet 745,746, would furnish a satisfactory answer to the objection.
Two other objections on the part of the United States to the
confirmation of this title remain to be noticed. The first condition annexed to the grant prohibits the grantee from selling,
alienating, or mortgaging the property, or subjecting it to taxes,

SUPREME

COURT.

Fremont v. The United

States.

entail, or any other incumbrances. And by the laws of Mexico,
the grantee could not, it is said, sell or convey the land to
any one but a Mexican citizen, and that Fremont was not a
Mexican citizen at the time of the conveyance under which he
claims.
. In relation to the first objection, it is evident from the disturbed state and frequent revolutions in the province, that there
was some irregularity in the conditions annexed to grants, and
that conditions appropriate to one description of grant, from
clerical oversight, or some other cause, were sometimes annexed
to others. This is manifestly the case in the present instance;
for this condition is in violation of the Mexican laws, and could
not, therefore, be legally annexed to this grant. For by the
decree of the Mekican congress of August 7, 1823, all property
which had been at any time entailed, ceased to be so from the
20th of September, 1820, and was declared to be and continue absolutely free; and no one in future was. 'permitted to
entail it. And the prohibition in the 18th article of the regula.
tions of 1824, to transfer property in mortmain, necessarily
implies that it might be aliened and transferred in any other
manner.
But if this condition was valid by the laws of Mexico, and
if any conveyance made by Alvarado would -have forfeited the
land under the Mexican government as a breach of this condition, or if it would have been forfeited by a conveyance to an
alien, it does not by any means follow that the same penalty
would be incurred by the conveyance to Fremont.
California was at that time in possession of the American
forces, and held by tlie United States as a conquered country,
subject to the authority of the American government.
The
Mexican municipal laws, which were then administered, were
administered under the authority of the United States, and
might be repealed or abrogated at their pleasure; and any
Mexican law inconsistent with the rights of the United States,
or its public policy, or with the rights of its citizens, were annulled by the conquest. Now, there is no principle of public
law which prohibits a citizen of a conquering country from purchasing property, real or personal, in the territory thus acquired
and held; nor is there any thing in the principles of our government, in its policy or its laws, which forbids it. The Mexican
government, if it had regained the power, and it had been its
policy to prevent the alienation of real estate, might have
treated the sale by Alvarado as a violation of its laws; but it
becomes a very different question when the American government is called on to execute the Mexican law. And it can
hardly be maintained that an American citizen, who makes a

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

Fremont v. The United States.

contract or purchases property under such circumstances, can
be punished' in a court of the United States with the penalty
of forfeitufe, when there is no law of congress to inflict it.
The purchase was perfectly consistent with the rights and
duties of Colonel Fremont, as an American officer and an
American citizen; and the country in which he made the
purchase was, at the time, subject to thie authority and dominion of the United States.
Still less can the fact that lie was not a citizen of M1exico
impair the validity of the conveyance. Every American citizen
who was then in California had at least equal right,; with the
Mexicans; and any law of the Mexican nation which had subequal privileges,
"jected them to disabilities, -or denied to theinrepeal.
a formal
Were necessarily abrogated without
In relation to that part of the argument which disputes his
right, upon the ground that his grant embraces mines of gold
or silver, it is sufficient to say that, under the mining laws of
Spain, the disdovery of a mine of gold or silver did not destroy
the title of the individual to the land granted. The only' ques.
tion before the court is the validity of the title. _And whether
theke be any mines on this land, and, if there be any, what are
the rights of the sovereignty in them, are questions which must
be decided in another form of proceeding, and are not subjected
to the jurisdiction of the commissioners oi the court, by the
act of 1851.
Some difficulty has been suggested as to the form of the
survey. The law directs that a survey shall be made, and a
plat returned, of all claims affirmed by the commissioners.
And as the lines of this land have not been fixed by public
authority, their proper location may bta a matter of some difficulty. Under the Mexican government, the survey was to be
made or approved by the officer of the government, and the
party was not at liberty to give vhat form he pleased to the
grant. This precaution was necessary, in order to prevent the
party from giving it such a form as would be inconvenient to
the adjoining public domain, and impair its value. The right
which the Mexican government reserved to control this survey
passed, with 9,1 other public rights, to the United States; and
the survey must now be made under the authority of the
United States, and in the form and divisions prescribed by law
for surveys in California, embracing the entire grant in one tract.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the court that the claim
of the petitioner is valid, and ought to be confirmed. The decree of the district court must, therefore, be reversed, and the
case remanded, witl directions to the district court to enter a
decree conformably to this opinion.
VOL. XVII.

48

666

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States,

Mr. Justice
dissented.

CATRON and

Mr. Justice

CAMPBELL

Mr. Justice CATRON dissenting.
On the 23d of February, 1 8 4 4 i Juan B. Alvarado petitioned
the governor, Micheltorrena, for ten leagues of land, alleging that
the tract which he then owned was not sufficient to support his
stock of cattle, and which he was desirous to increase. He at the
same time proposed to contribute to the spreading of the agriculture and industry of the country. And he further declared,
that because of the good intentions of the governor in favor of
the improvements of the country, the petitioner hoped for a
favorable consideration of his demand.
The governor referred the petition to the alcalde of San Jos6,
who reported that the land was vacant, that the petitioner war
meritorious, and that there was no objection I i making the grant.
In this report, Jimeno, the government secretary, concurred.
The governor declared the petitioner meritorious for his patriotic services, and therefore worthy of a preference; and accordingly, on the 29th of February, 1844, proceeded to grant to
Alvarado, for his personal benefit and that of his family, the
tract of land known by the name of Mariposas, to the extent of
ten square leagues, within the limits of the Snow Mountain,
(Sierra Nevada,) and the rivers known by the names of the
Chanchilles, of the Merced, and the San Joaquin, "the necessary
requirements, according to the provisions of the laws and regulations having been previously complied with, subject to the
approbation of the departmental assembly, and the following
conditionsv -that is to say: 1. "He shall not sell, alienate, nor mortgage the same, nor
subject it to taxes, entail, or other incumbrance."
2. "He may inclose it, without obstructing the roads or the
right of way. He shall enjoy the same freely, without hindrance,
destining it to such use or cultivation as may best suit him; but
he shall build a house within a year, and it shall be inhabited."
3. "He shall solicit from the proper magistrate the judicial
possession of the same, by virtue of this grant, by whom the
boundaries shall be marked out, on the limits of which he (the
grantee) shall place the proper landmarks."
4. " The tract of land granted is ten sitios de ganado mayor,
(ten square leagues,) as before mentioned. The magistrate who
may give the possession shall cause the same to be surveyed according to the ordinance, the surplus remaining to the nation for
the proper use"
5. " Should he violate these conditions, he will lose his right
to the land, and it will be subject to being denounced (pretended
for) by another."

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

567

Fremont v. The United States.

"Therefore, I command that these presents being held firn
and binding that the same -be registered- in the proper book,
and delivered to the- party interested, for his security, and other
purposes."
The foregoing conditions, in effect, are imposed by the colonization law of 1824, and theregulations made in pursuancethereof,
by the chief executive of Mexico, in 1828; both of which were
equally binding upon the territorial governors, when they exercised the granting power.
, The concession, according to these laws, could only be made
for agricultural purposes and for raising cattle. Colonization
was the great object of the law of 1824; And to this end alone
,was its execution prescribed and arranged by the regulations of
1828.
Much stress has been lPdd on the fact that, in the concession
to Alvarado, patriotic services are referred to as a reason why a
preference was given to the grantee in obtaining the land; that
preference was founded on the 8th sectioriof the act of 1824,which
provides, N,that in the distribution of lands, lexican citizens are
tobe attended to in preference, and no distinction shall be made
among thesd, except such only as is due to private merit and
services rendered to the country." Private merit or public services could form no part of the consideration for. grants made
for the purposes of grazing and cultivating; nor had the governor of a territory power to grant for any other purpose. The
11th section of the act of 1824 reserved the power to the supreme
executive to alienate lands in the territories in favor of civil or
military officers of the federation. This grant, therefore, stands
on the footing of others, and is subject to the same conditons.
Alvarado's petition, and the governor's concessicn folanded -on
it, must be taken together; they are a necessary part of the contract between the applicant and the government, under the colonization law of 1824, and the regulations of 1828, -which, with
inconsiderable exceptions, remained in full force when this concession was applied for and issued.
The government of the United States received the legal title
to the public lands in California by treaty, and incumbered under the laws of nations with all the equitable rights of pivate
property therein, that they were subject to in the hands of Mexico at the time of their transfer-; and the question here is, what
interest in the land claimed, Alvarado or his assignee had, when
the treaty was made ? The consideration for the grant -van a
performance of its leading conditions on the part of the -anteb ;
the principal condition being, the inhabitation of the land, in the
maner and within the time prescribed. As to the terms of this
condition, the regulations of 1828 declare, that the party solicit-

568

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

ing for lands, shall describe, as distinctly as possible, by means
of a map, the land asked for; and a record shall be kept of the
petitions presented and grants made, with the maps of the lands
granted; and the governor was required, by the 11th rule of the
regulations, to designate to the colonist the time within which
he was bound to cultivate or occupy the land; "it being understood that if he does not comply, the grant of the land shall
remain void;" and by the 12th rule, the grantee was required to
prove before the municipal authority that he had cultivated or
occupied, so that a record should be made of the fact thus established, "in order that he might consolidate and secure his right
of ownership, and have power to dispose freely of the land."
Accordingly, certain conditions were inserted in the grant as
part of it, by the second of which, the colonist was bound to
build and inhabit a house on the land granted, within one year.
This was, therefore, the time allowed from the date of the grant,
for the fulfilment of the important condition on which an equitable claim to it hrose.
In-this case, the land was granted to Alvarado in February,
1844, and three years after, he conveyed to Colonel Fremont,
the petitioner. No possession had been taken by Alvarado before that time, nor any further act done to acquire a title,- than
the first step of obtaining the concession ; and if this step gave
him an equity to have a perfect title from the" Mexican government, then his equity is the same as against the United States.
In the first place, the 11th rule above cited declares that no
right accrues to the colonist unless he occupies the land; and in
the next place, the act of congress of March 3,1851,by the authority of which we are acting, declares, (§ 11,) that the board of
commissioners and the courts, deciding on California land
claims, shall be governed by the decisions of the supreme court
of the United States, so far as they are applicable.
By these decisions, it has been settled for many years, that a
Spanish concession, containing a cbndition of inhabitation and
cultivation, the performance of which is the consideration to be
paid for an ultimate perfect title, is void, unless the condition
was performed within the time prescribed by the ordinances of
Spain. It was so held in the case of the United States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet. 350. And the opinion then given was followed in
the cases of Buyek, 15 Pet. 222, and of Delespine, Tb. 319. But
the rule was more distinctly laid down in the case of the United
States v. Boisdor6, 11 How. 96. There the court said: " The
grantee might have his land surveyed, or he might decline; he
might establish himself on the land, or decline; these acts rested
wholly in his discretion. But, if he failed to take possession, and
establish himself, he had no claim to a title; his concession or

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

569

Fremont v, The United States.

first decree, in such case, had no operation. So the supreme
court of Louisiana hold, in Lafayette v. Blanic, 3 Louisiana Anti.
Rep. 60, aiid, in our judgment, properly. There, the grantee
never having had actual possession under his concession, the
court decided that he could set up.no claim to the 4and, at law,
or in equity. This case folloived Hooter v.Tippett, 17 La. Rep.
109. We take it to be undoubtedly true, that, if no actual possession was taken, under. a gratuitous concession, given for the
purpose of cultivation, or of raising cattle, during the existence
of the Spanish government, no equity was imposed on our government to give any consideration or effect to such concession,
or requite."
The case of Glenn et al. v. United States, 13 How. Z€ 9 ,
maintains the same doctrine. It was there declared, that, a
promise of performance, (that is, to inhabit and cultivate,) on
the part of Clamorgan, the grantee, -was the sole ground on
which the Spanish commandant made the concession ; that actual performance, by cultivating the land, was the consideration
on which a complete title could issue; .and that so far from
complying, Clamorgan never took a single step after his concession was made, and in 1809 conveyed for the paltry sum of
fifteen hundred dollars; and, under these circumstances, (says
the court,) we are called on to decide in his favor, according to
the principles of justice; this being the rule prescribed to us by
the. act of 1824, and the Spanish regulations. The court, then,
declares, that the claim had no justice in it, and to allow it would
be to sanction an attempt at an extravagant speculation merely;
referring to Boisdorg's case, as having established the principle
that occupation was indispensable, and the real consideration of
grants for purposes of inhabitation or cultivation.
But, it is insisted here that no possession was taken of the
land, nor a survey of it made, because of the danger from hostile Indians in its neighborhood. If this were a valid excuse,
then on the Indian borders grants would carry no substantial
conditions with them. The point is settled in the cases of
Kingsley, 12 Pet. 484, and of De Villemont, 13 How. 267, that
where the hostility of Indians was alleged as an excuse for not
occupying the land, and it appeared that the hostility existed
when the grant was made, and was merely continued, that then
the grantee could not be permitted to set up such an excuse.
Alvarado manifestly took the grant at his own risk, and if he
did not intend to perform the condition of inhabitation, or could
not do it, he must bear the consequences. To hold otherwise
would be to subvert the manifest design of the colonization
laws of Mexico, by reserving indefinitely, to singl individuals,
48*

SUPREME COURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

large bodies of uncultivated and unoccupied lands, in the instance before us, amounting to fifty thous. Ed arpens.
It is, I think, impossible to exempt this claim from the settled
doctrine, that occupation is a consideration indispensable to its
validity. It is thus laid down in various instances, and especially
in the cases above cited, of Boisdor6, of Glenn et al. and of De
Villemont; nor can this claim be sustained, unless they are
overruled, and the act of congress, declaring that this court is
bound by them, disregarded. The district judge, who rejected
this claim in California, held that he could not do so, and, in
my opinion, held properly. I give the conclusion of his opinion
as it is found in the record.
"But, in the case at bar, the time for making a settlement is
limited to one year. So far as appears, Alvarado never even
saw the tract he assumed to convey to Fremont, nor was any
settlement effected by the latter until a year after the ratification
of the treaty. It cannot be urged in this, as in other cases, that
the grant was not made complete by the assent of the assembly,
owing to accident or the neglect of the governor, for Alvarado
himself says it could not be submitted to them without the
diseno, or plan, which, on account of the hostilities of the
Indians, he was unable to furnish, and yet the danger from that
source existed at the time of his application, for he assigns it to
the governor as a reason why the diseno did not accompany the
petition.
" is urged that the political disturbances of the country
contributed to prevent the settlement; but I think it clear, from
the evidence, that the principal, if not the only reason why it
was not effected by Alvarado or Fremont until after the treaty,
was the danger from the savages, and that this danger existed
to substantially the same degree before and after the grant
"Upon the whole, after a most careful consideration of this
case, and with every desire to give the claimant the full benefit
of every favorable consideration to which he is entitled, I have
been unable to resist the conclusion that the cases of Glenn, of
De Villemont, and of Boisdor4, lay down for me rules of decision
applicable to this case, and from which I am not at liberty to
depart."
2. The next question is, whether a concession, which is in
fact a floating land warrant, seeking a location on any part of a
large region of country containing nine hundred square miles,
can be confirmed by this court, acting as it does, of necessity,
in a judicial capacity? The assumption thus to locate the ten
leagues asserts power in the claimant to have the land surveyed
at his discretion, either in a body, or in single tracts, so that they
adjoin each. other at any point of the respective surveys; in the

DECEMBER-TERM,
I

1854.

571

remont v. The United States.

latter form he did have them surveyed, and, in this form of
location, the grant was declared valid by the board of commssioners.
I understand the Mexisan laws as not to allow any such undefined floating claims. It is impossible to recognize them under
the act of 1824, the object of *hich was to colonize particular
tracts of land.
By that act, the petitioner was bound to describe the land
asked for "as distinctly as possible, by means of a map," accord
4ng to'which it was granted'; and next, he was required to
solicit from the proper -magistrate (usually the alcalde'of the
next pueblo) judicial possession of the land described; and this
magistrate was required to survey and designate the boundaries,
on the limits of which the party interested was bound to place
proper landmarks. Now, that Alvarado had no separate intereit
to any specific tract of land, was admitted on the argument; but
it was insisted that he was, and his assignee is, a tenant in
common, with the government, in all the country situate in a
region called Mariposas, lying within the limits of the. Sierra
Nevada, and the rivers known by the names of Chanchilles, of
the Merced, and the San Joaquin. In any part of this large
scope of country it is assumed the Mexican magistrate and
surveyor could have laid off the ten leagues, and that the surveyor-general of California can do the same now.
This claim, standing on the concession alone, lost its binding
operation in one year, and became void if the land was not
designated within that time, unless the time was enlarged, or
new conditions prescribed by the governor. So I understand
the eleventh rule of the regulations of 1828.
To hold that the Mexican government designed to leave in
force for an indefinite length of time large undefined concessions,
that might be surveyed at the election of the claimant at any
time and at any place, to the hindrance of colonization and to
the destruction of other interests, is an idea too extravagant to
be seriously entertained; so far from it, the Mexican colonization
laws contained more positive provisions, to the end of granting
distinct and known tracts of land to colonists, than did any
Spanish laws that have at any time been brought to the consideration of this court.
It is proper to remark that, by the Mexican laws, an assignee
could not be put into possession of land by force of the first
decree or concession. Alvarado alone could apply for judicial
possession. By the 11th rule, a possession could be transferred
when it wpa duly proved and recorded; but the alcalde could
not recognize an assignee as a colonist, because by the 3d rule
the governor was bound to judge of the fitness of the candidate ,

SUPREME

COURT.

Fremont v. The United States.

and, having decided as to his fitness, the alcalde was held to an
execution of that decision, and could not recognize an assignee.
We are here called on to award a patent for a floating claim
of fifty thousand arpens of land in the gold region of California, to an assignee whose vendor claimed under the colonization
laws of Mexico, but who never was a colonist, who never did
a single act under his contract to colonize, and who, it is admitted, could not have obtained a definite title from the political
department of the territory of California, to wit, from the departmental assembly, whose province it was to pass on and confirm
grants to colonists.
At law, this claim has no standing; it cannot be set up in an
ordinary judicial tribunal. It addresses itself to us as founded
on an equity incident to it by mere force of the contract, no part
of which was ever performed. The claim is as destitute of
merit as it can be, and has no equity in it; nor is it distinguishable from that of Clamorgan, which was pronounced invalid in
the case of Glenn et al. v. The United States.
If this claim is maintained, all others must likewise be, if the
first step of making the concession is proved to have been performed by the acting governor; as no balder case than the one
before us can exist in California, wherl the grant is not infected
x ith fraud or forgery.
And this presents a very grave consideration, affecting preemption rights. The country in California is filled up with
inhabitants cultivating the valleys and best lands, and where
they rely almost as confidently on their governrhent titles, founded on acts of congress, as if they had a patent for the land.
No other American title is known in the State of California,
except such as are founded on the preemption laws.
These agricultural people are quite as much contractors with
the United States as the Mexican grantees were contractors
with their government. By the acts of March 3, 1853, and
March 1, 18.54, congress promised to each settler who was on
the land March 1, 18.54, or might settle on it within two years
thereafter, 160 acres, to include his residence, at one dollar and
twenty-five cents an acre. This was a policy to populate the
country, which is yet in progress. That these occupants have
an equitable interest, and hold the land as purchasers, is the settled doctrine of the department of public lands, which exercises
jurisdiction over them. Much of labor and money has been
expended on the faith that a preference-right was a safe title,
and exempt from floating Mexican concessions, such as that
made to Alvarado, and now in litigation here. And this was most
natural. Incipieilt Mexican claims had no standing in an ordinary
court of justice, and congress created special courts to try them,

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

573

Fremont v. The United States.

and prescribed the laws and rules by which these courts should
be governed in their adjudicationas; and among other rules it was
provided, that the decrees of the supreme court of the United
States should govern where they applied. They thus had given
to them the force of a legislative enactment. These decisions
apply as a governing rule most emphatically to the requirement
of a specific location of Spanish claims, to which the court had
held litigants with a strictness often complained of, but always
necessary for the protection of the public and its alienees; and it
was the necessary consequence that cultivators of the soil should
believe themselves safe from the ruin that lurks in a floating
claim, familiar even to western ploughmen, many of whom remember'the history of exhausting and fierce litigation in their own
families for the paternal hearth, and who relied on the firm and
consistent decisions of this court to protect their new homes on
the Pacific. Nor do I think that any preemption right can be
included in a survey of the Alvarado claim, so as to make the
preference-right part of the land belonging to the grant, because
Col. Fremont's claim has never been located, and .our decree
cannot disturb innocent owners until it is located. It was so
held by this court, in the case of Menard v. Massey;'8 How, 309.
And unless that case is disregarded, one having a preferenceright cannot be deprived of his possession by this floating
claim.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissenting.
The concession, upon which the decree in favor of the United
States was pronounced, is for ten square leagues, to be located
in a district of country which contains above one hundred square
leagues. To the concession there is no plan or design to indicate the place of location; nor was there any survey, delivery of judicial possession, occupancy, or improvement, at any
time prior to the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo.- The conditions to the validity of a grant prescribed by the laws of colonization of Mexico, and which were specifically annexed to the
grant under consideration, made these necessary.
The case of Smith v. The United Stafes, 10 Pet. 326, and
many others where the doctrine of that case was applied, is, in
my opinion, conclusive of this. The claim arose on a petitipn
of St. Vrain to the governor-general of Louisiana, in November, 1795, praying for a grant, in full property to him and'his
heirs, of ten thousand superficial arpens, with the special permission to locate in separate pieces, upon different mines, of
vhatever nature they may be, without obliging him to make
a settlement; .which grant, as prayed for, was granted by the
governor-general, in February, 1796.

574

SUPR EME CGURT.
Fremont v. The United States.

The court, in that case, collect some of the principles which
had been, employed by the court in the settlement of claims
under the treaties of Florida and Louisiana. "We have held,"
they say, "that, in ascertaining what titles would have been
perfected if no cession had been made to the United States,
we must refer to the general course of the law of Spain; to
local usage and custom; and not what might have been
done by ' the special favor or arbitrary power of the king or his
officers."
"It has also been distinctly decided," they say, "in the Florida cases, that the land claimed must have been severed from
the general domain of the king, by some grant which gives it
locality by its terms, by reference to some description, or by a
vague general grant, with an authority to locate afterwards by
survey, making it definite; which grant or authority to locate
must have been made befc -' the treaty of cession, (that is, 24th
January, 1818.)
The court then coming to the case under consideration, describes it as a "grant to vest in the petitioner a title in full
property to all the lands in the province containing minerals,
which he might at any time locate, in quantitis to suit hia
own pleasure." " Its condition at the cession was precisely as
it was at the date of the grant there was no evidence that the
grantee had done or offered to do any act, or made any claim
or demand, asserting or affirming any right under the grant."
The court say, that, at the date of the surrender of Louisiana,
"there was not an arpen on which his right had any.local habitation ; until a location was made, it was a mere authority to
locate, which he might have exercised at his pleasure, both as
to time and plfce, by the agency of a public surveyor authorized to separate lands from the royal domain by a survey pursuant to a grant, warrant, or order of survey.
"At the time of the cession, nothing' had been so severed,
either by a public or private surveyor, or any act done by which
the king could in any way be considered as a trustee for St
Vrain, for any portion of the ten thousand arpens; and there
was no spot in the whole ceded territory in which he had, or
could claim, an existing right of property. An indispensable
prerequisite to such right was some act by which his grant
would acquire such locality as to attach to some spot; until this
was done, the grant could by no possibility have been perfected
into a complete title. It is clear, therefore, that the integrity of
the public domain had in no way been affected by this grant,
(in March, 1804,) at the treaty of cession."
Here was a grant, "in full property," from the highest political authority having the power to make grants - without con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

575

Fremont v. The United States.

dition or limitation as to the manner or time of the surveypronounced invalid, for the reason that, when the sovereign
parted -with the territory, it had no definite location nor limit.
The concession now before the court agrees with the one we
have considered, as being indefinite, attaching to 4o particular
spot in a large extent of territory. The Mexican governor of
California declares it to'be the property of the grantee by the
letters then issued, not in full property, but as "subject to the
approbation of the most excellent departmental assembly, and
to conditions underwritten." Among these conditions are those
of a survey and delivery of possession by a public officer, and
occupancy and improvement in a. limited period. For very
nearly four years, while the land remained is the property of
Mexico, no act was done, nor right asserted to any portioi of
the ten square leagues, and .nothing was performed to distinguish them from any other part of the public domain. The
integrity of the public domain in this district had never been
disturbed at the treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo, even by a visit
from the grantee.
The case of Rutherford v. Greene's Heirs, 2 Wheat. 196, does
not conflict, in my judgment, with the case I have cited. The
question in that case was, whether an act of a state legislature,
appropriating a certain number of acres in a particular district
of country, "to be allotted" by public officers named in the act,
and, after that allotment was perfe.cted, whether it amounted to
a legal or equitable title, (for the case was in chancery,) to the
particular lot of land, against a claimant under a subsequent
entry or purchase from the State. To make that case parallel
to this, the claim of the grantee should have rested upon the
general grant only, without the completing process of the allotment. The analogy fails, in respect to the present case, at the
point where the question of doubt is suggested.
In the'case of Smith, this-court considered the effect of the
acts of the grantee, performed after the treaty of cession, toards
locating the grant, and whether they had any relation back to
the date of the title, so as to unite with it and give definiteness
to it. And the court say, that the surveys must be performed
by public officers, under a legal authority, as a public trust, and
that this was the law of both the United States and of Spain.
And that the United States, having acquired the territory by
cession, were entitled to hold it discharged of all claims, where
the specific lands could not be identified by the description in
the grant, or a supplementary survey.
The doctrine of this case has been applied with uniformity
by this court, in a long series of cases, some of which -with a
degree of strictness bordering upon severity. Lecompte. v.

576

SUPREME COURT.
Webb ct al. v. Den.

United States, 11 How. 119; United States v. King, 3 Ib.773;
S. C. 7 1b. 833; United States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet 334; Bissell
v., Penrose, 8 How. 317.
The non-fulfilment of these conditions, it was competent to
Mexico to overlook or to forgive.
It is probable that, in the lax administration of her laws, in
the distant province of California, all investigation would have
been avoided, if the cession to the United States had not been
made. It is equally within the power of congress to remit the
consequences attaching to the omissions, and to concede as a
grace what, in California, might have been yielded from indolence or indulgence.
But congress has chosen to deal with the subject of titles in
California, upon principles of law, embracing in that term the
whole body of jurisprudence applicable to the subject; and that
the solution of all the questions arising upon them shall be
made by courts of justice acting upon their fixed rules of judgment. Among the guides it has directed us to follow are the
decisions of this court in analogous cases. In my opinion, the
cases I have cited contol this case, and I do not feel at liberty
to depart from what is to me their clear and manifest import.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard 'on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of California, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that the
claim of the petitioner to the land, as described and set forth in
the record, is a good and valid claim; whereupon it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the said district court in this cause be and the same is hereby
reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

GRAY P.

WEBB AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN E"ROR, V. JOHN
DEN, LESSEE OF POLLY WEATHERHEAD.

In 1839, the legislature of Tennessee passed a law containing the following provision, namely: "That whenever a deed has been registered twenty years, or
more, the same shall be presumed to be upon lawful authority, and the probate shall
be good and effectual, though the certificate on which the same has been registered,
has not been transferred to the register's books, and no matter what has been the
form of the certificate'of probate or acknowledgment.

