30

SUPREME

COURT.

The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

he was authorized to appeal from the decision of the principal
deputy, an d the surveyor-general south of Tennessee, tO the
Commissioner of the general land-office; and from his decision,
if unfavorable, to the secretary of the treasury.
Congress contemplated that these lands should be divided
among front proprietors, by a surveyor on the ground, aided by
his principal; these officers were bound to act according to their
best judgment, and deoide as judges on the equities of these
claimants; nor could the courts of justice interfere to control
their acts, if they were honestly performed; the contrary of
which is not alleged in this case.
This construction of the law is altogether necessary, as great
confusion and litigation would ensue if the judicial tribunals,
state and federal, were permitted to interfere and overthrow
the public surveys on no other ground than an opinion that they
could have the work in the field better done, and divisions more
equitably made, than the department of public lands could do.
It is ordered that the judgment of the supreme court of
Louisiana be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the supreme court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said supreme court in this cause b6, anD the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said supreme court, with directions for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court, as to law and justice shall appertain.

THE YORK AND MARYLAND LINE RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. Ross WINANS.
* railroad company, organized under a charter from Pennsylvania, is responsible for
the infraction of a patent right respecting cars, although the entire capital stock of
the company was held by a connecting railroad company in Maryland, which latter
company also worked the road by the instrumentality of its agents, and motive
power, and cars.
The obligations to the community which the Pennsylvania company is placed under
by its charter, cannot be evaded by any transfer of its rights and powers to another
company; and in this case, the Pennsylvania company contributes to the expense
of working the road, and of paying the officers and agents who are employed.
Courts will not allow corporations to escape from their proper responsibility, by means

of any disguise.

DECEMBER TERM,. 1854.
The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.
Where the prtent was signed by an acting commissioner of patents, it was not necessary to aver or prove that he was legally entitled to act in that capacity. The court
will judicially take notice of the persons who preside over the patent-office, whether
they do so permanently or transiently.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsyl.vania.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. X Ml!ason Campbell, and
rTr.
.Tohnson,
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. St. George T. Campbell,
and X1r. Latrobe, for the defendant.
The points made by the counsel for the plaintiff in error, -were
the following: The court below (Judge Kane) charged the jury, in substance,
that, as the-infraction complained of was committed on the road
of the plaintiff in error, though the cars were owned by the Baltimore and Susquehanna Ralroad Company, the plaintiff in
error was responsible in this action, because the profits accruing
from the use of the cars were divided between the two companies.
He also charged the jury, that in estimating the amouht of
damages, they were to be guided by the sum which had been
fixed by the .witnesses as the fair compensation for an annual
license for each car, and were to allow such sum annually, for
each car, for a period of six years antecedently to the institution
of the suit.
The plaintiff in error will contend that the learned judge
below erred in both parts of his charge:1. -Asto the liability of the plaintiff in error. The cars, which
were assumed to be made in violation of the patent of the defendant in error, were not built by, and did not belong to, theplaintiff in error. It is not liable, therefore, for their construction, nor is it pretended that it has sold any. If liable at all, it
is for a use of the cars.
Now, in point of fact, it did not run the cars in question over
its road.
The whole transportation was done by the BaItimore and
Susquehanna Railroad Company; and if there has been any
user by the plaintiff in error of cars, in violation of the patent of
the defendant in error, it is a constructive user, growing out of
the agreement between it and the Baltimore and Susquehanna
Railroad Company, by which one third of the net revenut from
transportation is credited to it, and a user in fact, under that
agreement, by the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company.

32

SUPREME COURT.
The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

This agreement is supposed, by the learned judge below, to
do one of two things; either to constitute the relation of principal and agent between the two corporations, or to make them
partners.
As to the first view, it may be observed, that the subject of
the agency being the running of the cars, and the plaintiff in
error having nothing to do with the running, it can hardly be
deemed an agent, in the face of the fact that it does nothing in
the agency. With still less plausibility can it be regarded as a
principal; its supposed agent in that case, the Baltimore and
Susquehanna Railroad Company, not only owning and running
the obnoxious cars itself, but doing so by force of its own power
in the premises.
As to the other view, to wit, that of a partnership between
the plaintiff in error and the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, a more extended examination is necessary.
In the first place, it seems impossible -to establish this hypothesis, without conceding that these two corporations would
have had a right to form a partnership expressly. Whether the
partnership be express or implied, only relates to the nature of
the evidence by which it is shown. The thing is the same,
however proved. Now, the power to form a partnership is one
which corporations do not possess, unless it be given in express
terms, or by necessary implication. Sharon Canal Co. v. Fulton
Bank, 7 Wend. 412; Canal Bridge v. Gordon, 1 Pick. 305.
There are neither such words nor implication' in the present
instance, and, of consequence, no partnership can be deduced
where the power to create that relation is wanting.
If, however, the power be conceded, and no partnership has
been in terms formed, it is only to be implied, in law, from the
division of the net profits of transportation between the two
corporations, provided for by their agreement.
But the reception of a part of the profits is not always
attended with this consequence. Seamen and clerks may receive their pay in this form without becoming partners thereby,
either inter se or as to third persons. So a landlord may get his
rent in the shape of profits, and not be made a partner by such
receipt. The test seems to be in the animus of the parties as to
the reservation of profits, and not in the reservation itself. If
their purpose be compensation, merely, to one fuinishing something necessary to the business, a partnership is not held to be
created. Such is the present case, where it is plain that the object was merely to compensate the plaintiff in error for the use of
its road, and to make the rent therefor commensurate with the
use. Story on Part. §§ 36, 38; 3 Kent's Comm. 33; Perrine v.
Hankenson, 6 Halsted, 181 ; Heimstreet v. Howland, 5 Denio, 38;

83

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
The York and maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

Heckert v. Fegely, 6 Watts and Serg. 143; Boyer v. Anderson,
2 Leigh, 550; Loomis v. Marshall, 12 Conn. 69 ; Collyer on
Part. § 44, and note.
Conceding, however, argumenti gratid, that the relation of
principal and agent, or of partners, existed between the two
c :rporations, it cannot be denied that the infringements complained of were not committed by the plaintiff in error, but by
the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company.
Now, the tortious acts of the company last named cannot be
considered as acts done in the ordinary course of the business
between it and the plaintiff in error, whatever be the relation
between these parties; and to make the plaintiff in error responsible, it mubt be shown to be privy to their commission, before.
or after. Story on Agency, § 455; Collyer on Part. § 457 ; Keplinger v. Young, 10 Wheat. 358, 363.
But the learned judge below excludes altogether this element
of accountability, and makes the plaintiff in error liable, without
putting the fact of privity to the jury.
2. The charge below is also erroneous as to the amount of
damages recoverable.
It gave the jury to understand, that they could find against
the plaintiff in error for a user of the patent of the defendant in
error, for six years preceding the commencement of the suit.
But the declaration only charged (Recoid 4) a user during
the term of seven years, for which the extension- of the patent
hVad been granted.
Now, the seven years' extension began only on the 1st October, 1848, and all, therefore, that was recoverable under the
declaration, was for a user from the 1st October, 1848, to the
time of suit brought, (April, 1851,) a period of less than three
years, instead of six, as charged.
3. The suit being only for infringements committed during
the extension of the patent, it is further submitted, that the
extension being by the acting commissioner of patents, is unavailing to give the defendant'in error any rights.
If this court, in 4 How. 646, meant to affirm the validity of
the acts of such a functionary, as is supposed by Mr. Justice
Woodbury, in 1 Woodbury and Mffinot, 248, -this point is not
now open; but if it be open, the plaintiff in error.relies on the
first and second sections of the patent act of 1846, as governing
the patent-office, -to the exclusion of the acts of 1792 and 1795.
1 Stat. at Large, 281, 415.
The counsel for the defendant in error made the fQllowing
points: -

1. The extension of the patent by the aoting commissioner,

~c.-(The -argument upon this head is omitted.)

-

SUPREM1E

COURT.

The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v.

Winans.

The remaining exceptions to the charge of the judge, were: 1. " That the York and Maryland Line Railroad Company,
and the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad Company, were
two distinct companies as to third persons." The force of this
exception is not clearly apprehended. If it is meant to convey
the idea, that the judge should have charged, that the two companies were the same, and not 1; two distinct companies as to
third persons," it is difficult to perceive, first, how it could have
been sustained in point of law; or, second, how it would serve
the defendants below. They were two corporations, had two
charters, from different sovereignties, and had never been united
by law. How could the judge say, then, that they were not
two distinct companies?
But if they were the same company as to third persons, the
judge should (as this exception supposes) have so charged; and
then the main point of defence, that the use by one was not the
use by the other,. would have utterly failed.
In fact, however, upon this point, all the judge said was, that
if there were two tort feasors, a suit could be maintained against
either, - for which proposition no"authority is needed.
2. The second exception to the charge is: In charging, further, that, whether the relation between them
was that of agency or partnership, the liability of defendants was
the same.
As a legal proposition, standing singly, this can hardly be
questioned.
One of two partners is liable to an action for an infringement,
as for any other tort committed by his authority, or participated
in by him. This was all the judge said. He was not asked to
charge,
1. That two corporations cannot form a contract of copartnership.
2. Or, that, under the evidence in this cause, there was no
proof of partnership.
3. Or, that there was no evidence of agency by which the
defendants could be'held liable.
Not being asked, he expressed no opinion on the point, but
simply said, whether the relations were those of partners, or
principal and agent, neither would affect the plaintiff's right.
In this, there was, it is admitted, no error. If the defendant desired specific instructions, they should have been prayed.
The judge, by limiting hie illustration to partnership or agency,
actually favored the defendants; for he might have charged, that,
under the facts, no matter'by what name the relation of the
companies was called, the defendants were liable, participating,
as they did, in the tort. Grant that no copartnership contract
can lawfully be made between two corporations; yet, if they

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

35

The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

did make it, shall they be allowed to allege its unlawfulness
against a third party, whose property is tortiously used for their
profit?
If they do make such a bargain, whether lawful or otherwise,
and it result in a use by them of the patented improvement, the
unlawfulness of the contract by which the use was accomplished
can be no defence.
. They are complained of for one unlawful act, and this would
be to defend it by showing another.
If they participated in the use of the patented thing, no matter
how, whether under a lawful or unlawful contract, they are liable.
It is the doing of the thing, and not the mode in which it is
done, that is complained of.
Without defining the relations of the parties, the defendants,
upon this view, are clearly liable.
Whether the contract was lawful or unlawful, its effect was
to make the act of one the act of the other; the use by one the
use by the other.
If, however, the relation of the two companies is here to be
considered, and its character, not made the subject of an express
point in the court below, is to be argued, it will b6 contended,
that such a use of the thing patented was proved as made the
defendants liable, in any view that can be taken of the case.
1. Whether the use proved was to be regarded as a direct
and independent use by the defendants below.
2. Or, as a use through their agerfts, (the Maryland company,)
with their knowledge, by their authority, upon their property,
and of which use they directly received a portion of the profits.
3. Or, as a use, as a partner, with the Maryland company, paying a proportion of losses by, and receiving a proportion of
the pr )fits, as such, from, the use.
4. Or, whether contributing, as they did, their road, which was
essential to the availability of the cars of the Susquehanna company, the defendants below were to be looked upon, as suggested
by the judge's.charge, as the agents of the former company.
1. There was evidence of a di:ect and independent use by the
defendants below, to the prejudice of the patentee.
The defendants were a Pennsylvania company, fully organized,
and having possession of their road.
The uses made of their road, were their own uses. The road
and the cars upon it are a single machine, the use of a part of
which involves the use of all other parts. The cars are useless without the road. "he road is useless without the cars. The terms
upon which the cars are permitted to be used are immaterial.
The injury complained of is the use.
It is this which distinguishes this case from the case of Kep-

SUPREME COURT.
The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

linger v. Young, in 10 Wheaton, 358. There Young was
held not to be liabie, because lie only purchased the product
of a machine; but it would have been different, had he taken
the machine into his own keeping, and used it
Indeed, in that case, the court intimate, that had the facts,
from which it might fairly have been inferred that Young
used the machine, been before them, the result might have been
different.
2. Even if the fact of the ownership of the cars by the Maryland company is inconsistent with this view, yet the Maryland
company using the defendants' road, only through their consent,
can occupy no other position than that of agents, for whose
acts, done in the course of their business, the principals must be
responsible, especially as they are directly benefited by them.
The Pennsylvania company may, by law, run cars on their
own road. The Maryland company has no right to do so, by
law, within Pennsylvania. Their charter gives and can give
o such authority, and such running would be a nuisance, if
one by them in Pennsylvania, and could not be justified under
their own charter. The Pennsylvania company, duly chartered,
build a road; they need rolling stock, and the patented cars are
used as such, and they receive one third of the net profits of the
earnings thereof. Without this, the Maryland company could
not use the Pennsylvania road; by it, they become, for a fluctuating compensation, the agents of the Pennsylvania company,
to stock and run their road. If there can be no partnership, they
enter Pennsylvania by virtue of this agency alone. A portion
of the things done by them in the fulfilment of that agency, by
the authority, with the sanction, and upon the property of the
defendants, is to use the patented improvement. A proportion
of the repairs upon it are charged to the principal; a portion
of th6 profits from its use is paid to the principal. No authorities are needed to show, that, for an injury by an agent, the
principal or the agent may be sued. The ownership of the infringing machine is immaterial; its use alone is in controversy;
and it will be submitted, that such an use, by an agent, as is
here proved, will render the principal liable.
3. Or, regarding the use as the result of a partnership, with
the Maryland company, the defendants paying a proportion of
losses and receiving a proportion of the profits, as such, from
the use, the latter must be liable to the patentee.
Under this head, the second of the exceptions to the charge
of the judge will be properly considered.
There was some relation between the companies, surely. What
was it? If in fact, it be, that the Maryland company were
simply using a Pennsylvania charter to carry on their business -

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
The York and'Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

a change 'of name merely-the stock, property, and every thing
being owned by the same parties, then, in Pennsylvania, the
Maryland company's use was the Pennsylvania company's use.
The judge does not, however, define the character of this
relation; he was not called upon to do so.
If it were needful, it might be well contended that the relation
of the companies was that of partnership. Corporations may
form partnerships under circumstances, so far, at least, as to
preclude them from setting up separate rights to the prejudice of
third persons.
In the case of Canal Bridge v. Gordon, 1 "Pick.297, which whs
a case where a bridge and an embankment leading to it were
owned by different corporations, Parker, C. J., after referring to
the technical diffculties of considering several corporations as
copartners, goes on to say, what covers precisely the present
controversy, "and yet, if they are all composed of the same
individuals using several corporate powers for the same end and
purpose, with hothing but the form of a record to distinguish
them, equity would seem to require that they should riot be
allowed to sever to the prejudice of any person with whom
either might contract."
And, for the same reason, where both are benefited by the
wrong done by one of them, they should not be allowed to sever.
That 'contracts of the same nature are looked upon and
treated as partnerships, will further appear by reference to the
following authorities: 4 Law and Equity Reports, 171; 2 Law
and Equity Reports, 319.
In the present case, there was every element required to form
a partnership contract.
It is not the case where a portion of the gross receipts was
used as a mode of calculating rent, as in 5 Denio, 6S, cited by
plaintiff in error, but a right to a share of the net profits, as such,
which that case decides to be a criterion of partnership. Nor is
it the case in 17 Wendell, 412, where it was held that two corpo-.
rations cannot suejohitly, as corporations, in contract; but where
it was not held that if, in fact, such copartnership existed,
either could escape liability for a tort arising in that relation,
by alleging its unlawfulness.
The law of New York, upon this question of partnership liability to third persons, is clearly settled in Bostwick v. Champion,
11 Wend. 571, where it was held that where A, B, and C run a
line of coaches, the route being divided between them into
sections; each furnishing his own horses and coaches, and hiring
drivers, and paying the e.,penses of his own section, the fare,
less the tolls, being divided in proportion to the number of miles
VOL. XVII.

4

88

SUPREME COURT.
The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

run, that a passenger injured by negligence of the drivers of A's
coach, might sue them all.
The court is referred to the opinion of Judge Nelson, at page
584, and to same case, Chancellor Walworth's opinion, 18
Wendell, 175.
A division of profits, as profits, and a right to file a bill for an
account, may be regarded as conclusive evidence of a copartnership contract.
Both, it is submitted, concur here.
The distinction, which it is believed will reconcile all the
cases, is between a stipulation for a compensation proportioned
to the profits, and one for an interest in such profits.
To this effect the cases are numerous. See Carey on Part.
9; Story on Part. 36; Bissett on Part. 4; Collyer on Part. 44,
and the cases here cited.
Every element referred to by these authorities exists here.
If they may so contract as partners, it will be c intended, that
the evidence exhibits every feature required by law for that
relatien.
If not liable as joint tort feasors, or partners, from want of
legal authority to make such a contract, or if the contract as
made does not by law create this relation, still, the defendants
are liable by reason of the use made of this road by the Susquehanna company.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff is a corporation existing under a charter from
the State of Pennsylvania, and authorized to construct a railroad
from the town of York to the Maryland line.
Its stock was
subscribed for by the Baltimore and Susquehanna railroad
company, a Maryland corporation, and their joint capital is
vested in a continuous railroad from the city of Baltimore to
York. The management of the road is committed to the
Maryland company, which appoints the officers and agents upon
it, and furnishes the rolling stock necessary for its operation.
The president and secretary of the two companies are the
same. The directors of the Pennsylvania corporation (plaiRtiff) are selected by the Maryland company, and are qualified
by a transfer of one or more shares of its stock to them, shortly
before an election, and which they return on vacating their
office. This nominal organization is made necessary by the
charter, which requires that the majority of the officers shall be
citizens of Pennsylvania, and that annual reports of the condition and business of the company shall be rendered to the
legislature. To preserve appearances with the legislature, an
annual statement is made.

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

39

The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. r. Winans.

In this, the gross receipts of the entire road for the year are
ascertained, and the expenses deducted; the balance is then
divided, one third being assigned to the plaintiff; but no
In these expense
money passes betveen the corporations.
accounts, the salaries of officers, conductors, and engineers, the
cost of locomotives and fuel, of the repairs and insurance of
cars, and the losses of business, enter as constituent items. It
was admitted upon the trial of tile cause, that a nun.ber of cars
made according to the -pecification of the patent of the defendant, had been used upon-the road without his license, and for
which he brought this suit. A verdict was rendered in his
favor, and the judgment thereon is brought to this court, upon
exceptions to the instructions of the eircuit court, to the jury.
The court charged the jury, that the road on which the infraction was committed was held under a Pennsylvania charter to
the defendant in that court; that the transportation on the road
was carried on" by the Maryland corporation; and that the
profits acruing from the use of the cars upon the road, that is,
the profits- of the infraction, are nominally divided behveen the
two companies. That, upon these facts, the plaintiff is entitled
to recover against the present defendants, whether they -are to
be regarded as partners, or as principal, or agent of the Maryland corporation.
The plaintiff complains here of this charge, for that the cars
employed were not built by, and did not belong to the company;
that they were the exclusive property of the Maryland corporation; and that the agreement to divide the p'iofits did not
constitute a partnership, nor evince a relation of principal or
agent to impose a liability. This conclusion implies, that the
duties imposed upon the plaintiff by the charter, are fulfilled by
the construction of the road, and that by alienating its right to
use, and its powers of control and supervision, it may avoid
further responsibility. But those acts involve an oveertun of
the relations which the charter has arranged between the corporation and tile iommunity. Important franchises were conferred upon the corporation to enable it to provide the facilities
to communication and intercouse, required for the public convenience. Corporate management and control over these were
prescribed, and corporate responsibility for their insufficiency
provided, as a remuneration to the community for their grant.
The corporation cannot absolve itself from the performance of
its obligations, without the consent of the legislature. Beman
v. Rufford, 1 Simon, N. S. 550. Winch v. B. and L. Railway
Company, 13 L. and E. 506.
If, then, the case had terminated with the facts that the
infringement of the defendant's patent had taken place, by the

SUPREME

COURT.

The York and Maryland Line Rdilroad Co. v. Winans.

acts of persons using the corporate name of the plaintiff, with
the assent of the corporate authorities, their liability would have
been fixed.
But the case before us is, that the motive power oti the road
partly belongs to the plaintiff; that the agents and officers employed are in its service and are paid by it; and that the cars
are fitted and repaired at the common expense of the two corporations. It follows, therefore, that the plaintiff is a principal,
cooperating with another corporation, in the infliction of a
wrong, and is directly responsible for the resulting damage.
Nor will the plea that the corporation has no independent nor
responsible existence, as regards the Maryland company, and
that its display of a president and directors, of conductors,
engineers, and agents, of annual elections and annual statements, import only a formal and illusive representation before
the legislature of Pennsylvania, or their constituents, of a compliance w,ith the Gonditions of the charter, avail the plaintiff
It is certainly true that the law will strip a corporation or individual of every disguise, and enforce a responsibility according
to the very right, in despite of their artifices. And it is equally
certain that, in favor of the right, it will hold them to maintain
the truth of the representations to which the public has trusted,
and estop them from using their simulation as a covering or
defence. Welland Canal Co. v. Hathaway, 8 Wend. 480.
The supreme court of Pennsylvania, in Peters v. Ryland, 8
Harris, 497, has announced principles decisive of this case.
The court held that the owner of a passenger car employed
on a railroad belonging to the State, and the motive power and
superintendence of which is furnished by the State, is responsible fof the misconduct of the public agents. It says: "The
case before them is sui generis; but it comes much nearer to
that class of decisions in which it has been held, that several
parties engaged in carrying over different portions of the same
line of conveyance, each sharing in the profits of the whole
route, and of course of each section of it, are all responsible
for the faithful discharge of their duty, and liable to respond in
damages for any injury which results from the negligence or
unskilfulness of any of the proprietors and servants." 11 Wend.
571; 18 Ib.175; 19 Ib.534.
" The State, as well as the carrier, is paid for every passenger
transported on this railroad, which shows their community of
interest; and if there be a common liability, that of the State
cannot be enforced by action; and this circumstance does not
diminish that of the carrier; because they have a common
interest, however, and share the business of transportation, it
is appareit that in holding the party before us to answer for the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

41

The United States v. Daniel W. Coxe.

negligence of the State's agents, we do not punish one man for
the misfeasance of another's servants."
The objection taken to the patent, that it is signed by" an
acting commissioner of patents," and that the record contains
no averment nor proof of his title to the office, is-not tenable.
The court will take notice judicially of the persons who from
time to time preside over the patent office, whether permanently
or transiently, and the production of their commission is not
necessary to support their official acts. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4
How. 686.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs, and
interest until paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the State of Pennsylvania.

ElE UNirED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DANIEL W.

COXE AND

OTHERS.
The principles affirmed in the cases of the United States v. King and others, 7 How.
833, and of the United States v. Tamer's Heirs, 11 How. 663, again established.

THis was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the eastern distrief of Louisiana.
In June, 1846, Coxe and thirteen others filed a petition in the
district court, under the acts of Congress passed in 1824 and
1844, the purport of which acts has been so often explained in
the preceding volumes of these reports, that it is unnecessary
now to recapitulate it.
The United States pleaded the general issue; and the cause
was tried, without the intervention of a jury, and judgment rendered in favor of the petitioners, on the 30th of May, 1849.
The United States prayed an appeal in open court, which
was allowed on the 6th of June, 1849.
It -was argued by Mr. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the,
United States, who made only the following points, viz.Without any more particular statement of the law or the
4'x

