SUPREME COURT.
Wanzer et al. v.. Truly.

shares, but it is not admitted that they were allowed to them in
the partition. The evidence does not identify and establish, as
against the defendant, the right claimed by the complainant.
The decree of the circuit court, which dismissed the bill, is
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the district 'court of the United States for the
district of Iowa, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

Moses

WANZER AND

JABEZ HARRISON,

NETT R.

AND

J1.

H.

APPELLANTS,

V.

BEN-

TRULY.

Where a promissory note was given, in Mississippi, for the purchase of slaves, the
title of the vendor of which afterwards proved to be defective, but in the mean
time a foreign creditor of the vendor had laid an attachment in the hands of the
vendee, for the amount of the promissory note, and obtained judgment against him
as I;arnishee, the purchaser of the slaves should be credited upon the judgment
agatnst him, with the value of The slaves at the time when they were taken away
from him, and the damagcs, costs, and expenses actually paid upon the decrees of
the courtof chancery in Mississippi.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of Mississippi.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Coxe, for the appellants, and by A1r
Brent and Mr. May, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee (B. R. Truly) purchased of J. R. Herbert, in
1836, in Mississippi, five slaves, for whom he gave two notes,
one of which for $3,575, was payable in March, 1838, at a
banking-house in Brandon, with ten per cent. interest till paid.
Another note for the same sum has been collected. During the
year 1837, the appellants recovered a judgment in the circuit
court against Herbert, who had absconded in insolvent circumstances. In 1.839, a process of garnishment was served upon
the appellee before named, who acknowledged the existence of
this note, and a judgment was rendered against him. An execution issued, a levy was made, a forthcoming bond was taken,

DECEMBER TEIM, 1854.

585

Wanzer et al. v. Truly.-

and a forfeiture of it returned; upon this bond, J. H. Truly was
a surety. In 1840, an injunction was obtained by the 6ppellees,
upon the allegation (inter alia) that they had heard that the
slaves, which form the consideration of the notes, -were the
property of certain minor children in Alabama, whose guardian
ad fraudulently removed and'sold them to Herbert. This bill
was before this court and.was dismissed. 5 Howard, S. C.
R. 141.
While the suit was in this court, the minor children referred
to, instituted suits in the court of chancery in IMlissisppi, (by
sequestrating the property,) against the appellee or his assig.-.
and which resulted, duripg the progress of the present-suit, in
the recovery of two of the slaves, and nine tenths interest in a
third, with the damages for their loss of service.
The original bill was filed in the present suit, in anticipation
of this result, and alleges the death of Herbert and his vendor,
(Nicholson,) in Texas, insolvent; and that the appellees were
willing to release their claim on the slaves as derived from
them, and surrender the defence of the s.uits to the appellants,
and call upon them to take their place. -The fact of the recoveries subsequently is brought to the notice of the court through
supplemental bills. The circuit court decreed a perpetual injunction in favor of the appellees. The averment of the out-standing paramount title in the wards of Nicholson, and which
the appellees had only heard of from common report, which
appeared in the former suit, was disposed of by this court as
insufficient, for that the appellees then "retained possession of
the property without a threat of molestation."
The rule of the courts of Mississippi, as well as of this court,
is, that, except in special cases, a vendee in possession cannot,
at law or in equity, contest the payment of the purchase-money
stipulated in a contract of sale, by an alleged defect of title, but
reliance must be placed on the covenants it cont ins.
Gilpin v. Smith, 11 S. and VL 109; Dennis v. Heath, Ibid.
206; 2 Wheat. 13; 3 Pet. 310; 3 Porter, 127; 19 John. 77.
The disturbance of the possession by the orders and process
of the court of chancery, the imminence of the danger from the
title propounded in those suits, and the insolvency and death
of the warrantors, were facts which authorized th6 circuit court
to take equitable cognizance of the present complaint of the
appellees, and to administer relief. The rule of the civil law,
that the price of the sale of real property cannot be recovered
by the vendor if the vendee has been disturbed in his possession
by prior incumbrances or paramount titles, or has just grounds
for apprehension on that account, (Pothier de Vente, ยง 280,)
is the rule of chancery where there has been fraud, nwhere the

586

SUPREME COURT.
Wanzer et al. v. Truly.

covenants of warranty are inadequate to the. protection of the
vendee by reason of the insolvency of the vendor.
In Bumpus v. Platner, 1 John. Ch. R. 213, Chancellor Kent
said: "I consider an eviction at law an indispensable part of
the claim to relief here, on the mere ground of a failure of consideration." And in Abbott v. Allen, 2 John. Ch. R. 519, he
said: "If there be no fraud in the case, the purchaser must
resort to his covenants if he apprehends a failure or a defect of
title, and wishes relief before eviction."
But in the last case he suggests, "that existing incumbrances
which appeared to admit of no dispute," or "where an adverse
title is put forward," "or an adverse proceeding threatened,"
might support an injunction till the title was ascertained at law.
And in Johnson v. Gere, 2 John. Ch. R. 547, he administered
relief in accordance with these suggestions. A learned successor of this eminent jurist, with these cases before him,
determined that when "the covenants have been actually
broken, and the grantor is insolvent, a court of equity may
restrain him from proceeding to collect the whole amount of
the purchase-money, and may offset the damages occasioned
by the breach of the covenants of seisin or warranty, against
such unpaid purchase-money. Woodruff v. Bunce, 9 Paige,
443.
And this conclusion is -supported by well considered adjudications in other courts of the States. 2 Dana, 276; 1 Ib. 303;
5 Leigh, 39, 607; 8 Ala. Rep. 920; 1 Black. 384; Carver v.
Miller, 10 Ala. Rep.
The question arises whether the equity we have considered,
of the vendee to protection from the insolvency of the vendor,
has been modified or defeated by the pursuit of the attaching
creditor in the circuit court. The proceeding by garnishment
is designed. to subject a debt due to the defendant, to the payment of the demand of his creditor, by investing the creditor
with a judicial power to collect and apply the amount due.
The claim of the attaching creditor against the defendant is
only extinguished by a satisfaction of his demand by the garnishee. The garnishee is entitled to make at law legal defences, and his equities must be sought in a court of chancery.
17 Ala. 4.5.5; 5 Met 263; 2 Wash. C. C. R. 488.
The statutes of Mississippi do not assign any extraordinary
effect to the judgment condemning the debt in the hands of the
garnishee, nor do they enlarge the rights of tli attaching creditor beyond those of any other assignee of a chose in action.
The equity of the vendee to be indemnified from the purchasemoney in his hands, for a breach of the covenants of warranty
by an insolvent vendor, originates in the contract, and inheres

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

587

Wanzer et al. v. Truly.

to it so long as any part of it is executory. The equity of the
attaching creditor does not arise in the contract, and is subsequent to its formation. In claiming the benefit of the "fund,
he renders no service to the vendee, and releases none of'his
rights against the vendor. He may fail in realizing hopes or
anticipations by the defeat of bis *suitagainst the garnishee, but
his judgment against his debtor remains in operation. 'Where
a party contracts specifically for property, pays money, acquires
a legal title without notice of an equity, a court of chancery
will not disturb his legal position. But there is no principle
upon which a court of chancery is required to iriply that a proceeding by a defendant, through the intervention of his creditor,
to subject a legal- demand, unconnected with any equity- a
demand which equity, would not permit him to collect in his
own'name, in cqnsequence df the failure of, consideration, shall
divest the garnishee of equitable claims and defences.
The rule of law is accurately stated by Vice-Chancellor Wigram, who says: "That a creditor, under his judgment, might
take in execution all that belongs to his debtor, aDd nothing
.more. He stands'in the place of his debtor. He is a Purchaser
who, by the terms of his conveyance, takes, subject to, any
liability under which the debtor himself held' the property."
Whitworh- v. Gaugain, 3 Hare, 416; s. c. 1 Cr. & Phil. 325 ;"
Langton v.' {orton, 1 Hare, 549 ; Hutch. Dig. Miss. Stat. 912, ยง 8.
The most restricted view. of the doctrine of these cases is,
that the equitable rights bf the garnishee remain unaffected by
the judgment, or the proceedings under' the judgment, till the
execution is executed, unless the garnishee is accessory to some
act, or guilty of some omission or laches, by which their efficacy
is impaired. 1 MeN. & G. 437; 8 Ala. Rep. 867.
When the execution is executed, the. claim of the attaching
creditor upon the defendant in the suit (his original debtor) is
satisfied. He has purchased thereby the issues of his garnish-:
ment process,- for an adequate consideration, and could not,
consequently, be called to refund at any future time. This view
of the rights of the vendee is sustained by Chancellor Walworth,
in Sanford v. McLean, 3 Paige, 117, where the effect of a judgment is stated, and where a purchaser under it is said to'be
subjeot to every equitable claim thereon which was prior in
point of time to the judgment, of which he had notice at or

before the sale of the property." In many of the States the
policy 'has been adopted of placing the claims of judgment
creditors upon the same footing bs -purchasers in reference to
unrecorded conveyances, and of assigning to cleditors' liens a
higher" rank than they occupy in the general systen, of equity
jurisprudence; but, in the absence of such a policy. the riles
we have quoted must determine their dignity.

5s8

SUPREME COURT.
Wanzer et al. v. Truly.

The appellecs cannot be charged with any laches, or conduct
calculated to deceive or mislead the attaching creditor, but the
only complaint cf them is, that they insisted upon their title to
relief prematurely, and with too much pertinacity. Whatever
effect may be visited upon such a course of conduct, we know
of no rule that would authorize the forfeiture of their claim to
relief. We concur, therefore, in the leading principle upon
which the cause was determined in the circuit court. But we
do not agree with the court in their allowance of a perpetual
injunction without requiring an account.
The contract of the appellee was for five ilaves, for whom
only one half the price has been paid. The whole of them
were possessed for many years, when two and nine tenths of
another were recovered, with damages for the detention of two.
The damages recovered were compromised, and only a portion
of them paid. No notice was given to the appellants of the
offers or acceptance of the compromise.
The appellants are complainants in equity, seeking to enforce
a covenant of indemnity, and must receive relief upon the principles on which the court habitually extends' it; that is, upon
the principle of doing equity, upon a principle of compensation
for the injury sustained. This is the rule stated in McGinnis v.
Noble, 7 Watts & S. 454, and applied in a similar case to this,
of Jones v. Lightfoot, 10 Ala. R. 17. The appellees, upon their
eviction, are entitled .to the value of the slaves they have lost at
the date of the decrees, and the damages, costs, and expenses,
actually paid upon the decrees of the court of chancery in
MIissksippi.
We direct the reversal of the decree of the circuit court, and
remand the cause, with directions that these amounts be ascertained, and the judgment at law in the circuit court against the
appellees and their sureties be credited with this sum, as of that
date, and that the costs of this court be paid by the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice McLEAN, and Mr.
Justice DANIEL, dissented.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I dissent from the decision by the majority of the court in this
case, and in expressing my disagreement, I have felt no greater
perplexity in reconciling that decision with every principle of justice, than in reconciling it with itself. For, to my apprehension,
it clearly appears that if thefe ever was a decision which could
be characterized as felo de se, it is precisely the decision made
in this case.
This controversy had its commencement by a proceeding

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Wanzer et al. v. Truly.

familiarly known and practised in several of the States, and
particularly in the south and southwest, usually denominated a
foreign attachment. By this proceeding a person whose debtor
may have absconded, or who has no visible property which
can be reached directly by legal process, is authorized to attach
in the hands of a third person who may be indebted to the debtor.
of the attaching party, an amount equal to the demand due to
the latter. Under such proceeding, 'the plaintiff in the attachment is placed in the precise position 6f his debtoi, with respect
'to the defendant, and can either legally or dquitably recover of
him nothing more than what was due from the defendant to the
debtor of the plaintiff. In other words, the plaintiff stands affected and is bound by every legal ant equitable right appertaining
to the parties of whose transactions and relation to each other
he seeks to, avail himself. Avoiding a detail of the facts and
proceedings had in this cause, further than is necessary to its
correct comprehensi6n, those facts and proceedings are prominently and simply these. That inthe year 1836, the appellant,
Bennett R. Truly, purchased five slaves of one John R. Herbert,
and for the purchase-noney for those slaves executed two promissory notes of $3,575 each. Tnat Herbert, shortly after the s*
and purchase of these slaves, removed to Texas, where he -died
insolvent. That Wanzer and Harrison, being creditors by judgment of this insolvent person, Herbert sued out an attachment
against Truly, and obtained a judgment thereon for the sum of
$3,575, the amount of one of the notes given for the purchase
of the slaves, the other note for the like amount having been
paid.
That suits had been instituted by certain persons whose guardian, during their minority, had run off with those slaves, from
the Stete of Alabama, and sold them to Heibert, of whom they
were purchased by Truly, who was ignorant, when he purchased,
of any dsfect in the title to them. That in the suits brought
for these slaves, a recovery had taken place in behalf of the true
owners, and that the slaves had been surrendered by Truly, who
had also, by a compromise with the agent of the persons who
had obtained a decree for the slaves, delivered to said agent four
other slaves, in satisfaction of the hires of those slaves, and of
the costs incurred by their true owners' prosecuting .heir title to
them.
Upon the foregoing facts this court have by their decision
affirmed tuat Herbert, havin had no title to the slaves, qoud
convey none to his vendee, and that the slaves sold by him hay.w
ing constituted the only consideration for the notes giveAi by
Truly, by the recovery of those slaves by title paramount that
consideration had failed or been taken away, and therefore there
VOL. xvir.

50

SUPREME

COURT.

Wanzer e.t al. v. Truly.

remained no foundation for a claim upon Truly, either on behalf
of Herbert or of any person occupying his precise position.
Had the decision of this court terminated here, or at a conclusion seemingly inevitable from the principles and terms of
that decision, namely: the absolute denial to Herbert, or to
Wanzer and Harrison, representing Herbert, of any description
of right under the contract with Truly, that decision would
have been reconcilable with justice, and consistent with itself.
But this court goes on to argue that, from the evidence in the
record, it appears that Truly has not responded to any regular
and specific rate or demands for the hire of the slaves, whilst
they were in his possession or under his control, and therefore
there should be an account taken in this cause, showing on the
one hand the interest upon the claim asserted through Herbert,
and on the other the amount of the hires of the slaves, regularly and specifically computed, with the view, (if indeed such
view is comprehensible for any conceivable reason,) that, should
there turn out to be an excess of hires beyond the interest upon
the claim asserted through Herbert, that excess may be applied
to the benefit of Wanzer and Harrison.
But the error of this direction by the court is exposed by the
following inquiries. Suppose not one cent of the hires of these
slaves has been paid, to whom do those hires belong? To whom
would Truly be accountable for them? He would be accountable, surely, to those to whom the subjects constituting the source
of those hires belonged, and not to the purloiner of their property,
nor to persons deducing title from such wrong-doers. Nay, the
payment to the latter of any portion of those hires would not
exempt the payer from reclamation from the true owners.
Then let it be supposed that Truly may have compromised
with the true owners the claim for hires, either by the payment
of an amount less than their actual or estimated aggregate, or
by the transfer of property in kind,.(slaves, for instance, as it
appears were delivered to the true owners,) will this court undertake to deny to those parties the right to compromise their own
interests? It may have been that the delivery of-the four slaves,
in satisfaction for the hires, was more satisfactory and more
advantageous to the persons accepting them, than any other
arrangement which could have been made. But should these
rightful claimants have been willing to surrender any portion of
their interests, or from motives wise or unwise, should have
relinquished the whole of them, could such a proceeding have
given validity to the fraudulent pretensions of Herbert, or of those
who seek to profit by his dishonesty? The decision of this
court having declared the contract with Herbert void for an
entire want or failure of consideration, unless the maxim ex

DECEMIBER TERM, 1854.

591

Ayres et al. v. Carver et al.

nihilo nill fit shall be reversed, and this court shall affirm that
something can arise from nothing, it passes my powers to perceive how any right, legal or equitable, can spring from this
contract with Herbert, thus declared to be void, and that alleged
right, too, existing in one who, in legal intendment is Herbert
himself. If the contract -with Herbert is valid, then the judgment upon the attachment should be enforced to its fAll extent;
if it was invalid, then in the same extent it should be repudiated;
but this court, while it condemns the contract itself, attempts to
deduce from it and to enforce consequences which necessarily
imply its validity, and which can result only from regarding it
as valid. In this aspect of the decision, I cannot but regard it
as injurious to the appellees, as irreconcilable with sound principles of logic or of law, as irreconcilable with itself. I forbear
here any remark as to the periods at which the grounds of
defence in the court below came into existence, or were tangible
and practicable, or as to the manner in which they were relied
on, in opposition to the demand against the appellee. These are
matters entirely distinct fom the essential mer.ts of those
grounds of defence, and any examination of them seems unnecessary, or rather to be excluded, by the decision here, upon
the character of the defence itself.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern dLtrict of Mississil. - -, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof; it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to
the opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

ELI

AYREs AND

THOMAS N.

NILES, -COMPLAINANTS ON CROSS-

BILL, APPELLANTS, V. HIRAM CARVER, JOSEPH W.

JAMES BROWN, JACOB TnoMPsoN, JOHN P.

MATTHEWS,

JONES, WILLIAM

H.

DuK:, AND JOHN D. BRuDORD.
Where a complainant filed a bill in chancery against numerous defendants, soven of
whom were selected by the court to represent the rest; and after these seven had
answered the bill, two of them filed a cross-bill against the original complainant, and
also agninst all their co-defendants, an appeal from a decree dismissing this cross.
bill, will not lie to this court. It must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

