SUPREME

COURT.

.Shields et al. v. Barrow.

his duties are prescribed, nor inherently nor regularly ippropliate
to his office; services which the law has, upon obvious principles
of policy, imposed on another and a different agent, subordinate
to the collector, the performance of which services it is made
the duty of the collector to supervise and enforce. We are of
the opinion that the collector could have no such claim, and
therefore decide that the judgment of the circuit court be
affirmed.
Ordter.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the District of
Coiumbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
circuit court in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.

WILLIAM

3.

SHIELDS

AND

R.

OTHERS,
BAR '.OW.

APPELLANTS, V. ROBERT

A vendor sold an estate in Louisiana fora large sum of money, and received payment,
from time to time, for nearly one half of the amount. Afterwards, he agreed to
take back the property, upon the payment of an additjonal sum of money, which
was secured to him by the promissory notes of six individuals, four of whom lived
in Louisiana, and two in Mississippi.
Becoming dissatisfied with this arrangement, the vendor filed a bill in the circuit court
of the United States for Louisiana, against the two citizens of Mississippi, to set
aside the agreement as having been improperly procured, and to restore him to his
rights under the original sale.
All the six persons with whom the second arrangement was made, were indorsers
upon the notes origiially given by the vendee for the purchase-money, under the
sale.
The four parties to the compromise, who resided in Louisiana, not being suable in the
circuit court of that State, and their presence, as defendants, being necessary, the
court could not rescind the contract as to two, and allow it to stand as to the other
four. Consequently, it could not pass a decree, as prayed.
Neither the act of congress of 1839, (5 Stat. at Large, 321, § 1,) nor the 47th rule
for he equity practice of the circuit courts, enables a circuit court to make a decree
in equity, in the absence of an indispensable party, whose rights must necessarily
be affected by such decree.
The cases upon this point, the statute, and the rule examined.
The bill should have been dismissed.
The two Mississippi defendants answered.
The bill, insisted that the compromise was made in good faith, and one of them filed
a cross-bill against the vendor to compel him to carry it out.
This cross-bill was also defective, as to parties, the other sureties and the vendee
having an interest in the subject, so that, without their presence, no decree could be
made..
The vendor then filed a petition, by way of amended bill, stating his willingness to
carry out the compromise upon certain conditions, which he prayed the court to
enforce.
This was irregular. The rules about amendments, examined.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

131

Shields ot al. v Barrow.
The court then passed an order, that unless the two Mlississippi defendants should,
before a day named, file a cross-bill, and xnake all the Louisiana parties defendants,
the vendor might proceed upon his prayer to rescind the compromise, as far as the
two Mississippi parties were concerned.
This was entirely irregular. Parties cannot be forced into court in this way; nor can
new parties be brought into a-cause by a cross-bill.
The mode considered of making new parties, when necessary.
The original and cross-bills must be ordered to be dismissed.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The history of the case is given in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 1r. Benjamin, for the appellants, and by
M1r. 3anin, for the appellee.
Mr.Benjamin traced the case throughout all its complications,
and then made the following points: 1. The first question which will arrest the attention of the
court, on the face of this record, is that of jurisdiction.
The complainant entered into a contract on the 9th November, 1842, which in its opening clause is stated to be tri-partite.
The parties are, 1st, the complainant, a citizen of Louisianft.
2d, Thomas R. Shields, a citizen of Louisiana. 3d, Six individuals, indorsers for Shields, four of whom are citizens of
Louisiana, and two of Mississippi.
This contract was made to annul a sale of a plantation in
Louisiana, made by the first party to the second.
In a few weeks after the date of the contract, the complainant
abandoning the common domicile of himself, his purchaser, and
two thirds of the indorsers, declining the aid of the.state tribunals of his own State, appeals to the federal court in New
Orleans, to set aside his contract, then changes his demand into
a suit to enforce it, pand ends by obtaining a decree against his
fellow citizens of Louisiana, for a large sum of money.
On what ground is the jurisdiction -of the circuit court of the
United States, to determine a controversy between citizens of
Louisiana, to be maintained?
The only authority cited by complainant's counsel, is Story's
Eq. Pl. § 392, and authorities there cited.
This authority is not at all in point. It only refers to a ques.
tion of pleading in equity, relating to cross-bills, but does not
touch the question of jurisdiction. The cross-bill may unquestionably be filed to determine questions arising between the
defendants, so as to enable the court to determine the whole
matter in controversy. But in the present case, no relief was
prayed by the cross-bill against co-defendants, but on the contrary a decree was prayed for against the original complainants;
and in the decree itself, no notice -whateveris taken of the crossbill; but the court confines itself -to deciding the claims of the

132

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v., Barrow.

original complainant against the original defendants, and the
defendants in the cross-bill.
The device used in this case is perfectly transparent, and if
successful, converts the federal courts into courts of unlimited
jurisdiction, regardless of the citizenship of parties.
It requires no argument to show that the original bill could
not possibly be sustained for want of proper parties. A bill to
set aside an agreement for cancelling the sale of property, could
not be entertained without the presence of the two parties to
the sale, and agreement to cancel. But the court was without
jurisdiction between these two parties, who were both citizens
of Louisiana, and the bill should have been dismissed on its
face. Instead of this, the defendants, citizens of Mississippi,
having a common interest with these citizens of Louisiana, were
forced, in spite of their protest, and under duress of the process
of the court, to file a bill against their co-defendants, not for
their own benefit, but in order to help the complainant to get a
judgment against themselves, and against the co-defendants.
This court has repeatedly had occasion to determine that,
where necessary parties to bills could not be brought into the
federal courts, by reason of the constitutional limitation on their
jurisdiction, the suit must be dismissed. The jurisprudence on
this point has never varied, and the decisions are numerous.
Where parties are merely formal, the court will dispense with
their presence, but will never assume jurisdiction over them.
Russell v. Clark's Executors, 7 Cranch, 69; Greenleaf v. Queen,
1 Pet. 148: Wormly v. Wormly, 8 Wheat. 421; Carneal v.
Banks, 10 Tb. 181; Harding v. Handy, 11 Ib. 126; Mallon
v. Hinde, 12 Ib. 193; Vattier v. Hinde, 7 Pet. 260; Dunn v.
Clark, 8 lb. 0.
The act of congress of 28th February, 1839, so far from
authorizing such proceedings as were had in this suit, expressly
contemplates the case where parties in interest cannot properly
be brought before the court; and provides, that "the judgment
or decree shall not conclude or prejudice such parties."
The plea to the jurisdiction ought, therefore, to have been
sustained, as filed by those. defendants who were citizens of
Louisiana.
2. The court, being without jurisdiction as to Thomas I,
Shields, who purchased the land, cannot decree, as against him,
either for the rescission or specific performance of the contract
of November 9, 1842. The bill, therefore, must be dismissed,
because he is an indispensable party to any cause brought for
either of those purposes. This proposition is too clear to
require argument or authority.
3. There was error in permitting the complainant to bring an

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

133

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

entirely new and different suit against the defendant, under pretext of amending his bill. The original, bill was, to set aside a
contract. The amendment prayed a specific. performance of the
same contract. This was not an amendmnnt, nor a supplemental bill, but a neN suit.
The allegation in the original bill, brought on the 19th December, 1842, set forth that complainant feared that defendants
would refuse to execute their contract of 9th November, 1842,
and prayed to have it rescinded. The defendants, by their
answer, in March, 1843, denied any intention to violate the
contract, and expressed their, intention of executing it. This
judicial confession of their liability to perform its terms estopped
them from any contestation of its validity, and should have
sufficed to satisfy complainant; who, however, seemed determined to have a litigation. Although willing to abandon his
claim for 6. rescission of the contract, instead of discontinuing
his suit, he engrafted in it an inconsistent demand, by what he
calls an amendment.
This is contrary to all the rules of -pleading in chancery.
Story's Eq. Pl. 332, et seq. ; Mitford's Ch. P1. 385.
So where the original bill prayed that a bond might be delivered up to be cancelled, an amendment not allowed praying an
account of what was due on the bond. Cresy v. Beavan,
13 Sim. 354.
4. The amended bill should have been dismissed, as disclosing no ground for equitable relief. The demurrer should have
been sustained.
This amended bill sets forth no ground for the interposition
of a court of equity; alleges no refusal, by defendants, to perform their contract; and prays for the payment of a sum of
money due on promissory notes. This paynient could have
been obtained by a suit at law. In relation to the claim for a
formal conveyance, of the property, contained in the amended
bill, it is clear that the defendants, Victoire Shields and William
Bislaud, could not'be condemned to make a conveyance of title
standing in the name df Thomas R. Shields. The amended
bill was, therefore, nothing but a naked demand, in law, for the
payment of a debt.
.5. The only demands set up in the record against Elis,
Guion, and Winder, are contained in the cross-bill, filed at page
54 of record. These defendants filed a plea to the jurisdiction
of the court; and -set up, in defence, the absence of any averment in the cross-bill, showing any cause of action against
them. A reference to the cross-bill wvill show that, in point of
fact, no complaint was made against them; and in no part of
the record is there any demand, by Barrow, for a decree against
VOL. XVI!.

12

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

them. There is a judgment against these parties, that they
pay a large sum of money to Barrow; although the pleadings
disclose. no prayer for such a decree, in either the original or
cross-bill.
It would be an idle task to pursue any further the examination of proceedings, so completely at war with all the rules of
law, and all the principles which guide courts of justice in the
discharge of their duties. The investigation is felt to be profitless; for the want of jurisdiction in the court below, o ver parties in whose absence no decree could b6 pronounced, must, of
necessity, cause the reversal of the deciie and dismissal of the
suit.
Mr. Tanin replied to these points, as follows : The counsel for the appellants makes the following points of
law :
1. That the original bill ought to have been dismissed,
because Thomas R. Shields, the former proprietor of the plantati-on which was retroceded to the complainant, is a citizen of
Louisiana, and could, therefore, not be made a party to that
bill.
It is contended that, in the absence of Thomas R. Shields,
the rescission of the retrocession to Barrow could not be
decreed.
This is precisely the difficulty which is removed by the act
of congress of February 28, 1839, the 1st section of which is
in the following words : " That where, in any suit at law or in equity, commenced in
any court- of the United States, there shall be several defendants, one or more of whom shall not be inhabitants of, or found
within the district where the suit. is brought, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful for the court to entertain
jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of such
suit between the parties who may be properly before it; but
the judgment or decree rendered therein shall not conclude or
prejudice other parties not regularly served with process, or not
voluntarily appearing to answer; and the nonjoinder of parties who are not so inhabitants, or found within the district,
shall constitute no matter of abatement, or other objection to
said suit."
All the authorities quoted by the appellants are anterior to
that act.
If there was any thing in this point, it is too late to take
advantage of it now. The defendants filed an answer to the
bill, then a cross-bill, and aftenvards only a demurrer, which does
not even name the parties on whose behal' it was filed.

DECEMBER TERM., 1854.

135

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

2. The court had no jurisdiction over those of the defendants
who are citizens of Louisiana.
This point concedes, at last, the jurisdiction of the court over
three of the defendants; namely, William Bisland, Victoire
Shields, and William B. Shields, who are citizens of Alississippi.
But the court had, undoubtedly, jurisdiction to decide the
.cross-bill, filed by -William Bisland and Yictoire Shields, citizens of Mississippi, against Thomas iR. Shields, George S.
Guion, Van-P. Winder, and Richard G. Ellis, citizens of Louisiana. These cross-bills demanded, a specific performance of the
contract of November 9, 1842; and that, and nothing else, was
decreed by the court.
Can it be asserted that a court of equity, having that. contract
and all the parties to it once before it, would decree its specific
performance so far only as it imposes obligations upon the
complainant, and not in all its parts 1 A party to an indivisible
contract must'fulfil his contract, if he claim specific performance; 16 Pet. 169. The original and the cross-bill are one
cause; 3 Daniels, Oh. Pr. 1743.
Nor did the circuit court err, in making the order of April
24, 1844, directing the filing of a cross-bill by William Bisland
and Mrs. Shields. In the MAIechanics' Bank of Alexandria v.
Louisa and laria Seton, 1 Pet. 303, this court held, that - the
general rule, as to parties, undoubtedly is, that when a bill is
brought for relief, all persons materially interested in the subject of the suit ought to be made parties, either as plaintifs or
defendants, in or0er to prevent a multiplicity of suits, and that
there may be a complete and final decree anmong all the parties
interested. But this is a rule established for the" convenient
administration of justice, and is subject. to many exceptions,
and is more or less subject to the discretion of the. court, and
ought to be restricted to parties whose interest is involved in
the issue, and to be affected by the5 decree." Field v. Schieffelin,
7 Johns. Oh. R. 250; Story's Eq. PI. § 393.
3. It is finally said that the complainant should not have
been permitted to amend his bill, by joining the plaintiff ill
his
cross-bill, in his demand for the specific performance of the contract of -November 9, 1842.
A cross-bill is a defence. How can it be pretended that a
plaintiff should not be permitted to'admit, in his answer to a
cross-bill, that he consents to the claim of the defendanf, and to
pray that the-specific performance, insisted on by the defendant,
may be ordered by the court, with such directions as the true
nature of the contract requires?. This is what Barrow said, in
his -answer to the cross-bill. He stated the same thing in his

186

SUPREME

COURT,

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

petition. That petition may have been, and probably was,
superfluous; but it was not that petition, but Bisland's answer
and cross-bill, which changed the issue, by averring his readiness to comply with the contract of November 9,-1842. Nay,
if Barrow had been entirely silent, the specific performance of
that contract would have been ordered under the cross-bill, in
the absence of any evidence justifying its rescission.
These proceedings were not only conformable to practice,
but imperiously dictated by circumstances, and the only ones
which could be had. We shall prove this, and conclude this
brief with some remarks showing the true position of the parties.
When the contract of November 9, 1842, was made, the
complainant was the holder of the notes of Thomas IR. Shields,
to the amount of $119,956.35, the whole of which were indorsed
by William Bisland, the most responsible of the defendants.
Of these notes, $64,000 were then overdue, and Barrow had
brought suits on them against Bisland. By the act of November 9, 1842, these notes were to be given up by Barrow, and
the -two suits against Bisland discontinued. Tbomas R. Shields
was to return the property, and to be released from all further
liability; and Barrow was to receive, besides, $32,000, of which
Bisland was to contribute $10,000. Bisland was, moreover,
Thomas R. Shields's judgment creditor, in the sum of $47,374.36.
Bisland, who might, perhaps, have been able to pay the $10,000
without inconvenience, might have been ruined by a judgment
of $119,958.25, with ten per cent. interest, during the extraordinary depreciation of property and prostration of credit then
existing in Louisiana. He was, therefore, greatly interested
in securing the specific performance of the act of Nover.ber 9,
1842, which afforded greater relief to him thpLn to any other
party.
And when, by his answer and cross-bill, Bisland avowed his
willingness to abide by that act, Barrow took him by his word,
and in compliance with Bisland's' prayer, and without waiing
for an order of court, at once dismissed the two suits against
him, and deposited in court the notes of Shields, amounting to
$119,968.38.
It must, also, be observed, that Bisland had
obtained an injunction, restraining Barrow from the prosecution of those suits, and from parting with those notes. On the
other hand, the notes, amounting to $32,000, at one and -two
years, which Barrow was to receive under the contract of November 9, 1842, were to remain deposited in the hands of
Leufroy Barras, the parish judge and ex officio notary public,
before whom that act was passed, until R. R. Barrow should
have acquired a title to the property, given up the notes, and
released the parties to the act. This title Thomas R. Shields

DECEMBER TE.RM,

1854.

Shields et al. r. Barrow.

perseveringly and perversely refused to "execute, and the aid of
the court had to be invoked for it. During the pendency of the
suit, Barrow could do no better than to deposit the original
notes in court, and discontinue the suits against Bisland. The
defendants had flattered themselves that the notes 'for $32,000
would remain in Terrebonne until- after maturity, and without
being presented for payment at the Bank of Louisiana, at New
Orleans, where they were made payable; a danger which was
averted only by the court ordering their removal to the clerk's
office, -by whose agency they vere presented and protested.
This was done in opposition to the unreasonable objections of
the" defendants. An application of the complainant, for the
delivery of these notes, was refused by the court, at the instance
of the defendants. If he had had possession.of these notes, he
could have instituted suits on them at law, against the parties
thereto. From this he was prevented, by those parties themselves.
He was hindered from suing on the original notes, by the injun-tion of Bisland. With what good grace, with what appearance of equity, do those parties now complain that he did not
sue them at law) when they themselves industriously kept him
tied up in chancery?
And what, after all, do the appellantscontend for, in their
elaborate brief? The judgment condemns them, in unequal
portions, to pay $32,000, with interest. Of this principal sum,
$26,500 are due by the three citizens of Mississippi, who are
avowedly properly made parties to the suit: namely, by Mrs.
Victoire Shields and William B. Shields, $9,333.331; and by
•William Bisland, for himself, $10,000, and as indorser for R.
G. Ellis, $6,966.664. And here we find William Bisland making common cause with the other defendants, when it is clearly
his interest that they should be made to abide by the cu.i. racf
-hich relieves him from his indorsement of $119,918.38, no
more than doubled by interest
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
To make intelligible the questions- decided in this case, an
outline of some part of its complicated proceedings must be
given. They were begun by a bill in equity, filed in the circuit
court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana,
on the 19th of December, 1842, by Robert R. Barrow, a citizen
of the State of Louisiana) against Mrs. Victoire Shields, and
by amendment against William Bisland, citizens of the State
of Mississippi. The bill stated, that in July, 1836, the complainant sold certain plantations and slaves in Louisiana, to one
Thomas R. Shields, who was a citizen of Louisiana, for the sum
12*

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

of $227,000, payable by instalments, the last of which would
fall due in March, 1844.
That negotiable paper was given for the consideration money,
and from time to time $107,000 was paid. That the residue
of the notes being unpaid, and some of them protested for nonpayment, a judgment was obtained against Thomas R. Shields,
the purchaser, for a part of the purchase-money, and proceedings instituted by attachment against Thomas R. Shields and
William Bisland, one of his indorsers, for other parts of the
purchase-money then due and unpaid. In this condition of
things, an agreement of compromise and settlement was. made,
on the 9th day of November, 1842, between the complainant,
of the first part, Thomas R. Shields, the purchaser, of the second
part, and the six indorsers on the notes given by Thomas IL
Shields, of the third part. Of these six indorsers, Mrs. Shields
and Bisland, the defendants, were two. By this new contract
the complainant was to receive back the property sold, retain
the $107,000 already paid, and the six indorsers executed their
notes, payable to the complainant, amounting to thirty-two
thousand dollars, in the manner and proportions following, as
stated in the bill:"The said William Bisland pays ten thousand dollars, in two
equal instalments, the first in March next, and the other in March
following, for which sum the said William Bisland made his
two promissory notes, indorsed by John P. Watson, and payable
at the office of the Louisiana Bank in New Orleans. The said
R. G. Ellis $6,966.66, on two notes indorsed by William
Bisland. The said George S. Guion, $2,750, on two notes
indorsed by Van P. Winder. The said Van P. Winder, $2,750,
on two notes indorsed by George S. Guion. The said William
B. Shields, $4,766,66, on two notes indorsed by Mrs. Victoire
Shields; and finally, Mrs. Victoire Shields the samae amount
on two notes payable as aforesaid at the. office of the Louisiana
Bank, in New Orleans."
The complainant was to release the purchaser, Thomas R.
Shields, and his indorsers, from all their liabilities then outstanding, and was to dismiss the attachment suit then pending against
Thomas R. Shields and Bisland.
The bill further .alleges, that though the notes were given,
and the complainant went into possession under the agreement
of compromise, the agreement ought to be rescinded, and the
complainant restored to his original rights under the contract of
sale; and it alleges various reasons therefor, which it is not
necessary in this connection to state. It concludes with a
prayer that the act of compromise may be declared to have
been improperly procured, and may be annulled and set aside,

DECEMBER TERM. 1854.

139

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

and that the defendants may be decreed to pay such of the
notes, bearing their indorsement, as may fall due during the
progress of the suit, and for general relief.
Such being the scope of this bill and its parties, it is perfectly
clear that the circuit court of the .United States fo Louisiana,
could not make any decree thereon. The contract of compromise was one entire subject, and from its nature could not be
rescinded, so far as respected two of the parties to it, and allowed
to stand as to the others. Thomas R. Shields, the principal,
and four out of six of his indorsers, being citizens of Louisiana,
could not be made defendants in this suit; yet each of them
was an indispensable party to a -bill for the rescission" of the
contract. Neither the act of congress of February 28, 1839,
(5 Stat. at Large, 321, § 1,) nor the 47th rule for the equity
practice of the circuit courts of the -United States, enables a
circuit court to make a decree in equity, in the absence of an
indispensable party, whose rights must necessarily be affected
by such decree.
In Russell v. Clarke's Executors, 7 Cranch, 98, this court said:
"1The incapacity imposed on the circuit court to proceed against
any person residing within the United States, but not within
the district for which the court may be holden, would certainly
justify them in dispensing with parties merely formal. Perhaps
in cases -where the real merits of the cause may be deternmined
without essentially affecting the interests of absent persons, it
may be the duty of the court to decree, as between the parties
before them. ButO in this case, the assignees of Robert Murray
and Co. are so essential to the merits of the question, and may
be so much affected by the decree, that the court cannot proceed
to a final decision of the cause till they are parties."
The court here points out three classes of parties to a bill in
equity. They are: 1. Formal parties. 2. Persons having an
interest in the controv6rsy, and who ought to be made parties,
in order that the court may act o. that rule which requires it to
decide on, and finally determine the entire controversy, and do
complete justice, by adjusting all the rights involved in it. These
persons are commonly termed necessary parties; but if their
interests are separable from those of the parties before the cotrt,
so that the court can proceed to a decree, and do complete and
final justice, without affecting other persons not before the.court,
the latter are not indispensable parties. 3. Persons who not
only have an interest in the controversy, but an interest of such
a nature that a. final decree cannot be made without either
affecting that interest, or leaving the controversy in such a condition that its final termination may be wholly inconsistent with
equity and good conscience.

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

A bill to rescind a contract affords an example of this kind.
For, if only a part of those interested in the contract are before
the court, a decree of rescission must either destroy the rights
of those who are absent, or leave the contract in full force as
respects them; while it is set aside, and the contracting parties
restored to their former condition, as to the others. We do not
say that no case can arise in which this may be done; but it
must be a case in which the rights of those before the court are
completely separable from the rights of those absent, otherwise
the latter are indispensable parties.
Now it will be perceived, thatin Russell v. Clarke's Executors,
this court, after considering the *embarrassments which attend
the exercise of the equity jurisdictioh of the circuit courts of
the United States, advanced as far as this: They declared that
formal parties may be dispensed with when they cannot be
reached; that persons having rights which must be affected by
a decree, cannot be dispensed with; and they express a doubt
concerning the other class of parties. This doubt is solved in
favor of the jurisdiction in subsequent cases, but without inffiiging upon what was held in Russell v. Clarke's Executors, concerning the 'incapacity of the court to give relief, when that
relief necessarily involves the rights of absent persons. As to
formal or unnecessary parties, see Wormley v. Wornley, 8
Wheat. 4.51; Carneal v. Banks, 10 Ib.188; Vattier v. Hinde,
7 Pet 266. As to parties having a substantial interest, but
not so connected with the controversy that their joinder is indispensable, see Cameron v. M'Roberts, 3 Wheat. 591; Osborn
v. The Bank of the United States, 9 lb. 738; Harding v.
Handy, 11 Ib.132. As to parties having an interest which
is inseparable from the interests of those before the court, and
who are, therefore, indispensable parties, see Cameron v. MI'Roberts, 2 Ib.571; Mallow v. Hinde, 12 lb. 197.
In Cameron v. M'Roberts, wherq the citizenship of the other
defendants than Cameron did not appear on the record, this
court certified: "If a joint interest vested in Cameron and the
other defendants, the court had no jurisdiction over the cause.
If a distinct interest vested in Cameron, so that substantial
justice (so far as he was interested) could be done without
affecting the other defendants, the jurisdiction of the court might
be exercised as to him alone." And the grounds of this distinction are explained in Mallow v. Hinde, 12-Wheat 196, 198.
Such was the state of the laws on this subject when the act
of congress of February 28, 1839, (5 Stat at Large, 321,) was
passed, and the 47th rule, for the equity practice of the circuit
court of the United States, was made by this court.
The first section of that statute enacts: That when, in any

DECEMBER TERM, 1854-.

141

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

suit, at law or in equit, commenced in any court of the United
States, there shall be several defendants, any one or more of
whom shall not be inhabitants of, or found within, the district
where the suit is brought, or shall not voluntarily appear thereto,
it shall be lawful for the court to entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of such suit between the parties who may be properly before'it; but the judgment or decree
rendered therein shall not conclude or prejudice other parties not
regularly served with process, or not voluntarily appearing to
answer; and the nonjoinder of parties who are not so inhabitants, or found within the district, shall constitute no matter of
abatement or other objection to said suit."
This act relates solely to the nonjoinder of persons who are
not within the reach of the process of the court. It does not
affect any case where persons, having an interest, are not joined
because their citizenship is such that their joinder would defeat
the jurisdiction; and, so far as it touches suits in equity, we
understand it to be no more than a legislative affirmance of the
rule previously established by the cases of Cameron v. M'Roberts,
3 Wheat. 591; Osborn v. The Bank of the United States, 9
Tb. 738; and Harding v. Handy, 11 Tb. 132. For this court
had already -there decided, that the nonjoinder of a party,
who could not be served with process, would not defeat the
jurisdiction. The act says it shall be lawful for the court to
entertain jurisdiction; but, as is observed by this court, in Mallow v. Hinde, 12 Wheat. 198, when speaking of a case where
an indispensable party was not before the court, "we do not put
this case upon the ground of jurisdiction, but upon a much
broader ground, which must equally apply to all courts of equity,
whatever may be their structure as to jurisdiction; we put it on
the ground that no court can adjudicate directly,upon a person's
right, without the party being either actually or constructively
before the court."
So that, while this act removed any difficulty as to jurisdiction, between competent parties, regularly served with process, it
does not' attempt to displace that principle of jurisprudence on
which the court rested the case last mentioned. And the 47th
rule is only a declaration, for the government of practitioners and
courts, of the effect of this act of congress, and of the previous
decisions of the court, on the subject of that rule. Hagan. v.
Walker, 14 How. 36. It remains true, notwithstanding the act
of congress aid the 47th rule, that a circuit court can make no
decree affecting the rights of an absent person, and can make
no decree between the parties before it, which so far involves or
depends upon the rights of an absent person, that complete and
final justice cannot be done between the parties to the suit with-

142

SUPREME

COURT.

Shields et al. v. Barrow.

out affecting those rights. To use the language of this court,
in Elmendorf v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 167: " If the case may be
completely decided, as between the litigant parties, the circumstance that an interest exists in some other person, whom the
process of the court caAnotreach, - as if such party be a resident of another State,- ought not to prevent a decree upon its
merits." But if the case cannot be thus completely decided,
the court should make no decree.
We have thought it proper to make these observations upon
the effect of the act of congress and of the 47th rule of tfiis
court, because they seem to have been misunderstood, and misapplied in this case: it being clear that the circuit court could
make no decree, as between the parties originally before it, so as
to do complete and final justice between them without affecting
the rights of absent persons, and that the original bill ought to
have been dismissed.
But, unfortunately,' this course was not taken. The two defendants, Mrs. Shields and Bisland, answered, denied the allegations of fraud, and insisted that, so far as they were concerned,
the compromise was made in good faith, and they were ready
to perform their parts of it, according to their respective stipulations.
On the same day that Bisland filed his answer, he filed a]so
a cross-bill against Barrow, praying for a specific performance
of the contract of compromise.
But this bill also was fatally defective, as respects parties.
Thomas R. Shields, and his other five indorsers, had such a
direct and immediate interest in the contract of compromise,
and that interest was so entir and indivisible, that, without
their presence, no decree on the subject could be made. In
Morgan's Heirj v. Morgan, 2 Wheat. 290, a bill was brought by
the heirs of a deceased vendor, to compel the specific performance of a: contract to purchase lands. It was objected that thi.
deceased had a child who was not made a party. Chief Justice
Marshall said: "It is unquestionable that all the coheirs of the
deceased ought to be parties to this suit, either. plaintiff or defendant, and a specific performance ought not to be decreed
until they shall be all before the court."
The next step in the pler'dings was, that Barrow filed what
he calls a petition, in which he reites summarily what had pre.
viously been done in the cause, and declares himself willing to
have the agreement of compromise specifically performed, and
prays for leave to amend his bill, by making Thomas R. Shields
a party alleging he had bec~me a citizen of Mississippi, and by
inserting the following words : "But if this honorable court should be of opinion, that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

143

Shields et al. v. Barrow.
said agreement of November 9, 1842, is valid, and should not
be set aside; and if the said defendant shall acknowledge its
validity and binding force, then the orator prays that its specific
performance may be decreed, according to its true purport and
-tenor, as herein above explained; and he offers to do and perform on his part all the acts which, by said agreement,. he is
bound to perform; and he prays that said defendants may be
decreed to pay to him the value of the mule, negro, clothing,
and flat-boats, which were taken away from the said plantation
as aforesaid; that they be decreed to relieve the said Liza,. ahd
the other above-mentioned property, from the judicial mortgages
mentioned in this bill, and from the tacit mortgage of the minor
children of the said Thomas R. Shields; that the said Thomas
R. Shields, when made a party to this suit, both in his individual capacity and as tutor of his aforesaid minor children, may
be ordered to execute a proper and legal reconveyance to your
orator, of the above-described property, or that any other. order
may be made which, to this honorable court may appear meet
and fit, for the purpose of again vesting'in the orator a good and
valid title to the aforesaid property; that the notes described in
said act of November 9, 1842, and amounting to $32,000, may
be surrendered "to your orator; that the defendants may be decreed to pay to your orator the amourit of such of the said lastmqntioned notes as may have been drawn by them, and also
sub-h of said notes as may be indorsed by them, and which may
ha,-,e been protested, and of the protest of which they may have
•been duly notifed before the final decree of this honorable court,
the whole with interest from the dby of protest ; and that said
defendants may furthermore be ecreed to pay the current expenses, of the said p].antation during the year anterior to said
November 9,1842, and to refund to your oratorany amount and
expenses which he may have been, or may yet be, compelled to
pay on adcount of privileged claims incumbering said plantation
on the day of said act."
The court allowed the above amendment. So that the bill
thereaftdr presented not. only two aspects, but two diametrically
opposite prayers for relief, resting upon necessarily inconsistent
cases; ihie one being that the court would declare the contract
rescinded, for imposition and other causes, and the other, that
the court would declare it so free from all exception as to be
entitled to its aid by a decree for specific performance.
Whether this amendment be considered as leaving the bill in
this condition, or as amounting to an abandbnment of the
original bill for a rescission of the contract, and the substitution
of a new bill for a specific* performance, it was equally objectionable.

144

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

A bill may be originally framed with a double aspect, or may
be so amended as to be of that character. But the alternative
case stated must be the foundation for precisely the same relief;
and it would produce inextricable confusion if the plaintiff were
allowed to do what was attempted here. Story's Eq. Pl. 212,
213 ; Welford's Eq. 1. 88 ; Edwards v. Edwards, Jacob's IL 335.
Nor is a complainant at liberty to abandon the entire case
made by his bill, and make a new and different case by way of
amendment We apprehend that the true rule on this subject
is laid down by the vice-chancellor, in Verplanek v. The Mercantile Ins. Co. 1 Edwards Ch. R. 46. Under the privilege of
amending, a party is not to be permitted to make a new bill.
Amendments can only be allowed when the bill is found defective in proper parties, in its prayer for relief, or in the omission
or mistake of some fact or circumstance connected with the
substance of the case, but not forming the substance itself, or
for putting in issue new matter to meet allegations "in the
answer. See also the authorities there referred to, and Story's
Eq. Pl. 884.
We think sound reasons can be given for not allowing the
rules for the practice of the circuit courts respecting amendments,
to be extended beyond this; though doubtless much liberality
should be shown in acting within it, taking care always to protect the rights of the opposite party. See \'lavor v. Dry, 2 Sirn.
and St-d. 113.
To strike out the entire substance and prayer of a bill, and
insert a new case by way of amendment, leaves the record uinecessarily incumbered with the original proceedings, increases
expenses, and complicates the suit; it is far better to require the
complainant to begin anew.
To insert a wholly different case is not properly an amendment, and should not be considered within the rules on that
subject.
After this change had been made in the original bill, and
Barrow had answered the cross-bill of Bisland, the next step
taken in the cause, respecting the pleadings and parties, was the
entry of the following order:"The motion of the complainant for the delivery of the notes
of George S. Guion and Van P. Winder, which have been, by
order of the court, delivered into the court, to abide its further
order, came on to be heard; and having beerf fully argued, and
it appearing to the court that all the parties to the second contract set up in the complainant's bill and in the cross-bill of the
defendant, Bisland, are not before the court; and it also appearing to -the court that the said defendants, Shields and Bisand, are citizens of the State of Mississippi, and that all the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

other parties interested in the execution of the said second contract, are citizens of the State of Louisiana, it is therefore ordered,
that unless the said Shields and Bisland do, on or before the
first Monday in August next, file their cross-bill, setting up and
praying a specific execution of said contract, and make all the
parties to the second contract, set up in the complainant's bill
and residing in Louisiana, defendants, that the complainant,
Barrow, shall be at liberty to proneed upon his bill of complaint
for a specific execution of the original contract between the
parties, and for the rescission of the said second contract against
such of-the parties residing in the State of Mississippi as may
fail to comply with this order."
The validity of this order cannot be maintained, and nothing
done in consequence of it can be allowed any effect in this
court.
It is apparent that, if it were in the power of a circuit court
of the -United States to make and enforce orders like this, both
the article of the constitution respecting the judicial power, and
the act of congress confering jurisdiction on the circuit courts,
would be practically disfegarded in a most important particular.
For in all suits in equity it would only be necessary that a citizen
of one State should be found on one side, and a citizen of
another State on the other, to enable the court to force into the
cause all other persons,.either citizens or aliens. No such power
exists; and it is only riecessary to consider the nature of a crossbill, to see that it cannot be made an instrument for any such
end. "A cross-bill, ex vi terminorum, implies a bill brought by
a defendant againist the plaintiff in the. same suit, or against
other defendants in the same suit, or against both, touching the
matters in question in the original bill." Story's Eq. P1. § 389;
3 Dan Ch. Pr. 1742.
New parties cannot be introduced into a cause by a cross-bill.
If 'the plaintiff desires to make new parties, he amends his
bill, and makes them. If the interest of the defendant requires
their presence, he takes the objection of nonjoinder, and the
complainant is forced to amend, cr his bill is dismissed. If, at
the hearing, the court finds that an indispensable party is not
on the record, it refuses to proceed. These remedies cover the
whole subject, and a cross-bill to make new parties is not only
improper and irregular, but wholly unnecessaryWhen the defendants, Ms. Shields aid Bisland, had complied
with this order of the court, and filed their cross-bill, as it was
called, against the other indorsers and Thomas R. Shields, and
they had come in, as they did, what was their relation to the
cause? They surely were not plaintiffs in it. If they were
defendants the court had not jurisdiction, for they, as well as
voL..xVII.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Shields et al. v. Barrow.

the complainant, were citizens of Louisiana. In truth, they were
not parties to the original bill; they were merely defendants to
the cross-bill. They had no right to answer the original bill, or
make defence against it, and of course no decree could be made
against them upon that bill.
We do not find it necessary to pursue further an examination
in detail, of the complicated maze of pleas, demurrers, answers,
amendments, and interlocutory orders, which followed the filing
of this, so called, cross-bill. lIt is enough to say that the defendants to it were never lawfully before the court; that the
court never obtained jurisdiction over those of the parties who
were citizens of the State of Louisiana, and amongst them was
Thomas R. Shields, who, though made a party to the original
bill by amendment, as a citizen of Mississippi, pleaded that he
was a citizen of Louisiana, and was thereupon stricken out of
the original bill, and was only a defendant to the cross.bill; that
it never had lawfully before it such parties as were indispensable
to a decree for the specific performance of the contract of compromise, or for the rescission thereof; and lastly, that when it
proceeded finally to make d decree condemning certain of the
defendants, who were indorsers for Thomas R. Shields, to pay
the' notes given on the compromise, it gave relief, for which
there was a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, and
which was wholly aside from the prayer of the bill for a specific
execution of the contract of compromise, which was fully executed in this particular when the notes were given and deposited
in the hands of the notary.
This court regrets tlat a litigation, which has now lasted
upwards of thirteen years, should have proved wholly fruitless;
but it is'under the necessity of reversing the decree of the circuit
court, ordering the cause to be remanded, and the original and
cross-bills dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court,
with directions to that court to dismiss the original and crossbills in this cause.

