576

SUPREME COURT.
Webb ct al. v. Den.

United States, 11 How. 119; United States v. King, 3 Ib.773;
S. C. 7 1b. 833; United States v. Wiggins, 14 Pet 334; Bissell
v., Penrose, 8 How. 317.
The non-fulfilment of these conditions, it was competent to
Mexico to overlook or to forgive.
It is probable that, in the lax administration of her laws, in
the distant province of California, all investigation would have
been avoided, if the cession to the United States had not been
made. It is equally within the power of congress to remit the
consequences attaching to the omissions, and to concede as a
grace what, in California, might have been yielded from indolence or indulgence.
But congress has chosen to deal with the subject of titles in
California, upon principles of law, embracing in that term the
whole body of jurisprudence applicable to the subject; and that
the solution of all the questions arising upon them shall be
made by courts of justice acting upon their fixed rules of judgment. Among the guides it has directed us to follow are the
decisions of this court in analogous cases. In my opinion, the
cases I have cited contol this case, and I do not feel at liberty
to depart from what is to me their clear and manifest import.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard 'on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of California, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that the
claim of the petitioner to the land, as described and set forth in
the record, is a good and valid claim; whereupon it is now here
ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of
the said district court in this cause be and the same is hereby
reversed, and that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court for further proceedings to be
had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

GRAY P.

WEBB AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN E"ROR, V. JOHN
DEN, LESSEE OF POLLY WEATHERHEAD.

In 1839, the legislature of Tennessee passed a law containing the following provision, namely: "That whenever a deed has been registered twenty years, or
more, the same shall be presumed to be upon lawful authority, and the probate shall
be good and effectual, though the certificate on which the same has been registered,
has not been transferred to the register's books, and no matter what has been the
form of the certificate'of probate or acknowledgment.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

577

Webb et al. v. Den.
A deed to "the legatees and devisees of the late Anthony Blcdsoe," which was certified by the register of Maury county,'Tennessee, to have -been recorded there in
January, 1809, was, under the authority of this statute, properly admitted in evidence, although informalities existed with respect to its being proved, and with
respect to the acknowledgment of a .feme coverl.
So, also, the deed is effectual, under the cirtumstances of the case, to transfer a feesimple estate to the legatees and devisees of Anthony Bledsoe, whose will was in
evidence. The deed was a release of the bare legal title to equitable. owners in fee,
on partition between them as tenants in common. The old common law rule as lo
the distinction between releases from one joint-tenant to another, and from one
tenant in common to another, is not applicable.
A defendant in ejectment cannot object to the production in evidence of one of the
muniments of the plaintiff's title, because it was "res inter alios acta."

Tnis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit
court of the 'United States -for the middle district of Tennessee.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .Mr. GWllet, for the plaintiffs in error ; no
counsel appearing for the defendant.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
On the trial of this case, the plaintiff below having shown
that the lessor of plaintiff was one of the children of Anthony
Bledsoe,-also the will of Anthony Bledsoe, and a grant of
five thousand acres of land, by the State of North Carolina, to
Nicholas Lang- offered in evidence a copy of a paper writing
purporting to be a deed from John J. Lang, Basset Stith, and
Mary his wife, and others, devisees of the legal estate, to the
"legatees and devisees of the late Anthony Bledsoe)" for the
one fourth part of said tract, or, twelve huxidred and fifty acres,
by certain metes and bounds. This copy is certified by the
register of Maury county, Tennessee, as thcle recorded qn the
l1th of January, 1809. The defendants obje,-ted to the admission o; this copy as evidence, " because it -wasnot duly proved,
acknowledged, or authenticated, so as to entitle the same to
registration, and there was no proof of the acknowledgment or
privy examination of Mary Stith, the fernS covert, and that
the registration of said deed being unauthorized, a copy would
not be read." The court overruled the objection, and permitted
the deed to be read, and the exception to this ruling is chiefly
relied on as a ground for reversing the judgment of the cour
below.
The acknowledgment certified with this deed, which purports
to have been taken in open court, in Halifax county, North
Carolina, a%November sessions, 1807, is admitted not to have
been such as the registration acts then required, nor was it certified under the seal of the court, as required by law.' But an
act was passed in 1839, by the legislature of Tennessee, the 9th
section of which contains the following provision: That whenVOL. XVII.

49

578

SUPREME COURT.
Webb Ct al. v. Den.

ever a deed has been registered "twenty years or more, the same
shall be presumed to be upon lawful authority, and the probate
shall be good oad effectual, though the certificate on which the
same' has been registered has. not been transferred to the register's books, and no matter what has been the form of the certificate of probate or acknowledgment."
In the early settlement of most of our States, the forms of
conveyances of land were very simple; and- they were usually
drawn either by the parties themselves, or by persons equally
ignorant of the proper forms of certificates of acknowledgment
required by law.
In some States, the statutes concerning acknowledgments
and registry were stringent, while the practice was loose and
careless. And, in some, the courts by unnecessary strictness in
their construction of the statutes, added to the insecurity of
titles, in a county where too many have acted on the supposition that every one who can write is fit for a conveyancer.
The great evils likely to arise from a strict construction applied
to the bond fide conveyances of an age so careless of form, have
compelled legislatures to quiet titles by confirinatory acts, in
order to prevent the most gross injustice.
The act in question is one of these; it is a wise and just act;
it governs this case, and justifies the court in admitting this
deed in evidence. It was registered in 1809, and some of the
grantees have been in possession under it ever since. After
such a length of time, the law presumes it to have been registered on lawful authority, without regard to the form of certificate of probate or acknowledgment. As a legal presumption it
is con'lusive that the deed was properly acknowledged, although
the contrary'may appear on the face of the papers.
It is not a "retrospective law" under the constitution of Tennessee, which the legislature is forbidden to pass. It is prospective; declaring what should th, 'eafter be received in courts
as legal evidence of the authenticity of ancient deeds. It makes
no exception as to the rights of married women, and the courts
can make none. Informalities and errors in the acknowledgments of feme coverts, are those which the carelessness and
ignorance of conveyancers were most liable to make, and which
most required such curative legislation.
The registration being thus validated, copies of such deeds
stand on the same footing with other legally registered deeds,
of which copies are made evidence by the law.
The objections to the form of this deed, that it has no
effective words of grant to convey a fee, nor states a consideration, nor sufficiently describes-the grantees, cannot be supported.
It is true, it is a very informal conveyance, but it contains

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

579

Webb et al. v. Den.

enough within it to show its validity. 'It appears that Anthony
Bledsoe, as locator of the land for Lang, was entitled by their
contract to one fourth. The whole legal title was in Lang's
devisees, the equitable title to one fourth in Bledsoe's devisees.
The deed does not contain the words give, grant, bargain, and
sell, &c., but only ua release and quitclaim forever, unto the
legatees and deviseea of Anthony Bledsoe, deceased." The
will of Bledsoe is in evidence. The deed, by this description,
necessarily refers, to that instrument to ascertain the persons
who are -such "legatees and devisees6, and. thus far incorporates it . It contains, therefore, a sufficient description of the
grantees.
It has no words of inheritance, because it is a release of the
bare legal title to equitable owners in fee, on partition between.
them as tenants in common. . This appears on the face of the
deed.- The consideration of the conveyance is stated to be a
release, on behalf of the grantees, "of all clains under a certain contract," &c. By 'the common law, there is a distinction
between a release by one joint-tenant to another, and the same
as between tenants in common; the first requires no words of
inheritance, but the latter does. But this technical distinction
is founded on feudal reasons witiA respect to livery of seisin,
which have no application where the release is to the equitable owner in, fee. - By the' statutes of Tennessee, registering a deed is the only livery of seisin required.
'But whether the deed passed the legal estate in fee or not,
was a question not arising in the case, as the lessor of plaintiff
was one of the devisees of Anthony Bledsoe, and therefore one
of the original grantees in the deed, and had a legal as well as
equitable estate.
Th( objection to the rdcord of partition between the heirs
or devisees of Nicholas Lang, because it was res inter alios
acta, ought not to have been made. The authenticity of the,
record was not disputed, and if it had anylegal bearing whatever
on the title of the plaintiff, the defendants, who had as yet
shown no title, cannot object to the muniments of plaintiffs'
title, when offered in evidence, whether they be deeds, wills, or
partitions, "because- they are res inter alios acta."
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the middle
district of Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be .and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

