SUPREME COURT.
Wickliffe v. Eve et al.

court, and also by his appeal to this court, sought to recover the
whole amount of the judgment against Strong, or at least so
much of it as would satisfy his two judgments against Farmer
and others. But he can in this mode of proceeding reach only
the equity of his judgment debtor in the assigned judgment;
and having received that, he can claim nothing more. The
decree of the district court is affirmed, at the costs of the complainant
Oraer.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the northern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said district court in this cause
be and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

ROBERT WICKLIFFE, ADMINISTRATOR, WITH THE WILL ANNEXED,
OF LUKE TIERNAN, DECEASED, COMPLAINANT

v.

BENJAIVIIN EVE, IN

HIS OWN

AND

APIELLANT,

RIGHT AND AS ADMINISTRATOR

OF JOSEPH EVE, DECEASED, RICHARDSON
OF RANDOLPH ADAMS, DECEASED, ROBERT
BALLINGER, AND FRANKLIN BALLINGER.

A-DAMs,

P.

EXECUTOR
LETCHER, JAMIES

Where a judgment had been obtdined in the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky, in a suit brought by a citizen of Maryland against certain
persons in Kentucky, and the judgment was afterwards perpetually enjoined at the
instance of the defendants, avid a bill was filed by a citizen of Kentucky against the
original defendants, who were also citizens of Kentucky, this bill was properly dismissed by the court for the want of jurisdiction.
The circumstance that the complainant claimed that this was in the nature of a bill
of review of the decree which was passed in -a suit between .citizens of different
States, was not sufficient to devest it of the character of an original bill.
Moreover, the administrator of a deceased partner had no right to interpose and claim
a debt due to the partnership. It was the right of the surviving partner to settle
up the concerns of the firm.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by .1r. Preston, for the appellant, and by- ir.
Blair, for the appellees.
It would be difficult to report the arguments of counsel without giving a detailed history of the transactions between the
parties. They are, therefore, omitted.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

469

Wickliffe v. Eve et al.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1822. some of the defendants made two notes, one.for
$1,308.44, and one for $1,3S3.95, tb Luke Tiernan and sons;
one payable the 1st of December of that year, and the other
December 1, 1823. ,
In 1833, suits were brought by the plaintiff., as aftoriey of the
payees, in the United States circuit court for the Kentucky district, and judgments were obtained by default.
No executions to enforce the judgments were put into the
marshal's hands till December 1-5, 184.5; and shortly after they
were stayed by injunction, at the suit of some of the defendants
against Charles Tiernan, the surviving partner, on the ground of
payment, and the bar of the statute of Kentucky, for failing to
sue out executions within twelve months after judgment; and
on the 6th day of Mlay, 1847, the injunction was, by decree of
the United States circuit court, made perpetual.
Wickliffe had, in the mean time, brought suit against Luke
Tiernan, claiming an indebtedness against- him to'the amount
of about three thousand dollars, but never obtained judgment.
He'had attached the debt he alleged to be due by the defendants
to Tiernan and Sons, and when the injunction suit was pending
against the surviving partner, Wickliffe, having obtained letters
of administration on the 13th of November, 1846, petitioned to
be made a defendant, but the court overruled the motion.
On the 6th of December, 1847, he moved for leave to file a
bill of review on the same ground, but the court also- refused:
and the present suit was brought to set aside the decree enjoining execution of the two judgments, on the ground that the deeree in favor of Eve and others wvas obtainied, by fra ud, through
the - connivance of Charles Tiernan, the defenidant. The bill
alleges, among other thing-, that Charles Tiernan was largely
indebted to his father, and had assigned his interest in the judgments to him, and had become bankrupt. There is no averment
in the bill that the partnership debts of Luke Tiernan and Sons
had been paid; nOr is there any averment that the complainant
and defendants were citizens of different States.
Wickliffe attempted to have himself made a defendant to the
suit of John G. Eve and others against Charles Tieran, on the
assumption that Luke Tiernan was indebted to him, Wickliffe,
and he claimed a right to have part of tie amount due to him.
from Luke Tiernan satisfied out of the moneys lie alleged were
due to Luke Tiernan and Sons from Eve and others. Charles
Tiernan, being the surviving partner of the firm, had the sole
right to defend the suit, as lie represented the partnership property; in regard to which, the administrator of Luke Tiernan
had a right to come into a court of equity by bill, to coerce the
VOL. XVII.

40

SUPREME COURT.
Wickliffe v. Eve et al.

surviving partner to settle, and pay the debts of the firm "-ith
the joint property; and after the creditors of the partnersl.'
were satisfied, then Luke Tiernan's administrator might have
come in on a bill, properly framed, for one third of the surplus, or
as much more as Luke Tiernan was in advance to the firm.
This familiar doctrine is well stated by Mr. Justice Story, in his
work on Partnership, §§ 97, 347.
But the bill before us claims no relief in this form; the complainant asks that the decree releasing Eve and others may be
stt aside as fraudulent, and the balance due on Eve's debt may
be decreed to him, as administrator of Luke Tiernan; and in
this capacity he seeks to retain for himself, and subject the
property of the firm to pay the debts of an individual partner.
Charles Tiernan is no party to this proceeding, and as he was
not brought before the court, there could be no jurisdiction taken
of the subject-matter; he being legal owner of the chose in
action claimed, if the claim had any existence.
The bill *vas dismissed in the circuit court, because the complainant and the defendants were citizens of Kentucky, and
therefore the court declared it had no jurisdiction, for want of
proper parties. To obviate this objection, it is insisted here, on
the part of the appellant, that this is a bill of review of the proceeding in the cause of John G. Eve and others, against Charles
Tiernan. The appellant having been refused the privilege to
file a bill of review, he then filed this original bill, impeaching
the decree for fraud; and to this bill none but citizens of Kentucky were parties.
It is manifestly an original bill, within the description given
by lir. Justice Story's Eq. Plead. § 404, and being so, the
circuit court had no jurisdiction of the parties.
It is ordered thatthe decree, dismissing the bill, be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Kentucky, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

