DECEM1BER TERM,

1854.

3

Shields v. Thomas.

of his office. The practice is founded upon the language of
the act of 1789, c. 20, which directs the "adverse party" to be
cited, on a writ of error or appeal. The "adverse party" is
the one -which appeared in the sui% and who prosecuted or
defended it, and in whose favor the judgment was rendered,
which the plaintiff in the writ of error seeks to reverse.
The motion to dismiss this writ of error must, therefore, be
overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Dunbar,to dismiss this cause on a prior day of the present term, to wit on
Friday, the 19th instant, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon, had as well against as. in support there6f, it is now here
ordered by the court that the said motion be, and the saip is,
hereby overruled.

JOHN G. SHIELDS, APPELLANT, V. ISAAC THOMAS AND OTHERS.
Where a bill was filed by several distrilbtees of an estate, to compel the payment of
money alleged to be due to them, and a decree was rendered in their favor, this
court has jurisdiction over an appeal, although the amount payable to each indi.
'vidual claimant was less than two thousand dollars.
The aggregate amount which the defendant was decreed to pay, was more than two
thousand dollars; and as to him, this is the matter in dispute.
The complainants all claimed under the same title; and it was of no consequence to
the defendant in what proportions they shared the money amongst them.
The cases upon this point examined.

THis was an appeal from the distict, court of the United
States for the northern district of Iowa.

M1r. Platt Smith moved to dismiss the appeal for want .ol
jurisdiction, as the amount of none of the several decrees was
for $2,000, and referred to the case of Oliver et al. v. Alexander
et al. 6 Peters, 143.
The motion was opposed by Mr. Gillett.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the' opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the district court of
the United States) exercising the powers of a circuit court
for the district of Iowa. A motion has been made 6n behalf of

4

SUPREME

COURT.

Shields v. Thomas.

Isaac Thomas, one of the appellees, to dismiss it upon the
ground that the suin in controversy with him is less than two
thousand dollars.
The facts in the case may be stated in a few words, so far as
they are material to the decision of the motion.
John Goldsberry, of Kentucky, died intestate, leaving a large
personal estate, to which the present appellees, together with
other persons named in the proceedings, were entitled as his
legal representatives, in the proportions set out in the proceedings. The widow of Goldsberry obtained letters of administration on his estate, and afterwards intermarried with Shields,
the appellant, who thereby obtained possession of the property
of the deceased.
The representatives of John Goldsberry, (of whom Isaac
Thomas, in right of his wife, is one,) filed a -bill in the
chancery court of Kentuckyf against Shields, charging that he
had converted to his own use a large artiount of the property,
to which these representatives were entitled. And in that proceeding they obtained a dec 3e against him for a large sum of
money, the shares of the respective complainants being apportioned to them in the decree; and the appellant was directed to
pay to each the specific sum to which he was entitled, as his
proportion of the property misappropriated by Shields.
The appellant (Shields) lived in Iowa when this decree was
made; and the present appellees, who are a portion of the representatives of John Goldsberry, united in the bill in equity now
before us, to enforce the decree of the Kentucky court, and
praying that Shields might be compelled to pay to them respectively the several sums decreed in their favor in the proceedings
in Kentucky,; and they obtained the decree in question, accord.
ing to the prayer of their bill.
The whole amount recovered against Shields, in the proceeding in Iowa, exceeds two thousand dollars. But the sum
allotted to each representative, who joined in the bill, was less.
And the motion is made to dismiss, upon the ground that the
sum due to each complainant is severally and specifically
decreed to him; and that the amount thus decreed, is the sum
in controversy between each representative and the appellant,
and not the whole amount for which he has been held liable.
And if this view of the matter in controversy be correct, the
sum is undoubtedly below the jurisdiction of the court, and the
appeal must be dismissed.
But the court think the matter in, controversy, in the Kentucky court, was the -sum due to the representatives of the
deceased collectively ; and not the particular sum o which e(cdf
was entitled, when the amount due was distributed amolng them,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1854.

5

Shields v. Thomas.

according to the laws of the State. They all claimed under one
and the same title. They had a common and undivided interest
in the claim; and it was perfectly immaterial to the appellant,
how it was to be shared among them. He had no controversy
with either of them on that point; and if there wias any difficulty as to the proportions in which they were to share, the dispute was among themselves, and not with him.
It is like a contract with several to pay a sum of money. It
may be that the money, when recovered, is to be divided between
them in equal or unequal proportions. Yet, if a controversy
arises 6n the contract, and the sum in dispute upoli it exceeds
two thousand dollars, an appeal would clearly lie to this court,
although the interest of each individual was less than that
sum.
This being the controversy in Kentucky, the decree of that
court, apportioning the sum recovered among the several representatives, does not'alter its character when renewed in Iowa.
So far as the appellant is concerned, the entire sum found due
by the Kentucky court is in dispute. He disputes the validity
of that decree, and denies his obligation to pay any part of the
money. And if the appellees maintain their "bill, he will be
-made liable to pay the whole amount decreed to them. This
is the controversy on his part; and the amount exceeds two
thousand dollars. We think the court, therefore, has jurisdiction on the appeal.
The cases referred to stand on different principles. The
case of Oliver and others v. Alexander and others, 6 Pet. 143,
was a suit for seamen's wages. And although the crew are
allowed by law, (for the sake of convenience and to save costs,)
to join in a suit for wages, yet the right of each seaman is
separate and distinct from his associates. His contract is
separate; and his recovery does not depend upon the recovery
of others,-but rests altogether on its own evidence and merits.
And he does not recover a portion of a common fund to be distributed among the claimants, but the amount due to himself
on his own separate contract.
The case of Rich and others v. Lambert and others, 12 How.
352, was decided on the same ground. The several shippers
who owned the goods which had been damaged, had no common interest in the goods. The interest of each was separate;
and his contract of affreightment separate. And the libel of
each was upon his own contract with the ship-owner, and for
his own individual and separate property.
The cages of Stratton-v. Jarvis and Brown, 8 Pet. 8, and of
Spear v. Place', 11 How. 525, were both salvage cases, where
the property of each owner is chargeable with its own amount

6

SUPREME COURT.
Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

of salvage. The salvage service is entire; but the goods of
each owner are liable only for the salvage with which they are
charged, and have no common liability for the amounts due
from the ship or other portions of the cargo. It is a separate
and distinct controversy between himself and the salvors, and
not a common and undivided one, for which the property is
jointly liable.
The cases relied on are therefore distinguishable from the one
before us; and the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
must be overruled.

Order.
On consideration of the motion made in this cause by AMr.
Smith, on a prior day of the present term of this court, to wit,
on Friday, the 19th instant, and of the arguments of counsel
thereupon, had as well against as in support th( reof, it is now
here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same
is, hiefeby overruled.

JOHN ARTHURS, JOHN NICHOLSON, JONAS R. MCCLINTOCK, AND
WILLIAM1 STEWART, CARRYING ON BUSINESS UNDER THE FIRM
AND NAME OF ARTHURS, NICHOLSON, AND Co., PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. JESSE HART.
Where a jury is waived, and questions of law and fact decided by the court irr
Louisiana, the rules of the state appellate court require that the whole evidence should
be put into the record. But where a case is brought up to this court, by writ of
error from the circuit court of the United States for Louisiana, the rules of this
court only require that so much of the evidence should be 'inserted as is necessary
to explain the legal questions decided by the court.
Consequently, the mere fact, that some of the evidence given below is omitted from
the record, is not of itself sufficient to prevent this court from examining the questions of law presented by the record.
Where the court decides questions both of law and fact, the admission of improper
testimony is not the subject of a bill of exception, although the exclusion of proper
testimony is so.
The rule stated, according to which the appellate court should review the legal questions invelved in the final judgment of the court below, which has decided both law
and fact; and the mode pointed out by which counsel should separate the two
classes of questions.
In an action upon a bill of exchange by a bonA fide assignee against the acceptor, it is
no good defence that the bill was accepted in order to pay for a sugar-mill which
was defective; that the drawers of the bill had promised to put it in order, and that
the assignee of the bill knew these facts. The acceptor of the bill relied upon this
promise to protect his rights, and not upon a refusal to pay the bill when due.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit

