DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

19

Olney v. Steam-ship Falcon et al.

If amendments be allowed, so as to give jurisdiction to this
court, where there was no jurisdiction when the trial was had
and the appeal taken, parties would be taken by surprise, and
litigation would be encouraged. The plaintiff, under such
circumstances, would never fail to sustain the jurisdiction of
this court, on his appeal.
On the ground that the matter in dispute does not appear, on
the face of the libel, to exceed two thousand dollars, the appeal
is dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court that this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed, for
want of jurisdiction.

JAMES N. OLNEY, LIBELLANT AND APPELLANT, v. THE STEAMSHIP FALCON, HER TACKLE, &C.,
AND GEORGE LAW AND
MARSHALL 0. ROBERTS, CLAIMANTS.
Where it was alleged in a libel, that the libellant was "entitled to recover from the
vessel the damages by him sustained, which amount to the sum of eighteen hundred
dollars and upwards," the sum was not sufficient to bring the dese within the jurisdiction of this court.
Interest, not being specially claimed, cannot be computed, for it is considered as a
part o' the damages, being merged in that claim, and is not estimated as a distinct
item.

THIS was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the southern district of New York.
A libel was filed in the district court, by Olney, alleging the
shipment and non-delivery of a box of merchanidise, in consequence of which he was entitled to recover the damages by him
sustained, which amounted to the sum of eighteen hundred
dollars and upwards.
The district court dismissed the libel, and the circuit court
affirmed the decree. The libellant appealed to this court.
Mlfr. C(utt'ng"moved to dismiss the appeal, upon the ground
that the amount in controversy appeared, by the record, to be
less than two thousand dollars,-exclusive of costs.
The motion was argued by Mr. GttiWg, in support thereof,

20

SUPREME COURT.
Olney v.

Steam-ship Falcon et al.

and by .Mr.Bradley, with whom was Mr.Benedict, in opposition
thereto.
The reporter has no notes of Mr. Cutting's argument.
Mr.Bradley filed the following affidavit of value, and then
made the following points: Affidavit of value.
Charles L. Benedict, of the city of New York, counsellor at
law, being sworn, says that he is the proctor for the libellant in
this cause.
That the libellant resides out of the city of New York, and
deponent has not been able to communicate with him since the
notice of the motion to dismiss the appeal in this cause was
received. That the amount actually claimed, in good faith, in
the original libel in this cause, is one thousand eight hundred
dollars, over and above the interest thereafter to accrue, and that,
with the interest, the same actually amounted to
exclusive of costs, at the time when the
appeal in this cause was taken to the decree of the circuit court.
And deponent further says, that it is the usual practice, in the
southern district of New York, under the 44th rule of this court,
in admiralty, to refer questions of damages to a commissioner,
to ascertain and compute the amount, after the court shall have
given its decree for the plaintiff, so that the full testimony of
the amount of damages is not given on the principal hearing.
And deponent further says, that the rules of the district court
require libels to be sworn to; so that it is necessary, in stating
the amount claimed, to state the same as it actually and in truth
exists at the time the libel is sworn to, and on such libels the
court, in its final deree, gives such amount as the libellant shall
be entitled to recover on his case, whether the same be more or

less than the amount in the libel.

CHAS.

L. BENE:DICT.

Subscribed and sworn to by Charles L. Benedict, this. 20th
day of December, A. D. 1854, before m6,
CHAS. ELIOT SCOVILLE, U.S. Com'r.
Points.
I. It is the matter in dispute in this court, at the time of th(
appeal, and not the amount in the original libel, which controls
the jurisdiction.
In Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 34, the court says: "Upon the
true construction of the judicial act, the jurisdiction of the court
depends upon the um in dispute between the parties, as the
case stands upon the writ of error." The appeal states that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

21

Olney v. Steam-ship Falcon et al.

original claim was for eighteen hundred dollars and upwards,
besides the interest; that, on the hearing, the libellant claimed
the said principal and the interest, amounting to two thousalid
two hundred and fifty dollars, and that the libellant was entitled
to recover, on his proofs and allegations, two thousand two humdred and fifty dollars, October 14, 1853.
That was our claim at the time of the appeal; another year's
interest has since been added.
The libel was sworn to on February 27, 18.50, and the amount
sworn to, at that time, was eighteen hundred dollars and upwards, - a sliding sum, to cover interest as it should accumulate by delay.
IL If the computation of interest will make the amount
large enough, then the court has jurisdiction.
I Scott v. Lunt's Administrator, 6 Pet. 351, the court says:
"The court cannot judicially take notice that, by computation, it
may possibly be made out, as matter of inference, from the declaration, that plaintiff's claim in reality must be lesa than one
thousand dollars, (the case was from the district); nuh less
can, it take such notice in a case where the plaintiff might be
allowed interest on his claim by the jury, so as to swell his claim
beyond one thousand dollars, (the limit in the district.)"
III. -Where the decree is against the plaintiff, then the "matfer in dispute" is the largest amount which he may recover.
In Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 34, the court say: "If -the writ
of error be brought by the plaintiff below, then the sum which
his declaration shows to be due, may be still recovered, should
the judgment be reversed. And, consequently, the whole sum
claimed is still in dispute. It is the uniform pfactice, in the
southern district of New York, to establish, on the hearing only,
the liability, and to have the amount of the damages ascertained
on a reference to a commissioner; so that the proofs in the
record are not the full proofs as to thi- amount.
IV. Where the matter in disput6 is not fixed by the record,
it may be showil by affidavit. 4 Dallas, 22; 3 Dallas, 401
01;
4 Cranch,216.
V, Under 'the 24th admiralty rule of the suprem&i court, the
libel may be amended at any time, as of course, on application
to the court. If this be necessary, we now move, to amend the
libel, by inserting, "together with the interest to the time Of the
final decree in this court or any appellate court."
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the southern district of New York, iladmiralty.
A motion is made by defendants' counsel to dismiss the
appeal., for want of jurisdiction.

SUPREME

COURT.

Olney v. Steam-ship Falcon et al.

In the libel, the shipment of a box of merchandise, which was
not delivered to the consignee, &e., is alleged, and that the
libellant is entitled to recover of said vessel the damages by him
sustained, which amount to the sum of eighteen hundred dollars
and upwards," &c.
The district court dismissed the libel, from which decision an
appeal was taken to the circuit court, and that court affirmed
the decision of the district court. From this last decision, an
appeal has been taken to this court.
On the part of the appellant it is stated, that the claim was
for eighteen hundred dollars and upwards, besides the interesti
that, on the hearing, the libellant claimed the said principal and
interest, amounting to two thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars, and that he was entitled to recover, on his proofs and
allegations, that sum. That this was the claim at the time of the
appeal, and that another year's interest has since accrued. And
it is contended that the sum sworn to, being eighteen hundred
dollars and upwards,.was intended to cover the accruing interest.
The right of appeal from the circuit to the supreme court is
given, "where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of
tw6 thousand dollars, exclusive of costs." The defendant can
appeal, where the judgment or decree against him exceeds the
sum or value of two thousand dollars; but an appeal may be
taken by the plaintiff where his claim of damages, in the declaration or libel, exceeds the above sum, or where the value of the
thing claimed exceeds it, as this is held to be the matter in dispute.
The appellant, in this case, claims in his libel, which is sworn
to, eighteen hundred dollars and upwards. The words, "and
upwards," it is said, were intended to embrace the interest, and
that, if this be calculated from the time of filing the libel'up to
the time of the trial, the sum would exceed two thousand dollars.
The interest, in an action of this kind, if taken into view, is
considered as a part of the damages, being merged in that claim,
and is not estimated as a distinct item. The claim of more
than eighteen hundred dollars, is too indefinite to give jurisdiction under the act of Congress; and the interest not being specially claimed, for the reason stated, cannot be computed. The
appeal is, therefore, dismissed, for want of jurisdiction. Gordon
v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 34; Scott v. Lunt's Administrator, 6 Pet. 349.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, disrnissed, for the
want of jurisdiction.

