SUPREME COURT.
The Troy Iron and, Nail Factory v. George Odiorne et al.
THE

TROY IRON AND NAIL FACTORY, APPELLANT, v. GEORGE
ODIORNE, JR., AND FRANCIS ODIORNE.*

A,machine for making hook-headed spikes was constructed in Boton, prior to the
18th of April, 1839, and therefore not within a patent for a machine for a similar
purpose which Burden applied for on that day.

THIs was an appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the district of Massachusetts, sitting as a court of equity.
It was a bill filed by the Troy 'Iron and Nail Factory, a manufacturing corporation established in the State of New York, to
restrain the Odiornes from infringing certain letters-patent granted to Henry Burden, on the 2d of September, 1840, and by him
assigned to the complainant.
The respondents filed an answer, taking various grounds of
defence, which it is not necessary, under the circumstances of
the case, to particularize. At October term, 1851, the following
stipulation was signed by the parties, and filed in the cause '.Lhe defendants agree not to deny the validity of the complainants' patent, provided they make out their title to the said
letters-patent to be good.
They also agree not to deny that the machine complained of
in the complainants' bill, is an infringement on the patent granted

to H. Burden, on August 4, 1840. [Sept. 2.]
If the complainants shall establish their title to the letterspatent aforesaid, the proper decree may be entered for the complainants, unless the defendants shall prove that the spike
machine used by them, and complained of in the bill aforesaid,
was constructed prior to the alleged, application of H. Burden,
made April 18, 1839, for letters-patent therefor, according'to the
provisions of the statute of the United Stat6s, 1839, ch. 88,
sec. 7; or was the result of an independent, original invention,
prior in time to the invention of the said Burden; in either of
which cases the proper decree shall be entered for defendants.
C. P. CURTIS, JR., Plaintiff's attorney.
J. A. ANDREW, for defendants.
VTuch testimony was taken upon the subjects involved, and in
December, 1852, the circuit court dismissed the bill.
From this decree, the complainant appealed to this court.
The case was argued by Mr. George T. Curtis for the appellants ; no counsel appearing for the appellee.
The argument upon the point upon which the court rested its
decision, consisted of an examination of the evidence bearing
upon it, which it is not necessary to state.
* Mr. JUSTICE CURTIs, having been of counsel, did not sit in this cause.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
The Troy Iron and Nail Factory v. George Odiorne et al.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Henry Burden obtained a patent, in 1840, for a machine to
make hook-headdd spikes. He applied for the patent or the
18th of April, 1839. It was assigned to the- Troy Iron and Nail
Company, who filed a bill against the Odiornes, to tnjoin them,
and for an account for using a mxchine to make similar spikes;
and iWhi6h machine, it is alleged, infringed the monopoly secured
to Burden, by his patent of 1840. The case was brought to a
hearing on the following stipulation:"The defendants agree not to deny the validity of the complainant's patent, provided they make out their title to the said
letters-patent to be good.
" They also agree not to deny that the machine complained
of in the cpmplainant's bill, is an infringement on the patent
granted to H..Burden, on August 4, 1840.
* "If the complainants shall establish their title to the letterspatent aforesaid, the proper decree may be entered for the complainants, unless the defendants shall prove that the spike
machine used by them, and complained of in the bill aforesaid,
was constructed prior to the alleged application of H., Burden,
made April 18, 1839, for letters-patent therefor, according, to
the provisions of the statute of the United States,, 1839, ch.
88, see. 7; or was the result of an independent, ofiginal invention, prior in time to the invention of the said Burden; in
either of which cases the proper decree shall be entered for defendants.
The only question presented for our consideration on the stipulation, is, whether the machine employed-by the appellees was
constructed prior to the 18th of April, 1839, when Burden made
application at the pAtent office, for his patent.
The machine complained of was built by Richard Savary, for
the Boston Iron Company, in the spring of 1839, and obtained,
by the appellees, by assignment. Savary was the patentee of a
machine to make ship and boat-spikes, and, at the suggestion of
the agents of the Boston Iron Company, added an attachment of
an apparatus to make a hook-head to spikes; the process for
making which, Savary deposes, he'discovered in August, 1838.
The time at which this apparatus was attached to the machine
(substantially complete in its operative parts,) is the time when
the machine complained of was " constructed," in the sense of
the stipulation ; it notbeing-necessary that the mahine sh6uldbe
geared and doing work. We are satisfied that it was set up, and
subtantially finished, before the 18th of April, 1839, and, therefore, order the decree below to be affirmed.
VOL. XVIL

SUPREME COURT.
Battin ct al. v. Taggert et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel; on consideration
whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this cause be
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.

JOSEPH BATTIN, PATENTEE, AND SAMUEL BATTIN, ASSIGNEE,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. JAMES TAGGERT, DEFENDANT IN ERROR. JOSEPH BATTIN, PATENTEE, AND SAMUEL BATTIN, AsSIGNEE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ROBERT RADCLIFFE AND JOHN
JOHNSON, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR. JOSEPH BATTIN, PATENTEE,
AND SAMUEL BATTIN, ASSIGNEE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN
G. HEwES, DEFENDANT IN ERROR.
Whether the defect be in the specifications or in the claim of a patent, the patentee
may surrender it, and, by an amended specification or claim, cure the defect.
Whei this is done, and a reissued and corrected patent is taken out, the omissions and
defects are cured ; and nothing within the scope of the patentee's original invention
can be considered as having been dedicated to the public, by the lapse of time
between the original and reissued patent.
:Ience, where a patent was taken out for a new and useful improvement in the machine
for breakng and screening coal, and the claim was for the manner in which the
party had arranged and combined with each other the breaking rollers and the
screen; and the amended specification of the reissued patent described essentially
the same machine as the former one did, but claimed, as the thing invented, the
breaking apparatus only, a dedication to the public did not accrue in the interval
between the one patent and the other.
It was for the jury to determine, from the facts in the case, whether the specifications,
including the claim, were so precise as to enable any person skilled in the structure of machines, to make the one described; also, to judge of the novelty of the
invention, and whether the renewed patent was for the same invention as the
original patent; also, whether the invention had been abandoned to the public.
The jury were also to judge of the identity of the machine used by the defendant,
with that of the plaintiffs, or whether they have been constructed and act on the same
principle.
THESE three cases were argued and decided together. They
were brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit court of the
United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
On the 6th of October, 1843, Joseph Battin obtained a patent
for a new and useful improvement in the machine for breaking
and screening coal, which he defined, in his specification, as one
in which the breaking and screening were effected simultaneously,
by a set of breaking rollers, of a certain form, operating in connection with an assorting screen. After describing the machine,
the claim was made as follows, namely --

