DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

23

Haydel v. Dufresne.
MARCELIN ITAIYDEL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. FRANCOIS DUFRESNE.'
In 1811, congress passed an act (2 Stat. at L. 663) giving to the owners of land in
Louisiana bordering on any river, creek, &c., the preference in purchasing back land;
and where, by reason of bends in the river, each claimant could not obtain a tract
equal in quantity to the adjacent tract already held by him. the surveyor of the
district, under tile superintendence of the surveyor of tfhe public lands, south of the
State of Tennessee, was directed to divide the vacant laud between the several
claimants in such a manner as to him might seem most equitable.
These officers decided, as judges, upon the equities of the claimants; and their allotments are not liable to be overthrown byincourts
of justice, upon any other ground
this case.
than that of fraud, which is not imputed

THIS case was' brought up from the supreme court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The widow Francois Dufresne filed her petition in the fourth
judicial district court of the State of Louisiana, in the parish of
St. John the Baptist, complaining that the United States deputy
surveyor had allotted to her 79a acres of back land, instead of
121,% and had given to Mrs. widow MAareelin Haydel, 243, 'acres,
instead of 2017, which was her fair proportion.
It is not necessary to trace the progress of the dispute, or to
refer to the surveys. The fourth judicial district court decided
that, inasmuch as the deputy surveyor had apportioned the back
lands in the manner now complained of, and there was not to
be found on the face of the survey such gross preference and
unwarrantable proceeding, which alone, in some cases, would
require the interpbsition of a court of justice, the defendant
should be quieted in her possession. Other points were raised
and decided, which it is not necessary to notice.
It was carried to the supreme court, which reversed the judgment of the court below, holding that th6 act of the deputy
surveyor was merely ministerial. and that he was bound to make
an equitable division of the back land between the front owners,
in proportion to the respective quantities held by the latter.
The widow Mlarcelui Haydel brought the case up to this court
It was argued by Mr. Aibni, for the plaintiff in error, and
submitted upon a printed argument -by _1Ir. Grailhue, for the
defendant in error. Only those parts of the arguments will be
noticed.which related to the point upon which the decision of
their court turned.
M'. Jain,.for plaintiff in error.
I. The power of congress over the public lands is unlimited.
Bragnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet. 439; Wilcox r. Jacksoff; Id.
498; Foley v. Harrison, 15 How. 433. Congress had the un* Mr. Justice Wayne, having been indisposed, did not sit in this cause;

SUPREME COURT.
Haydel v. Dufresne.

doubted right to prescribe the extent to which, and the boundaries within which, portions of the domain might be purchased
as back concessions. By the 5th section of the act of March
3, 1811, congress prescribed that this extent and these boundaries should be determined in certain cases, such as this, by the
deputy surveyor of the district and the surveyor of the district
south of Tennessee River. These officers are, therefore, the
exclusive judges of the matters now brought before this court,
by the plaintiff, subject bnly to the supervision of the general landoffice. In the case of Wilcox v. Jackson. 13 Pet. 511, the
supreme court of the United States held the following language:
"Before we proceed to inquire whether the land in question
falls within the scope of any of these prohibitions, it is necessary to examine a preliminary objection which was urged at the
bar, which, if sustainable; would render that inquiry wholly
unavailing. It is this: that the acts of congress have given to
the registers and receivers of the land-offices tle power of
deciding upon claims to the right of pre-emption - that upon
these -questions they act judicially - that, no appeal having been
given from their decisions, it follows, as a consequence, that it is
conclusive and irreversible. This proposition is true in relation
to every tribunal acting judicially, whilst acting within the
sphere of its jurisdiction, where no appellate tribunal is created;
and even where there is such an appellate power, the judgment
is conclusive when it only comes collaterally into question, so
long as it is unreversed. But directly the reverse of this is true
in relation to the judgment of any court actirg beyond the pale
of its authority. The principle upon this subject is concisely
and accurately stated by this court, in the case of Elliot et al. v.
Peirsol et al. 1 Pet. 340, in these words: I Where a court has
jurisdiction, it has a right to decide every question which occurs
in the cause; and whether its decision be correct or otherwise,
its judgment, until reversed, is regarded as binding in every other
court. But, if it act without authority, its judgment and orders
are regarded as nullities. They are not voidable, but simply
void.'
The case of Jourdan v. Barrett, 4 How. 169, is very analogous
to this, and conclusive on the authority of the surveyors. See
pp. 182-184.
That the surveyors acted within the scope of their authority,
is not questioned; and, from the authorities just quoted, it appears that the propriety or correctness of their decision is beyond
the reach of courts of law. But were the question open, it
would be easy to show that their decision is unassailable, and
that a court of justice would decide as the surveyors did. The
object of the enactment of congress was to provide for the appor-

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

25

Haydel v. Dufresne.

tionment of back lands in certain localities, where everS, front
proprietor could not obtain a quantity equal to his front tracts that is, on points 'of kiiid. The precise limits of the point, the
lands of which are thus to be made to contribute and participate,
cannot be determined by legislative language ; each point begins
in a bend; while one man may suppose it to begin in the middle
of the bend, another may be of opinion that it really begins
only at its extremity.' Under these circumstances, the surveyor
followed the most prudent couise".

Mr. Grailhe, in reply to the above.
We candidly confess there is some "simplicity," if not in the
Oint at issue, at least in the arguments brought forward to misead the judgment of this court.
They are, in substance, the following: That the 5th section
of the act of congress, approved March 3, 1811, takes from the
jrudiciary power the right to determine upon conflicting claims
arsing under this law, and transfers it over to the ministerial, or
executive department.
A more forced conclusion cannot be drawn from the plain
language of the section quoted, which, in full, reads as follows:
"And the principal deputy surveyor is hereby authorized to
'cause to be surveyed the tracts claimed by virtue of this section;
and in all cases where by reason of bends in the river, lake,
creek, &c., each party cannot obtain a tract equal in quantity to
the adjacent tract already owned by him, to divide the vacant
land applicable to that object between the several claimants, in
such manner as to him may appear most equitable."
Now are these words exclusive of the concurrent jurisdiction
of the judiciary? No; and we repeat that an attempt to impose on them such a construction, is a stretch of imagination
and credulity not to be admitted.
And, in fact, in whatever manner the subject may be viewed,
can congress derogate from the great principles of the constitution ? It is urged that congre6, having the primordial possession of the soil, may fix such restrictions as it pleases to its dis.
posal. But congress is onlyinvested with the delegated powers
of the original sovereign States, and all powers not expressly
granted are admitted to be withheld.
The first section of article 3d of the federal constitution, says
that the judiciary power of the United States shall be vested in
one supreme court, and in such inferior courts as congress may
from time to time ordain and establish; and the following article
adds that said power shall extend to all cases arising under the
constitution and laws, of the United States.
By the 3d section of article 4th, congress is empowered to
Vo

XVII.

3

SUPREME COURT.
Haydel v. Dufresne.

dispose of, and make all needful regulations relative to, the ternitory or other property of the United States.
but can these regulations, which in fact are laws of the landas well as land laws, differ from the general principles adopted in
the 'social compact?
The answer is obvious, and though it had been unnecessary to
point it out, yet, congress has, on different occasions, answered the
query, more especially in the act of March 3, 1831, already quoted,
where, referring to similar conflicting claims, it says [sect. 6]:
" That in relation to all confirmed claims as may conflict, the
register of the land-office and receiver of public moneys are
hereby authorized to decide between the parties, and shall be,
in their decision, governed by such lines or boundaries as may
be agreed upon between the parties, either verbally orin writing:
and in case no boundaries be agreed upon between the parties,
said register and receiver are authorized to decide between the
parties in such manner as may be consistent with the principles
of justice; and it shall be the duty of the surveyor-general of said
State to have those claims surveyed and plated in accordance
with the decision of the receiver and register. Provided, that
said decisions and surveys and the patents that may issue thereon, shall not, in anywise, be considered as precluding a legal
investigation and decision by the proper judicial tribunal."
Does it not now appear that a "patent" may be inquired into,
in any case, where it has improvidently issued?
But one of the boldest attempts to mislead a court of justice
is certainly found in the assumption that the case of Jourdan v.
Barrett, 4 How. Rep. 169, supports the position of defendant, when
in fact it upsets every principle by her invoked. This decision
merely establishes that a survey made after the act of May 1,
1831, providing for a surveyor-general of Louisiana, could not
be binding if made by the surveyor of lands south of Tennessee,
with whom was by former laws vested the right of survey in
Louisiana and the adjacent States; but, as to a word relative
to the exchsive jurisdiction of executive or ministerial authority,
we dare the opposite counsel to quote from that case.
Yet, it is confidently asserted, and we must say that we were
struck with astonishment to hear it mentioned, that this exclusive
power to decide between conflicting claims could not be questioned, and was universally admitted.
Nothing is so far remote from the real state of things, and
we challeng6 the issue. We here proclaim, and this for the
honor of our federal courts, that such a heresy has never been
dreamed of by them, and that every misquotation from their
decisions to that effect, is made with a view to "give so much
of truth as will suggest an untruth."

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

27

Haydel p. Dufresne.

Take, for instance, the leading case of Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Pet., quoted by our adversary.
It would, from the -fragment chosen, appear, that the court in
that case maintained an entry and survey against any other
equity of antecedent date; but not so, however.
Jackson was an officer of the United States army, stationed
at a, certain place, set aside by congress as a military post.
Wilcox had settled himself, as a squatter, on part of the tract,
'and, after various frustrated attempts, had succeeded in obtaining from the- register a certificate of pre~mptioner, a located
warrant and a" survey" from the proper officers. Then he sued
Jackson, the party in possession.
What did the court decide? That congress was at liberty to
dispose of their public lands as they pleased; that having set
the land aside for certain purposes, it could not be treated as
belonging to the mass of public property, and when, .as quoted
in defendant's brief, they' peak of the power given to registers
and receivers to. decide upon questions of location, they say
that so long as they remain within their duties, their acts are
legal; but not so, when transgressing them. And they then set
aside tei decision which had been rendered in favor of Wilcox,
by the land officers.
How could any one be so bold as to give the foregoing case
such a misinterpretation as that sought to be forced on the
court in the present instance?
We repeat again, that such a heresy is not sanctioned, and
we hope never will be sanctioned, by an American tribunal; for
it would not only be tainted with illegality and unconstitutionojity, but submit, in a free country, the rights of citizens to the
whims, caprices, or corruption of the irresponsible recipients of
executive favor.
Bi. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff and defendant are respectively owners of tracts
of land forty arpens deep, situate -in -a concave bend of the
Mfississippi River, in Louisiana; their tracte front on different
sides of the deepest point of land, and when the side lines of
each tract are extended perpendicular to a base line corresponding with the bank ef the river, the two tracts interfere before
the second depth of forty arpens is obtained.
By the 5th section of an act approved the 15th of February,
1811, congress provided "that every person who, either by virtue
of a French or Spanish grant, recognized by the laws of the
United States, or under a claim confirmed by the commissioners appointed for the purpose of ascertaining the rights of-persons
claiming lands in the'territory of Orleans, owns a tract border-

28

SUPREME COURT.
Haydel v. Dufresne.

ing on any river, creek, bayou, or watercourse, in the said
territory, and not exceeding in depth forty arpens French
measure, shall be entitled to a preference in becoming the purchaser of any vacant tract of land adjacent to, and back of his
own tract, at the same price and on the same terms and conditions as is or may be provided by law for the public lands in
said territory.
And the principal deputy surveyor of each district, respectively, shall be, and he is hereby authorized, under
the superintendence of the surveyor of the public lands south
of the State of Tennessee, to cause to be surveyed the tracts
claimed by virtue of this section. And in all cases where, by
reason of bends in the river, lake, creek, bayou, or watercourse
bordering on the tract, and of adjacent claims of a similar
nature, each claimant cannot obtain a tract equal in quantity
to the adjacent tract already owned by him, to divide the vacant
land applicable to that object between the several claimants in
such a manner as to him may appear most equitable."
Those under whom the plaintiff and defendant hold their
lands, respectively, availed themselves of the preemption accorded by this law. The husband of the plaintiff, having 155
acres in his front tract, paid into the hands of the receiver of
public moneys, $148.75, for a certificate of the entry of 119
acres of the. lands in his rear. Nicholas Haydel, under whom
the. defendant holds, owned a front tract containing 249
acres,
and paid into the hands of the receiver of public moneys
the price of 248 acres, for his entry of the back lands, under the
law.
The whole quantity of land in the rear, subject to their entries,
was 322 4 acres, as to which there was no conflict between them
and any other proprietors.
Of this quantity the principal
deputy surveyor of the United States allotted to Haydel 243 2
acres, and Dufresne 79 -. His survey dividing the land in
dispute was part of a township survey, and was approved in
March, 1831, by the surveyor of public lands south of the State
of Tennessee, and a patent was issued to Haydel for 243 4
acres of the land, in 1845.
The petition charges error in the division, but nothing more,
and asks a redivision of the laud by the district court, on the
sole ground of a vested equity in the plaintiff to forty acres of
the land granted to Haydel. It is not alleged -that Haydl
controlled the surveyor, or had- any connection with, or even
knowledge of, the alleged error when the survey was made.
On this state of pleading and fact, the district court decided
for the defendant, and dismissed the petition; and an appeal
was prosecuted to the supreme court of Louisiana, which
reversed the judgment of the district court, and ordered that

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

29

Haydel v. Dufresne.
court to cause the land in dispute to be divided by a resurvey,
so as to give Dufresn. forty acres of the land for which Haydel
This judgment was given on the
had obtained a patent.
assumption that, by their respective entries in the district landoffice, each party took an equity in the back land in proportion.
to the quantity of his front tract, when compared with the contending tract; and that thus the respective equities stood before
and at the time when the lands were officially surveyed; and
that the principal deputy who laid off the lands, under the
supervision of his principal, acted in a-merely ministerial capacity, and had no discretion to divide them so as to give Dufresne
less than a fall proportion of the whole. If it be true, that irregular entries of unsurveyed back lands, which entries were
allowed by courtesy of the'general land-office vested an equity
in the enterer, and 'livested the United Slates of title, as the
state court held, then it must follow, that after the entries were
generally made in this loose form, throughout the coast of the
Mississippi River, in Louisiana, that the courts of justice might
have decreed partitions among front proprietors, in all instances,
and have had the lands surveyed by judicial authority, and
superseded the action of the United States altogether, as required
by the act of 1811.
These anomalous entries were conditional, and made subject
to a future public survey; to this effect the receipt for the
money was given by the receiver, and the register was instructed
not to transmit the certificate of purchase until the survey was
completed.
The constitution vested congress with power to dispose of the
public lands, and to make all needful regulations for this purpose; and as respects the class of lands under consideration,
the proper department ordered, as a rule having few exceptions,
that they should be laid down as part of a general plan of
township surveys, and in connection with the public lands and
private claims adjoining; and that this general survey should
settle the quantity and form of each tract of back land to which
a front owner had a preference of entry.
In this instance the surveywas- made by the principal dieputy
of the proper district under the superintendence of the surveyor
of public lands south of the State of Tennessee, as required by
law; by this survey, it was ascertained that neither of the
claimants here litigating could obtain a tract equal in quantity
to his front tract; and therefore it became necessary for the
surveyor, assisted by his immediate superior, to divide the
vacant land between these two front owners, "1in such manner
as might seem to him most equitable 2
When the survey was
approved, if the party here suing supposed nimself aggrieved,
3*-

30

SUPREME

COURT.

The York and Maryland Line Railroad Co. v. Winans.

he was authorized to appeal from the decision of the principal
deputy, an d the surveyor-general south of Tennessee, tO the
Commissioner of the general land-office; and from his decision,
if unfavorable, to the secretary of the treasury.
Congress contemplated that these lands should be divided
among front proprietors, by a surveyor on the ground, aided by
his principal; these officers were bound to act according to their
best judgment, and deoide as judges on the equities of these
claimants; nor could the courts of justice interfere to control
their acts, if they were honestly performed; the contrary of
which is not alleged in this case.
This construction of the law is altogether necessary, as great
confusion and litigation would ensue if the judicial tribunals,
state and federal, were permitted to interfere and overthrow
the public surveys on no other ground than an opinion that they
could have the work in the field better done, and divisions more
equitably made, than the department of public lands could do.
It is ordered that the judgment of the supreme court of
Louisiana be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the supreme court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said supreme court in this cause b6, anD the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said supreme court, with directions for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity
to the opinion of this court, as to law and justice shall appertain.

THE YORK AND MARYLAND LINE RAILROAD COMPANY, PLAINTIFF
IN ERROR, V. Ross WINANS.
* railroad company, organized under a charter from Pennsylvania, is responsible for
the infraction of a patent right respecting cars, although the entire capital stock of
the company was held by a connecting railroad company in Maryland, which latter
company also worked the road by the instrumentality of its agents, and motive
power, and cars.
The obligations to the community which the Pennsylvania company is placed under
by its charter, cannot be evaded by any transfer of its rights and powers to another
company; and in this case, the Pennsylvania company contributes to the expense
of working the road, and of paying the officers and agents who are employed.
Courts will not allow corporations to escape from their proper responsibility, by means

of any disguise.

