6

SUPREME COURT.
Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

of salvage. The salvage service is entire; but the goods of
each owner are liable only for the salvage with which they are
charged, and have no common liability for the amounts due
from the ship or other portions of the cargo. It is a separate
and distinct controversy between himself and the salvors, and
not a common and undivided one, for which the property is
jointly liable.
The cases relied on are therefore distinguishable from the one
before us; and the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
must be overruled.

Order.
On consideration of the motion made in this cause by AMr.
Smith, on a prior day of the present term of this court, to wit,
on Friday, the 19th instant, and of the arguments of counsel
thereupon, had as well against as in support th( reof, it is now
here ordered by the court, that the said motion be, and the same
is, hiefeby overruled.

JOHN ARTHURS, JOHN NICHOLSON, JONAS R. MCCLINTOCK, AND
WILLIAM1 STEWART, CARRYING ON BUSINESS UNDER THE FIRM
AND NAME OF ARTHURS, NICHOLSON, AND Co., PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. JESSE HART.
Where a jury is waived, and questions of law and fact decided by the court irr
Louisiana, the rules of the state appellate court require that the whole evidence should
be put into the record. But where a case is brought up to this court, by writ of
error from the circuit court of the United States for Louisiana, the rules of this
court only require that so much of the evidence should be 'inserted as is necessary
to explain the legal questions decided by the court.
Consequently, the mere fact, that some of the evidence given below is omitted from
the record, is not of itself sufficient to prevent this court from examining the questions of law presented by the record.
Where the court decides questions both of law and fact, the admission of improper
testimony is not the subject of a bill of exception, although the exclusion of proper
testimony is so.
The rule stated, according to which the appellate court should review the legal questions invelved in the final judgment of the court below, which has decided both law
and fact; and the mode pointed out by which counsel should separate the two
classes of questions.
In an action upon a bill of exchange by a bonA fide assignee against the acceptor, it is
no good defence that the bill was accepted in order to pay for a sugar-mill which
was defective; that the drawers of the bill had promised to put it in order, and that
the assignee of the bill knew these facts. The acceptor of the bill relied upon this
promise to protect his rights, and not upon a refusal to pay the bill when due.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the circuit

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

7

Arthurs et al. r. Hart.

court of the United States for the eastern district of Louis.
iana.
In 1847, Hart, who was a citizen of Louisiana, employed
Nicholson and Armstrong, of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, to build
and put up a sugar-mill and engine upon his plantation. The
mill and engine were put up, and a part of the purchase-money
paid. For the balance, a bill of exchange was drawn on March
1, 1848, by Nicholson and Armstrong upon, and accepted by,Hart, to the order of James Arthurs and Brothers, and by them
indorsed to Arthurs, Nicholson, and Co. The bill was payable
twelve months after date, and was for the sum of $2,.540.65. At
maturity, the bill was presented for payment, and, payment being refused, was protested. Hart alleged that when the bill was
accepted, it vas with the understanding that the builders would
remedy certain defects in the sugar-mill and engine, and that
the holders of the bill knew of this arrangement.
In May, 1849, the plaintiffs in error, the holders of the bill,
brought suit, by way of petition, according to the Louisiana
practice, in the circuit court of the-United States.
The cause was tried by the court vithout the intervention
of a jury.
The following bill of exceptions states the point of evidence
upon which the case came up to this court.
Be it remembered, that, on the trial of this cause, the defendant offered to prove, by the testimony of Francis Armstrong, that
Mr. Arthur, Mr. Nicholson, and witness, -vent to the levee, on
board the steamboat Luna, to see Captain Hart, in. reference to
the second paymeht; that he (Captain Hart) complained that
the machinery had not worked well, that it Was not then- Sunning; that he complained, that, from the bad working of the
sugar-mill and engine, he had lost' juice, and he required us to
deduct the.interest then due; that Messrs. Arthur and Nicholson
suggested that Captain Hart should accept a bill of exchan .
for the balance then due, after deducting the interest; that it
was understood that the sugar-mill and engine were to be put
in first-rate order, and that Captain Hart then agreed to accept
a bill; to the introduction of said evidence, or of any conversation, or of any agreement and understanding of the parties, previos to and at the time of accepting the bill sued uppn, the
plaintiff objected, for the reason that such evidence, or conversafion, or agreement, or understan'ding, would tend to convert
an absolute into a conditional acceptance; that it would either
vary and contradict the written agreement entered int6 by the
parties; and plaintiffs also objected to the competency of the
witness, Francis Armstrong, to testify in this case, for the reason
that lie was one of the drawers of the bill of exchange sued

SUPREME

COURT.

Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

upon. All of which objections were overruled by the court; to
which ruling plaintiffs excepted; and tendered this their bill of
exceptions, which is filed and signed by the court.
TiEo. H. McCALEB, [SE:AL,]
U S. Judge.
Judgment was rendered for the plaintiffs for the sum of
$1,743.60 with interest
The plaintiffs, thinking that the judgment ought to have been
for the whole amount of the bill, brought the case up to this
court.
It was argued by Mr. Wylle, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
-Mr.Lawrence, for the defendants.
Mr. Wylie, for plaintiffs in error.
There are two principal points which present themselves upon
the record in this case.
First, whether the court below ought not to l1aire entered a
judgment in favor of plaintiffs, for the whole sum expressed
upoh -the face of the bill, with interest, &c.
And second, whether this court, under its decisions, will reverse
the judgment of the court below in this case, if erroneous in law.
First question. That the decision of the court was erroneous
on this point would seem to be clear. In Townsend v. Sumrrall,
2 Pet. 170-183, it was held by this court, that "if the holder
of a bill of exchange, at the time of taking the bill, knew
that the drawee had not funds in his hands belonging to the
drawer, and took the bill on the promise of the drawee to accept
it, expecting to receive funds from the drawer; the promise of
the drawee to accept the bill constitutes a valid contract between
the parties, notwithstanding the failure of the drawer to place
funds in his hands. The acceptance of the drawee of a bill
binds him, although it is known to the holder that he has no
funds in his hands. It is sufficient that the holder trusts to sich
acceptance." And in Grant and Casy v. Elliott, 7 Wend. 227,
it was held, "in an action by the payee against the acceptor, it
is no defence that the bill was accepted without consideration,
and that fact known to the payee." See also United States
i. Bank of Metropolis, 15 Pet. 377; 7 Johns. Rep. 361; 7

Smedes and Marsh, 244; Byles on Bills, 150; 2 Wheat. 385;
Civil Code, 2256; D'Aquir v. Barbour, 4 La Annual R. 441;
Henderson v. Stone, 1 N. S.-641.
Second point. This case having been submitted to and tried
by the court without a jury, a question arises, whether, under
the recent decisions of this court, the erroneous judgment of the
court below can be corrected. Weems v. George et al., 13 How.
190-197; Bond v. Brown, 12 How. 254.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

In Weems v. George et al., Mr. Justice Grier, in delivering
the opinion of the court, says: "When the case is submitted fo
the judge to find the facts without the intervention of a jury, he
acts as a referee by consent of the parties, and no bill of exceptions will lie to his reception or rejection of testimony, nor to his
judgment of the law."
Although this principle, thus stated, goes much beyond the
doctrine laid down in Bond v. Brown, and is, indeed, considerably modified by the subsequent context of the opinion of Mr.
Justice Grier itself, yet we must take it to be the law for the
present case.
But the meaning of the court could not have beeN, that,
in such a case, where there was no jury, no judgment of the
court, however given and however erroneous, could be reviewed
by this tribunal. If there be a simple issue of law between the
parties, and the court below should make an erroneous decision,
this court would undoubtedly reverse it. It is, therefore, only
where fact and law are both referred for the decision of the court
below, that such decision is conclusive upon the parties as to the
matter of fact in question. So far, then, as the admissibility
and competency of the witness in this case, were questions
raised by the bill of exceptions, the plaintiffs must be content to
submit to the law as settled in Weems v. George.
They, therefore, do not rely upon the bill of exceptions to the
admission of Francis Armstrong as a witness, but contend that,
upoa the face of the pleadings and the whole record, the judgment of the court below was erroneous, and may be reversed by
.this court. In Field v. The United States, 9 Pet. 202, as cited
by Justice Grier, in Weems v. George, Marshall, C. J., in deliver.
ing the opinion of the court, says: "As the case was not tried
by a jury, the exception to the admission of evidence was not
properly the subject of a bill of exceptions. But if the. district
court improperly admitted the evidence, the only effect would be
that this court would reject that evidence, and proceed to decide
the cause as if it were not on the record. It would not, however,
of itself, constitute any ground for the reversal of the judgment.
If the record, therefore, is found to disclose other grounds than
an exception to the admission of evidence, for the reversal of the
judgment below, this court may reverse a judgment even in a
cause submitted to the court below, under the Louisiana practice. The court will look into the whole record." , In Garland
v. Davis, 4 How. 131, it was decided, "this court. can notice a
material and incurable defect in the pleadings and verdict, as
they are represented in the pleadings to have existed in the
court below, although such defect is not.noticed in. the bill of
exceptions, nor suggested by the counsel in. argument here

SUPREME

COURT.

Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

The defendant's answer in this case was materially and incurably defective on its face. Let it be presumed, therefore, that
the evidence objected to in the bill of exceptions was strong
enough to sustain all and every allegation stated in the answer,
still, the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict for the whole amount
of their bill of exchange; for, admitting that the proof did sustain the allegations of the answer, the defence was utterly
unsound in law.
Although the bill of exceptions to the evidence in this case
may not, for the reasons already stated, be available to the plaintiffs to the full extent of a bill of exceptions to a cause tried with
a jury, according to the common law practice; yet, being part
of the record, it discloses the fact that the question as to the
sufficiency of the defendant's answer, as a defence in this suit,
was fully argued, and after argument, decided in the court
below. The plaintiffs contend that this decision was erroneous.
-OR.Lawrence, for the defendant in error, maintained 1. That the judge having determined both the facts and the
law, this writ of error cannot be sustained upon the ground that
improper testimony has been admitted. There was other testimony in the case, and upon that alone the judgment of the
court may have been founded. Field v. United States, 9 Pet.
202; United States v. King, 7 How. 833; Weems v. George,
13 How. 195, 196.
2. The testimony was admissible for the purpose of showing
downright fraud on the part of the plaintiffs in error, in procuring the acceptance. Bayley on Bills, 528; Ledger v. Ewen,
Peake, 216.
3. The evidence was admissible for the purpose of showing
the consideration on which the bill was accepted, in order to
prove a failure of consideration. Coupy's Heirs v. Dufau, 13
Martin, 90; Le Blanc v. Sanglier, 12 Martin, 402; Russel v.
Hall, 20 Martin, 558; 13 Johns. 54; 2 Stark. 166, 204.
4. The evidence was admissible under the plea in reconvention. This is a Louisiana contract. The bill was drawn,
indorsed, and accepted in Louisiana. Both the lex loci contractus and the lexfori are to be regarded in any action upon it.
By the law of Louisiana, the defendant may plead in reconvention any damages, even unliquidated damages, if they are
necessarily connected with the same transaction. Here, the bill
was accepted in payment of the mill and engine; and the
damages arose from the defects in this very mill and engine.Code of Practice, 374-377; Boyd v. Warield, 6 N. S. 671;
Orleans Navigation Co. v. Bingay, Tb. 688; 2 N. S. 73,122; 6 N.
S. 145.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana. The plaintiffs seek to
recover the amount of a bill of exchange, drawn by the firn of
Nicholson and Armstrong, upon the defendant, for $2,540.65, and
accepted by him, in favor of James Arthurs and Brothers, dated
March 1, 1848, and payable twelve months from date, and
indorsed by the payees to the plaintiffs. The bill of exchange
is set forth 'in the petition, according to the practice in the State
of Louisiana, with a prayer that the defendant be condemned
to pay the amount due.
The defendant, in his answer, denies the allegations in the petition; and also sets up, that the bill was accepted for the balance
of the price of a sugar-mill constructed by the drawers, for his
plantation in West Baton Rouge; that the mill was badly constructed, and defective both in the workmanship and materials,
and had failed in its operation to do the work intended; that on
making known the defects to the drawers, they promised to send
competent workmen, before the next ensuing season for grinding
sugar, to make the necessary repairs, and put the mill in complete working order, at their own expense; that, confiding in this
promise, the defendant accepted, unconditionally, the bill in question. The answer also sets forth, that the drawers had failed to
send hands to repair the mill, as agreed, whereby the defendant
has suffered damages to the amount of $1,835.65, which sum
he demands in reconvention, and asks judgment against the
plaintiffs.
The defendant further sets forth, that the payees and indorsees
had notice of the defects in the mill, and of the undertaking of
the drawers at the time of the acceptance, before the negotiation or transfer of the same.
The cause was tried without a jury; and, on the trial, the
defendant admitted the signatures to the bill; and also gave
evidence, which was admitted but excepted to, of the facts set
up in the answer.
The court gave judgment for the plaintiffs, 'for $1,743.50.
The case is now before us on a writ of error, brought by the
plaintiffs, claiming that they were entitled to judgment for the
full amount of the bill.
Two preliminary objections have been taken by the counsel
for the defendant in error: 1. That, inasmuch as other evidence was..given on the trial in the court below than that which
has been, brought on the record, or is found in the bill of exceptions, for aught that appears, the judgment may have been
founded upon that evidence; and, 2. That the cause having
been tried without a jury, and the judge having determined the

12

SUPREME

COURT.

Arthurs Ct al. v. Hart.

case upon both the facts and the law, error will not lie for the
admission of improper testimony.
It was decided in Phillips v. Preston, 5 How. 278, in the case
of a writ of error to the circuit court of the United States in
Louisiana, and where the trial by jury had been waived, that
the State practice regulating appeals for reviewing the decisions
of the inferior courts, which required the return of all the evidence to the appellate court, did not apply; and that only so
much of it need be returned, and, indeed, no more should be
returned, than was necessary to present the legal questions decided by the court, and which were sought to be reviewed.
Evidence bearing exclusively upon questions of fact involved in
the case, only incumber the record and embarrass the hearing in
this court, as these questions are not the subject of review on
error. The mere fact, therefore, that other evidence was given
on the trial besides that which is found in the bill of exceptions,
furnishes no objection to an examination of the questions of law
presented by it.
If that evidence bore upon these questions, and might influence our decision upon them, the defendant in error should have
brought it upon the record, or incorporated it in the bill of exceptions. His neglect to do so implies that it could properly have
no such effect, if returned.
As to the other objection. It was held, in Field and others
v. The United States, 9 Pet. 182, and recognized in several
subsequent. cases, that in a cause where the trial by jury had
been waived, the objection to the admission of evidence was not
properly the subject of a bill of exceptions; and the reason given
is, that if the evidence was improperly admitted this court would
reject it, and proceed to decide the cause as if it were not in the
record. This, perhaps, is unobjectionable; it certainly is so, as
far as the evidence improperly admitted bears upon a question
of fact in the cause; for, when rejected, if there is still any
proper evidence tending to support the judgment of the court
below, the decision cannot be reviewed on a writ of error. The
error, in this aspect, would be unimportant, because not the
subject of an exception, the question involved being one of fact.
If, upon the rejection of the evidence, no testimony would
remain necessary to support the judgment of the court, then the
mistake would be one of law, and the proper subject of a writ
of error.
The case of the refusal of proper evidence on the trial is subject to very different considerations from those applicable to the
improper admission of it. The exclusion of the evidence might
change the legal features of the cause, and lead to a determination of it upon principles wholly inapplicable, in case the evidence

DECEM

ER TERM, 1854.

13

Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

had been admitted; nor can we assume that the testimony
offered and rejected would.have been proved, if it had not been
excluded, and reyise the judgment of the court upon that
assumption; because the offer of evidence to prove a fact, and
the ability to make the proof, are verq different matters. If the
court, instead of rejecting, had allowed the evidence, the party
might have failed in the proof, and the case in the result remain
the same as before the improper exclusion.
We think, therefore, that the improper rejection of testimony
on the trial before the judge,-where the jury haa been dispensed
with, should constitute the subject of review on the vrit of error,
as in the case of a trial before the jury.
There is one qualification applicable to this peculiar mode of
trial, that should be noticed. If the testimony rejected is but
cumulative, and relates exclusively to a question of fact involved
in the case, the rejection may be immaterial, as the decision of
that question upon the evidence already in, by the judge, may
be regarded as well-warranted.
This principle is'sometimes applied in cases of -writs of error,
where the trial below has been before a jury, if it be seen that
The admission of the testimony could not have properly influienced the jury to a different conclusion on the question of fact.
The cases will be found collected in Cowen and Hill's notes,
vol 4, pp. 775, 776 (3d ed.) ; see, also, 1 Duer, (Sup. Court R.,).
pp. 431-434. It must be admitted that the courts which have
adopted this principle apply it with great caution where the trial
has been had before a jury, and require a clear case to be made
out that the rejection has .'rked noprejlrudice to the party.
or
Other
a denied
applica tion altogether, andmight
refused
to look into the record to see whether the evidence
might not have influenced the jury.
In cases where the trial by jury has been waived, and the
facts as -ell as the law submitted to the judgment of the court,
a more liberal application may be safely indulged; though, if
the determination of the question of fact be against the party
offering the evidence, we do not' perceive why the rejection
should not be regarded as error reviewable on a bill of exceptions.
A more difficult question arises in these cases, where the-facts
as well as the law are submitted to the- court, in reviewing on
exceptions the correctness of the ruling of the law involved in
rendering the judgment.
In trials before a jury, these come_ up on the instructions
prayed for, or by exceptions to the charge. The questions of
law are thus separated from the questions of fact,-the former
to be determined by the court, the latter by the jury. But, where
both questions are submitted to the court and both determined
VOL. XVII.

2

14

SUPREME

COURT.

Arthurs et al. v. Hart.

at the same time, and by the same tribunal, the separation is
more difficult. The principles of law applicable to the case are
so dependent upon the facts, and the finding of these in the case
suppbsed exclusively within the province of the judge, who is
substituted for the jury, it would seem, as a general proposition,
nearly impracticable for the appellate court to ascertain from the
case the principles of law that had governed the decision;
especially in the absence of his opinion in the case.
But these principles must be ascertained, to enable the court
to review them on a writ of error, as the bill of exceptions lies
only.,upon some point arising either upon the admission or
refusal of evidence, or is a matter of law arising from a fact
found, or not denied, and which has been overruled by the court
4 How. 297; 8 J. R. 495; 2 Caines's R. 168.
As an illustration of the difficulty, and to aid us in the solution of it, we may refer to a late act in England, and the decision
of the common bench under it. It is the act of 13 and 14 Victoria, c. 61, which conferred upon the county courts a limited
jurisdiction in civil cases, and gave an appeal from their determination "in a point of law, or upon the admission or rejection
of evidence," "to any of the superior courts of common law at
Westminster."
It will be seen that an appeal is given here upon the same
ground that a bill of exceptions was given by the statute of
Edward L c. 31. The parties were at liberty to waive a trial by
jury, and submit the facts, as well as the law, to the judge of
the county court. A case came up before the common bench,
that had been thus submitted, involving a question upon the
statute of limitations, and which presented the difficulty we are
now considering.
MaulS, J., who delivered the opinion of the court, in endeavoring to overcome it, observed: "It may be, that, if, upon the case
stated by the parties or by the judge, it appears to the court of
appeal, that the decision which has been come to can be sustained by a particular view of the facts, which does not render it
necessary to arrive at the conclusion that he has erroneously
decided the point of law before him, this court may have no power
to review the judgment; yet, that where it is manifest from the
facts stated, that in order to arrive at the conclusion he has
arrived at, the judge must have decided a matter of law in a
certain way, that will be a determination in point of law, with
respect to which an appeal will lie. So, that, supposing there
be a judgment which can be sustained, consistently with the
law, by any view that can be taken of the facts stated, such a
judgment probably cannot be reversed; yet, still, where the judge
states the facts which were before him, and these facts will sus-

DECEMBEP TERM, 1854.

15

Arthurg et al. ,v. Hart.

tain his judgment upon one view of the law only, and that an
incorrect one, this court may -have jurisdiction to entertain the
appeal."
This view is directly applicable to the case of a bill of exceptions, where the jury has been dispensed with, and the judge
substitnted in its place, to pass upon the facts as well as the
law, and furnishes the rule by which the point of law may be
ascertained that was decided in rendering the judgments intended
to be reviewed.
In order, however, to disembarrass the proceedings, as far as
practicable, in this peculiar mode of the trial of a common law
case, and to enable the appellate court to reexamine the point
or points of law involved, the counsel, after the close of the
evidence, should present the propo sitions of law which, it is
claimed, should govern the decision; and the court should state
the rulings thereon, or in coming to its determination. And, in
the return to the writ of error, so much of the evidence, and no
more, should be incorporated in the bill of exeeptions, as was
deemed necessary to present the points of law determined
against the party bringing the writ. No technical exception
need be stated, except in the case of the rejection- or admission
of evidence. As the rulings in the final determination do not
take place upon the trial, or need not, the exception would be
impracticable.
We have stated more at large the proper practice in bringing
up for review cases of this peculiar character, than was necessary
to the disposition of the one before us, as they are frequently
occurring, and the practice governing them not very well ietfled.
As it respects the case in hand, we have already shown that
the state practice of Louisiana, in appeals, does not apply to
the case of writs of error from this court to th~e circuit courts;
and, hence, the circumstance that other evidence had been given
and was-before the court, than what appeared in the bill of
exceptions, furnished no objection to the reexamination of the
point of law there presented; and that if the other evidence was
deemed material, it should have been brought upon the record
by the defendant in error. We must assume, therefore, that the
bill of exceptions contains all the testimony deemed material to
raise the point of law'involved.
That shows the admission of the proof of a state-of facts, as
a special defence to the bill of exchange, which had been set up,
and the only one set up, in the answer, namely, that the bill had
been accepted for the balance of the price of a sugar-mill constructed and sold to the defendant by the drawers; that the mill
was badly constructed, and defective in workmanship and materials that, at the time of the acceptance, the drawers promised

SUPREME COURT.
Arthur

et al. v. Hart.

at some future day to make the necessary repairs; that they had
failed to make them, by which the defendant had suffered damage
to the amount of $1,835.60, which he claimed in abatement of
the face of the acceptance, and that the plaintiffs had notice
of these facts before the transfer of the paper to them.
The court below reduced the recovery to $1,743.50, which
must have been on the ground of this special defence, as no
other appears in the record.
Now, we agree, that if this suit had been between the original
parties, the defence would have been unobjectionable. 9 How.
213; Code of Practice, 374-377; 6 N. S. 671; Ib. 688. But,
the plaintiffs are bond fide holders of the paper, for value, and,
therefore, not subject to this defence, or to any abatement of the
face of the bill, arising out of the transaction between the
original parties.
It is true, the plaintiffs knew, at the time they took the paper,
that it was given as part of the price for the sugar:mill, and that
the mill'had been defectively constructed; but, they also knew,
that the defendant, upon the promise of the builders to make the
necessary repairs, had agreed to accept the bill unconditionally,
and had accepted it accordingly. They knew, therefore, that he
looked to this undertaking for indemnity, and not to any conditional liability upon the acceptance.
The transaction, therefore, which is brought home to the
plaintiffs, lays no foundation, in law or equity, to impeach the
paper in their hands.
The ruling of the court below, in this respect, was consequently erroneous, and the judgment must be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the tkanscript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by
this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
circuit court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to law and justice, and the opinion of this court.

