THE DECISIONS
OF Trn

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

THE WIDOW AND HEIRS OF BENJAMIN POYDRAS DE LA LANDE,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE TREASURER OF THE STATE
oF LouisiANA.
Where a proceeding was instituted in Louisiana, in the name of the treasurer of the
State, to recover a tax imposed upon property inherited by aliens, a citation-served
upon that officer was sufficient. He was the "adverse party," under the judiciary
act.
The tenth role of this court, directing process to be served upon the chief executive
magistrate and attorney-general, applies to those cases only in which the State
is a party on the record. When an officer of the State is the party prosecuting the
suit for the State, the citation must be servca on him.
THIS case -was brought up from the supreme court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error, issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.

Mr. Dunbar moved the court to allow him to strike out his
appearance for the State of Louisiana; and further moved the
court to dismiss. the case, on the ground that no process had
.been issued against, or served on, the chief executive magistrate and attorney-general of the State of Louisiana, under
the 10th rule of this court.
11r..anin opposed the motion.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case is brought here, by writ of error directed to the
supreme court of the State of Louisiana, under the 25th section of the act of 1789.
VOL. XVII.

1

SUPREME

COURT.

Poydras de la Lande v. The Treasurer of Louisiana.

It appears that a proceeding was instituted in the state
court by the treasurer of the State to recover certain taxes,
alleged to be due from the plaintiffs in error, under a law of
Louisiana, which imposes a tax of ten per cent. upon the
amount of property inherited by aliens in that State.
The payment of the tax was resisted by the plaintiffs in
error; but the case was finally decided against them in the
supreme court of Louisiana; and they thereupon brought this
writ of error, upon the ground that the authority exercised
under the state law was contrary to the constitution and
treaties of the United States.
The citation required by the act of 1789, was served on the
treasurer, by whom and in whose name, as treasurer, the proceedings had been instituted and conducted, and in whose
favor the judgment was entered.
A motion is now made to dismiss this writ of error, upon the
ground that the State is the real party to fhe suit, in the name
of the treasurer; and that the citation ought, therefore, to have
been served on the chief executive magistrate and attorneygeneral of the State, according to the provisions of the 10th
rule of this court.
But that rule applies to those cases only in which the State
is a party on the record. It is intended to point out the officers
who shall be held to represent the State when process is issued
against it, so far as the service of the process is concerned,
The only mode in which a State can be cited to appear, is by
serving the process on some one or more of its officers; and
those above named in the rule were considered by the court to
be its appropriate representatives, in a summons or citation to
appear in this court.
But the citation must be directed to the party on the record,
and served on him. And when an officer of the State is the
party prosecuting the suit for the State, the citation must be
served on him. In this case, a notice or citation on the chief
executive officer or attorney-general would not be sufficient;
for the treasurer is the person who has obtained the judgment,
and has the right to receive the money. He is the actor - the
plaintiff in the suit. And the chief executive officer and
attorney-general do not represent him, and may or may not
support his proceedings.
This rule of practice has been uniformly followed in this
court There have been many cases in which an officer of the
State, acting in behalf of the State, has been one of the parties.
And the 10th rule has never been applied to a case of that
kind; and the citation has always been served on the officer,
whether conducting the proceedings in his own name, or that

DECEM1BER TERM,

1854.

3

Shields v. Thomas.

of his office. The practice is founded upon the language of
the act of 1789, c. 20, which directs the "adverse party" to be
cited, on a writ of error or appeal. The "adverse party" is
the one -which appeared in the sui% and who prosecuted or
defended it, and in whose favor the judgment was rendered,
which the plaintiff in the writ of error seeks to reverse.
The motion to dismiss this writ of error must, therefore, be
overruled.
Order.
On consideration of the motion made by Mr. Dunbar,to dismiss this cause on a prior day of the present term, to wit on
Friday, the 19th instant, and of the arguments of counsel thereupon, had as well against as. in support there6f, it is now here
ordered by the court that the said motion be, and the saip is,
hereby overruled.

JOHN G. SHIELDS, APPELLANT, V. ISAAC THOMAS AND OTHERS.
Where a bill was filed by several distrilbtees of an estate, to compel the payment of
money alleged to be due to them, and a decree was rendered in their favor, this
court has jurisdiction over an appeal, although the amount payable to each indi.
'vidual claimant was less than two thousand dollars.
The aggregate amount which the defendant was decreed to pay, was more than two
thousand dollars; and as to him, this is the matter in dispute.
The complainants all claimed under the same title; and it was of no consequence to
the defendant in what proportions they shared the money amongst them.
The cases upon this point examined.

THis was an appeal from the distict, court of the United
States for the northern district of Iowa.

M1r. Platt Smith moved to dismiss the appeal for want .ol
jurisdiction, as the amount of none of the several decrees was
for $2,000, and referred to the case of Oliver et al. v. Alexander
et al. 6 Peters, 143.
The motion was opposed by Mr. Gillett.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the' opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the district court of
the United States) exercising the powers of a circuit court
for the district of Iowa. A motion has been made 6n behalf of

