DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

183

Iasigi et al. v.Brown.

decree of the circuit court must be reversed, and the libel dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel, On consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to dismiss the libel, with costs in that
court.

JOSEPH IASIGI AND 'THOMAs A. GODDARD, PLAINTIFFS IN ERRORI

v. JAMES BROWN, AND THOVAs

B. CURTIS, TRUSTEE OF SAID

BROWN.*
Where an action was brought against a person for making false representations of
the pecuniary condition of a certain party, whereby the plaintiff had been induced
to sell goods upon credit, and had incurred loss, evidence conducing to show that
the statements of the defendant were false, ought to have been all.owed to go to
the jury.
The defendant having written to his own agent, ahd headed the letter confidential, it
was for the jury to say whether or not it was intended for the exclusive perusal of
the agent.
It was also for the jury to say, on a thorough examination of fle letters and the facts
and circumstances connected with them, whether they were calculated to inspire,
and did inspire, a false confidence in the pecuniary responsibility of the party, to
which the writer knew he was not entitled.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
The entire history of the case is given in the opinion of thd
court.

It was argued by ir. Bartlett, and there was also a printed
brief by Mdr. Lawrence, for the plaintifl in error, and by Mir.
Lord and Mir. .Terwin, .for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error, made the three following points, of which the reporter has only room to give the
argument upon the first.
I. That the rejection of the proffered testimony by the district
judge, "as immaterial, and ds insufficient, when taken in connection with the other evidence, to authorize the jury to find a
M
Mr. Jus *cE CArnox did not sit in this cause.

SUPREME

COURT.

Iasigi et al. v. Curtis.

verdict for the plaintiffs," and his further peremptory directions
to the jury, without the consent of plaintiffs, to return their verdict for defendant, was unwarranted by law, and a departure
from the practice and principles established by this court, and
by the highest local tribunal, for the conducting of trials at Nisi
Prius.
II. That if it could be deemed competent and lawful, in any
case, to withdraw from the jury the determination of facts, where
proofs legally admissibld, and having a possible tendency to
support the issue, have been introduced or offered, yet having
regard to the character of the facts preved and offered for proof
in this case, and the nature of the issue, the questions were
purely questions for a jury.
III. That if in this case, resting, as it does, on charges of
actual and not constructive fraud, involving, as it must, a question of intention, it be in the power of the judge, against the
consent of plaintiffs, to determine the value of the testimony,
and direct a verdict, (upon the ground that such'course is equivalent to a demurrer to evidence,) even then the plaintiffs submit
that, tried by the rules pertaining to a demurrer to evidence, the
judge erred in directing a verdict for defendant.
1. The first proposition asks the judgment of this court upon
a proceeding, not a mere indifferent matter of practice, but one
that involves the substantial rights of parties; and that question
is, whether in any case, after the introduction or offer of evidence
legally competent, and having a bearing on the issue, it is the
right of a judge at Nisi Prius, upon his view of the value of
the proofs, peremptorily to direct, against plajintiff's consent, a
verdict for defendant.
It assumes, what is apparent throughout the opinion of the
district judge, that there was evidence to be weighed.
This question is to be determined, as well by the principles
heretofore settled by this court, as by the Itmodes of proceeding"
of the State of Massachusetts, which by the acts of congress
of 1789 and 1792 have been adopted into th& courts of the
United States.
A peremptory direction to a jury to return a verdict for a
defendant, after the introduction of evidence competent to sustain the issue, cannot be distinguished in principle, though it
differs in*form, from an order of nonsuit, and so it has been
held. Morgan v. Ide, 8 Cush. 420.
It has been repeatedly settled by this court that it is not in
the power of the judge, without the plaintiff's consent, t 9 order
a nonsuit. Elmore v. Grymes, 1 Pet. 469; De Wolf v. Rabaud,
lb. 476;. Crane v. Morris, 6 lb. 598; Silsby v. Foote, 14 How.
218.

DEOCR

BER TERM, 1854.

18&r

Iasigi et al. v. Curtis.

It has been settled in the same manner in Massachusetts by
the latest case directly on the point, and so treated in the local
books of practice. Mitchell v. New England Insurance Co. 6
Picl . 117; Colby's Practice, 225.
The ground assigned by this court is as follows - 4!The circuit
court had no authority to order a peremptory nonsuit, against
the will 6f the plaintiff; he had a right, by law, to a trial by jury,
arid to have had the case submitted to them."
The same principle prevails in England. "It also appears
that the plaintiff is in nowise compellable to be nonsuited. after
he has appeared, and therefore if he insist upon the matter being
left to the jury, they must give in their verdict, &c." 2 Lee's
Dict. of Practice in B. R. and C. B., 958.
Such being the principles settled by this court and the state
court, as to nonsuits, it remains to inquire what is the doctrine
of both as to peremptory instructions to juries to return verdicts
as directed, and it is submitted that there are numerous decisions
in this court, by which it is settled that where there is any
legally competent evidence offered, the case must be submitted
to the jury with appropriate instructions. Thus in Greenleaf v. Birth, 9 Pet. 292, the court say, on p. 299: " Where
there is no evidence tending to prove a particular fact, the
court are-bound so to instruct the jury, when requested: but
they cannot legally give any instruction which shall take from
the jury the right of weighing the evidence, and determining what effect it shall have." So in United States v. Laub,
12 Pet. 1, the court say: "If the court erred in not giving the
instructions asked on the part 6f the plaintiff, it must have been
on the ground that no evidence, tending to prove the matter
in dispute, had been given to the jury. For it is a point too
well settled to be now drawn in question, that the effect and
sufficiency of the evidence are for the consideration and determination of the jury; and the error is to be redressed, if at all,
by application to the court below for a new trial." United
States v. Laub, 12 Pet. 1, 5.
Again: "The first prayer of defendants to instruct the jury
that upon the whole evidence the plaintiffs ought not to recover,
if it might properly have been granted in any case in which any
testimony was offer~d, certainly ought not to have been granted
if any possible construction of that testimony would support
the action." Bank of Washington v. Triplett et al. 1 Pet. 25,
31. See also Chesapeake Ohio Can. Co. v. Knapp et al. 9
Ib. 541, 568 ; Scott b. Lloyd, 9 Pet. 418, 445 ; Roach v. Hullings,
16 Ib. 319, 323.
The doctrine of the supreme court of Mlassachusetts is well established, namely, that the court have merely the power to advise
164

186

SUPREMIE

COURT.

Iasagi et al. v. Curtis.

a verdict, even where a verdict, inconsistent with that advice,
ought to be set aside. Davis v. Maxwell, 12 Met 286; Morgan
v. Ide, 8 Cush. 420.
If the rule of this court and of the state court be as is contended, it would be decisive of the case, but it is submitted that
it is founded on principles essential to the safety of suitors.
It does not exclude the power of the judge to determine the
legal competency or admissibility of evidence; but merely of
peremptorily deciding as to its weight
If the verdict be against his advice to the jury, a motion for
new trial, see 12 Pet. 1, brings with it an opportunity of.careful
review -it
may be with the aid of his associate -which the
rapidity of a trial has not offered.
At all events, peremptory directions to return verdicts, upon
the ground that they are analogous to a demurrer to evidence,
are fatal to the losing party in a court of error, to which court
the appearance, demeanor, and credibility of witnesses can never
be transferred, and demurrers to evidence are not encouraged in
this court. United States Bank v. Smith, 11 Wheat. 171.
The first two points of the counsel for the defendant in error
related to the statute of Massachusetts, which, they contended,
was similar to 9 George IV. ch. 14, § 6, called Lord Tenrerden's act, the English cases under which were 'Lyde v. Barnard, 1 Mees. and W. 101; Haslop v. Fergusson, 7 Ad. and
Ellis, 86; Swann v. Phillips, 8 Ad. and Ellis, 457; Devaux v.
Steinkeler, 6 Bing. N. C. 84.
IIL The representation, being now, of necessity, a statutory
document, the construction of it belongs to the court
And this, whether the interpretation is to be made on the
paper singly, dr on previously existing facts, sometimes to be
taken into view, to put the court in the place of the writer in
understanding his language.
The question does not become a mixed question of fact and
law, unless there be evidence that the language was used in a
special or technical sense, or the auxiliary facts be proved by
uncertain or conflicting evidence. In the present case there was
no evidence of the use of words in any special or technical
sense; nor was there any conflict of evidence as to any fact
needed in the understanding of the letters. Bell v. Bruen, 1
How. 1S3; Turner v. Yates, 16 Tb. 23.
IV. The plaintiffs are not entitled to recover, because of the
terms of the letter of Mr. Curtis, to which it was a reply.
The letter "ofCurtis, of April 5, invites a reply, " to be discreetly used by myself."
1. It is widely without the statute, to allow the information
to be used by another.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Iasigi ot al. v. Curtis.

If, in Mr. Brown's letter, he had incorporated -his phrase,
"my opinion is to be used by yourself only," it would be no
stronger in effect; and to allow a constructidn of such a letter
to eubrace all persons to whom it should be shown, could not
be done without disregard to the. statute, and to common fairness. This would not be to substitute a principal, but would
introduce a multitude of strangers.
'2. The letter of Mr. Curtis invites information to be "discreetly used by myself."
It cannot be that this commits the document to be used at
the discretion of all to whom it shall be shown. Written -to a
discreet man, the reply, true or false, might be very haTmiess;
to an indiscreet man, it might be the reverse. Written to one
man, the utmost conceivable credit given on it might not exceed hundreds; to another, it might amount up to hundreds of
thousands.
3. Written to Tr. Curtis, it would be limited, in Mr. Brown's
understanding, to the use of it only in the business of his agency;
operating only on the standing of the parties receiving credits
from him, who might deal with the debtors inquired of, and
thus be incapable of seriotis injury; but read by another, acting
on his own eagerness or necessities to sell, it might prove ruinous.
4. Founding the aetibn for false representation on the principle
of holding a man to the consequences of his. statements of
credit, fairness requires that such facts should be made known
to him as would enable him to see the consequences; and that
he should not be held to unknown results which could not have
been foreseen without a knowledge which might and ought to
have been imparted.
5. The plaintiffs cannot set up that they were unaware of
this limitation in the communication to Mr. Brown; the two
letters are but one communication, and if they claim it at all, it
must be with the limit under which it was obtained.
V. The letter of April 7 was, by its terms, exclusively liraited to Mr. Curtis alone, by its being inscribed "' Confidential."
1. The plain meaning of this word, as applied to a letter,
is, that the communication is confided to him to whom it is
addressed, and to no other person: "to be kept in confidence,
private; as, a confidential matter" Webster's Dic.
2. This igification is confirmed, by its being superadded to
the words of Mr. Curtis's letter; notwithstanding the promise,
that the desired opinion would be discreetly wed, and by himself, (which warranted any action in his own dealings,) the
additional -caution was, that the communication itself should be
kept wholly personal between the writer and the addressed party.
The word "co n fi dei t i al" is not capable of a sense, that pe-ro

SUPREME COURT.
lasigi et al. v. Curtis.

mits it not only to be shown to a stranger, or any number of
strangers, but to be used by him or them, and in his or their
discretion, and acted on by him and them, at any future time,
and to an unlimited amount Such a sense of the word is not
shown by any evidence, nor called for by any individual justice
in this case, nor by any general principle of policy or justice.
3. The letter of 7th April was also "confidential," in consequence of its communications concerning the defendants own
involvements and connection with the parties inquired of.
4. The conduct of Mr. Curtis in submitting the letter to the
plaintiff's inspection, on his urgent entreaties, has no bearing on
the question. He, in strictness, violated the confidence placed
in him; doubtless under the tacit obligation on the part of the
plaintiffs to receive it, as he, Curtis, did, only in reference to the
existing claims of lasigi, and to quiet him.
VL The subsequent letter of Brown, Brothers, and Co., of
June 27 has no bearing on the construction of the letter of
April 7.
1. It does not in terms, or by implication, refer to it. The
phrase "we continue," &c., is fully warranted, as to all reference, byp public and general knowledge of the previous friendly
relations and dealings of Brown, Brothers, and Co. with the
parties referred to.
To introduce a paper by relation into instruments under the
statute of frauds, express reference is necessary. Per Mr. Justice Nelson, Salmon Falls Manufacturing Co. v. Goddard, 14
How. 456, and cases cited there.
2. The letter referred to that of Curtis of 26th June, who said:
"I replied, that I believed you thought favorably of the concern," (p. 7,) showing nothing as to having exhibited the previous letter to any one.
VIL The conversations in October and January following,
cannot be used in the interpretation of the letter of 7th April.
1. The conversation of January, spoken of by Mr. Grant,
(p. 13,) was in relation to his own sales, which he says were made
on the faith of the letters (meaning both); whereas he states:
"I never saw the letter till after the failure, but got its contents
from Mr. lasigi." P. 13.
Mr. Iasigi's statement of the contents cannot be the basis of
any inferences within the statute. Nor does any thing appear
to have been said in this conversation as to any right in Mr.
Curtis to exhibit the first letter.
2. The conversation of October 15 is wholly inadmissible,
under the statute of frauds of Massachusetts. It consists of
very loose oral evidence, not distinguishing what was said by
the two Messrs. Brown; it was given, in order to render a letter,

DECEMBER .TERM, 1854.

189

Iasigi et al. v. Curtis.

which was in its terms confidential, in effect public, with the
widest and most indefinite responsibility. This would defeat
the statute in the most palpable manner.
3. Again: It seeks to involve the defendant in a responsibility
for the first letter, because he or his partner declared that it was
a "guarded" letter. This is not only giving oral evidence to
vary the writing, but adds to it the remoteness-of an insufficient
inference from the oral evidence.
4. Again: Its being a guarded letter, hadreference to its effect
on Mr. Cuitis himself,.and by no necessity implied guarded as,
to others, who, by its being confidential, were not expected to
see it.

5. Again: It is attempted to argue, from the silence by
Messrs. Brown, in reference to the exhibition of the letter by
Mr. Curtis, that he had originally intended it. But this is giving in evidence mere silence, in order to extend the effect of a
statutory document.
6. But lastly: The purpose and object of this conversation
was to press a supposed moral right in these gentlemen, Iasigi,
Grant, and Kendall, to share in an attachment- made by Messrs.
Brown, and not'at all to discuss their liability at law on the
..
letters in question.
VJII. The offers of proof, tending to show the facts stated in
the letter of Aprill false and suppressive,.were wholly insufficient and inadmissible.
1. Supposing such evidence given, iWwould have been no
warrant to impute an inteut, that the letter should be shown,
midch less would it tend to enlarge or contradict its language.
2. The, evidence s6eks to contradict the effect of a writing by
oral evidence, that it would have effected frauds if its terms were
disregarded.
3. The evidence offered seeks to reverse the policy of the statute. This policy was to shield all men from charges of fraud,
without a viiting to be falsified. The offers attempt first to try
the man for fraud, and thence to imply a sufficient representation.
Last. It was the duty of the judge to have directed the jury
to bring in a verdict for the defendants. Parks v. Ross, 11
How. 372.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by a writ of error to the eircult court of the lUnited States for the districi of Massachusetts.

The plaintiffs are merchants in Boston, and deal largely in
wool, and, prior to the 4th -of April, 1851, sold, opcasionally, to

SUPREME COU-RT.
lasigi et al. v. Curtis.

two corporations in the State of Connecticut, called the Thompsonville Company and the Tariffville Company, and received
therefor their notes, indorsed by Orrin Thompson. And, with
the view of making further sales to them, having become doubtful of their pecuniary means and ability to make payment in
future, the plaintiffs applied to Thomas B. Curtis, of Boston,
the agent of defendant, to ascertain his opinion as to any possibility of loss, by selling largely on credit to said corporations or
to Thompson; the plaintiffs knowing that the defendant was
friendly to the companies, and intimately acquainted with their
pecuniary condition.
A leter was written to defendant, by his agent, Curtis; and
an answer was received, as alleged in the declaration of the
plaintiffs, which induced them to give large credits tQ the two
companies and Orrin Thompson, when, at the time, they were
insolvent, which fact was known to the defendant.
The points in the case are stated in the bill of exceptions,
and arise on the construction of the above letter and one of a
subsequent date, and on facts proved and offered to be proved,
which conduced to show, as plaintiffs insist, the fraudulent
intent with which the letters were written.
The first letter, from Curtis to Brown, bears date the 5th of
April, 1851, and reads as follows: "Dear Sir - I have your
note of.yesterday, but have scarcely had a moment to peruse it
this morning. My object, at the moment, is to ask your opinion
as to any possibility of loss, by selling largely to the Thompsonvile Company or Orrin Thompson. Whatever that opinion
may be, it will be discreetly used by myself."
The reply to this letter is marked "confidential," and dated
New York, 7th April, 1851. T. B. Curtis, Esquire. Dear
Sir: With respect to Thompson and Co. and Orrin Thompson,
I have to say, that our house done business with them for some
twenty years or more; they have always met their engagements promptly, and we feel are men of strict integrity. They
have unquestionably laid out too much money in the Tariffville
Manufacturing Company and the Thompsonville Carpet Manu'facturing Company, and my house has been for years in the
habit of loaning them either paper or money to a considerable
extent on security. On the failure of Austen and Spicer, they
were urfortunately on their paper (received for sales of carpets) for $183,000; this threw, suddenly, so .heavy a burden on
Thompson and Co., that Messrs. Hicks and Co. and ourselves
looked into their affairs, and feeling that they had an abundance
to pay every one and have a handsome sum left if they continued their business, we jointly advanced the money to pay their
indorsements as they came round. for which advances we have

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

191

Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

security.. In order, however, to relieve them from the necessity
of borrowing, and needing more cash capital to carry.on the business comfortably, both the companies alluded to owing Messrs.
Thompson and Co. each about $375,000, making, together,
$750,000, executed a mortgage to John H. Hicks, W. S. Wetmore, and James Brown, for $750,000, to secure the payment of
those bonds, which are payable in six, eight, and ten years. A
gentleman goes out to Europe this month to negotiate these
bonds, which he feels confident of doing on favorable terms.
The negotiation of these bonds, and the securities held, would
pay off all the advances made by ourselves, Messrs. Hicks and
Co., and of W, S. Wetmore, who also made them some advances. From Thompson's statement. of the business of the
factory, they are doing a good, nay, a very profitable business,
and I feel that in making sales to them now, no more than the
ordinary business risk would be run.
"1If the bonds are negotiated, which is confidently expected,
they would be enabled to conduct their business with more facility and comfort than they have ever yet done, and as I will
recommend brother William to take from sixty to one hundred
thousand dollars for himself and for me, whatever they are negQ.
tiated at, the confidence shown will. probably help the negotiation. Messrs. Hicks will also take some of them. Since the
failure, Thompson and Co. have laid their hands on Austen
and Spicer's property, to the extent of .fifty thousand dollars,
reducing the risk to one hundred and twenty-three thousand;
and out of this they will get a dividend. As Mr. Orrin Thompson considers 1 "roself fully worth four hundred thousand dollars,
any loss that can now occur by Austen and Spicer does not
hurt him much. All they want is the negotiation of the bonds,
to make them move on with perfect comfort. (Signed) JAsms
The next letter from Curtis to Brown is dated "Boston, 26th
June, 1851. A friend of ours desires me to inform him how far
it would be satisfactory to me (you) to have him sell to the
Thompsonville Company. I replied that I believed you thought
favorably of the concern. Now I wish to know what your pres
ent feelings are in respect to that concern; there being several
among my friends here who have heretofore sold them wool, And
wish to continue to do so."
The answer to this letter was: "Dear Sir - We are in receipt of yours 26th instant; contents noted. We continu6 to
have a favorable opinion of the concern you allude to. (Signed)
BRowN, BROTRERS, AND Co."

Mr. Curtis beink called as a witness, said he was agent for
Brown, Brothers, and Co., who carried on, in the city of New

192

SUPREME COURT.
lasigi et al. v. Brown.

York, an extensive banking business. He wrote his first letter
at the request of Iasigi, and never showed the reply except to
him and his friend, Mr. Skinner, until after the failure of the
Thompsons. When he wrote to Brown, he did not let him
know that the information requested was for any other person
than himself. On the day his first letter was written, Tasigi said
to him that he held a large amount of notes of certain factories
in Connecticut, indorsed by Orrin Thompson, of New York;
that by the recent failure of Austen and Spicer they had lost
money, and he was solicitous about the paper he held. Witness supposed it amounted to about the sum of $40,000. He
said Brown was the friend of Thompson, and witness was requested to ascertain his standing by writing to Brown.
As the answer was marked confidential, the witness, when
lasigi first read the letter, declined handing it to him to show to
his partner, but on his calling, it was shown to him also. Witness expressed a favorable opinion as to Iasigi's getting his
money. Mvr. Brown never authorized the witness. to show his
letter to any one. After the failure of Thompson, Iasigi stated
he had collected his debt, but that he again trusted them. The
witness remarked, that on that letter you should not have trusted
them. He asked to see the letter, and on reading it he said, if
you had not stated this to be the same letter, I should not have
believed it.
The witness stated, some of our clients prior to this had be .n
in the habit of selling wool to Thompson and Co. There were
five or six firms, importers of wool, who had credits with me.
It was highly important to me and my principals that I should
know the standing of this great concern, because large amounts
of credits were being invested in wool, by houses which might
or might not be jeoparded by selling to that concern; I mean
invested by correspondents of Brown, Brothers, and Co., who
had credits for them.
Mr. Grant, a witness, stated that he, Iasigi, and several others
who had sold wool to the two companies and Thompson, had
an interview with the defendant at his office in the city of New
York, where a conversation respecting the letters was had, principally between lasigi and Brown, who replied that the letter
of the 7th of April was a guarded one, and as to the second letter, it was only a statement that "we continue to have a favorable opinion of the concern." He proceeded to say that the
connection of Brown, Brothers, and Co. with Mr. Thompson
had been of long date; that they had a great number of transactions together, and that at the time the April letter was written, they intended to carry Mr. Thompson through; but that
Thompson had deceived them. He repeated several times that

DECEMBER TE RM, 1854.

193

lasigi et al. v. Brown.

this was a guarded letter, and as it wa§ -written in entire good
faith, and as they had lost much more than we had subsequently
to the writing of the letter, they did not see how there could be
any responsibility resting on them.
As the company was about- separating, Mr. Stewart Brown
observed: "If you had called on usi gentlemen, and conversed
with us, instead of writing, you would not have sold this.wool.
That the letter was a guarded one, was several times repeated.
That they had great confidence in Thompson; that at the time
the letter was written they had lost their confidence, but still
meant to carry him -through in.good faith; but being unable to
do so, and having lost their confidence, the letter was guarded."
On being asked by witness, if, at the -time the first letter was
written, he had all the property of Orrin Thompson conveyed
to him, he replied: 11No, sir,.not all his property, but his real
estate." There was no objection at this time by any one, that
the letter was confidential. The Browns refusedto acknowledge
any responsibility.
After this evidence had been given, the plaintiffs offered evidence, not objected to or excluded except as hereinafter stated,
tdnding to prove that certain statements in the letter of April 7,
1851, material to show the property and credit of the two companies, and of Orrin Thompson, and the safety and expediency
of selling them goods on credit, and material to influence and
determine the judgment of one who should read the letter, in
regard to the safety and expediency of so selling good%on credit,
were false at the time the letter was -written, an i were"'"Ien
known to the defendant to be false. And that the defendant.
p
to the 7th of April, alone and jointli with one ficks, had
taken conveyances, in mortgage or absolutely, of all Orrin Thompson's I roperty, real and personal, with some small exceptions,
to the amount of one hundred and eighty-eight thousand dollars,
as security for the debt and liabilities of the house of Thompson
and Co. to .defendant's house and said Hicks, amountingto
over five hundred and nine-thousand dollars..- And also offered
evidence to prove that defendant had an interest of a pecuniary
kind to sustain the credit of said Thompsonville Company, said
Tariffville.Maufacturing Company, and Orrin Thompson, and
to induce extensive sales of goods on credit to them.,.
And other evidence was offered conducing to, show that the
letter was written with a fraudulent intent, and that it was intended for other persons than Curtis. And the plaintiffs proved
that they made the sales stated in the declaration, relying on and
trusting to the statements in said letter.
I But the evidence, as above offered, was rejected. as immaterial
-and as insufficient, when taken in connection with the other
VOL. XVII.

17

194

SUPREME COURT.
Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

evidence above set forth, to authorize the jury to find a verdict
for the plaintiffs.
And the court thereupon ruled and held, that the plaintiffs
had nct maintained their action, and directed a verdict for the
defendant. And a verdict was accordingly so rendered. To
which rulings and direction the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted.
The 3d section of the act of Massachusetts, to prevent frauds
and perjuries in contracts and actions founded thereon, published
in the Revised Statutes of 1836, provides that "No action shall
be brought to charge any person, upon or by reason of any representation or assurance, made concerning the character, conduct,
credit, trade, or dealings of any other person, unless such representation or assurance be made in writing, and signed by the
party to be charged thereby, or by some person thereunto by
him lawfully authorized."
As the letter was written in New York, a doubt has been
suggested' whether this statute can apply to the case. The
letter was intended to operate in Massachusetts, and consequently the law of that State applies to it. But it is not perceived that the statute can have any other effect than to require
the representation, on which the defendant is charged, to be in
writing.
No one controverts the power and duty of the court to construe
all written agreements or papers which are given in evidence.
This is not the question involved in this case. No individual
can be h-ld responsible for a statement of facts, however injurious they may be to an individual or company. But when
there is a misstatement of facts in regard to the pccuniary ability
of an individual or company, and, especially, if this be done
through interested motives or a fraudulent intent, by reason of
which a credit is given and the debt is lost, the facts which
conduce to establish the liability must, as in this case, be outside of tile writing. And if these facts may not be established
by parol evidence, there can be no remedy in such cases, however gross the fraud or ruinous the consequences may be.
It is contended that the letter of the 7th of April, being marked
confidential, could have been intended only for Curtis, the agent,
and that he was not authorized to show it to the plaintiffs. In
his testimony Mr. Curtis says, Brown never authorized him to
show the letter. There may have been no express authority to
show the letter, but the intention of the writer, in this respect,
can be best ascertained by reference to the facts and circumstances under which it was written.
In his letter of April the 5th, Mr. Curtis requested to know
"the opinion of the defendant as to any possibility of loss by
selling largely to the Thompsonville Company or Orrin Thomp-

DECEMBER TERM , 1854.,.

195

.Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

son; and he remarks, whatever that opinion may be, it will be
discreetly used by myself."
Mr. Curtis states, when under examination as a witness, that
he was then, and had been for several years, acting as the agent
of the Browns, and that was his principal business. He said.
that he was not, at any time, a seller of wool to the factories of
Orrin Thompson. This employment of the agent must have
been known to his principal, and it appears in the proof that
when the plaintiffs and others had an interview with the defendant, in New York, he spoke of the letter being guarded, but
made no objection that it had been written to his agent in confidence, and ought not to have been hown to the plaintiffs.
In view of these and other facts, it might have been submitted
to the jury whether- the defendant, in marking his letter "confidential," intended it for the -eye of his agent only. The terms
of the letter, independently of the above -facts, would scarcely
authorize such an inference. The "opinion will be discreetly
used by myself." This was notice to Brown that the opinion
was to be used, and how could it be used by the agent, who
made no sales of wopl to Thompson on his own aceount, without imparting the opinion to- others; but "the opinion will-be
discreetly used'by myself." It shall not be made known b y any
other person than myself, and you may rely on my discretion.
In view of the facts, the jury should consider whether the word
"confidential." might be constiued to 'Mean, in confidence that
yqu will use my opinion discreetly by yourself, as you propose,
or whether it restricted the letter to the agent only.
This seems to have been the construction given to the letter,
by the agent. He suffered lasigi to read it, but refused to give
it into his hands to show to Skinner. Had the writer intended
that n, one should read the letter but Curtis, he would probably
have said so. Such a restriction was not necessarily imposed
by the terms of the letter, in view of the facts proved. Its
detailed statement of facts in regard to the embarrassments of
the two concerns and of Orrin Thompson, and how they had
been relieved by himself and others, and enabled to do a good,
nay "a profitable business," &c., would be a matter, in connection with other facts, for the jury to consider, and to determine whether the letter could have been written for the eye of
the agent only, who at no time sold wool to Orrin Thompson.
In another letter Written to the defendant by Curtis, he says:
"A friend of ours desires me to inform him how far it would
be satisfactory to me, (you,) to have him sell to the Thompsonville Company. I replied that I believed ybu thought favorably
of the concern. Now, I wish to know what your present feelings are in respect to that concern, there being several among
-

SUPREME

COURT.

lasigi et al. v. Brown.

my friends who have heretofore sold them wool, and wish to
continue to do so." To this, Brown, Brothers, and Co. reply:
" We continue to have a favorable opinion of the concern you
allude to."
This letter sheds some light on the first letter of Brown. It
was on the same subject, and was a reiteration of what had
been stated more particularly and at large in the first letter. In
fact, the words "we continue to have a favorable opinion of
the concern you allude to," refers to an opinion before expressed.
As the court instructed the jury to find for the defendant, on
the ground that the plaintiffs had not sustained their action, if
the plaintiffs gave, or offered to give, any evidence which was
fit to be considered by the jury, the judgment must be reversed.
Any evidence conducing to prove that the statements of the
defendant, in the letter of the 7th April, in regard to the condition of the Thompsonville Company and Orrin Thompson, and
their ability to meet their engagements, and in regard to the
value of Thompson's property, were false, was competent evidence as tending to prove the facts. And especially was the
testimony of Grant admissible, who heard the defendant say,
if the plaintiffs had called on them personally, they would not
have sold their wool to the company; also the statement that
before the letter was written, Brown admitted that he had lost
confidence in Thompson, and therefore the letter of the 7th of
April was guarded. These, and all other facts which conduce
to show that the defendant acted in bad faith in writing that
letter, are proper to be considered by the jury.
By whatever motives the defendant may have been actuated,
he is not to be held responsible, unless his letters did mislead, and
were intended to mislead the plaintiffs. And it will be for the jury
to say, on a thorough examination of the letters, and the facts and
circumstances connected with them, whether they were calculated
to inspire, and did inspire, a false confidence in the pecuniary responsibility of the Thompsonville Company and Orrin Thompson. If an impression, not only of their solvency but of their success in business, so that by selling largely to them no more than
the ordinaryrisks of business were incurred, was made and authorized, by the letters, while, at the same time, their true condition
was known to the defendant, which did not authorize such a
representation, and which was intended to deceive and mislead
the plaintiffs, the defendant may be justly held responsible. But
of this the jury are to judge, they being the triers of the facts
outside of the letters, and which should be submitted to them
for their consideration and decision.
We have necessarily referred to the leading facts stated in the
bill of exceptions, in order to show that the cirduit court erred in

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

197

Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

withdrawing them from the jury; but we express no opinion on
the merits of the case.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded for a venire de movo.
Mr. Justice NELSON, Mr. Justice CURTIS, and Mr. Justice
CAMPBELL dissented.
Mr. Justice CURTIS.
I do not agree with the majority of my brethren in this case.
But, as I may be required to preside at the trial which has now
been ordered, I am not willing to enter into a discussion 'of
the evidence heretofore given, and which will doubtless be
repeated on another trial. Without doing so, it is not practicable *to exhibit the legal principles which, in my opinion,
should govern this case. I,. therefore, mdrely say I do not
concur in the iudgment.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, dissenting.
,The importance of this cause renders it proper tbat the
reasons for a dissent from the judgment should be placed on
the record. The charge of the plaintiffs is, that in auti6ipation of large sales of merchandise to two manufacturing corporations of Connecticut, on a credit, wid distrustful of their
condition to govern and direct their conduct, they sought of
the. defendant, through his agent, an opinion and information
of them and their indorser, Orrin Thompson,* as to the risk
they would encounter. That the defendant was intimate
with their affairs, and knew they were untrustworthy; but
well knowing the motives of the. plaintiffs inquiry, they wrote
to their agent a letter, for exhibition, containing false and
fraudulent statements and representations, calculated and designed to increase the credit of the corporations and Thompson, and to induce the plaintiffs and others, who, like them,
should see the letter, to sell their property to them. ' These
averments, describing the circumstances under which the information was obtained, and the knowledge of the defendant
of the aims of the plaintiffs, are, in my opinion, material, and
should be substantially proved.
In Pasley v. Freeman, 3 T. R. 51, Justice Ashurst, replying to the argument that, should the principle of that suit be
supported, actions might be brought against any one for telling a lie by the crediting of which another sustains dhmagei
said "No; for, in order to make it actionable, it must be
accompanied with the circumstances averred in the coun4
namely, that the defendant, intending to deceive and defraud
171

198

SUPREME COURT.
lasigi et al. v. Brown.

the plaintiff, did deceitfully encourage and persuade them to
do the act and for the purpose made the false affirmation, -in
consequence of which they did the act." And Lord Kenyon
said two grounds of the action concur: " The plaiitiffs applied
to the defendant, telling him that they were going to deal with
Faich, and desiring to be informed of his credit, when the defendant fraudulently, and knowing it to be otherwise, and with
a design to deceive the plaintiffs, made the false affirmation
which is stated on the record, by which they sustained a considerable damage."
The case of Pilmore v. Hood, 5 Bing. N. C. 97, was that of
a defendant about to sell a public house to one who had agreed
to purchase. He fraudulently misrepresented to him its receipts.
The bargain having failed, the sale was made to another, who
had heard these representations and acted upon them with the
knowledge of the defendant. Lord Chief Justice Tyndal said
that notice to the defendant was " an important ingredient in
the case," and adapting 'the terms of Langridge v. Levy, 2 AL
and. W. 532, he says: " We do not decide wheth3r the action
would.have been maintainable if the plaintiff had not known
of and acted upon the false representation. Nor whether the
defendant would have been responsible to a person not within
the defendanfs' contemplation at the time of the sale, to whom
the gun might have been sold or handed over. We decide that
he is responsible in this case for the consequences of his fraud,
whilst the instrument was in the possession of a person to
whom his representation was either directly or indirectly
communicated, and for whose use he knew it was purchased."
In Gdrhard v. Bates, 2 Ell. and Black. 476, the misrepfesentation was contained in the prospectus of a bubble company,
of which the defendant was a director. Lord Campbell said,
"that had the plaintiff only averred that afterwards, having
seen the prospectus, the plaintiff was induced to purchase the
shares, objection might have been'made that a connection did
not sufficientli appear between the act of the defendant, and
the act of the ulaintiff, from which the loss arose; but the
second count goL on expressly to charge the defendant, that by
means of the saia false, fraudulent, and deceitful pretences
and representations, he wrongfully and fraudulently induced the
plaintiff to become the purchaser and bearer, and plaintiff did
then and by reason thereof actually become the purchaser and
holder of the shares, and alleges the loss sustained to have been
the direct consequence of the defendant's act. Thus the.wrong
and the loss are clearly-concatenated as cause and effect."
The allegations, therefore, being essential to the action, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

199

Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

question is, was there any evidence to go to the jury for their
support?
I leave out of consideration, for the .present, the statute law
of Massachusetts. The charge of the declaration is that the
letter was written for exhibition to the plaintiffs and among
dealers like the plaintiffs, and to deceive those who should see
it. The proof of the plaintiffs is that until after the failure of
the corporations, only two persons were permitted to see it, or
heard of its contents from Mr. Curtis. One of these was Skinner. The proof in regard to the exhibition to him is: " Iasigi
asked me (Curtis) to let him take the letter to his friend Skinner,
with whom he always advised. I (Curtis) again said the letter
was confidential, and that I could not suffer it to go from my
office. He then said, -will you let Skinner see it here, repeating
that he alwayg advised with Skinner on matters of importance,
and that he wanted him to see it. Upon this solicitation I consented, and Skinner came with lasigi, and read the letter."
There is no evidence that Skinner ever had a transaction with
the corporations of Connecticut, or conducted a business which
could bring them into any contact or connection. And surely.
this evidence can afford no support to the averment of -a purpose to defraud or injure him or others through him.
The charge in the declaration, by this.evidence, loses its generality, and is reduced to the imputation of a mischievous and
fraudulent design upon the plaintiffs alone. The only use, "the
discreet use,' of the opinion contained in the defendant's letter,
consisted in communicating its contents to Iasigi himself, and
to his confidential friend, at his solicitation, and that he might
advise intelligently with him. It then' becomes necessary to
inquire of the circumstances under .which"that communication
was made to him. It was not told to the defendant that the
plaintiffs had asked for information of Mr. Curtis, nor that his
letter was written at his reques4 nor was he*advised until several
months afterwards that any use had been made of the letter.
I do not think it necessary to consider how much *the power
of the agent was limited by the -mark "confidential," on the
face of the letter, but I will suppose that it was nothing more
than a repetition of the- caution that it should be "discreetly
used" by'Mr. Curtis, and that the defendant is lia~ble for the
use he made.
The evidence on the record comes from the plaintiffs; and in
ref6rence to the circumstances -of the exhibition, from a single
witness. The agent of the defendant was the near neighbor
and friend of the plaintiffs, ut had never had any intercourse
of business with them, either for himself or for his principal. ,
Such being their relations, Iasigi, -on the 5th April, came to

200

SUPREME COURT.
Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

him as a friend and neighbor, and stated, that "he had a large
amount of notes of certain factories in Connecticut, indorsed
by Orrin Thompson; that there had been a failure recently, in
New York, (Austen and Spicer,) by which he thought the factories, or Orrin Thompson, or all of them, would lose money;
and that he felt anxious as to the fate of the paper he held. He
did not state the amount he held exactly, but Curtis*was led to
believe it was about $40,000. He proceeded to say that Mr.
James Brown was a friend of Orrin Thompson, and that he,
Iasigi, had himself heavy dealings with him, and that he wished
him (Curtis) to write to Mr. James Brown, and ask him about
the standing of Thompson and his property. Curtis accordingly
wrote, but did not state that he wrote at Iasigi's request." Upon
this statement the particular form of the inquiry is open to, and
will be the subject of remark hereafter. The question to lMr.
Brown is: "What is your opinion as to any possibility of loss to
the Thompsonville Company or Orrin Thompson? The witness proceeds: " I was led to ask the information and to commuhitate the result to him in consequence of the friendly
relations that had long existed between us, and further, because
I thought it would tend to relieve Mr. Iasigi's mind, and not
with a view to-future sales." He says further: "at these interviews about my letter, and Brown's reply, there was nothing
said about any anticipated. or prospective operations by Iasigi.
Mr. Iasigi said the credits were due to him." The witness
"never knew that he had sold his notes," but was asked if he
would guarantee them.
This statement of the circumstances of the exhibition of the
letter to. Iasigi contains the whole case. No other letter -of the
defendant was seen by him, no other communication was made
to him, nor was this letter after this produced to any other person before the failure of the corporations. Now the proof of
the plaintiffs is, that they held but a single note, of less +han
$800, running on time, at this date; the others had been sold
ra the winter previously, in the New York market, without indersement or guarantee. They haa -a book debt then due, upon
which a large payment was made within ten days after, all of
which has been collected, and about which no solicitude was
expressed. It likewise appears that lasigi did contemplate further operations, for in January Thompson had taken samples' of
wool to arrive, and which did arrive, and was sold about six
weeks from this interview.
Before closing this statement of the evidence, it is proper to
note the impression that the defendant's letter made upon those
who read it, as an accrediting document
Curtis reading it witn the object of deciding whether the

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

201

lasigi et al. v. Brown.

corporations and Thompson would meet their negotiable notes

for two or three months, was willing to guarantee the debt for
the usual comnission.; b-dt when told that credits on sales-were
given afterwards, he " expressed his surprise that lasigi should
have sold after reading that letter." Skinner, who probably
knew the secret purpose of lasigi, and interpreted the letter
accordingly, was .not "favorably impressed." lasigi, in reply to
the expression of surpris by Curtis, quoted above, asked to see
the letter again, and after reading it said: "If you did iiot say
that this was the same letter I read in your office, I should say
that I had never seen this letter before;" and the Browns, when
interrogated upon it after the failure of these parties, said, that
the letter was a gua3ded one and did not warrant credits on sales
to them. . Having collected the facts important to the issue, the
question arises, do they constitute a case to go to the jury upon
this declaration? The evidence is that the plaintiffs anticipating consignments of wool, and sales to these Connecticut corporations, and desiring the defendant's information and opinion
of them, through lasigi, approached his neighbor and friend,
Mr. Curtis, the confidential agent of the defendant, th engage
him to procure this opinion and information from his principal

in New York. He approaches Curtis. with a statement of
anxieties for debts, existing in the form of negotiable notes running on time.
These statements were certainly not accurate, and are, apparently, insincere; and it will be noticed that the motive alleged
in the declaration, as prompting the plaintiffs, was not revealed,
and if it existed, was disguised under the apprehensions that
were then expressed. The evidence shows the plaintiffs did noi
have notes of the amount spoken of, and that the book debt was
then due. There is a discordance between this evidence and
the inquiry proposed in the letter of Curtis. That inquiry discloses no apprehensions of loss upon existing debts, but refers

to perils to arise on future transactions. If lasigi suggested the
form of the inquiry with a view to, obtain information to guide
his conduct, as the declaration avers, and concealed his aim, and
by affecting an alarm he did not feel, covered that aim from
Curtis, it has the appearance of circumvention. Curtis says he
wrote his letter in consequence of his friendship for the plaintiffs,
to calm their fears, and without an intimation of prospective
operations. Curtis gave a pledge that he would use the letter
of the defendant discreetly. Before the letter -was placed in the
hands of the plaintiffs, they were informed it-was "confidential,"'
and lasigi read that upon the letter itself. lasigi again confirms
the impression of Curtis, that apprehensions of loss upon his
notes were still moving him) by addressing queries as to the

202

SUPREM1E COURT.
Iasigi et al. v. Brown.

probabilities of his getting his money, and importunes Curtis
to exhibit the letter to his friend, that he might profit from his
counsel. The declaration avers that this letter, exhibited under
such circumstances, was written for exhibition to inquiring dealers, to encourage and persuade them to give credit to these corporations, and was shown to the plaintiffs with that design.
That when it was written and exhibited, the anticipated transactions from which loss has followed, were known to the defendant, and the object of the exhibition was to induce the plaintiffs
to make them.
I find no support for these averments, but a direct and palpable contradiction of them. This conclusion upon the evidence
renders a discussion of the statute of Massachusetts, (Rev. Stat.
ch. 74, § 3,) requiring that representations of the character, ability, and conduct of another person should be in writing to support an action, unnecessary. But the discussions upon a similar
statute fortify the conclusions contained in this opinion. "The
true construction of the statute," says Lord Abinger, "is, that
the representation or assurance should concern or relate to the
ability of the other person effectually to perform and satisfy the
engagement, of a pecuniary nature, into which he has proposed
to enter, and upon the faith of which he is to obtain money,
He who has money
credit, or goods." 1 INL and W. 101, 123. ",
to lend or goods to sell on credit, and doubts the ability of the
borrower, or buyer," says Baron Gurney, "may exact his own
terms; he may insist on having a representation or assurance in
writing, of the ability, from a third person; and if that be refused, he may keep his money and goods. If he thinks fit to
trust without that, he has no right to resort to the responsibility
of the person of whom he inquires." S. C. 107. Baron Alderson
says: "If we refer to the cases which had occurred before the
legislative provision, I think it will be found that the decision
in the class of cases commencing with Pasley v. Freeman, had
raised a well-founded complaint in the profession of having virtually repealed the statute of frauds, by which a guarantee was
required to be in writing, and that the object Lord Tenterden
had in view, was to place both on the same footing, and to provide that a written document should be equally required in
both. The two cases are, I think, identical in principle. He
adds, "that fraud, in substance, amounts to an implied guarantee of the plaintiff's solvency."
Had Curtis given a guarantee to the plaintiffs of their debt,
either for or without a commission, and accompanied the act
with statements of the pecuniary condition of the debtors, and
expressions of confidence in his solvency wholly unwarranted,
it is clear that it would have imposed no responsibility for sales

DECEMBER"TERM, 1854.

-203

Iasigiet al. m Brown.

not then spoken of or alluded to, which were not made for several weeks .aterwards, which were not contemplated by one of
the parties, and'if by.the other,-were concealed in all the intercoure that then took place. The statute was designed to reduce
the .liabilities, for the representations it describes, to some definite and appreciable limit; that the representations should be
evinced in a written document, and that those who were to
derive a benefit-from it, 4s a security, should be ascertained from
its contents; and that the liabilty on the document should not
be extended beyond the engagements to which it had reference.
The questions embraced .in this'case, are exhibited in a short
conversation detailed in. the" evidence of the plaintiffs. -Curtis
says: "After the failure of the corporations, in September, I had
an interview with 1r. lasigi. I met him in the street; he.accosted me in a state of excitement; he said: 'Mr. Curtis,
Thompson has failed, and the Thompsonville Company has
failed.' I said: I I am sorry, but you have got your money.'
He said: ' Yes, I have got the money that was owing to me,
but I have trusted them again.' I expressed surpfise that he
should have trusted them again."
It was not with a declared purpose of trusting them again
that lasigi sought information of Curtis; 'nor was the confidential letter of Mr. Brown to his agent read, with the avowal that
future operations ivere to be affected by.the impression it made;
nor was the questionable act of its exhibition superinduced by
any suggestions of the existence of pefiding negotiations.
The objects disclosed by.Iasigi were wholly incompatible
with, and exclusive of, the notion of any legal responsibility fQr
the accuracy or sufficiency of the letter, or even for a wilful
misrepresentation.
He did not ask for infoimation, proposing action, even in
regard to the notes of which he spoke, nor did any alteration of
his debt take place in consequence. He simply inquired of
Curtis, that anxieties might be relieved and his apprehensions
quieted.
The liabilities incurred in cases like that described in the
declaration, are for a fraud productive of damage; of damage
.directly consequential and in the contemplation of the parties,
as a result of the act done, and not for consequences ren'ote,
contingent, and arising from acts unconnected with the objects
disclosed or. comprehended by them.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district o

204

SUPREM1E

COURT.

The United States v. Nickerson.

Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be and
the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with

directions to award a venirefacias de novo.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL, Mr. Justice NELSON, and Mr.
Justice CURTIS dissented.

THE

UNITED

STATES,

PLAINTIFF,
JUNIoR.

v. LINDSEY

NiCICERSON,

The act of congress passed on the 29th July, 1813, (3 Stats. at Large, 49,) enacts
,that the oan er of every fishing vessel shall, previous to receiving the allowance
mentioned in the act, produce to the collector the original agreement which may
have been made with the fishermen, and also a certified copy of the days of sailing
and returning, to the truth of which he shall swear before the collector.
These latter words include the first branch, as well as the second branch of the sentence; so that the owner must not only swear to the truth of the certificate, but
also to the verity of the agreement with the fishermen.
A person was indicted, in the district court of Massachusetts, for perjury, in swearing
falsely to the agreement with the fishermen, and in swearing falsely that three
fourths of the crew were citizens of the United States. As the district judge held
that the act of congress only required the owner to swear to the certificate of sailing, and not to the agreement with the fishermen, the person was acquitted.
Afterwards, when indicted in the circuit court, this person pleaded his former acquittal. This was a good plea; because the evidence necessary to sustain the indictment, with respect to the fishermen's agreement, might have been given by the
United S'ates in the first trial.
With respect to the oath that three fourths of the crew were citizens of the United
States, the act of 1813 did not require that oath ; but then the indictment did not
purport to bring the offence under that act, but referred to the statutes of the United
States generally.

Tnls case came up from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Massachusetts, upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges thereof.
In March, 1854, Nickerson was indicted for perjury, by the
grand-jury of the district court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, which indictment was framed under the
act of July 29, 1813, ch. 3.5, §§ 7, 9; (3 Stats. at Large, 49;)
revi ,ed February 9, 1816, ch. 14, (3 Stats. at Large, 254.)
By section 7: " The owner of every fishing vessel of twenty

tons and, upwards, his agent or lawful representative, shall,
previous to receiving the allowance made by this act, produce
to the collector, who is authorized to pay the same, the original
agreement 'or agreements which may have been made with the

