DECEMIBER TERM, 1854.

609

Griffin et ux. v. Reynolds.

We are of opinion, therefore, that the objection made to this
protest, "that it does not describe the bill of exchange produced,
but a different bill," is not true in fact, And should have been
overruled by the court.
This renders it unnecessary for us to notice the offer of testimony to prove the identity, which was also overruled by the
court.
The judgment of the circuit court is reversed, and venire de
novo awarded.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the circuit court of the Iited States for the southern
district of Alabama, and -was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause
be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this
cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit
court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

JACK

T.

GRIFFIN ANb WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR; V. JAiES Y.
REYNOLDS.

Where a suit was brought for damages sustained by the breach 6f a covenant of warranty of title to land in Alabama, and the plaintiff, in order to establish the existence
of an outstanding paramount title at the date of the conveyance, offered the record
of a ruit in ejectment against his grantor, in which suit the plaintiff himself had
been . witness, this record should have been allowed to be given in evidence, with,
out any reservation.
The ruling of the court was, therefore, erroneous, admitting the record, but referring
it to the jury to determine whether the testimony given by the plaintiff was material, and if so, to disregard the evidence.
In order to show an outstanding title, a copy from the records of the probate court in
Alabama, of a deed of trust from the origin-1 owner of the land, was offered in, evidence, but no evidence was offered to account for the original. This copy should
not have been admitted.
The deed containing the warranty upon which the suit was brought, was properly admitted in evidence, being an original deed, duly acknowledged and recorded.An instruction to the jury was erroneous, namely, that if the plaintiff had not lost all
the land conveyed to him by the defendant, then the jury might allow him the
average value of the part lost, in proportion to the price paid fbr the whole. 'The
true measure of damage was the loss actually sustained by the eviction from the
land for whi-h the title has failed.
Although the deed of warranty was properly made by the grantor and wife, in order
to bar her dower, yet an action upon the covenant of warranty cannot, be brought
against her. She can make no such covenants.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the district

SUPREME COURT.
Griffin et ux. v. Reynolds.

court of the United States for the northern district of Mississippi.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Reilerdy .Tohnson., Jr., and Mr. Reverdy
1i. Adams, for the plaintiffs in error,
and by Mr. Lawrence, for the defendant in error.

Johnson, with whom was

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant reco~vered a judgment in the district court, for
damages sustained by the breach of a covenant of warranty of
title to land in Alabama, contained in a conveyance of the
plaintiffs to him.
To establish the existence of an outstanding paramount title
at the date of the conveyance, the defendant relied upon a
judgment and execution in a.suit in ejectment, commenced in
Alabama, for the land, a few days after the date of the deed,
to which the plaintiff (Griffin) was a defendant, and which
resulted in a judgment against him, that was followed by a
writ of possession, which is returned "executed."
It appears,
from the evidence, that the defendant was called by the plaintiff in the ejectment suit as a witness, though it is not clear to
wh'-t fact in issue. Objection was made that the record of the
suil. could not be used under these circumstances. The district
court admitted the record, but referred it to the jury to
determine whether his testimony was material, and, if so, to
disregard the evidence.
This ruling is assigned as error. There are authorities to the
point that a record of a verdict and judgment cannot be used
in favor of 'one who has contributed, by his evidence, to their
recovery, (18 John. 351; 4 Day, 431; 2 Hill and Cow. notes
5;) and one of the reasons assigned for confining the use of
judgments to the parties and privies to them is, that a stranger
may have produced them by his testimony. But the court is
of opinion that this exception to the general rule, defining the
parties by whom the evidence may be used, would introduce
an inconvenient collateral inquiry, and that no practical evil
will result from maintaining the general rule unimpaired; and
that it is important that the rules of evidence should be broad
and well defined.
The record in th.e present suit should have been admitted,
without any reservation. Blakemore v. Glamorganshire Canal
Co. 2 C. M. and R. 133.
There was some doubt upon the trial whether the issue of
the defendant could be sustained by this evidence, and therefore he attempted to prove the existence of a paramount title

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

611

Griffin et ux. v. Reynolds.

in the lessors of the plaintiff in the ejectment suit. For this
purpose he proved that the land had belonged to one Oliver,
who, in 1838, conveyed it to trustees, to secure certain liabilities
described in the deed, and that under this deed the property
had been recovered; that the plaintiff's title came from Oliver,
by sheriff's deeds, dated in 1841, and was inferior to that of the
trustees. To prove the deed of trust, he introduced a copy
from the records of the probate court in Alabama, where it had
been recorded, but gave no evidence to account for the original.
At the date of the copy there was no la~w in Alabama which
authorized the use of copies in place of and without accounting
for the original; and in relation to deeds of trust, the registry
acts of that State merely required their registration for -the
purpose of giving notice, but did not assign any value to the
record as evidence in courts, nor has any statute of Mississippi
enlarged the operation of the statute of Alabama in that State.
Bradford v. Dawson, 2 Ala. 203; 5 Tb. 297; 13 Tb. 370. We
think that this copy should not have been admitted.
The deed from the plaintiff to the defendant, in which the
warranty is contained, is an original and absolute deed, duly
acknowledged and recorded; and the act which authorizes the
acknqwledgment also provides that it shall be admitted as
evidence in courts without further proof. Clay's Dig. 161, ยง 1;
Robertson v. Kennedy, 1 Stew. 245.
We think that, under the decisions of this court, this deed
was properly admitted. Owings v. Hull, 9 Pet 607.
The court was requested by the plaintiffs "to instruct the
jury that this is an action for damages, and that the plaintiff
can only recover the value of the part lost, if a part only was
lost at the time of the eviction, in proportion to the, amount he
paid," which charge was refused; and the jury was instructed
"that if the plaintiff had not lost all the land conveyed to him
by the defendant, then the jury might allow him the average
value of the part lost, in proportion to the price paid for the
whole. The charge given by the court is erroneous. The
measure of damages is the loss actually sustained by the
eviction from the land for which the title has failed, and that
damage would not nsually be ascertained by taking the
average value, though the recovery could not exceed the consideration paid, interest, and expenses of suit. The joinder of
the wife with the husband, in this action, is also assigned'for
error. The statutes of Alabama authorize the wife to bar her
claim to dower by such a conveyance as this, but do not enlarge her power to enter into personal engagements or to incur
responsibilities for the title. George v. Gooldsby, 23 Ala. 327;
Hughes v. Williamson, 21 lb. 296.

SUPREME

COURT.

Judson v. Corcoran.

There is a misjoinder of parties. But this objection is taken
here, for the first time; and the difficulty may be obviated by a
nolle prosequi in the district court, which is allowable under the
decisions of this court. Minor v. Bank of Alexandria, 1 Pet.
46; United States v. Leffier, 11 lb. 86; Amis v. Smith, 16 lb.
303.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
northern district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said district court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said
district court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

WILLIAM JUDSON, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM W.

CORCORAN.

Where a prior assignee of a claim against Mexico gave no information of the assignment until a subsequent assignee had prosecuted the claim before the commissioner1s, and obtained an award in his favor, the equities of these parties were equal,
and the possessor of the legal title ought to retain the fund.
The award was not conclusive amongst the claimants. The decision of a former
court upon this point again affirmed.
The cases examined respecting the relative equities of prior and subsequent assignees of a chose in action.

THis was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the
county of Washington.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by 1l1r. Lawrence and iVXr. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and by MZr. Bradley and Mr. Carlisle, for the
defendant.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Judson brought this suit in equity, to recover $6,000 from
William W. Corcoran, in whose favor a decree had been made
for about $15,000, by the board of commissioners acting according to the 15th article of our treaty with Mexico of 1848.
Corcoran claimed, as assignee, under Bradford B. Williams

