DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

41

The United States v. Daniel W. Coxe.

negligence of the State's agents, we do not punish one man for
the misfeasance of another's servants."
The objection taken to the patent, that it is signed by" an
acting commissioner of patents," and that the record contains
no averment nor proof of his title to the office, is-not tenable.
The court will take notice judicially of the persons who from
time to time preside over the patent office, whether permanently
or transiently, and the production of their commission is not
necessary to support their official acts. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4
How. 686.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the
eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs, and
interest until paid, at the same rate per annum that similar
judgments bear in the State of Pennsylvania.

ElE UNirED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. DANIEL W.

COXE AND

OTHERS.
The principles affirmed in the cases of the United States v. King and others, 7 How.
833, and of the United States v. Tamer's Heirs, 11 How. 663, again established.

THis was an appeal from the district court of the United
States for the eastern distrief of Louisiana.
In June, 1846, Coxe and thirteen others filed a petition in the
district court, under the acts of Congress passed in 1824 and
1844, the purport of which acts has been so often explained in
the preceding volumes of these reports, that it is unnecessary
now to recapitulate it.
The United States pleaded the general issue; and the cause
was tried, without the intervention of a jury, and judgment rendered in favor of the petitioners, on the 30th of May, 1849.
The United States prayed an appeal in open court, which
was allowed on the 6th of June, 1849.
It -was argued by Mr. Cushing, (attorney-general,) for the,
United States, who made only the following points, viz.Without any more particular statement of the law or the
4'x

SUPREM1E COURT.
The United States v. Daniel W. Coxe.

evidence of these cases, it is supposed that it will be sufficient
to state, that the claim alleged by the petitioners was derived
solely from the same "MAaison Rouge grant," which has heretofore been fully considered and decided by this court, in the case
of the United States v. King, &c., reported in 3 How. 773, and
7 How. 833.
This court having finally adjudged and determined in that
case, that the "M
Maison Rouge grant," as it was called, conveyed
no private right or property to the said Aaison Rouge, and the
petitioners claiming from him as the proprietors, in virtue of
said grant, it must follow that the decrees in favor of the petitioners are erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
.111r. Coxe, for the appellees, filed an elaborate argument, in
which he contended that the record was imperfect, and did not
contain sufficient grounds for a reversal; that this imperfection
was owing to the fault of the United States; that documents,
which were necessary for the verification of the appellee's title,
ought to be in the record, and were not there; that the rules of
this court prescribe that no cause shall be heard until a complete
record is filed; that, under the acts of 1824 and 1844, the proceedings in this case were to be conducted according to the rules
of a court of equity, which require the entire case to be preJ
sented here as it was exhibited to the court below; that the
presumption must be, where no error can be assigned on the
face of the record, that the judgment of the court below was
right; and that looking to evidence dehors the record, if such
course is allowable, the facts and circumstances of the case
require an affirmance of the decree.
In commenting upon the preceding decisions of this court,
Mrff. Coxe contended that they were pronounced upon a case at
law, and made the following points:1. That we are now in a court of equity, and not of strict
common law- a system unknown in Louisiana.
2. We are now entitled to the right, of showing that if by
such a document as that bearing date in June, 1797, a title
did not pass to the Marquis de Maison Rouge, as his private
property, according to the laws of Spain; yet that, in conformity
with the established usages of the Spanish government, it did.
3. That if the preceding position is denied, we have still the
right to show that, under the circumstances now brought to the
notice of this court, sitting as a court of equity, we are warranted
in making it the foundation of an argument in favor of the
present title of the appellees, wholly unaffected by any previous
decision or even dictunt of this court, of an adverse character.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

48

Barribeau et al. v. Brant.

This case cannot be distinguished from the case of United
States v. King et al. 7 How. 833, and of Uhited States -v.
Turner's Heirs, 11 How, 663.
The decree of the district court must therefore be reversed,
and a mandate issued to the court below to dismiss-the petition.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard, on the transcript of the record,
from the district court of the United States for the eastern
districtof Louisiana;, and it appearing to the court that this case
cannofbe distinguished from the case of the United States v. King
et al. 7 How. 833, and of the United States v. Turner's Heirs,
11 How. 663, it is thereupon now here ordered, adjudged,
and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said district
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and
annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said district court, with directions to dismiss the petition.

PIERRE BARRIBEAU

AND EuPHRAsIE

T. PERRY, APPELLANTS,

V. JOSHUA B. BRANT.
Where the death of a party complainant was suggested at December term, 1851, of
this court, and his legal representatives did not appear by the tenth day of this
term, the bill must, as to him, be entered, abated under the 61st rule of this court.
As to the other complainant, the allegation that a deed which she executed ought to
be set aside, upon the ground of fraud and misrepresentation, and inadequacy of
price, is. not sustained by the evidence.; nor is the allegation that'she was a jointtenant, and not a tenant in common, sustained by a construction of the deed.
Where the complainant, after filing his bill, conveyed all his interest to a trustee, and
died pending an appeal which he took to this court, the trustee cannot be permitted
to be made a party to the proceedings in this court. The only persons who can
appear in the stead of the complainant, are those who, upon his death, succeed to
the interest he then had, and upon whom the estate then devolves.

This was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Missouri.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It .was argued by .lir. :Bradley, for the appellants, and by
-ffr.Lawrence, for the appellees.
The argument consisted, upon both sides, in the application
of well-established principles of law to the facts in the case, as
disclosed by the evidence. There being no - principle of law
disputed, it is not necessary to state the contradictory testimony
which furnished the basis of the respective arguments.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court

