DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

147

Ring et al. v. Maxwell.

ZEBEDEE RING, DAVID A. BOKEE, ROBERT S. HONE, AND JOHN
P. HONE, EXECUTORS OF PHILIP HONE, DECEASED, AND
CORNELL S. FRANKLIN, COMPLAINANTS, v. HUGn MAXWELL.
The tariff act of 1842, (5 Stats. at Large, 548,) provided that if the appraised value of
merchandise should exceed, by ten per centum or more, the invoice value, an additional duty should be imposed of fifty per centum of the duty.imposed on the same,
where fairly invoiced.
The act of 1846, (9 Stats. at Large, 42,) reduced this additional duty to twenty per
centum.
Although this additional duty may have been considered as a penalty, and as guch, a
moiety given to the officers of the custom-house, under the act of 1842, and the
same disposition of it would have been made under the act of 1846, if there had
been no other legislation, yet the act of February, 1846, (9 Stats. at Large, 3,) declares that it'shall not be considered a penalty for the purpose of being distributed.
Therefore, the additional duty of twenty per centum, levied by the collector,, under
.tb6 8th section of the act of July 30, 1846, is not to be considered as a penalty, one
moiety whereof is to be distributed amongst the officers of the custom-house.
THIS

case came up from the circuit court of the United States

for the southern district of New York, upon a certificate of
division of opinion between the judges. thereof.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mllr. Ring, for the complainants, and by
.r; shing, (attorney-general,) for the defendant.
There were five questions certified from the circuit court, and
argued here. As the arguments covered the whole ground, and
the court decided only one of the points, the reporter has concluded to omit the arguments of counsel altogether.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us, upon a certificate of division of
opini(-n of the judges of the circuit court of the United States for
the southern district of New York. The certificate shows that a
suit in equity is pending in that court, wherein persons who were
the naval officer and surveyor of the port of New York, are complainants, and Hugh Ma well, who was the collector of that
port, is respondent, and that the scope of the bill is to recover
one moiety of a large sum of money levied and collected as
additional duties, under the 8th section of the tariff act, of July
30,1846, (9 Stats. at Large, 43.) during the time while the complainants held the offices above.mentioned. Upon the hearing
of this cause, the judges werc opposed in opinion upon the
following questions: "W
Whether, upon a true construction of the revenue laws -of
the United States, the additional duties of 20 per centum, which
have been levied and collected by and paid to the defendant, as
collector of the port of New [ork, at the porf of New York, as

SUPREME

COURT.

Ring et al. v. Maxwell.

stated in his answer, under and by virtue of the 8th section of
the act entitled I An act for reducing the duties on imports, and
for other purposes,' passed July 30, in the year 1846, were to be
treated as penalties, and one moiety thereof divided between
and paid in equal proportions to and among the collector, naval
officer, and surveyor of the port of New York, holding said
offices at the time of the levying, collection, and payment
thereof, in the said port of New York, as claimed by the plaintiffis, in their bill in this cause."
The 8th section of the act of July 30, 1846, after requiring
the collector to cause the dutiable value of the imports therein
referred to, to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained, in accordance with the provisions of existing laws, goes on to enact,
"and if the appraised value thereof shall exceed, by ten per centum or more, the value so declared on the entry, then, in addition
to the duties imposed by law on the same, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid, a duty of twenty per centum, ad valorem, on
such appraised value." The question is, whether the sums
levied, collected, and paid under ths clause, were by law distributable as penalties, one moiety to the treasury of the United
States, and the other moiety among the collector, naval officer,
and surveyor.,
To render any sum of money collected for the government,
thus distributable, it is not doubted that some act of congress,
directing that distribution, must be found; and the complainant's counsel has sought for such a law, by arguing that these
additional duties must be treated as penalties, levied for the
offence of undervaluation, against the directions and in contravenition of the requirements of the revenue laws; and that if
they are penalties, they are required to be distributed by different
collection laws to which he has referred, and which he urges have
been made applicable by congress to the sums of money now;
in question. We do not find it necessary to determine whether
these additional duties might have been deemed penalties, so as
to come under the terms of either of the collection laws which
have directed the distribution of penalties among certain officers
of the customs; nor do we deem'it important. to examine in
detail, the provisions of those collection laws, and the manner in
which they have been, from time to time, rendered applicable, in
part or in whole, to the different acts levying duties and penialties.
Because, we are all of opinion, that whatever may be the
nature of the sums levied, as additional duties, under the 8th
section of the tariff act of 1846, they are not distributable as
penalties.
To exhibit the reasons on which this opinion is founded, it is
necessary to refer first to the tariff act of August 30,1842. The

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

149

Ring et al. v. Maxwell.

26th section of that act, provided that the laws existing on the
1st day of June, 1842, shall extend to and be in force for the
collection of the duties imposed by this act, &c., and for the
recovery, collection, distribution, and remission of all fines, penalties, and forfeitures, and for the allowance of the drawbacks
by this act authorized, as fully and effectually as if every regulation, restriction, penalty, forfeiture, provision, clause, matter,
and thing in the said laws contained, had been inserted in and
reenacted by this act.
The 16th and 17th sections of the same act, prescribe the
manner in which merchandise, subject to ad valorem rates of
duty, shall be appraised, and its dutiable value ascertained; and
then the 17th section enacts: "That in all cases where the
actual value to be 'appraised, estimated, and ascertained, as
hereinbefore stated, of any goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into the United States, and subject to any ad valorem
duty, or whereon the duty is regulated by or directed to be imposed or levied on the value of the square yard, or other parcel,
or quantity thereof, shall exceed, by ten per centurn or more, the
invoice value, then in addition to the duty imposed by law on
the same, there shall be levied and collected on the same'goods,
wares, and merchandise, fifty per centum of the duty imposed
on the same where fairly invoiced."
These being provisions of the tariff act of 1842, the complainants' argument is, that the additional duties levied under its
17th section, were made distributable by its 26th section; that
the 8th section of the act of 1846 only changed the amount of
the penalty in the cases it reached; that, whereas, by the 17th
section of the act of 1842, if the appraisement should exceed
the invoice value ten per centum, fifty per centum of the duty
was the penalty, by the act of 1840, tventy per centum of the
appraised value was to be the penalty; that this was the only
change made; although the 26th section of the act.of 1842,
which made penalies distributable under the then existing laws,
applied, in terms, only to the penalties levied by that act, yet
those laws of distribution are applicable to this penalty under
the act of 1846, which must be considered as substituted in
place of the penalty levied by the act of 1842, and to be governed by the same provisions of law as were applicable to the
additional duty, by way of penalty, under that act of 1842.
There is great force in this argument. The tariff act of 1846
is an act fixing new rates of duty on imports. It does not contain any provisions for the collection of those duties, nor for the
collection or distribution of any penalties. It does not, in terms,
adopt the existing iaws on those subjects, nor declare that they
shall be deemed applicable to the duties and penalties which it
13*

SUPREME

COURT.

Ring et al v. Maxwell.

levies; yet it is obvious that it must have been intended that
those existing laws should be thus applied; 'nd this can only
be effected, by considering the duties and jienalties levied by
the act of 1846, as substitutes for, and to be governed by the
same rules as, the corresponding duties and penalties levied by
the act of 1842, which did, in terms, adopt and apply the existing laws for the recovery, collection, and distribution of duties
and penalties.
We accede, therefore, to the positions that the additional duty
levied by the act of 1846, is only a substitute for that levied
under the act of 1842, and that whatever rule was.in force when
the act of 1846 was passed, concerning the distribution of the
additional duty levied by the 17th section of the act of 1842, is
also in force, and is to be applied to the additional duty under
the 8th section of the act of 1846, which is here in question.
So that the only remaining inquiry is, what was that rule?
We think this question is answered by the 3d section of the
act of February 11, 1846, (9 Stat at Large, 3,) "that no portion
of fhe additional duties provided for by the 17th st ction of the
act of August 30, 1842, entitled, &c., shall be deemed a fine,
penalty, or forfeiture, for the purpose of being distributed to
any officer of the customs; but the whole amount thereof, when
received, shall be paid directly into the treasury."
This enacts a rule concerning the distribution of the additional
duties under the act of 1842; and as the additional duties under
the act of 1846 are substitutes for, and to be governed by the
same rules. as to distribution, as those levied under the former
law, it necessarily follows that they are not distributable.
It has. been argued that this 3d section of the act of February 11, 1846, is expressly limited to the additional duties levied
under the 17th section of the. act of 1842; and therefore cannot
govern the distribution of those levied under the act of 1846.
But so the 26th section of the act of 1842, which adopts former
laws, applies them only to the duties and penalties levied under
that act; and this is the only authority for applying any laws
to the distribution of the penal duties now in question. The
complainant is obliged to argue that, though limited in terms to
that act, it applies to rates of penal duty afterwards substituted
by the act of 1846, in place of those prescribed by the act of
1842. We have declared the argument sound; but it must be
allowed its full and just effect. "The implication is not that the
laws for the collection and distribution of penalties, as they had
existed at some prior period, or aA they had been applicable to
other penalties, were silently adopted by the act of 1846; but
that the laws for the collection and distribution of additional
duties by way of penalty, as those. laws existed when, the act

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.
Ring et al. v.

151

Maxwell.

of 1846 was passed, must be deemed applicable to the new
additional duty by way of penalty prescribed by that act; and
when the act of 1846 was passed, the'previous general law 'for
the distribution of penalties had been modified, and the additional duty for which that in question is substituted, had been
declared not distributable. The consequence is that thcugh' the
act of 1846 may be considered as providing for both duties and
penalties, subject, as to their collection and distribution, to existing laws, yet as there was no law in force by which additional
duties, levied for undervaluation, were made distributable, there
can be no adoptioi of any existing Jaw on that particular subject, and no distr ation can take, place.
Perhaps this may be illustrated by supposing that the substance of the 3d secti6A of the act of February 11, 1846, had
been incorporated into the 26th -section of the act of 1842, by
way of proviso. So that at the same time when the act.of 1842
adopted all existing laws concerning the distribution of penalties, it had declared that the additi6nal duties to be levied under
the 17th section, should not be distributable as penalties, but
should be paid into the treasury. Certainly,.it could not then
have been argued that the act of 1846 had merely changed the
rate of additional duty, ana had silently adopted the existing
laws concerning its distribution, and still that it -as distributable. Yet the effect of this subsequent enactment, of Febniary
11, 1846, when made, upon the act of 1842, is the same as L
it had been in-orporated therein. It is in eadem viateria, and
both are to be constiued as one law, the last controlling and
modifying the first, as if it made a part of it.
The fallacy of the argument, on the part of 'the complainan:5,
consists in going back to former laws concerning the distribution of other penalties, and considering then to be applicable
to this penalty, when the existing law, applicable in terms to a
penalty ejsdem gefneris, and for which this penalty is a substitate, declares that it is not distributable.
.Our opinion is, that the first question certified by the circuit
court, must be answered in the negative.
There are other questions certified, but as the one above
decided necessarily disposes of the case, we do not deem it
needful to. consider and respond to them.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the .transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for. the
southern district of New York, and on the points or questions
on which the judges of the said circuit court were divided in

SUPREME

COURT.

The Propeller Monticello v. Mollison.

opinion, and which were certffied to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of congress in such case made and provided,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof it is
the opinion of this court that the first question certified by the
circuit court in this case must be answered in the negative, to
wit: That upon a true construction of the revenue laws of
the United States, the additional duties of 20 per centum, which
have been levied and collected by and paid to the defendant, as
collector of the port of New York, at the port of New York, as
stated in his answer, under and by virtue of the 8th section of
the act entitled "an act for reducing the duties on imports, and
for other purposes," passed July 30, in the year 1846, were not
to be treated as penalties, and one moiety thereof divided between and paid in equal proportions to and among the collector,
naval officer, and surveyor of the port of New York, holding
said officers at the time of the levying, collection, and payment
thereof, in the said port of New York, as claimed by the plaintiffs in their bill in this cause.
And this court is further of opinion that, as the decision of
the first question in the negative necessarily disposes of the
case, it is unnecessary to consider and respond to the other
questions certified; whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said circuit
court

THE

PROPELLER MONTICELLO, JOHN WILSON, MASTER
CLAIMANT, APPELLANT, V. GILBERT MOLLISON.

AND

In a case of collision upon Lake Huron, between a propeller and a schooner, ,he evidence shows that the propeller was in fault.
The fact that the libellants had received satisfaction from the insurers, for the vessel
destroyed, famished no good ground of defence for the respondent.

Tais was an appeal from the circuit court of the United
States for the northern district of New York.
It was a case of collision, in September, 1850, upon Lak6
Huron, between a propeller called Monticello, and a schooner
called The Northwestern, by which the schooner and her cargo
were entirely lost.
In April, 1851, Mollison, the owner of the schooner, libelled
the propeller, then lying in the port of Buffalo. Wilson, the
master and claimant of the propeller, answered the libel, and
much testimony was taken on both sides. In May. 1852, the

