170

SUPREME COURT.
The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

frequently require its removal, so as to make a safe and convenient passage for the pedestrian, when, at the same time, the
treading of it down in the street would answer the purpose for
the traveller with his team. The nature and extent of the repairs must necessarily depend upon their location and uses;
those thronged with travellers may require much greater attention than others less frequented.
The just rule of responsibility, and the one, we think, prescribed by the statute, whether the obstruction be by snow or
by any other material, is the removal or abatement so as to
render the highway, street, or side-walk, at all times safe and
convenient, regard being had to its locality and uses.
We are satisfied the ruling of thi court below was correct,
and that the judgment should be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be and the
same is hereby affirmed, with c6sts, and interest until paid, at
the same rate per annum that similar judgments bear in the
courts of the State of Rhode Island.

CATHARINE, HER TACKLE, &C., STARKS W.
LEwis AND OTHERS, OWNERS AND CLAIMANTS, APPELLANTS,
v. NOAH DIcKINSON AND OTHERS, LIBELLANTS.

THE SCHOONER

In cases of collision, where the injured vessel has been abandoned, the measure of
damages is the difference between her value in her crippled condition and her value
before the collision; and this is to be ascertained by the testimony of experts, who
can judge of the probable expense of raising and repairing the vessel.
But where the vessel has been actually raised and repaired, the actual cost incurred is
the true measure of indemnity.
Where two sailina vessels were approaching each other in opposite directions, one
closehauled to the wind, and tbd other with the wind free, the weight of evidence
is. that the vessel which was closehauled, luffed just previous to the collision. This
was wrong; she should have kept her course.
The other vessel had not a sufficient look-out; the rxcuse given, namely, that all
hands had, just previously, been called to reef the sails, is not sufficient.
Both vessels being thus in fault, the loss must be divided.

THIS was an appeal in admiralty, from a decree of the circuit

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

171

The Schoc ier Catharine et- al. v. Dickinson et,

court of the United States for the southern district of ew
York.
It was a case, of collision which, took place on the 21st of
AprilI- 1853, near Squam Beach, between the schooner. San
Louis, on a voyage from Jersey City to Philadelphia, and the
schooner Catharine, bound to New York.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cuttin, for the appellants, andI stibmitted on a printed argument by.Mr. Field,for the appellees.
The points made on-behalf of the appellants were:1. No proper, or sufficient look-out was kept on board of The
San Louis; and she neither carried nor showed any light.
2. Although the witnesses on board of, The San Louis contradict each other in the most material facts, the conclusion from
all the evidence is, that the man at the wheel, instead of keeping his course, or keeping away, undertook to cross the bows of
The Catharine; whatever mayhave been his 6bject, he improperly
luffed, and brought The San Louis into the-wind, directly athwart
the bows of The Catharine, and thus produced, the collision.,
3. The Catharine was in the act of reefing, and had the lookout usual in that trade when reducing sail.
4. The rule of damages is erroneous. The Catharind was
liable, in rern, for the damage directly occasioned by the collis-,
ion. Instead of being condemned for the expenses of getting
The San Louis afloat, and the cost of repairs, she is charged
with the full value of The San Louisj less only a trifling sum,
for :which her o'wner, without notice to the appellants, sold and
transferred her. ..

.... .

.

.

..

.

.Xr. Field made the following loints:I. It is established by the proofs, that The San Louis was sailing down the coast closehauled to the wind, havin.g her starboard tacks on board, and that The Catharine was at the leeward,
coming up the coast, with the wind free,,having her larboard
tacks on board; that The Catharine had no lok.:out,; that hgi
crew were engaged in reefing, and had been'
engaged' fortwenty minutes or half an-hour during which time the lookout
was not kept; that the captain took the wheel at eight o'clock,
but left it alone once or twice; that the course of The San Louis
was not changed until 'the collision was inevitable when the
mate put the wheel down, hoping to lessen the blow, but-the
time was too short for the vessel to feel the change; that thecourse of The Catharine was changed i sor as to bring her head
more towards the shore, and that she-then ran into and destroyed
The San-Louis.
,

SUPREME COURT.
The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

[L. When one vessel runs into another, the presumption is
that the colliding vessel is in fault.
III. In this case, not only is this presumption not repelled,
but there are several other reasons positively shown, why The
Catharine and her master should be held responsible for the
collision.
1. She had the wind free, and her larboard tacks on board, and
according to well settled rules, should have given way for The
San Louis, which was closehauled, and had her starboard tacks
on board. If The Catharine had then given way, the collision
would not have happened. St. John v. Paine, 10 How. 681.
2. Even if the Catharine had kept on her course, the collision
would not have happened; but her course being altered by heading more towards the shore, she struck The San Louis with full
head on.
3. If The Catharine had had a look-out, The San Louis would
have been seen, (for it is certain that vessels could be seen at
least half a mile,) and the collision would not have happened.
It is no excuse to say that Tfe Catharine was reefing, and therefore had a right to call away her look-out, for the preponderance
of testimony, as well as the dictates of prudence, show that the
look-out must be kept even when reefing, especially in a place
crowded with vessels; and, besides, The Catharine had no sufficient cause for reefing. The wind did not require iti and she
was reefing merely to avoid getting to Sandy Hook before
morning.
4. If the master of The Catharine had not left her helm, it is
probable the collision would not have happened. To abandon
the helm, as he is proved by his own witnesses to have done,
once or twice, was an act of inexcusable carelessness.
•5. The appellant case assumes certain facts which are entirely
unfounded.
IV. Any of the foregoing reasons was sufficient to entitle the
libellants to judgment in their favor.
1. The San Louis did not luff "across The Catharine's bows."
The helm of The San Louis was not put down until the moment before the collision, when it was inevitable that The
Catharine would strike her. This is the positive testimony of
the mate, Mr. Williams, who held the helm, and who, of course,
knew. Mesick was forward, and could not know the fact as
accurately as the mate. Besides, Mr. Williams says, The San
Louis had scarcely felt the movement of the wheel, when the
Catharine struck her. Capt. Goodspeed's evidence" refers only
to the time when the two. vessels were together so completely
that they seemed to be but one.
2. The San Louis was not heading off the shore. She was

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

173

The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

pointing her bows'in shore; though she constantly fell off bodily,
her head was for the land. It was impossible, therefore, that
The Catharine should get round to her starboard side. If The San
Louis had pointed her bows off the shore, she would have had
the wind abeam. All the testimony shows, that she was closehauled to the wind, and therefore moving on a line forming an
acute angle with the line of The Catharine, the angle opening
towards the -shore.
3. The Catharine was not "to windward of The San Louis."
The 4th allegation of the libel states that The San Louis was
inside of The Catharine at the time of the collision. This is not
denied by the answer. And according to the proofs, The San
Louis, at 8 o'clock, must have been from half a mile to a mile
to the windward of The Catharine.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court. This is an appeal in admiralty from a decree of the circuit
court of the.United States for the southern district of New York.
The libef charges, that on the night of the 21st April, 1852,
the schooner San Louis, laden with a cargo of stone, was sailing
down the coast below the bay of New York, bound for Phila.delphia, and while off Squam Beach, on the Jersey shore, the
schooner Catharine, coming up the coast, bound for the pprt
of New York, then and there with great force and violence rah
into and upon her, breaking through her side, so that she soon
filled with water, and sunk. That The Catharine had afairwind
and ample sea-room, while The San Louis was beating against
the wind, and was inside of The Catharine, and standing off the
shore. That The Catharine had no watch or person on the lookout at the time-of the collision; and that it was occasioned by.
the improper and unskilful management of the persons onboara -'
engaged in navigating her. That she luffed, and struck the San
Louis about midships with head on.
The answer of the respondents, owners of The Catharine,
admit The San Louis was sailing down the coast at the time
and place mentioned; and that The Catharine was coming up
the same,-bound for the port of New York; but deny that she
ran into The San Louis3 but charge that she ran across and
afoul of the bows of The Catharine, which occasioned the collision; that the wind was in a quarter that enabled The San Louis
to keep her ccurse full down the coast without keeping off shore;
they insist that The Catharine had the usual watch set before
and at the time of the collision; and they deny that it was
occasioned by reason of the unskilfulness or mismanagement of
those on board of her, but was the result of want of care and
mismanagement in navigating Ti'e San Louis. They deny that
*
15

IT!

SUPREME COURT.
The Schooner Catharine etal. v. Dickinson etal.

The Catharine luffed, as charged in the libel; but charge that
The San Louis luffed and came across the bows of The Catharine.
The district court rendered a decree for the libellants, and
referred the question of damages to a commissioner. The
decree was affirmed in the circuit court. The proofs before the
commissioner to ascertain the amount of the damages, consisted
principally of testimony as to the value of The San Louis previous to the collision; and as to her estimated value in her
sunken and disabled condition in the water on the beach; the
difference constituting the measure of damages allowed. She
was sold by one of the owners, a few days after the accident,
while lying on the beach, for $140 ; and which, upon the weight
of the proofs as produced, was her then estimated worth. Her
cargo of stone was afterwards taken out, and the vessel raised
and brought to the port of New York and repaired. The expense
of raising and repairing her seems not to have been a subject
of inquiry.
The commissioner reported damages to the amount of $6,200,
which report was confirmed.
1. As to the damages.
The principle that appears to have governed in the examination of the witness in respect to this branch of the case, as well
as the commissioner in arriving at the amount of damages reported to the court, we think, upon consideration, is not maintainable. That principle seems to have been, to ascertain
from the opinion of witnesses, experts as they are called, though
it is not clear they were of that character, the value of the vessel
in her sunken and disabled condition as she lay on the beach
after the disaster, and to deduct that sum from the sound value
before it occurred, the difference being the measure of the
damage; in other words, that the inquiry must be confined
to the condition of the vessel at the time of the collision,
and in her then state; that the owner had a right to abandon
her as a total loss, and look to the wrongdoer for compensation,
as then estimated. Acting upon this view, the libellants sold
the vessel in her disabled state for what they could get, and
claimed, and have received, the sound value, less this amount
It is true, that where a vessel has been run down and abandoned, never having been raised and repaired, but left to decay
upon the beach, evidence of the nature and character of that
given in this case must necessarily be admissible. That is, the
damage sustained must be ascertained by the testimony of witnesses experienced in matters of this kind, who .are competent
to speak as to the practicability of raising and repairing the
vessel, and of the expense attendant thereupon, this expense constituting the principal ingredient of the damage proper to be

DECEMBER TERM, 1854.

175

The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

allowed; but they should be -witnesses whose occupations and
experience enabled them to express opinions of the feasibility
of raising the vessel, and to make 'estimates of the probable expense of the same; and, also, of the expense of the necessary
repairs, upon.which the court might rely with some coifidence
in making up its judgment. Loose. general opinions on the
subject, entitled to very little more respect in the ascertainment
of facts than the conjectures of witnesses, are of themselves undeserving of consideration.
But where the vessel.has been raised and repaired, or is undergoing repairs, as in the case of The San Louis, there is no necessity for resorting even to the opinion and estimates of experts,
as to the probable expenses, for as to these the reasonable expenses incurred in raising and repairing her are matters of fact
that may be ascertained from the parties concerned in the work.
The libellants, instead of the examination of witnesses, as to
their opinion of the amount of the damage from an inspection
of the vessel as she lay upon the beach, should have- inquired
into the actual qost of raising and repairing her, so a* to have
made her equal to the value before the collision. This would
have been the proper mode by which to have arrived atf an iA.demnity to the extent of the loss sustained, which is the true
measure of damages in these cases. 13 How. 101, 110.
We think, therefore, that the rule adopted in ascertaining the
measures of damages in this case was erroneous.
The next question in the case is more difficult
* The New Jersey coast below Sandy Hook bears southwest,
erly and nort' -asterly, along which these vessels were sailing.
The wind was southwesterly, with a pretty strong breeze ;' The
$an Louis ciosehauled, passing down the coast, and The Catharine'with, the wind free passing" up it, makirkg for the Hook.
There had been a fall of rain during the evening, but between
eight and nine o'clock, when the collision happened, the weather
had partially cleared up.. The night was cloudy, but some stars
were visible. The San Louis was sailing at the rate of six
knots .the hour; and as The Catharine had the wvind free, her
speed must at least have been equal if not greater.
The master of the schooner Goodspeed, which vessel was in
company with The San Louis .from Jersey City, states that a
schooner, which it is admitted was The Catharine, passed him
a little after eight o'clock, some quarter of a mile to the windward, heading.to the westward of her course to the Hook, which
was in shore; that at this time The San Louis was from three
quarters to a mile asten of him, a Jittle to windward. The
Catharine had a light; the San Louis had not.
Alessick, the look-out on The San Louis, states that he 'saw

176

SUPREME COURT.
The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

The Catharine half a mile ahead; he supposes about half a point
on their lee bow. " I suppose," he says, "when I first saw The
Catharine she was heading to the northward. I sung out to
the mate at the helm to luff; he did so, and brough The San
Louis into the wind; that The Catharine then luffed also, and
ran into us abaft the chains."
Now, if the master of The Goodspeed is not mistaken, and he
is an indifferent witness, it is dLficlt readily to assent to the
statement of Messick as to the relative position of the two vessels; for if The Catharine passed The Goodspeed half a mile to
the windward, and The San Louis was astern, nearly in the
track of the latter, it is not very probable that, in the short distance she had to pass in her course before meeting The San
Louis, she had so far diverged to the leeward as to overcome
this half mile, and to have crossed her track. The vessels must
have met at least within half a mile from the point where The
Catharine passed The Goodspeed. The master of The Goodspeed
says The Catharine was not only half a mile to the windward,
but that she was heading to the west of her course to the Hook.
According to the settled rules of navigation, it was the duty
of The San Louis, when she first saw The Catharine, which had
the wind free, she being closedhauled, to have kept on her
course; the manmuvre of luffing into the wind, as soon as she
saw that vessel, was improper, and subjects her to the charge of
unskilful navigation, unless justified by special circumstances
existing at the time. Here, the circumstances tend rather to
aggravate than justify the error, as the improper mancuvre
may have led to the collision, and probably did, if The Catharine
at the time was to the windward.
Williams, the mate of The San Louis, who was at the wheel,
differs. materially in his testimony from Messick. He states,
when he first saw The Catharine, " iespoke to the man at the
bow; he said, keep your course, and you will go clear. I did
keep my course; asked the man at the bow if he could see her;
he said that he could; he told me to keep my course; I did not
alter my course; steered as close to the wind as I could; did
not see much more of The Catharine till she struck us." He
further states, that when about three rods from The Catharine,
she luffed and was coming into them; that he then put his
wheel down.
If this account of the management of The San Louis could
be confidently relied on, there would be no great difficulty in
charging the other vessel with the fault of the collision. But it
is admitted that Messick was the proper person, under the circumstances, to give the orders to the mate at the wheel. Williams himself assumes this in his testimony; and Messick is

DECEMBER TERM,

1854.

177

The Schooner Catharine et al. v. Dickinson et al.

very particular as to the orders given. On his cross examination
he says: "I saw The Catharine across one point of the bowsprit,
inside the stays; right away then I gave the mate the order to
luff; he did it right away. She minded her helm readily."
The difference is very material; for whether fault or not is to
be imputed to The San Louis, depends upon the fact whether
she is chargeable with the manauvre testified to by the look-out.
We think, under the circumstances in which he was placed, his
account of the transaction is entitled to the most weight
Having given the order, and seen that it was obeyed, And being
at the time in charge of the navigation of the vessel, he cannot
well be mistaken. Even the contradiction between the two
witnesses is calculated to cast a doubt over the proper management of the vessel in the emergency.
The order to luff, itself, was a clear violation of the duty of
The San Louis; but, in this instance, if the master of The Goodspeed is not mistaken, it probably produced the disaster. As to
The Catharine, we are not satisfied that she had a proper lookout on the vessel at the time of the collision. The excuse given
is, that all hands, a short time previously, had been called to
reef the sails, and some evidence is given to prove that this is
customary on vessels of this description. However this may be
in the daytime, we think that such custom or usage cannot be
permitted as an excuse for dispensing with a proper look-out
while navigating in the night, especially on waters frequented
by other vessels. Under such circumstances, a competent lookout, stationed upon a quarter of the vessel affording the best
opportunity to see at a distance those meeting her, is indispensable to safe navigation, and the neglect is chargeable as a fault
in the navigation.
Ou, opinion therefore is, that the decree below was erroneous,
and should be reversed.
Upon this view of the case, it becomes necessary to settle the
rule of damages in a case where both vessels are in fault
The question, we believe, has never until now come distinctly
before this court for decision. The rule that prevails in the district and circuit courts, we understand, has been to divide the

loss.

9 Law Rep. 30.

This seems now to be the well-settled rule in the English admiralty. Petersfield v. The Judith, Abbot on Sh. 231.232; The
Celt, 3 Hagg. 328, n.; The Washington, 5 Jurist, 1067; The
Fiends, 4 E. F. Moore Rep. 314, 322; The Serirgapatam, 5
Notes of Gases, 61, 66; Vaux v.Salvador, 4 Ad. end Eli. 431;
The Monarch, 1 Wm. Rob. 21; The De Cock, 5 N[onthly Law
Mag. 303; The Oratava, 5 Ib. 45, 362.
Under the circumstances usually attending these disasters, we

SUPREME COURT.
Peck et al. v. Sanderson.

think the rule dividing the loss the most just and equitable, and
as best tending to induce care and vigilance on both sides, in
the navigation.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the southern
district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in this
cause be and the same is hereby reversed with costs, and that
this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to the said circuit court for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall
appertain.

JAMES B. PECK, WILLIAM: HEILMAN, AND EDWIN H. FRESMUTH,
OWNERS OF THE STEAM11-SHIP COLUMBUS, A.PPELLANTS, V. JOHN
SANDERSON, LIBELLANT.
In a collision which took place at sea between a steam-ship and a schooner, by means
of which the schooner was sunk and all on board perished, except the man at the
helm, the evidence shows that it was not the fault of the steamer.
Although the night was starlight, yet there was a haze upon the ocean, which prevented the schooner from being seen until she came within a distance of two or
three hundred yards. She was approaching as closehauled to the wind as -she
could be. Under these circumstances, the order to stop the engine and back,
Was judicious.

THIS was An appeal from the circuit court of the United States
for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
The circumstances of the case are particularly set forth in the
opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Cutting, for the appellants, and
submitted, on a printed brief, by Mr. T M
Mrray Bush, for the
appellee.
The arguments of the counsel turned entirely upon questions
of fact, as deduced from the evidence in the case. There were
no principle3 of law disputed, and unaer these circumstances the
reporter has deemed it unadvisable to condense the arguments.
Mr. Chief Zustice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case trises out of a collision between the schooner
Mission, of Eaenton, in North 'Carolina, and the steam-ship
Columbus, of lhiladefhia. The schooner sunk immediately,

