ATLANTIC C. L. R. CO. v. DRIGGERS.
781

Syllabus.

and refer the case to a master as prayed in appellants'
motion. Ex parte Lincoln Gas Co., supra, 517.
The lower court entered its decree dismissing the suit
and, after reversal here, denied restitution without opinion, statement of reasons or citation of authority. The
questions were important, and the amounts involved were
large. The judges should have given the reasons on which
they rested their decisions. Virginian Ry. v. United
States, 272 U. S. 658, 675. Lawrence v. St. L.-S. F. By.,
274 U. S. 588, 596. Arkansas Commission v. Chicago, etc.
R. R., 274 U. S. 597, 603. Cleveland, etc. Ry. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 404, 414. Hammond v. Schappi Bus
Line, 275 U. S. 164.
Decree reversed.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
DRIGGERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 225. Argued January 18, 1929. Reargued April 9, 10, 1929.Decided June 3, 1929.
1. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, if it
appears from the record that under the applicable principles of law
as interpreted by the federal courts, the evidence was not sufficient
in kind or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence of the
Railroad Company was the cause of the death, the judgment must
be reversed. P. 788.
2. Upon the facts of this case, held that death of a railway switchman
who stepped from the foot-board of a moving switch engine and
fell or was thrown against the side of another engine drawing a
passenger train on an adjacent track, was attributable solely to his
own negligence and not to any negligence of the railway company.
P. 792.
3. In an action for death of a railway employee under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, if there is no support for the contention
that the death was caused by the negligence of the Railway Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

pany in any respect in which it owed a duty to the decedent, a
verdict for the Company should be directed. P. 792.
151 S. C. 164, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 587, to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of South Carolina sustaining a recovery of
damages by an administratrix in an action under the.
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Thomas W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Simeon
Hyde, R. McC. Figg, Jr., and V. E. Phelps were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Louis M. Shimel, with whom Mdssrs. J. D. E.
Meyer and Sidney Rittenberg were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
William A. Driggers, an employee of the Railroad Company, suffered personal injuries that resulted in his death.
The administratrix of his estate brought this action against
the Railroad Company in a common pleas court of South
Carolina. At the conclusion of the evidence the Railroad
Company moved for a directed verdict. This was denied.
The jury found for the administratrix; and the judgment
entered on the verdict was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State.
It is unquestioned that the case is controlled by the
Federal Employers Liability Act, under which it was
prosecuted. Therefore, if it appears from the record that
under the applicable principles of law as interpreted by
the federal courts, the evidence was not sufficient in kind
or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence of the
Railroad Company was the cause of the death, the judgment must be reversed. Atlantic Coast Line v. Davis, 279
U. S. 34, 35; and cases cited.

ATLANTIC C. L. R. CO. v. DRIGGERS.
787

789

Opinion of the Court.

Driggers had been employed by the Railroad Company
for about five years, and for about six months had been a
member of a switching crew. He was injured by stepping
off the footboard of the switch engine while it was in
motion and striking the engine of a local passenger train
that was passing along an adjacent track.
The scene of the accident was about three miles north of
Charleston, within the yard limits, at a point where the
Railroad Company has parallel double tracks, running
north and south; the eastern being the northbound main
line; and the western, the southbound main line. These
lines are about 12 feet apart measured from center to center,
with a clearance of 7 feet 8 inches from rail to rail. The
tracks are practically straight, and for a distance of about
2,000 feet to the north there is no obstruction to the view
along the tracks. Leading from the northbound main line
there is a spur track-called the Etiwan Lead-running
in a northeasterly course, on a northerly curve, to a coal
yard. The switch for this spur track is controlled by a
lever on the east side of the main line. In leaving the
main line and proceeding along the spur track for about
three car lengths, that is about 120 feet, the view to the
north along the main line tracks was unobstructed; but
beyond this distance there was shrubbery and a billboard
on the north side of the track which obstructed the view to
the north. This spur track was used by the switching
crew every day, sometimes more than once. On the day
of the accident-which was clear and bright-the switch
engine left Charleston and went up the northbound main
line for the purpose of transferring some cars on the Etiwan Lead to a connection point with the Southern Railway that was some distance to the north. To do this it
was necessary to go on the spur track, cut out a car, return
to the northbound main line with the cars to be transferred, and shove them up that line to the connection point
where the cars were to be delivered.

790

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

On approaching the Etiwan Lead the conductor of the
switching crew, after telling Driggers-who was the brakeman-to cut out a car, got down and opened the switch
for the spur track. He then left the switch open,' and
walked across the north and south lines and adjoining
double tracks of the Southern Railway, to a point about
15 or 20 feet west of the Southern Railway tracks, to look
for a train.
Meanwhile the switch engine went on the spur track,
and after doing the necessary switching work, returned
with the attached cars to the main line, moving at about
six miles an hour, upgrade. The engine was in front-facing the switch. Driggers was standing on the righthand
footboard in front of the engine. In going over the last
portion of the spur track, where the vision to the north
was unobstructed, he was facing nearly south, and could
not see to the northward without looking back. He was
expecting that after the switching train had gone on the
northbound line the cars would be shoved back up that
line to the connection point. But as the switch had been
left open it would not have to be turned until the cars
had passed down the main line beyond it, when it would
have to be closed so that the train might pass back up the
1ine.
Just as the switch engine reached the northbound main
line, proceeding southwardly down that line, the conductor, who had heard the whistle of a passenger train on the
southbound main line and saw the approaching train,
tried to call the attention of Driggers-who was looking
at him at the time-to the train, pointed to it and told
him to stay on the footboard. The exhaust on the switch
engine prevented him from hearing what the conductor
said. The signal which the conductor gave to show him
1 This automatically threw a red signal on the line at a point to
the south.

ATLANTIC C. L. R. CO. v. DRIGGERS.
787

Opinion of the Court.

that the passenger train was coming was the same signal
which would tell him that the switching train was to
back up the northbound main line. The only answer that
Driggers gave was a nod of the head, indicating that he
understood that the switching train was to be shoved back
up that line. Thereupon, despite the noise from the exhaust of the switch engine, without looking back to see
whether any train was approaching, and without having
received any signal to dismount from the switch engine
for any purpose whatever, and while the switch engine
was in motion entering upon the southbound line, Driggers
stepped off the right end of the footboard in the space
between the northbound and southbound lines and swung
or was thrown into the pilot sill of the engine of the
passenger train on the southbound line, which was passing
at that moment, and was instantly crushed and killed.
The undisputed evidence shows that Driggers had no
duty which required him to dismount from the switch engine at that time, but was supposed to remain on the engine, although it was optional for him to get off and throw
the switch.
On the other hand, the undisputed evidence shows that
the passenger train, which was a few minutes behind time,
and was running from 35 to at least 50 miles an hour, had
a clear and unobstructed right of way on the southbound
line. The engineer was on the lookout ahead, and had
blown signals at a point about 2,000 feet to the north, and
again before reaching the scene of the accident; and the
automatic bell on the engine, which he had set in motion,
was ringing continuously up to the time of the accident.
There was no obstruction whatever on the line ahead.
Although the engineer saw the switch engine about to enter
in a southerly direction on the northbound main line, there
was nothing to indicate that any member of its crew
would attempt to dismount between the two lines; and
Driggers suddenly struck the side of the engine behind

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S

the pilot, in a position where he was not and could not
have been seen by the engineer, and when it was impossible to stop the train.
Under these circumstances, it is clear that Driggers, by
his own negligence, as the sole and direct cause of the accident, brought on his own death, and that there is no
ground upon which the liability of the Railroad Company
may be predicated. Compare Atlantic Coast Line v.
Davis, supra, p. 39; and cases cited.
The rate of speed at which the passenger train was
running was, plainly, not a proximate cause of the injury, as the engine of that train did not run into Driggers,
but he, as the result of his own action, was thrown against
the side of the engine as it was passing. See Pattersonv.
Director General, 115 S. C. 390, 396.
The contention that his death was caused by the negligence of the Railroad Company in any respect in which
it owed a duty to him is without any substantial support;
and the jury should have been instructed to find for the
Railroad Company.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Supreme Court of South Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MARYLAND CASUALTY COMPANY v. JONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 524. Argued April 18, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.
1. -In a case at law tried in the District Court without a jury under
Rev. Stats. §§ 649, 700, rulings made in the progress of the trial on
questions of law, such as rulings admitting or rejecting evidence,
denying a motion for a nonsuit or referring the case to a special
master to take further testimony and state an account, are reviewable, and the right to review them is not lost because of the fact

