WEISS v. WIENER.
320

Syllabus.

As there was evidence of repeated inspections of the window screens by the Southern after the car reached its line
and before the accident, from whi.ch the jury might have
found that there was no want of care on the part of the
Southern, the jury may have found that the accident was
due to the negligence of the Louisville & Nashville and so
have returned a verdict against both. Even though the
issue of the Southern's own negligence was for the jury,
it was entitled to have the issue submitted unprejudiced
by the erroneous instruction which authorized a verdict
against the Southern on the theory of joint liability if the
jury should conclude that the Louisville & Nashville alone
was negligent.
3. As there must be a new trial, it is unnecessary to consider the rulings on the evidence which the court below
thought erroneous, but not prejudicial. The order overruling the Southern's exception to the jurisdiction is affirmed. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
Reversed.
WEISS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
WIENER.
ROUTZAHN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. SAME.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
Nos. 482 and 483.

Argued April 12, 1929.--Decided April 22, 1929.

The provision of ยง 214 (a) (8) of the Revenue Act of 1918, granting
a deduction from income tax of "a reasonable allowance for the
exhaustion, wear and tear of property used in the trade or business,

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence," does not authorize a deduction by a lessee for estimated obsolescence of buildings,
where he had made no expenditure on this account, notwithstanding that the property was used by him in his business and held

under long term leases such as were treated by the local law as in
many respects equivalent to conveyances of the fee, and the lessee
was under obligation to keep up the buildings and to pay rent
even if they were destroyed. P. 335.
27 F. (2d) 200, reversed; 17 F. (2d) 650, affirmed.
WRITS OF CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 594, to the Circuit Court

of Appeals to review judgments which reversed judgments
of the District Court recovered by the present petitioners
in actions brought by Wiener to recover money collected
as income taxes.
Mr. T. H. Lewis, Jr., with whom Attorney General
Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, and
Messrs. Clarence M. Charest, General Counsel, Bureau of
Internal Revenue, and Millar E. McGilchrist, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Messrs. Edward W. Browse and James S. Y. Ivins for
respondent.
Messrs. Herman A. Fischer, Jr., and E. Barrett Prettyman, on behalf of The Brevoort Hotel Company, filed
a brief as amici curiaeby special leave of Court.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are suits brought by Wiener, the respondent, to
recover amounts that he says should have been allowed as
deductions from his income taxes but that were disallowed.
The petitioners, the defendants, prevailed in the District
Court, 17 F. (2d) 650; but the judgment was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, 27 F. (2d) 200, and a writ
of certiorari was granted by this Court.

WEISS v. WIENER.
333

Opinion of the Court.

Wiener was in the business of taking long leases of
property and subletting. He held thirteen leases for
ninety-nine years, renewable forever. He claimed the
right to make an annual deduction from his income tax
for estimated depreciation of the buildings, relying upon
ยง 214 (a) (8) of the taxing act; Revenue Act of 1918, c.
18; 40 Stat. 1057, 1066, 1067; which granted deduction of
"a reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and tear
of property used in the trade or business, including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence." He was allowed all
sums paid for repalrs but nothing for the estimated obsolescence for which he had not paid. It may be taken for
the purposes of decision that Wiener undertook to keep
the buildings up to their present condition, to pay rent
even if the buildings were destroyed and that his obligations were sanctioned by a liability to forfeiture. It is
argued with much elaboration that not only covenants but
economic necessity required the respondent to keep the
buildings up to the mark and that the amount needed for
this purpose should be allowed.
The income tax laws do not profess to embody perfect
economic theory. They ignore some things that either a
theorist or a business man would take into account in determining the pecuniary condition of the taxpayer. They
do not charge for appreciation of property or allow a loss
from a fall in market value unless realized in money by a
sale. United States v. S. S. White Dental Co., 274 U. S.
398, 401. A stockholder does not pay for accumulated
profits of his corporation unless he receives a dividend.
That is the general principle upon which these laws go.
It is true that they allow for obsolescence of buildings, &c.,
where the loss is of materials, not of money; buf there as
elsewhere the loss must be actual and present, not merely
contemplated as more or less sure to occur in the future.
If the taxpayer owns the property the loss actually has

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

taken place. But with Wiener it had not, and it might
never fall on him, as was pointed out by the District Judge.
Some of the leases were assigned and others surrendered to
the lessor. In such cases it would be a mere speculation to
suppose that depreciation was taken into account in the
transactions. Probably other and dominant considerations induced the acts. The event showed that in those
cases there was no true basis for Wiener's claim.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, interpreting United States
v. Ludey, 274 U. S. 295, said that the purpose of the revenue act is to tax only gain, and that the amount thus
allowed to be set aside is not gain, but is capital that has "
gone into gross income. But it is very clear that as yet
the capital of the lessee has not gone into it, and upon the
considerations just mentioned it is not enough that he has
made a contract that very possibly may not be carried out
to replace that capital at some future time. If, as we
think, such a contract is not enough to cause the lessee a
present loss by wear and tear, the fact, which may be assumed, that the property was used by him in his business.
does not matter. Of course he must show an interest in
the property and a present loss to him to make the statute

apply.
In Lynch v. Alworth-Stephens Company, 267 U. S. 364,
a statutory provision for deducting from gross income a
reasonable allowance for depletions of mines was held applicable to a lessee bound to mine a minimum tonnage and
to pay a stated royalty. In such a case the whole value of
the lease is in the right to remove the ore, that is to destroy
as rapidly as may be the real object of the lease. But in
the case of a house or shop the value is not in the right to
destroy and the destruction is only an undesired, gradual
and subordinate incident of the use. The diminution in
the value of a mine to the lessee is conspicuous, necessary,
and intended, and is the very source of the gross income of

ROSCHEN v. WARD.
333

Syllabus.

the lessee from which it is deducted, whereas the wear and
tear of a house or shop in any given year may be only
recognizable by theory and, as has happened in this case,
may cost the lessee nothing while the premises are in his
hands.
It does not matter that in Ohio, where the properties lie,
these long leases are treated as in many respects like conveyances of the fee. The Act of Congress has its own
criteria, irrespective of local law, that look to certain rather
severe tests of liability and exemption and that do not
allow the deductions demanded whatever the lessees may
be called. We understand this to be the view taken by
the Department for a long time and we are of opinion
that it should not be disturbed.
Judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of District Court affirmed.
ROSCHEN v. WARD, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
NEW YORK, ET

AL.

S. S. KRESGE COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 667 and 668.

Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided April 22, 1929.

1. A state statute making it unlawful to sell at retail in any store or
established place of business any spectacles, eye glasses, or lenses
for correction of vision, unless a physician or optometrist is in
charge of the place of sale and in personal attendance at it, though
not providing specifically for an examination by the specialist, is
valid. P. 339.
2. A statute is not invalid under the Constitution because it might
have gone farther than it did, or because it may not succeed in
bringing about the result that it tends to produce. P. 339.
3. It being obvious that much good will be accomplished by a statute
requiring the attendance of a physician or optometrist at any place
45228-29-22

