ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.

737

Syllabus.

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ARABIC ORDER OF NOBLES
OF THE MYSTIC SHRINE ET AL. v. MICHAUX
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS.

No. 7.

Argued January 12, 13, 1928.-Decided June 3, 1929.

In a suit in a state court, in which a fraternal order, of white members
only, sought an injunction against a similar order, of negro members
only, to restrain the latter from further use of a name, constitution,
designations, letters, emblems and regalia like those earlier adopted
and in use by the former, the defendant challenged the plaintiff's
claim of an exclusive and superior right; set up its own claim of
right to do the things complained of, both on general principles and
particularly in virtue of its incorporation, in the District of Columbia, under an Act of Congress; and further defended on the ground
that the plaintiff by reason of laches and acquiescence was without
right to an injunction or other equitable relief. The state court,
while not wholly refusing to recognize the federal right, sustained
the position of the plaintiff, putting its decision on principles of
general law, and granted the injunction, overruling the claim of
laches upon the ground that the defendants had been proceeding
with a fraudulent purpose of appropriating the benefits of the plaintiff order to themselves. Held:
1. Whether the federal right set up in the state court was denied,
or not given due recognition, is a question on which the claimants
are entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court on certiorari.
P. 744.
2. It is the province of this Court to inquire not only whether
the right was denied in direct terms, but also whether it was
denied in substance and effect by interposing a non-federal ground
of decision having no fair support. P. 745.
3. Assuming (without deciding) that the state court was right
in holding the rules relating to the use of trade-marks and trade
names applicable to such controversies between fraternal orders,
the white order in this case, if there was either laches or acquiescence on its part, was without right to object to the use
which it was seeking to restrain, and the negro order was entitled
to continue that use in virtue of its incorporation under the Act of
Congress. P. 746.
45228'-23 --- 47

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

738

279 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

4. The record discloses not only that the finding on the question
of laches is without fair support in the evidence, but that the
evidence conclusively refutes it. P. 746.

5. The circumstances were such that this laches bare the white
order from asserting an exclusive right, or seeking equitable relief,

against the negro order. P. 748.
6. As it is apparent that had this view of the question of laches
prevailed in the state court the federal right set up by the negro
order must have been sustained, the decree must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings.

P. 749.

286 S. W. 176, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 690, to review a decree of the

Supreme Court of Texas sustaining a decree of injunction
in a suit between two fraternal orders. See also 273
S. W. 874.
Mr. Harold S. Davis, with whom Mr. Moorfield Storey
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Claude Polard,with whom Messrs. D. A. Simmons
and John H. Crooker were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTicz V"
the Court.

D~vvw n delivered the opinion of

This case presents a controversy between two fraternal
orders called Nobles of the Mystic Shrine, one having
white and the other negro members. A short reference
to the origin and history of these orders will conduce to
an accurate appreciation of the controversy.
From early times there have been two distinct masonic
fraternities in the United States, one confined to white
men and the other to negroes. Each has had its local
lodges, grand lodges and supreme lodge, and also several
component bodies, including Knights Templar and Scottish Rite consistories. Both have existed in the same territory and have had similar names, rituals and emblems,
and yet have been independent and without any inter-

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.
737

739

Opinion of the Court.

relation. The white fraternity's existence in this country
reaches back to early colonial times. The negro fraternity
was organized in Boston in 1784 and afterwards was extended to other sections.
The orders called Nobles of the Mystic Shrine are relatively modern, originated in the United States and are
outgrowths of the masonic fraternities just described.
They were founded by masons and their membership is
restricted to masons--white in one case and negro in the
other-who have become Knights Templar or have received the 32d degree in a Scottish Rite consistory. The
white masons were the first to establish an order of Nobles
of the Mystic Shrine. They organized one in New York
in 1872 for fraternal and charitable purposes. The order
grew rapidly and soon came to have local lodges, called
temples, in most of the States, and also to have a national
governing body called its Imperial Council. The negro
masons imitatively organized a like order for like purposes in Chicago in 1893. It also grew, although not so
rapidly as the white order, and came to have many local
temples in other sections of the country and to have a
national governing body called its Imperial Council. The
constitution, emblems and regalia of the negro order, as
also the titles given to the officers of its temples and council, were all adopted in imitation of those of the white
order. Another feature imitatively copied was a purely
fanciful claim, once put forth by the white order and afterwards discredited, to the effect that that order was an
authorized extension of an ancient and illustrious order
established centuries ago in Mohammedan countries.
Each of the orders, after becoming well organized, made
it a practice to hold periodic national meetings attended
with public parades and other features tending to bring
attention to the order and to advance its extension. And,
aside from such activities, each publicly engaged in commendable charitable work. The white order, by reason

740

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of its greater membership and the larger resources of
its members, was able to carry that work further than the
negro order could, but the contributions and efforts of
the latter in that field were both helpful and substantial.
The white order always has been a voluntary unincorporated association. In 1895 the New York legislature
passed a special act purporting to incorporate it, but the
proffered incorporation was rejected. In 1893 the negro
order was incorporated under the laws of Illinois, but
that incorporation was abandoned; and in 1901 the order
was incorporated as a fraternal and charitable association
under the Act of Congress of May 5, 1870, providing for
the creation, of corporations in the District of Columbia,
c. 80, ยง 3, 16 Stat. 98, 101.
The name adopted by the white order is "Ancient Ara,
bic Order of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine for North
America" and that adopted by the negro order, and under
which it was incorporated, is "Ancient Egyptian Arabic
Order of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine of North. and
South America and its Jurisdictions."
Prior to 1918 both orders established local temples in
the State of Texas-in some instances in the same cities.
Among the temples of the white order were one in Dallas
established in 1887, one in El Paso established in 1907
and one in Houston established in 1915. Among those
of the negro order were one in Dallas established in 1894,
one in El Paso established in 1902 and one in Houston
established in 1917.
The present suit was begun in 1918 in a state court of
Texas. Originally it was brought by members of the local
temple of the white order in Houston against members
of the local temple of the negro order in that city to enjoin
the latter from using any imitation of the name, constitution, titles, emblems and regalia of the former. But
through the voluntary intervention of other parties and
a voluntary enlargement of the original pleadings--all

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.
737

741

Opinion of the Court.

with the court's leave-the suit was broadened into one
between the two national orders wherein the white order
sought an injunction against the negro order restraining
and preventing the latter, its lodges, officers and members,
"throughout the State of Texas and the entire United
States," from further using the name under which it was
acting, from designating its local lodges as "temples," from
designating its members as "Nobles" or " Shriners," from
giving the officers of its lodges and council the titles of
like officers in the white order, from using a constitution,
emblems and regalia like those of the white order and
from organizing or instituting lodges in imitation of those
of that order.
The answer of the negro order may be summarized as
denying that the white order had acquired any exclusive
or superior right to use the name, constitution, designations, titles, emblems and regalia before mentioned or
any of them; denying that the negro order's use of such
name, constitution, designations, titles, emblems and regalia was with any wrongful or fraudulent purpose, or
was other than the exercise of a right belonging to that
order as a lawfully constituted fraternal and charitable
association; setting up the negro order's incorporation in
1901 under the Act of Congress of May 5, 1870, and asserting that in virtue of that act and such incorporation the
order became entitled, if not theretofore entitled, to use
the name which it had been and was still using, to adopt
and have a constitution, to establish and have local lodges,
to select and use appropriate emblems a~nd regalia, and
to do other things properly incident to the maintenance of
a fraternal and charitable order; alleging that its acts and
practices were all within its rights under that incorporation; asserting that there had been and was no competition between the two orders and that the white order drew
its members wholly from the white masonic fraternity
while the negro order drew its members wholly from the

742

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

negro masonic fraternity; and setting up that the white
order by reason of its laches and its acquiescence in the
acts and practices of the negro order was without right to
an injunction or other equitable relief.
On a trial of the issues the court made special findings
of fact, stated its conclusions of law and entered a decree
awarding to the white order all of the relief sought. The
findings of fact included one to the effect that the imita-

tive acts and practices of the negro order constituted "a

fraudulent deception" injurious to the white order; and
another to the effect that the white order had not acquiesced in those acts and practices and was not chargeable
with laches in not taking earlier steps to stop them. The

conclusions of law and the decree are copied in the mar-

gin." The decree was affirmed by the Court of Civil Ap'CONCLUSIONS

OF LAW.

I.
The plaintiffs, and the plaintiff-intervenor, and the other plaintiff-intervenors herein being first in time to use and adopt the constitution and laws, the regalia, paraphernalia, jewels, badges, head
covering, titles of officers, names of subordinate organizations, and
names of members in North America or elsewhere, and having used
same continuously for more than fifty (50) years are entitled to an
injunction restraining the use thereof by the defendants, and the
defendant-intervenor, and this regardless of whether plaintiff intervenor is incorporated or "exists, and has existed, as a voluntary unincorporated, fraternal, benevolent or social organization.

II.
The plaintiff, plaintiff-intervenor, and the other plaintiff-intervenors
herein having established their legal right to the injunction, and the
injury which will accrue to them if an injunction is denied being a
continuous injury and wrong, the injunction may issue notwithstanding the facts may disclose delays in seeking relief.
III.
The intentional use by the defendants and defendant-intervenor of
the constitution and laws, titles of officers, regalia, paraphernalia,
jewels, emblems, badges, pins, head covering, names of subordinate

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.
737

743

Opinion of the Court.

peals, 273 S. W. 874, and by the Supreme Court of the
State, 286 S. W. 176. The negro order then petitioned this
Court for a review upon writ of certiorari and the petition
was granted.
organizations, and names of plaintiff, plaintiff-intervenor, and the
other plaintiff-intervenors herein by a literal appropriation thereof
is a fraud, being used as a fraud as against plaintiffs, plaintiff-intervenor, and the other plaintiff-intervenors herein, and constitutes a
continuing wrong, demanding a judicial interposition by the issuance
of an injunction and mere delay or even acquiescence cannot defeat the
remedy, unless such delay has been continued so long and under such
circumstances as to defeat the right itself, and the facts in this case do
not show such delay, or laches, as would constitute a defense to the
issuance of the injunction herein.
IV.
The plaintiff, the plaintiff-intervenor, and the other plaintiff-intervenors herein have not been guilty of such laches or delay, or acquiescence as to defeat their right to the issuance of the injunction.
DECREE.
Wherefore it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by the Court that
the individual defendants and each of them, and the defendant,
"Doric Temple [Houston] of the Ancient Egyptian Arabic Order
of the Nobles of the Mystic Shrine of North and South America and
its Jurisdictions" and the officers and membership thereof; and the
defendant intervenor, "Ancient Egyptian Arabic Order Nobles of the
Mystic Shrine of North and South America and its Jurisdictions"
and each and all of its officers and members and their associates,
confederates and successors in office; and each and all of the
" Temples" thereof, and their officers and membership throughout
North America be perpetually restrained and enjoined from:
I.
Using the name "Ancient Egyptian Arabic Order Nobles of the
Mystic Shrine of North and South America and its Jurisdictions"
or any other name, the distinctive words of which are a colorable
imitation of the name "Ancient Arabic Order of the Nobles of the
Mystic Shrine for North America" and from using any of the distinctive words in said name and particularly the distinctive words
"Ancient Arabic" and the distinctive word "Nobles" and the
distinctive words "Mystic Shrine" or any colorable imitation of

'744

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

In the state appellate courts the negro order relied on
the Act of Congress of May 5, 1870, and its incorporation
thereunder, just as it had done in the trial court, and also
insisted that the decree against it was not in accord with
the decision of this Court in Creswill v. Knights of
Pythias,225 U. S. 246, where like privileges asserted under
that act of Congress by a fraternal and benevolent association incorporated thereunder were involved.
The right thus specially set up in the state court is a
federal right. Whether it was denied or not given due
recognition by the challenged decree, as affirmed, is a
question on which the defeated claimants are entitled to
either of them, as the name or part of the name of any society or
organization, corporate or otherwise.
Ii.
From using the name "Temple" or any colorable imitation thereof
as the designation of any organization either governing or subordinate,
of any society or organization, corporate or otherwise.
III.
From organizing, undertaking to organize or maintaining directly
or indirectly, or in any manner encouraging the organization or
maintenance any where throughout the North America, or [of] any
governing body under the name of "Imperial Council" or any colorable imitation thereof; or any subordinate body under the name
of "Temple" or any colorable imitation thereof; or under the name
of "Shrine" or any colorable imitation thereof as the name of, or
for, any society or organization, corporate or otherwise.
IV.
From using, wearing or displaying as insignia or emblems of membership of any society or organization, corporate or otherwise, any
of the emblems, insignia, paraphernalia, badges, jewels or head-covering, etc., or any colorable imitation thereof, of the plaintiffs or
plaintiff intervenor or plaintiffs intervenors or any of its Temples or
subordinate organizations.
V.
From using as a part of any organization, corporate or otherwise,
or in connection therewith the Constitution and By-laws of the plain-

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.
737

745

Opinion of the Court.

invoke the judgment of this Court, as is done in their
petition for certiorari. And it is our province to inquire
not only whether the right was denied in direct terms,
but also whether it was denied in substance and effect by
interposing a non-federal ground of decision having no
fair support. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225 U. S.
246, 258, 261; Ward v. Love County, 253 U. S. 17, 22;
Davis v. Wechsler, 263 U. S. 22, 24; RailroadCommission
v. Eastern Texas R. R. Co., 264 U. S. 79, 86; New York
Central R. R. Co. v. New York & PennsylvaniaCompany,

271 U. S. 124, 126.
The record and the opinions set forth therein make it
apparent that the existence within the State of Texas
of local lodges of each of the two orders was not contrary
to any statute of the State. The state court put its decision upon principles of general law which it deemed applitiffs and the plaintiff intervenor and plaintiffs intervenors, and their
Temples and subordinate organizations or any colorable imitation of
the same or of any part thereof.
VI.
From using, wearing or displaying any of the emblems, insignia,
paraphernalia, jewels, badges, head-coverings, constitution and laws,
titles of officers or colorable imitation thereof of the plaintiffs or
plaintiff intervenor or the other plaintiffs intervenors herein, as the
emblems, insignia, paraphernalia, jewels, badges, head-covering, constitution and laws and titles of officers of any fraternal or secret
order, or other organization or society by whatever name it may be
called, and whether corporate or otherwise.
VI1.
From using the name "Shrine" as the name of any fraternal or
secret order or other organization or society by whatever name it
may be called or otherwise known and whether corporate or otherwise.
VIII.
From using the name "Shriner" and the name "Nobles" as a designation of the membership of any fraternal or secret order or
other organization or society, by whatsoever name it may be called
or known and whether corporate or otherwise.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

cable, and not upon any local regulations. It did not
wholly refuse to recognize the right set up by the negro
order in virtue of the incorporation under the act of
Congress, but did hold that the white order had acquired
a superior and exclusive right to use the name, constitution, emblems and regalia in question by prior adoption
and use; that the subsequent adoption and use by the
negro order was in derogation of that right; that the white
order, in the absence of acquiescence or laches on its part,
was entitled to an injunction preventing further use by
the negro order; and that there had been no such acquiescence or laches as would constitute a bar to that relief,
inasmuch as the negro order had been proceeding with "a
fraudulent purpose of appropriating the benefits of the
[white] order to themselves."
Whether the rules relating to the use of trade-marks
and trade-names are applicable to controversies like this
between fraternal orders has been the subject of varying
decisions in other courts. Without now indicating any
opinion on that question, we shall indulge the assumption
that the state court was right in holding those rules applicable and shall pass to another matter turning on the facts
of this case, and which as resolved by the state court
resulted in the denial of the federal right set up by the
negro order. That matter is whether there was acquiescence or laches on the part of the white order. The state
court held there was neither. If there was either, the
white order was without any right to object to the use
which it was seeking to restrain and the negro order was
entitled to continue that use in virtue of its incorporation
under the Act of Congress.
An attentive examination of the record discloses not
only that the finding on the question of laches is without
fair support in the evidence, but that the evidence conclusively refutes it.

ANCIENT EGYPTIAN ORDER v. MICHAUX.
737

747

Opinion of the Court.

There is no evidence of a fraudulent intent on the part
of the negro order, or of a purpose on its part to induce any
one, whether mason or non-mason, to believe that it was
the white order or that they were parts of the same fraternity. On the contrary, it is shown that the negro order
always held itself out as entirely distinct from the white
order and as open only to members of the negro masonic
fraternity. True, there was much imitation, but this is
shown to have been in the nature of emulation rather than
false pretense.
The evidence discloses that the negro order promptly
entered its constitution in the Congressional Library under
an act of Congress providing for copyrights; that its members openly wore its insignia as indicative of its existence
and their membership; and that at its yearly national
meetings the members in large numbers marched in public
parades wearing its regalia.
It is further shown that the Imperial Potentate of the
white order in his address at their national meeting in 1894
called attention to the existence of the negro order and
to its use of names, titles, etc., like those of the white order.
He also named Texas as one of the States in which the
negro order had established lodges. The address was published and distributed among the lodges and members of
the white order. At several subsequent meetings there
was a similar mention of the negro order and its activities.
Thus it is established that from the beginning the white
order had knowledge of the existence and imitative acts and
practices of the negro order. In addition, the evidence
indubitably shows that with such knowledge the white
order silently stood by for many years while the negro
order was continuing its imitative acts and practices and
was establishing new lodges, enlarging its membership,
acquiring real property in its corporate name, and investing substantial sums in the copied paraphernalia, regalia

O'TOBEIM TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and emblems. It also is shown by the uncontradicted
testimony of several witnesses-one a life member of the
white order-that a large proportion of the copied paraphernalia, regalia, emblems and insignia used by the negro
order, its lodges and members was purchased from or
through members of the white order, and that in one
instance a lodge of that order, preparatory to moving to
new quarters, sold the paraphernalia and regalia used in
the old quarters to a lodge of the negro order in the same
city.
The effect on the negro order of the silence and apparent acquiescence of the white order is reflected in the fact
that when this suit was brought the former had 76 local
lodges, approximately 9,000 members and real and personal property valued at approximately $600,000 which
was held and used for fraternal and charitable purposes.
The only evidence making against that already outlined
consists of a showing that a suit was instituted in Georgia
in 1914 by a local lodge of the white order against a
local lodge of the negro order to restrain the latter from
imitating the name, emblems and regalia of the former
and that a similar suit was begun in Arkansas a few years
later-one resulting in a decree for the plaintiffs and the
other in a decree for the defendants. In instituting these
suits the plaintiff lodges undoubtedly manifested strong
objections to the imitative acts of the defendant lodges.
But the objections came too late to overcome or weaken
the force of the conduct of the white order during the 30
years preceding the earlier of the two suits. After that
period of inaction and seeming acquiescence it was too late
to resuscitate the original exclusive right for which the
white order is now contending. Saxlehner v. Eisner &
Mendelson Co., 179 U. S. 5, 19, 37.
What we have said of the evidence demonstrates, as we
think, not only that there was obvious and long, continued

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
737

Syllabus.

laches on the part of the white order, but also that the circumstances were such that its laches barred it from asserting an exclusive right, or seeking equitable relief, as
against the negro order. Creswill v. Knights of Pythias,
225 U. S. 246, 261-263; Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson
Co., 179 U. S. 19, 35-37; Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405, 416;
Hayward v. National Bank, 96 U. S. 611, 617; French Republic v. Saratoga Vichy Co., 191 U. S. 427, 436-437;
Benedict v. City of New York, 250 U. S. 321, 328; Du
Boulay v. Du Boulay, L. R. 2 P. C. 430, 446.
As it is apparent that had this view of the question of
laches prevailed in the state court, the federal right set
up by the negro order must have been sustained, the
decree must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Decree reversed.
SINCLAIR

ET A.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 748.

Argued April 22, 23, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

1. By the procurement of the defendant in a criminal case and of
others acting by his direction, the jurors, throughout the progress
of the trial, were systematically shadowed by a corps of private
detectives, each of whom, having at first identified his subject
within the court room, would follow him closely while away from
it. Jurors were thus kept under strict surveillance from early
morning until late at night, whenever not actually within the
court house. Investigations were also made by the operatives
concerning encumbrances on the home of one juror and to determine whether another had indicated his views during the trial.
Daily reports were made by the operatives to one of their employers. Held:
(1) That such surveillance of jurors was a criminal contempt,

under Jud. Code ยง 268, on the part of its instigators, although it
did not appear that any operative actually approached or com-

