CENT. N. ENG. R. CO. v. B. & A. R. CO.
410

415

Syllabus.

its employee, within the meaning of the Act. He obtained
and held his place through fraudulent means. While his
physical condition was not a cause of his injuries, it did
have direct relation to the propriety of admitting him to
such employment. It was at all times his duty to disclose
his identity and physical condition to petitioner. His
failure so to do was a continuing wrong in the nature of
a cheat. The misrepresentation and injury may not be
regarded as unrelated contemporary facts. As a result of
his concealment his status was at all times wrongful, a,
fraud upon the petitioner, and a peril to its patrons and
its other employees. Right to recover may not justify or
reasonably be rested on a foundation so abhorrent to public policy. Railway Company v. Lockwood, supra. Great
Northern Ry. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444, 448. Stafford v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 262 Fed. 807.
We need not consider any other question.
Judgment reversed.
CENTRAL NEW ENGLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
v. BOSTON & ALBANY RAILROAD COMPANY,
ASSIGNOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE COUNTY OF

SUFFOLK, STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 532.

Argued April 19, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. The writ of certiorari is properly directed to an intermediate state
court when the judgment entered by it is, under the local practice,
a final decision of the highest court of the State in which the decision could be had. P. 417.
2. An interstate carrier which enjoyed trackage rights beyond the
terminus of its branch line over a line of another interstate carrier
under an agreement for a term of years obligating the first carrier
to make annual payments to the second for the privilege, abandoned a section of the branch, including the trackage connection,
pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

under § 1, par. 18 of the amended Interstate Commerce Act upon
the ground that that part of the branch was being operated at a
loss. Held:
(1) Assuming that the Interstate Commerce Commission had
power to relieve the first carrier of its obligation to make further
payments under the agreement, the certificate did not have that

effect, since the second carrier was not a party to, nor notified of,
the proceeding in which it was granted, and the certificate and the
report of the Commission did not purport to deal with that
subject. P. 417.
(2) The state court had jurisdiction of an action .on the agreement to enforce the payments, and therein, subject to the power of
revision by this Court, could construe the order of the Commission.
P. 420.
264 Mass. 128, affirmed.

ChRTioRARi, 278 U. S. 596, to review a judgment of the

Superior Court of Massachusetts, entered on a rescript
from the Supreme Judicial Court, in favor of the present
respondent in its action to enforce payments by the petitioner under a trackage contract.
Mr. John L. Hall, with whom Mr. MarcienJenckes was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Lowell A. Mayberry and George H. Fernald,
Jr., were on the brief for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner is an interstate rail carrier having a branch
line, a portion of which formerly extended a distance of
1.87 miles from Feeding Hills to Agawam Junction, Massachusetts, where it connected with the line of respondent.
In order to secure an entrance to Springfield, Massachusetts, petitioner, on October 25, 1899, entered into a contract which provided that until August 30, 1940, it should
have the right to operate a limited number of trains per
day over the line of respondent from Agawam Junction
to Springfield, for which it agreed to pay the sum of

CENT. N. ENG. R. CO. v. B. & A. R. CO.

417

Opinion of the Court.

415

$15,000 annually. In 1921, purporting to act under a certificate of public necessity issued by the Interstate Commerce Commission, petitioner abandoned this section of
its branch line, notified respondent that it would no longer
meet its obligations under the contract and proceeded to
sever the connection between their lines.
This suit was brought by the New York Central Railroad, lessee of the present respondent, in the Superior
Court for Suffolk County, Massachusetts, to recover from
petitioner the annual payments due under the contract;
and a verdict was returned in favor of the plaintiff. Exceptions to rulings on the trial in the superior court were
overruled by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts on condition that the present respondent be substituted as plaintiff. The superior court entered judgment
for respondent in accordance with the rescript of the
higher court. The judgment of the superior court was
thus, under local practice, a final decision of the highest
court of the state in which the decision could be had and
the writ of certiorari, 278 U. S. 596, was properly directed
to that court. See Davis v. Cohen Co., 268 U. S. 638, 639;
Myers v. International Trust Co., 273 U. S. 380, 381.
Petitioner offered several defenses to the suit in the
state court, only two of which involve federal questions,
and which alone may be considered here.
1. In June, 1921, petitioner made application to the Interstate Commerce Commission, as required by § 1, paragraph 18, of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by
the Transportation Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 456, 474, "for
a certificate of public convenience and necessity . . . permitting the abandonment of operation of its line between
Feeding Hills . . . and Agawam Junction . . ." on the
grounds that it could not be operated except at a large
annual loss and other available transportation facilities
had rendered its continuance unnecessary. The Commis45228°-29--27

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

sion issued its certificate accordingly, authorizing petitioner to abandon the designated section of its branch
line.
It is contended by petitioner that the effect of the order
was to relieve it from making any further annual payments under its contract. It is said that the provisions
of the Transportation Act conferring broad powers on the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and designed to secure
to interstate carriers an adequate return and the segregation from surplus earnings of a revolving fund for their
benefit, see Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456, 478, taken in conjunction with its authority
to permit the abandonment by a carrier of a part of its
line, evidence a purpose to grant to the Commission
power to relieve the carrier from the further performance
of obligations already incurred which are incidental to the
operation of the abandoned section. From this it is concluded that, as the abandonment of the branch line by
which alone petitioner could reach the tracks of respondent, made it impossible for petitioner to exercise its trackage rights over the lines of respondent, the order permitting the abandonment must be taken to have relieved
petitioner from its obligation to make further payments
which served but to reduce its revenues and so to burden
its other commerce.
Respondent argues, with persuasive force, that the purpose of § 1, paragraphs 18, 19, 20 of the Transportation
Act, was merely to protect the public from ill advised or
improper abandonment of its line by an interstate carrier,
Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153, and that it conferred no authority upon the Commission to relieve a
carrier of its contractual obligations either past or prospective, with respect to an abandoned line. But we need
not pass on this contention. It suffices, for present purposes, that the certificate and the accompanying report of
the Commission did not purport to exercise such a power.

CENT. N. ENG. R. CO. v. B. & A. R. CO.
415

Opinion of the Court.

The former certified only that the present and future public convenience and necessity permitted the abandonment
of the designated section of petitioner's branch line and
that petitioner was authorized to abandon it. No reference was made in it to the present or any other contractual obligation of petitioner, and respondent, whose rights
were vitally affected by the order, if petitoner's contention is to be supported, was not notified of the proceeding
before the Commission nor a party to it.
The report mentioned the fact that petitioner's trains
entered Springfield over the tracks of the Boston & Albany, for which privilege it paid $15,000 annually, and
included a finding that the operating loss for the abandoned section for the year 1920 was $38,832.58. But even
though it be possible to spell out of this finding as to
revenue the conclusion that the net loss included the annual rental of $15,000, the findings did not so state, nor
was the trackage agreement otherwise mentioned. The
omission from the certificate of any reference to the contract thus brought to the attention of the Commission,
plainly evidences an absence of intention to deal with it.
Even if the broad purposes ascribed to the Act be assumed,
it is not to be supposed that the Commission intended to
do more than was stated in its order or to deprive respondent of income to which it was entitled under its
contract for the purpose of lightening the financial burden
of petitioner, both of whom were interstate carriers, without giving respondent an opportunity to be heard and
without dealing with the question specifically.
To the suggestion of petitioner that, by force of the
statute, the permission to abandon its line necessarily operated to cancel its obligation, regardless of the intention
of the Commission, we need only say that the statute
contains no such provision nor any language suggesting it.
We need not decide whether such may be the effect of a
proper order of the Commission on contracts previously

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

entered into by the carrier and not expressly mentioned in
the order, where the contract and the order necessarily
conflict. See Colorado v. UnitedStates, 271 U. S. 153, 165;
New York v. United States, 257 U. S. 591, 601; cf. New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. But without such
a conflict, there could be no justification for holding that
the order would also operate sub silentio to release a carrier from a contract merely because it has ceased to be of
value through compliance with the order. This is especially the case where the other party to the contract is
another common carrier with whose financial condition
the Commission is equally concerned.
2. Petitioner also challenged the jurisdiction of the
state court. As the suit is upon contract and does not
assail the order of the Commission, it is not one to "enjoin, set aside, annul or suspend" an order of the Commission of which the federal district courts are given exclusive jurisdiction under § 208 of the Judicial Code.
Hence the state court retained its jurisdiction to give
"remedies now existing at common law," preserved by
§ 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act, Pennsylvania R. R.
v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S. 121; PennsylvaniaR. R. v.
Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120, and subject to the power
of revision by this Court, it could construe the order of
the Commission. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants
Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285.
In Lambert Co. v. Baltimore& Ohio R. R. Co., 258 U. S.
377; Venner v. Michigan CentralR. R. Co., 271 U. S. 127;
North Dakota v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 257
U. S. 485; Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. Public Util. Comm.,
245 U. S. 493, relied upon by petitioner, affirmative relief
was prayed directing either that the order be set aside,
or that the carrier do or refrain from doing acts in a manner inconsistent with the order of the Commission directing or permitting certain administrative acts to be per-

NEW YORK v. LATROBE.
415

Syllabus.

formed, relief which, it was held, would operate practically
to set aside the order of the Commission. Here respondent
does not ask that the order be set aside or that it be regarded as illegal and void; it insists only that the order
did not purport to deal with the contract between the carriers, and so cannot have the effect, attributed to it by
petitioner, of annulling the contract. The question is
merely one of the legal effect of the order. Neither party
contests its validity or asks that the carrier be compelled
to do anything inconsistent with its terms.
Affirmed.
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK v. GAM1BLE LATROBE, JR., ET A., TRUSTEES IN BANKRUPTCY OF THE THERMIODYNE RADIO CORPORATION.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 601.

Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. The issued capital stock of a foreign corporation may constitu-

tionally be made the basis of a state franchise or license tax at a
flat rate per share, when apportioned to the property and business
of the corporation within the State. P. 426.
2. The kind and number of shares with which a foreign corporation
is permitted to carry on its business within the State is a part of
the privilege which the State extends to it and is a proper element
to be taken into account in fixing a tax on the privilege. Id.
3. The measurement of such a tax upon a foreign corporation at a
flat rate upon its issued stock, either par or non-par, used within
the State, is reasonably related to the privilege granted by the
State and to the protection of its own interest in the maintenance
of its similar policy of taxation with respect to domestic corporations and so does not infringe any constitutional immunity. P. 427.
4. Measurement of the tax at a flat rate per share on non-par value
stock and at a fixed percentage of par value on par-value stock is
based on a reasonable classification because of the different char-

