KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
229

Syllabus.

established doctrine that an application for an interlocutory injunction is addressed to the sound discretion of the
trial court; and that an order either granting or denying
such an injunction will not be disturbed by an appellate
court unless the discretion was improvidently exercised.
Meccano, Ltd., v. John Wanamaker, 253 U. S. 136, 141;
2 High on Injunctions (4th Ed.) § 1696. And see Rice &
Adams Corporationv. Lathrop, 278 U. S. 509. The rule
generally to be applied in the exercise of that discretion,
is stated in our recent decision in Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway,
post, p. 813.
That the doctrine to be followed in reviewing such an
order applies in the case of an order of a court of three
judges denying an interlocutory injunction does not admit
of doubt. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission of West Virginia, 278 U. S. 322, 326; Chicago, G.
W. Ry. v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94, 100. The duty of this
Court, therefore, upon an appeal from such an order, at
least generally, is not to decide the merits but simply to
determine whether the discretion of the court below has
been abused. See United States v. Balt. & Ohio R. R.
Co., 225 U. S. 306, 325. An examination of the record
here reveals no such abuse, and we must remand the case
to the court below for final disposition on the merits.
Decree affirmed.
KARNUTH, DIRECTOR OF IMMIGRATION, ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES Ex EEL. ALBRO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 19S.

Argued March 5, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Whether the stipulations of a treaty are annulled by a subsequent
war between the parties to it depends upon the intrinsic character
of the stipulations. P. 236.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Petitioners.

279 U. S.

2. The provision in Art. III of the Treaty of 1794 granting to the
subjects of Great Britain and the citizens of the United States the
right freely to pass and repass into the respective territories of the
contracting parties on the continent of America, was abrogated by
the War of 1812. Pp. 235-241.
3. In the clause in Article XXVIII of the Treaty providing that its
first ten articles shall be "permanent," but that the subsequent
articles, except the twelfth, shall be limited in their duration to
twelve years, the term "permanent" is employed merely to differentiate the first ten from the subsequent articles and not as a
synonym for "perpetual" or "everlasting." P. 242.
4. Long acquiescence by our Government, after the War of 1812, in
the continued exercise by inhabitants of Canada of the privilege of
passing and repassing the international boundary is not a ground
for presuming that a revival of the treaty obligation in that regard
was recognized. P. 242.
5. Under 'the Immigration Act, § 3, any alien coming from any
place outside of the United States, who is not within one of the
exceptions, is an immigrant, whether he come to reside permanently or for temporary purposes. P. 242.
6. In clause (2) of § 3 of the Act, making an exception in favor of
aliens visiting the United States "temporarily for business or
pleasure," the term "business" is to be interpreted with regard
to the policy of Congress to protect American labor, revealed by
the history of the legislation, and does not include labor for hire.
P. 243.
24 F. (2d) 649, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 594, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed, on appeal, a
judgment of the District Court dismissing a writ of habeas
corpus. The writ had been sued out on behalf of two
aliens who were detained by immigration officers.
Attorney General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Green
H. Hackworth, Solicitor, Department of State, Richard
W. Flournoy, Jr., Assistant Solicitor, Theodore G. Risley,
Solicitor Department of Labor, B. W. Butler and Albert
E. Reitzel, Assistants to the Solicitor, and Frank M. Parrish were on the brief, for petitioners.

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Preston M. Albro, with whom Mr. George W. Offutt was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case arose under § 3 of the Immigration Act of
1924, c. 190, 43 Stat. 153, 154, U. S. Code, Title 8, § 203,
et seq., which provides: "When used in this Act the term
'immigrant' means any alien departing from any place
outside the United States destined for the United States,
except . . . (2) an alien visiting the United States temporarily as a tourist or temporarily for business or pleasure, . .. " The complete section, together with other
pertinent provisions of the act, are copied in the margin.*
Neither respondent is a native of Canada. Mary
Cook is a British subject, born in Scotland, who came to
Canada in May, 1924. She is a spinner by occupation
and resides at Niagara Falls, Ontario. Antonio Danelon
* Sec. 3. When used in this Act, the term "immigrant " means any
alien departing from any place outside the United States destined for
the United States, except (1) a government official, his family, attendants, servants, and employees, (2) an alien visiting the United States
temporarily as a tourist or temporarily for business or pleasure, (3)
an alien in continuous transit through the United States, (4) an alien
lawfully admitted to the United States who later goes in transit
from one part of the United States to another through foreign contiguous territory, (5) a bona fide alien seaman serving as such on a
vessel arriving at a port of the United States and seeking to enter
temporarily the United States solely in the pursuit of his calling as a
seaman, and (6) an alien entitled to enter the United States solely
to carry on trade under and in pursuance of the provisions of a present existing treaty of commerce and navigation.
Sec. 4. When used in this Act the term "non-quota immigrant"
means-

(c) An immigrant who was born in the Dominion of Canada, Newfoundland, the Republic of Mexico, the Republic of Cuba, the Re-

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

is a native of Italy, who came to Canada in 1923. He also
resides at Niagara Falls, Ontario. He alleges that he
became a Canadian citizen by reason of his father's naturallzation. Both sought admission to the United States
on December 1, 1927, as non-immigrants under the excepting clause (2) above quoted. Prior thereto, Mary Cook
had crossed from Canada to the United States daily for
a period of three weeks to engage in work at which she
was employed. On the occasion in question, she was out
of employment, but desired admission to look for work.
Danelon had been at work in the United States for more
than a year, crossing daily by the use of an identification
card. He sought admission to resume work. Both were
denied admission by the immigration authorities, on the
ground that they were quota-immigrants within the meaning of the act, and did not come within the excepting
clause, § 3 (2). The following departmental regulation,
adopted under § 24 of the act, has been in force since September, 1925. "Temporary visits . . . for the purpose
of performing labor for hire are not considered to be within
public of Haiti, the Dominican Republic, the Canal Zone, or an in-

dependent country of Central or South America, and his wife, and his
unmarried children under 18 years of age, if accompanying or follow-

ing to join him;
See. 5. When used in this Act the term "quota immigrant" means
any immigrant who is not a non-quota immigrant. An alien who is
not particularly specified in this Act as a non-quota immigrant or a
non-immigrant shall not be admitted as a non-quota immigrant or a
non-immigrant by reason of relationship to any individual who is so
specified or by reason of being excepted from the operation of any
other law regulating or forbidding immigration.
Sec. 24. The Commissioner General, with the approval of the Secretary of Labor, shall prescribe rules and regulations for the enforcement of the provisions of this Act; but all such rules and regulations,
in so far as they relate to the administration of this Act by consular
officers, shall be prescribed by the Secretary of State on the recommendation of the Secretary of Labor,

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

the purview of section 3 (2) of the act." It is not disputed that both aliens were properly excluded if the validity of this regulation is established.
In a habeas corpus proceeding, brought in behalf of the
two aliens, the federal district court for the Western District of New York sustained the action of the immigration
officials and dismissed the writ. On appeal, this judgment
was reversed. The circuit court of appeals held that an
alien crossing from Canada to the United States daily to
labor for hire was not an immigrant but a visitor for business within the meaning of section 3 (2) of the act. 24 F.
(2d) 649. In reaching that conclusion the court seemed
of opinion that if the statute were so construed as to exclude the aliens, it would be in conflict with Article III of
the Jay Treaty of 1794, 8 Stat. 116, 117, a result, of course,
to be avoided if, reasonably, it could be done. Lem Moon
Sing v. United States, 158 U. S.538, 549.
We granted the writ of certiorari because of the farreaching importance of the question. The decision below
affects not only aliens crossing daily from Canada to labor
in the United States, but, if followed, will extend to inelude those entering the United States for the same purpose from all countries, including Canada, who intend to
remain for any period of time embraced within the meaning of the word "temporary." By the immigration rules,
this time is defined as a reasonable fixed period to be determined by the examining officer, which may be extended
from time to time, though not to exceed one year altogether from the date of original entry. Thus, if the view
of the court below prevail, it will result that aliens--not
native of Canada or any other American country named in
§ 4 (c),-whose entry as immigrants is precluded, may
land as temporary visitors and remain at work in the
United States for weeks or months at a time.
First. The pertinent provision of Article III of the Jay
Treaty follows:

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

"It is agreed that it shall at all times be free to his
Majesty's subjects, and to the citizens of the United States,
and also to the Indians dwelling on either side of the said
boundary line, freely to pass and repass by land or inland
navigation, into the respective territories and countries of
the two parties, on the continent of America (the country
within the limits of the Hudson's bay Company only excepted) and to navigate all the lakes, rivers and waters
thereof, and freely to carry on trade and commerce with
each other.
The position, of the Government is that (1) there is no
conflict between the treaty and the statute, but, (2) in
any event, the treaty provision relied on was abrogated by
the War of 1812. We pass at once to a consideration of
the second contention, since if that be sustained the first
becomes immaterial and the statute open to construction
unembarrassed by the treaty.
The effect of war upon treaties is a subject in respect of
which there are widely divergent opinions. The doctrine
sometimes asserted, especially by the older writers, that
war ipso facto annuls treaties of every kind between the
warring nations, is repudiated by the great weight of modern authority; and the view now commonly accepted is
that "whether the stipulations of a treaty are annulled
by war depends upon their intrinsic character." 5 Moore's
Digest of International Law, § 779, p. 383. But as to precisely what treaties fall and what survive, under this
designation, there is lack of accord. The authorities, as
mell as the practice of nations, present a great contrariety
of views. The law of the subject is still in the making,
and, in attempting to formulate principles at all approaching generality, courts must proceed with a good deal of
caution. But there seems to be fairly common agreement
that, at least, the following treaty obligations remain in
force: stipulations in respect of what shall be done in a
state of war; treaties of cession, boundary, and the like;

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

237

Opinion of the Court.

provisions giving the right to citizens or subjects of one
of the high contracting powers to continue to hold and
transmit land in the territory of the other; and, generally,
provisions which represent completed acts. On the other
hand, treaties of amity, of alliance, and the like, having
a political character, the object of which "is to promote
relations of harmony between nation and nation," are generally regarded as belonging to the class of treaty stipulations that are absolutely annulled by war. Id., p. 385,
quoting Calvo, Droit Int. (4th Ed.), IV. 65, § 1931.
In Society, etc. v. New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464, a case
involving the right of a British corporation to continue to
hold lands in Vermont, this Court was called upon to determine the effects of the War of 1812 upon the Ninth
Article of the Jay Treaty which provides "that British
subjects who now hold lands in the territories of the
United States, and American citizens who now hold lands
in the dominions of his Majesty, shall continue to hold
them according to the nature and tenure of their respective estates and titles therein; and may grant, sell, or
devise the same to whom they please, in like manner as
if they were natives; and that neither they nor their heirs
or assigns shall, so far as may respect the said lands and
the legal remedies incident thereto, be regarded as aliens."
8 Stat. 116, 122.
It was held that the title to the property of the Society
was protected by the Sixth Article of the Treaty of 1783, 8
Stat. 80, 83; was confirmed by the words of Article IX
above quoted; and was not affected by the War of 1812.
The applicable rule was stated (p. 494) in the following
words:
" But we are not inclined to admit the doctrine urged
at the bar, that treaties become extinguished, ipso facto,
by war between the two governments, unless they should
be revived by an express or implied renewal on the return
of peace. Whatever may be the latitude of doctrine laid

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 TJ. S.

down by elementary writers on the law of nations, dealing
in general terms in relation to this subject, we are satisfied,
that the doctrine contended for is not universally true.
There may be treaties of such a nature, as to their object
and import, as that war will put an end to them; but
where treaties contemplate a permanent arrangement of
territorial, and other national rights, or which in their
terms, are meant to provide for the event of an intervening war, it would be against every principle of just interpretation to hold them extinguished by the event of war.
If such were the law, even the treaty of 1783, so far as
it fixed our limits, and acknowledged our independence,
would be gone, and we should have had again to struggle
for both upon original revolutionary principles. Such
a construction was never asserted, and would be so monstrous as to supersede all reasoning. We think, therefore, that treaties stipulating for permanent rights, and
general arrangements, and professing to aim at perpetuity,
and to deal with the case of war as well as of peace, do
not cease on the occurrence of war, but are, at most, only
suspended while it lasts; and unless they are waived by
the parties, or new and repugnant stipulations are made,
they revive in their operation at the return of peace."
The English High Court of Chancery reached the same
conclusion in Sutton v. Sutton, 1 Russ. & M. 663, 675:
"The relations, which had subsisted between Great
Britain and America, when they formed one empire, led
to the introduction of the ninth section of the treaty of
1794, and made it highly reasonable that the subjects of
the two parts of the divided empire should, notwithstanding the separation, be protected in the mutual enjoyment
of their landed property; and, the privileges of natives
being reciprocally given, not only to the actual possessors
of lands, but to their heirs and assigns, it is a reasonable
construction that it was the intention of the treaty that

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

239

Opinion of the Court.

the operation of the treaty should be permanent, and not
depend upon the continuance of a state of peace."
These cases are cited by respondents and relied upon as
determinative of the effect of the War of 1812 upon Article III of the treaty. This view we are unable to accept.
Article IX and Article III relate to fundamentally different things. Article IX aims at perpetuity and deals with
existing rights, vested and permanent in character, in respect of which, by express provision, neither the owners
nor their heirs or assigns are to be regarded as aliens.
These are rights which, by their very nature, are fixed
and continuing, regardless of war or peace. But the
privilege accorded by Article III is one created by the
treaty, having no obligatory existence apart from that instrument, dictated by considerations of mutual trust and
confidence, and resting upon the presumption that the
privilege will not be exercised to unneighborly ends. It
is, in no sense, a vested right. It is not permanent in its
nature. It is wholly promissory and prospective and
necessarily ceases to operate in a state of war, since the
passing and repassing of citizens or subjects of one sovereignty into the territory of another is inconsistent with a
condition of hostility. See 7 Moore's Digest of International Law, § 1135; 2 Hyde, International Law, § 606.
The reasons for the conclusion are obvious-among them,
that otherwise the door would be open for treasonable
intercourse. And it is easy to see that such freedom of
intercourse also may be incompatible with conditions following the termination of the war. Disturbance of peaceful relations between countries occasioned by war, is often
so profound that the accompanying bitterness, distrust and
hate indefinitely survive the coming of peace. The
causes, conduct or result of the war may be such as to
render a revival of the privilege inconsistent with a new
or altered state 6f affairs. The grant of the privilege con-

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

notes the existence of normal peaceful relations. When
these are broken by war, it is wholly problematic whether
the ensuing peace will be of such character as to justify
the neighborly freedom of intercourse which prevailed be-.
fore the rupture. It follows that the provision belongs
to the class of treaties which does not survive war between
the high contracting parties, in respect of which, we quote,
as apposite, the words of a careful writer on the subject:
"Treaties of the fifth class are necessarily at least suspended by war, many of them are necessarily annulled, and
there is nothing in any of them to make them revive as
a matter of course on the advent of peace,-frequently
in fact a change in the relations of the parties to them effected by the treaty of peace is inconsistent with a renewal
of the identical stipulations. It would appear therefore
to be simplest to take them to be all annulled, and to
adopt the easy course, when it is wished to put them
in force again without alteration, of expressly stipulating
for their renewal by an article in the treaty of peace."
Hall, International Law (5th Ed.), pp. 389-390.
Westlake classifies treaties not affected by war as (1)
those providing what is to be done in a state of war, (2)
transitory or dispositive treaties, including such as are
intended to establish a permanent condition of things,
such as treaties of cession, boundary, and recognition of
independence, as well as those having no conceivable
connection with the causes of war or peace, and (3)
treaties establishing arrangements to which third powers
are parties such as guarantees and postal and other unions.
Westlake, International Law, Part II, pp. 29-32. He then
says:
"Outside the exceptions which have been discussed,
treaties between belligerents do not survive the outbreak
of the war. At the peace there is no presumption that
the parties will take the same view as before the war of
their interests, political, commercial or other. It is for

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

them to define on what terms they intend to close their
interlude of savage life and to reenter the domain of law."
Fauchille, Trait6 de Droit International Public, 1921,
Vol. II, p. 55, says that "a state of war puts an end to
treaties concluded with a view to peaceful relations
between the signatories and the object or end of which
is to strengthen or maintain such peaceful relations, for
example, treaties of alliance, subsidies, guarantees, commerce, navigation, customs union, etc. Those treaties
from their very nature are subject to an implicit resolutory condition, namely a break in the state of peace.
They cannot survive the outbreak of hostilities between
the signatory States. War, to them, is a cause of final
extinction and not of mere suspension. When peace is
concluded, they do not spontaneously come out of a
comatose state; they do not revive unless expressly
renewed in the peace treaty."*
These expressions and others of similar import which
might be added, confirm our conclusion that the provision of the Jay Treaty now under consideration was
brought to an end by the War of 1812, leaving the contracting powers discharged from all obligation in respect
thereto, and, in the absence of a renewal, free to deal
with the matter as their views of national policy, respectively, might from time to time dictate.
* . .. r~solus par I'6tat de gurre les traits conclus en vue de relations pacifiques entre les signataires et ayant pour objet ou pour but
]a consolidation ou le maintien de ces relations pacifiques. Ex.: les
trait~s d'alliance, de subsides, de garantie, de commerce, de navigation, d'union douanibre, etc. Ces trait~s sont par leur nature m~me
affect~s d'une condition r6solutoire implicite, la cessation de 1'6tat
de paix. Ils ne peuvent survivre a l'ouverture des hostilit&s entre
les Etats signataires. La guerre est pour eux une cause d'extinction
d6finitive, et non une cause de simple suspension. La paLx conclue,
ilsne sortent pas spontan6ment, d'un 6tat de lthargie momentan6: ilsne revivent pas, A moths qu'ils no soient express~ment renouvel6s dans le trait6 de paix.
45228°-29--16

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

We are not unmindful of the agreement in Article
XXVIII of the Treaty "that the first ten articles of this
treaty shall be permanent, and that the subsequent articles, except the twelfth, shall be limited in their duration
to twelve years." It is quite apparent that the word
"permanent" as applied to the first ten articles was used
to differentiate them from the subsequent articles-that
is to say, it was not employed as a synonym for "perpetual" or "everlasting," but in the sense that those articles
were not limited to a specific period of time, as was the
case in respect of the remaining articles. Having regard
to the context, such an interpretation of the word "permanent" is neither strained nor unusual. See Texas, &c.
Railway Co. v. Marshall, 136 U. S. 393, 403; Bassett v.
Johnson, 2 N. J. Eq. 154, 162.
It is true, as respondents assert, that citizens and subjects of the two countries continued after the War of 1812,
as before, freely to pass and repass the international
boundary line. And so they would have done if there
never had been ai treaty on the subject. Until a very recent period, the policy of the United States, with certain
definitely specified exceptions, had been to open its doors
to all comers without regard to their allegiance. This policy sufficiently accounts for the acquiescence of the Government in the continued exercise of the crossing privilege upon the part of the inhabitants of Canada, with
whom we have always been upon the most friendly terms;
and a presumption that such acquiescence recognized a revival of the treaty obligation cannot be indulged.
Second. In construing § 3 (2) of the Immigration Act,
we are not concerned with the ordinary definition of the
word "immigrant" as one who comes for permanent residence. The act makes its own definition, which is that
"the term 'immigrant' means any alien departing from
any place outside the United States destined for the
United States." The term thus includes every alien com-

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
231

Opinion of the Court.

ing to this country either to reside permanently or for
temporary purposes, unless he can bring himself within
one of the exceptions. The only exception pertinent to
the present case is the second, quoted at the beginning
of this opinion, namely, an alien visiting the United States
" temporarily for business or pleasure." The contention
is that respondents were temporary visitors for business;
and the case is, therefore, narrowed to the simple inquiry
whether the word "business," as used in the statute, includes ordinary work for hire. The word is one of flexibility; and, when used in a statute, its meaning depends
upon the context or upon the purposes of the legislation.
It may be so used as either to include or exclude labor;
" for though labor may be business, it is not necessarily so,
and the converse is equally true, that business is not always
labor." Bloom v. Richards, 2 Oh. St. 387, 396. The
true sense in which the word was here employed will be
best ascertained by considering the policy, necessity and
causes which induced the enactment. See Heydenfeldt v.
Daney Gold, etc. Co., 93 U. S. 634, 638; Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, 463; Ozawa v.
United States, 260 U. S. 178, 194.
The various acts of Congress since 1916 evince a progressive policy of restricting immigration. The history of
this legislation points clearly to the conclusion that one
of its great purposes was to protect American labor against
the influx of foreign labor. In the report of the House
Committee to accompany the bill which became the Quota
Act of May 19, 1921 (I. of R. Report 4, 67th Congress,
1st Session), it was stated (p. 3) that one of the causes
which called for the immediate passage of an act to restrict
immigration was: "2. Large unemployment in the United
States, making it impracticable for the United States to
accept a heavy immigration." And further (p. 7): "In
the opinion of a majority of the members of this commit-

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tee the economic aspects of immigration alone call for the
passage of this restrictive legislation, if there were no other
reasons." In the Senate report upon the same bill (S.
Report 17, 67th Congress, 1st Session, p. 4) one of the
evils pointed out was that a large part of the new immigration had been of a migratory character, immigrants
coming to the United States not so much for the purpose
of permanent residence as to seek temporary profitable
employment. The report of the House Committee to accompany the bill which afterwards became the Act of
1924, now under consideration, (H. of R. Report 350,
68th Congress, 1st Session) likewise makes clear that protection of American labor was one of the controlling reasons for further restriction of innigration. The committee, after pointing out that various suggested plans for admitting laborers and farmers had been rejected, said
(p. 22): "As has been so often said with reference to the
demand for the admission of laborers, the present gain is
not worth the future cost."
In view of this definite policy, it cannot be supposed
that Congress intended, by admitting aliens temporarily
for business, to permit their coming to labor for hire in
competition with American workmen, whose protection
it was one of the main purposes of the legislation to secure.
The word "business," as here used, must be limited in
application to intercourse of a commercial character; and
we hold that the departmental regulation, to the effect
that temporary visits for the purpose of performing labor
for hire are not within the purview of § 3 (2) of the act,
is in accordance with the Congressional intent.
Judgment reversed.

