OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

with well-settled rules and discharge him from custody
upon proper assurance, by recognizance or otherwise, that
he will appear for interrogation when required. This is

all he could properly demand of a court under similar
circumstances.
Here the question under consideration concerns the ex-

ercise by the Senate of an indubitable power; and if
judicial interference can be successfully invoked it can

only be upon a clear showing of such arbitrary and improvident use of the power as will constitute a denial of
due process of law. That condition we are unable to find
Judgment reversed.
in the present case.

THE MACALLEN COMPANY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPR.ME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETrs.
No. 578.

Argued April 25, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. A state tax on federal securities, or on the interest therefrom, is
invalid, regardless of the amount of the tax. P. 624.
2. In determining whether a tax is an excise on the privilege of doing
business as a corporation, or is in reality a tax on income from taxexempt securities, this Court must inquire independently and is not
bound by the designation of the tax in the taxing act or the opinion
of the state court as to its nature. P. 625.
3. In the decisions of this Court holding that a tax lawfully imposed
on the exercise of corporate privileges within the taxing power
may be measured by income from the property of the corporation although a part of such income is derived from non-taxable
property, it is implicit that the thing taxed in form was in fact and
reality the subject aimed at, and that any burden put upon the
non-taxable subject by its use as a measure of value was fortuitous
and incidental. P. 627.
4. The fact that a tax ostensibly laid upon a taxable subject is to be
measured by the value of a non-taxable subject at once suggests the
probability that it was the latter rather than the former that the
law-maker sought to reach. If inquiry discloses persuasive grounds
for the conclusion that such is the real purpose and effect of the
legislation, the tax cannot be upheld, P. 628,

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Counsel for Parties.

5. A State can not tax the bonds of the 'United States, or the income
therefrom, directly or indirectly, in any form. Words, which,
literally considered, import a tax on something else-e. g., a tax
upon the privilege of doing corporate business measured in part
upon the amount of non-taxable interest received,--may nevertheless be adjudged to lay a tax upon the interest, if that purpose be
fairly inferable from a consideration of the history, the surrounding
circumstances, or the statute it-elf considered in all its parts.
P. 629.
6. A liberal application of the foregoing principles is essential to the
preservation of the constitutional limitations imposed upon the
taxing power of the States. P. 631.
7. The Massachusetts legislature, having provided for a tax on corporations measured in part by net income, but exempting from
consideration as part of the measure all interest upon non-taxable
securities, passed an amendment, presumably based on a report of a
special committee, which had the effect of repealing this exemption
and of thereby imposing a burden on the securities from which, by
express language, they had theretofore been free. Hdd, upon a
consideration of the legislation and the contents of the report, that
the purpose of the change was to tax the income of the securities.
P. 631.
8. Assuming that the States are authorized by Act of Congress to
tax income of national banks derived from United States bonds,
this would not justify imposition of like taxes in the case of an
ordinary corporation. P. 633.
9. A state tax on the income of United States bonds held by an ordinary corporation cannot be upheld upon the ground that it was
necessary in order to avoid discriminating against national banks
contrary to Acts of Congress. P. 634.
10. State taxation of the income of county and municipal bonds
which were exempt by statutory contract of the State, held invalid under the contract clause of the Federal Constitution. P. 634.
264 Mass. 396, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court

dismissing a petition for abatement of a tax.
Mr. Thomas Allen for appellant.
Mr. R. Ammi Cutter, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Joseph E. Warner, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellee.

622

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Messrs. Seth T. Cole and Stuart G. Knight filed a brief
as amici curiae on behalf of the Tax Commission of New
York, by special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
A statute of Massachusetts, G. L. c. 63, § 32, as amended
by Stat. 1923, c. 424, § 1, provides:
"Except as otherwise provided in sections thirty-four
and thirty-four A, every domestic business corporation
shall pay annually, with respect to the carrying on or doing
of business by it, an excise equal to the sum of the following, provided that every such corporation shall pay annually a total excise not less in amount than one twentieth
of one per cent of the fair cash value of all the shares constituting its capital stock on the first day of April when
the return called for by section thirty-five is due:
" (1) An amount equal to five dollars per thousand
upon the value of its corporate excess.
"(2) An amount equal to two and one half per cent of
that part of its net income, as defined in this chapter,
which is derived from business carried on within the
commonwealth."
By G. L. c. 63, § 30, par. 5, as amended by Stat. 1925, c.
343, § lA, "net income" is defined"' Net Income,' except as otherwise provided in sections
thirty-four and thirty-nine, the net income for the taxable year as required to be returned by the corporation to
the federal government under the federal revenue act applicable for the period, adding thereto any net losses as
defined in said federal revenue act that have been deducted, and all interest and dividends not so required to be
returned as net income except dividends on shares of stock
of corporations organized under the laws of the commonwealth and dividends in liquidation paid from capital."

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

Before this amendment, the definition embodied in G.
L. c. 63, § 30, par. 5, as amended, shortly before the passage of the last quoted amendment, by Stat. 1925, c. 265,
§ 1, provided:
"' Net income,' except as otherwise provided in sections
thirty-four and thirty-nine, the net income for the taxable
year as required to be returned by the corporation to the
federal government under the federal revenue act applicable to the period, adding thereto any net losses as defined
by said federal revenue act that have been deducted, and,
in the case of a domestic business corporation, such interest and dividends, not so required to be returned as net
income, as would be taxable if received by an inhabitant
of this commonwealth; less, both in the case of a domestic
business corporation and of a foreign corporation, interest,
so required to be returned, which is received upon bonds,
notes and certificates of indebtedness of the United
States."
Thus, under the original definition of net income, there
was expressly excluded from the net income taxable at two
and one-half per cent all interest received upon bonds,
notes and certificates of indebtedness of the United States.
And the definition had the effect of excluding, in the
same respect, interest on state, county and municipal
bonds.
Appellant, a business corporation organized under the
laws of Massachusetts, owned a large number of United
States Liberty bonds and Federal Farm Loan Bonds. The
Liberty bonds by statute of the UnIted States are expressly made exempt from all taxation imposed by any
state, except estate or inheritance taxes. C. 56, 40 Stat.
288, 291, 9 7. Federal Farm Loan bonds are issued under
authority of c. 245, 39 Stat. 360, and, by § 26, p. 380,
declared to be instrumentalities of the United States and
both as to principal and income exempt from all state taxa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tion. The corporation also owned a large number of bonds
of Massachusetts counties and municipalities which, when
issued and acquired by the corporation, were exempt from
taxation by the terms of a state statute. G. L. c. 59, § 5,
par. 25. Of course, in respect of United States securities,
the statutory exemption is superfluous. A state tax, however small, upon such securities or interest derived therefrom, interferes or tends to interfere with the constitutional power of the general government to borrow money
on the credit of the United States, and constitutes a burden
upon the operations of government, and carried far
enough would prove destructive. The principle set forth
a century ago in Weston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 468, has
never since been departed from by this Court:
"The right to tax the contract to any extent, when
made, must operate upon the power to borrow before it is
exercised, and have a sensible influence on the contract.
The extent of this influence depends on the will of a distinct government; to any extent, however inconsiderable,
it is a burden on the operations of government. It may be
carried to an extent which shall arrest them entirely."
Home Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 513.
The taxing authorities of the state assessed against appellant, for the year 1926, a tax under the provisions of
the then-existing statute as first above quoted, adding, for
the purpose of computing the assessment, to the amount
of the net income-of appellant as determined by the federal income tax returns of appellant, all sums of interest
received by appellant from the foregoing United States,
Farm Loan, and county and municipal bonds. Without
this addition, and under the original definition of net income, the amount of the tax assessed would have been
materially less.
Appellant paid the amount assessed under protest and
brought a petition for abatement of the tax under the provisions of the state law, setting forth the foregoing facts

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

and alleging the unconstitutionality, under the federal
Constitution, of the statute insofar as it was held to include interest derived from the tax-exempt securities:
(1) as impairing the obligation of contracts; (2) as an
attempt to impose a tax upon income derived from securities and instrumentalities of the United States; (3)
as depriving petitioner of its property without due process of law and denying it the equal protection of the law
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; (4) as an impairment and in derogation of the power of Congress to
borrow money on the credit of the United States; and for
other reasons not necessary for present purposes to be set
forth.
A Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court sustained a
demurrer to the petition. On appeal, this was affirmed
by the full court, and the petition dismissed. That court,
through its Chief Justice, delivered a carefully drawn
opinion, reviewing numerous decisions of this Court bearing upon the question involved. The tax was held to
be not a tax on income, but an excise "with respect to
the carrying on or doing of business," as the statute itself
in form declares. While it was plain that the tax was
larger than it would have been if the income from the
tax-exempt securities had not been added to the other
items in making up the factor of "net income," the court
held that the income was not taxed, but simply employed
together with the other items in ascertaining the measure
for computing the excise.
The words of the act and the opinion of the state court
as to the nature of the tax are to be given consideration
and weight; but they are not conclusive. As it many
times has been decided, neither state courts nor legislatures, by giving the tax a particular name, or by using
some form of words, can take away our duty to consider
its nature and effect. Choctaw & Gulf R. R. v. Harrison,
235 U. S. 292. 298; Galveston, Harrisburg,&c. Ry. Co. v.
4-3228 -- 29-40

"626

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 227. And this Court must determine for itself by independent inquiry whether the tax
here is what, in form and by the decision of the state court,
it is declared to be, namely, an excise tax on the privilege
of doing business, or, under the guise of that designation,
is in substance and reality a tax on the income derived
from tax-exempt securities. If, by varying the form,that isto say, if, by using one name for a tax instead of
another, or imposing a tax in terms upon one subject when
another is in reality aimed at,-the substance and effect
of the imposition may be changed, constitutional limitations upon powers of taxation would come to naught.
The rule is otherwise. To this effect, the following cases
may be cited as illustrative.
A tax laid in terms on the occupation of an importer
is in effect a tax on imports. Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419, 444. Answering the contention that a state
may tax an occupation, and that this tax was nothing
more, Chief Justice Marshall said:
"It is impossible to conceal from ourselves, that this is
varying the form, without varying the substance. It is
treating a prohibition which is general, as if it were confined to a particular mode of doing the forbidden thing.
All must perceive, that a tax on the sale of an article, imported only for sale, is a tax on the article itself.
So, a tax on the occupation of an importer is, in like manner, a tax on importation. It must add to the price of the
article, and be paid by the consumer, or by the importer
himself, in like manner as a direct duty on the article
itself would be made. This the state has not a right to
do, because it is prohibited by the constitution."
A tax on the income of an office is a tax on the office
itself, and cannot be laid in that form if the office be exempt. Dobbins v. The Commissioners of Erie County,
16 Pet. 435.

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

A tax on sales made by an auctioneer is a tax on the
goods sold, and, where such goods are imported and sold
for the importer, the law authorizing the tax is void as
imposing a duty on imports. Cook v. Pennsylvania, 97
U. S. 566.
A stamp tax upon a bill of lading is in substance and
effect a tax upon the thing transported, because of its
necessary association with the shipment. Almy v. California, 24 How. 169, 174. And see Woodruff v. Parham,
8 Wall. 123, 138.
In Indian Oil Co. v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522, 530, a tax
upon oil leases of lands of Indians under the protection of
the federal government, made by authority of such government, was held void as being in fact a tax upon the
power to make the leases and capable of being used to
destroy such power. It was said that since the lessees
were federal instrumentalities the state could not tax their
interest in the leases either directly or as they were represented by the capital stock of the corporations owning
them. "A tax upon the leases is a tax upon the power to
make them, and could be used to destroy the power to
make them. If they cannot be taxed as entities they cannot be taxed vicariously by taxing the stock, whose only
value is their value, or by taking the stock as an evidence
or measure of their value, rather than by directly estimating them as the Board of Equalization and the
referee did."
In Federal Land Bank v. Crosland,261 U. S. 374, this
Court condemned, as beyond the constitutional power of
the state, a statute subjecting mortgages executed to a
Federal Land Bank to the payment of a recording tax, as
being in effect a tax upon the mortgages.
It is not necessary to extend the list of cases of like
effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

The court below predicates its decision upon a series of
decisions of which Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107,
163-165, is the extreme example, holding that a tax lawfully imposed upon the exercise of corporate privileges
within the taxing power may be measured by income from
the property of the corporation although a part of such
income is derived from non-taxable property. See also
Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 594; Society for
Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Provident Institution v.
Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611. The distinction pointed out
in these cases is between an attempt to tax the property
or income as such and to measure a legitimate tax upon
the privileges involved in the use thereof. It is implicit
in all that the thing taxed in form was in fact and reality
the subject aimed at, and that any burden put upon the
non-taxable subject by its use as a measure of value was
fortuitous and incidental.
The aphorism of Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431, that "the power to tax involves the power to destroy," has frequently been reiterated by this Court. The principle, of course, is important
only where the tax is sought to be imposed upon a nontaxable subject, or, as said in Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 60, " . . . the power to destroy which may be
the consequence of taxation is a reason why the right to
tax should be confined to subjects which may be lawfully
embraced therein, even although it happens that in some
particular instance no great harm may be caused by the
exercise of the taxing authority as to a subject which is
beyond its scope." Not only may the power to tax be
exercised oppressively, but for one government-state or
national-to lay a tax upon the instrumentalities or securities of the other is derogatory to the latter's dignity,
subversive of its powers, and repugnant to its paramount
authority. See California v. Pacific Railroad Co., 127

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 1, 41. These constitute special and compelling reasons why courts, in scrutinizing taxing acts like that here
involved, should be acute to distinguish between an exaction which in substance and reality is what it pretends
to be, and a scheme to lay a tax upon a non-taxable subject by a deceptive use of words. The fact that a tax
ostensibly laid upon a taxable subject is to be measured
by the value of a non-taxable subject at once suggests the
probability that it was the latter rather than the former
that the law-maker sought to reach. If inquiry discloses
persuasive grounds for the conclusion that such is the real
purpose and effect of the legislation, the tax cannot be
upheld without subverting the well-established rule that
".. . what cannot be done directly because of constitutional restriction cannot be accomplished indirectly by
legislation which accomplishes the same result. . . . constitutional provisions, whether operating by way of
grant or limitation, are to be enforced according to their
letter and spirit, and cannot be evaded by any legislation
which, though not in terms trespassing on the letter, yet
in substance and effect destroy the grant or limitation."
Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 2S3, 294, 300.
In the consideration of such legislation, the controlling
principle, constantly to be borne in mind, is that the state
cannot tak the instrumentalities or bonds of the United
States, or, what is the same thing, the income derived
therefrom, directly or indirectly-that is to say, it cannot
tax them in any form. Words which, literally considered,
import a tax upon something else,-a tax, for example, as
here, upon the privilege of doing business measured in
part by the amount of non-taxable interest receivedmay, nevertheless, be adjudged to lay a tax upon the
interest, if that purpose be fairly inferable from a consideration of the history, the surrounding circumstances,
or the statute itself considered in all its parts. See Home
Savings Bank v. Des Moines, 205 U. S. 503, 510, 521.

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

On the one hand, the state is at liberty to tax a corporation with respect to the doing of its business. On the
other hand, the state cannot tax the income of the corporation derived from non-taxable securities. It necessarily

follows that the legislature may not, by an artful use of
words, deprive this Court of its authority to look beyond
the words to the real legislative purpose. And the power

and the duty of the Court to do so is of great practical
importance. For when the aim of the legislature is simply
to tax the former, it is less likely to impose an injurious
burden upon the latter than when the aim is directed
primarily against the latter. See Galveston, Harrisburg
&c. By. Co. v. Texas, supra, p. 227.
In Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713, this Court had
occasion to consider a question quite analogous to that
here involved. In that case the state statute exempted
the income from bonds of the United States held by corporations, but provided for taxing so much of the stockholders' dividends as corresponded to the income of the
corporation not assessed. This Court, holding the tax
invalid, said (p. 715):
"It is a familiar principle that conduct which in usual
situations the law protects may become unlawful when
part of a scheme to reach a prohibited result. If the
avowed purpose or self-evident operation of a statute is
to follow the bonds of the Uhited States and to make up
for its inability to reach them directly by indirectly
achieving the same result, the statute must fail even if but
for its purpose or special operation it would be perfectly
good. Under the laws of Wisconsin the income from the
United States bonds may not be the only item exempted
from the income tax on corporations, but it certainly is
the most conspicuous instance of exemption at the present
time. A result intelligently foreseen and offering the most
obvious motive for an act that will bring it about, fairly
may be taken to have been a purpose of the act. On that

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

assumption the immunity of the national bonds is too
important to allow any narrowing beyond what the Acts
of Congress permit. We think it would be going too far
to say that they allow an intentional interference that is
only prevented from being direct by the artificial distinction between a corporation and its members. A tax very
well may be upheld as against any casual effect it may
have upon the bonds of the United States when passed
with a different intent and not aimed at them, but it
becomes a more serious attack upon their immunity when
they are its obvious aim. In such a case the Court must
consider the public welfare rather than the artifices contrived for private convenience and must look at the facts."
See also Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 275 U. S.
136; Alpha Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S.203,
218; Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S.473, 494-495; Nat'l
Life Ins. Co. v. United States, 277 U. S. 508, 519.
A liberal application of the foregoing principles, which
find confirmation especially in the later decisions of this
Court, is essential to the preservation of the constitutional
limitations imposed upon the taxing power of the states.
Let it once be conceded that such limitations may be
evaded by the adoption of a delusive name to characterize
the tax or form of words to describe it, and the destruction of the vitality of these necessary safeguards will soon
follow.
In the present case, it appears that the original statute
exempted from consideration as a part of the measure of
the tax all interest upon the non-taxable securities. The
amended act now in force has the effect of repealing this
original provision and imposing a burden upon the securities from which, by express language, they had theretofore been free. This was a distinct change of policy on
the part of the Commonwealth, adopted, as though it
had been so declared in precise words, for the very purpose
of subjecting these securities pro tanto to the burden of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

the tax. This conclusion is confirmed, if that be necessary, by the report of the special commission appointed
by the legislature to investigate the subject of taxation
of banking institutions, Mass. 1925 House Documents,
No. 233, from which we quote:
"Further, the Commission addressed itself to the question of what might properly be considered as 'net income"
for the purposes of this proposed tax. The national bank
and trust companies in their returns to the federal government and to the State under the 12 % income tax law
are allowed certain deductions of income from specified
types of securities in addition to the expense of conducting their business, bad debts, losses, etc. The business
corporations, also, are allowed the same deductions. In
the opinion of the Commission there is no valid reason
why, for purposes of this tax, such income exemption
should be allowed. Corporations differ from the individual. Business corporations hold tax exempt securitieg
generally, not because they fit into the purpose of their
organization, but for the bearing they may have upon
tax payments.
"The Commission believes that the income upon which
this tax should be laid, so far as national banks are concerned, should be the total net income frowm whatever
source, after the proper deductions have been made for
the cost of doing business and losses. So far as relates to
the business corporations, the same should be the case in
respect to the 2Y2% part of the excise measure based on
net income.
"It is true that this extension of 'net income' for the
purpose of this tax would increase the tax which business
corporations now pay, but the Commission after investigation believes that such increased tax would be relatively
small. Many corporations invested in Liberty Bonds and
other government securities during the war for patriotic
reasons, which practice, so far as business corporations are

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

Opinion of the Court.

concerned, is not generally prevalent at present, and the
Commission believes will not exist in the future to any
appreciable extent. So that it is its opinion that such, if
any, increased burden upon business corporations will not
be appreciable.
"In respect to national banks and trust companies the
situation is somewhat different. Considerable in amount
of the assets or surplus funds of financial institutions are
invested from time to time in securities now exempt from
taxation either under federal or state law. The income
of banking institutions from these sources is relatively
much greater than that of other corporations. In endeavoring to reach a basis for a fair and equitable tax on
national banks the Commission, as previously stated in this
report was limited to the methods permitted under Section 5219 of the United States Revised Statutes. A tax
in the nature of an excise tax upon the income of the bank
is an equitable and proper tax, . .."
This report received the consideration of the legislature
and, it is fair to suppose, constituted the basis for adopting the amendment here assailed. The effect of the report is that non-taxable bonds nevertheless should be subjected to the burden of the tax; and, since that could not
be imposed directly, the clear intimation is that it be imposed indirectly through the medium of the so-called
"excise."
It has been suggested that the object of the change was
to conform the taxation of business corporations to that
authorized by Congress for the taxation of national banks.
Whether under recent federal statutes, states are authorized to impose a tax upon the income from United States
bonds held by national banks, we need not stop to inquire. Certainly there is no statute of the United States
which undertakes to authorize a state to impose a tax
upon such bonds held by other kinds of corporations.
And what power Congress has under the Constitution in
respect of such authorization we need not now determine.

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
SToNE, "J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

It is clear that authority, even if given, to impose a tax
on federal bonds in the case of national banks does not
include, by implication or otherwise, the authority to
impose a tax upon such bonds held by ordinary corporations.
It is also suggested in that connection that the amendment in question is necessary, and that its real object was,
to avoid discrimination forbidden by federal statutes
against national banks. But it is enough to say that if
such discrimination would otherwise result it must be
avoided by some method which does not involve the imposition of a tax which uniformly for a century has been
condemned by this Court as unconstitutional. The state
may not save itself from infringing an Act of Congress
by violating the Constitution.
We conclude that the amended act in substance and
effect imposes a tax upon federal bonds and securities;
and it necessarily follows that the act in sdbstance and
effect also imposes a tax upon the county and municipal
bonds. In both respects, the act is void. As to the
former, the act is in derogation of the constitutional power
of Congress to borrow money on the credit of the United
States, as well as in violation of the Acts of Congress
declaring such bonds and securities to be non-taxable;
and as to the latter, the act impairs the obligation of the
statutory contract of the state by which such bonds were
made exempt from state taxation.
Judgment reversed

Dissenting opinion of MR. JUSTICE STONE.
Petitioner is a corporation of the State of Massachusetts. Its very existence and the conduct of its business
in corporate form are privileges conferred by the state,
which, under the Constitution, it may tax. Under the
constitution of Massachusetts the present tax can be up-

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

SToN-E,

J., dissenting.

held only if an excise and it and its predecessors have been
consistently sustained as excises. S. S. White Dental Mffg.
Co. v. Commonwealth, 212 Mass. 35, 37; PortlandBank
v. Apthorp, 12 Mass. 252; Commonwealth v. Provident
Institution, 94 Mass. 312; Commonwealth v. Hamilton
Mfg. Co., 94 Mass. 298, 306; Eaton Crane & Pike Co. v.
Commonwealth, 237 Mass. 523, 527; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Commonwealth, 244 Mass. 547. This interpretation of the nature of the exaction has been repeatedly
approved by this Court. Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, 6 Wall. 611; Hamilton Co. v. Massachusetts, 6
Wall. 632; cf. Baltic Mining Co. v. Massachusetts, 231
U. S. 68, 84; National Leather Co. v. Massachusetts,
277 U. S. 413; Alpha Portland Cement Co. v. Massachusetts, 268 U. S. 203, 216. It is imposed "with respect to
the carrying on or doing business," and is collectible only
when the corporation has in fact been so engaged during
the taxable year, see Fore River Shipbuilding Corp. v.
Commonwealth, 248 Mass. 137, 140; Attorney General v.
Boston & Albany R. R. Co., 233 Mass. 460. It is measured
*by the value of the corporate assets (with appropriate
deductions for machinery and real estate otherwise taxed)
and by net income earned within the state, which this
Court has often said are fair measures of the exercise of
the corporate franchise. The tax is not measured by gross
income as in Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. v.
Wisconsin, 275 U. S. 136, where the validity of an excise
measured by net income including that from tax exempt
securities of the United States was recognized. The distinction between net income and gross as the measure of
a tax is well established. Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S.
165; compare Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania,245 U. S.
292; United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247 U. S. 321,
328. Being on net income, the tax does not vary in exact
proportion to the gross income from the tax exempt securities included in the aggregate.

636

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
STONE, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

There is no constitutional principle and no decision of
this Court, of which I am aware, which would deny to the
state the power so to tax the privileges which it has conferred upon petitioner, even though all its property
were tax exempt securities of the United States and income derived from them. For seventy years this Court
has consistently adhered to the principle that either the
federal or state governments may constitutionally impose an excise tax on corporations for the privilege of doing business in corporate form, and measure the tax by the
property or net income of the corporation, including the
tax exempt securities of the other or income derived from
them. Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, supra;
Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Hamilton Co.
v. Massachusetts, supra; Home Insurance Co. v. New
York, 134 U. S. 594; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S.
107, 162-5. In Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., a Federal tax
on corporations " with respect to carrying on or doing
business" measured by net income, was held to be an
excise, not a direct tax on property or income, and so was
valid, although not apportioned under Art. I, § 2, el. 3,
§ 9, cl. 4 of the Constitution and notwithstanding the'
fact that net income from tax exempt municipal bonds
was included in the measure of the tax. In no technical
sense does this tax seem open to objection. Being an excise the tax is not one on property or income and may
include either in its measurement although not directly
taxable.
Upon like principle a state inheritance tax may be
measured by including the value of United States bonds
of the decedent. Plummer v. Coler, 178 U. S. 115;
Blodgett v. Silberman, 277 U. S. 1, 12; compare Greiner
v. Lewellyn, 258 U. S. 384. Similarly an excise on a corporation may be measured by its outstanding capital stock,
InternationalShoe Co. v. Shartel, ante, p. 429; Hump Hair-

MACALLEN CO. v. MASSACHUSETTS.
620

STO.E, J., dissenting.

pin Co. v. Emmerson, 258 U. S. 290; or by its net income,
Underwood Typewriter Co. v. Chamberlain, 254 U. S.
113, 120; United States Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, supra,
even though a part of its capital is used in or some of its
income is derived from interstate commerce.
It would seem that only considerations of public policy
of weight, which appear to be here wholly wanting, would
justify overturning a principle so long established. It has
survived a great war, financed by the sale of government
obligations; and it has never even been suggested that in
any practical way it has impaired either the dignity or
credit of the national government.
I suppose a certain advantage would be enjoyed by a
corporation if the exercise of its corporate franchise in the
purchase and use of securities of one government could
not be taxed by the other. Theoretically the advantage
would inure to each government in the marketing of its
securities, just as would be the case if such securities of
the taxpayer could not be seized and sold for the payment
of any taxes lawfully levied by the state or national government. But the advantage of the one would be gained
only at the expense of the other, and it would seem that
neither immunity could be claimed under any reasonably
practical application of the rule that government instrumentalities may not be taxed. In a broad sense, the taxing power of neither state nor national government can
be exercised without having some effect on the other and
there are many points at which the exercise of the undoubted power of one affects the other, but" the limitation
upon the taxing power of each, so far as it affects the other,
must receive a practical construction which permits both
to function with a minimum of interference each with the
other; and that limitation cannot be so varied or extended
as seriously to impair either the taxing power of the gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
STONE, J., dissenting.

279 U.S.

ernment imposing the tax . .. or the appropriate exercise of the functions of the government affected by it."
See Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523.
Granted that a statute otherwise valid may be deemed
improper when intended as a covert means of directly
burdening ownership of securities of the other sovereignty,
see Miller v. Milwaukee, 272 U. S. 713, I can discern no
such sinster purpose in the present legislation. It was, of
course, the intention of the Massachusetts Legislature in
the amendment of § 30, to deal specifically not alone with
federal bonds but with the tax exempt securities of the
Commonwealth and its municipalities by including them
inthe measure of the excise tax. The amendment did not
aim at securities of the national government or discriminate against them. It was obviously designed to impose
on corporations generally, a tax similar to the excise on
national banks, measured by net income, recommended by
the legislative committee as a means of avoiding a then
existing discrimination. The inclusion in the measure of
the tax of income from all tax exempt securities tended
only to effect this purpose, a similar computation of net
income being contemplated for national banks. But in
neither case is there anything to suggest that the legislature intended to impose a direct tax on income or do more
than to impose an excise tax, measured by income, including that upon federal bonds, which this Court has declared
it may do. Its purpose was to prevent the evasion by
corporations of payment of the tax which the Commonwealth had fixed as the price of the privilege of doing
business within it in corporate form, by any course of
investment of their funds in tax exempt securities, state
or national. As this seems to me to be a permissible purpose both on principle and by authority, I think the judgment below should be affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE HOLES and AIR. JusTicE BRANDEIs concur in this opinion.

