LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
59

Syllabus.

policy of the statutes must extend equally to both. In
common speech the stockholders would be called owners,
recognizing that their pecuniary interest did not differ
substantially from those who held shares in the ship. We
are of opinion that the words of the acts must be taken
in a broad and popular sense in order not to defeat the
manifest intent. This is not to ignore the distinction between a corporation and its members, a distinction that
cannot be overlooked even in extreme cases, Behn, Meyer
& Co. v. Miller, 266 U. S. 457, 472, but to interpret an untechnical word in the liberal way in which we believe it to
have been used-as has been done in other cases. InternationalStevedoring Co. v. Haverty, 272 U. S. 50.
The other branch of the petitioner's argument seems to
us a perversion of the California law. The effect of that
law so far as it goes is to destroy the operation of a charter
as a nonconductor between the persons injured by a breach
of corporate duty and the members of the corporation, who
but for the charter would be liable. As suggested in Flash
v. Conn, 109 U. S. 371, it leaves the members to a certain
extent in the position of copartners. But that is the liability that the Acts of Congress mean to limit. Having
no doubt of the comprehensive purpose of Congress we
should not be ingenious to construe the California statute
in such a way as to raise questions whether it could be allowed to interfere with the uniformity which has been declared a dominant requirement for admiralty law.
Decree affirmed.

LEWIS

ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 182. Argued December 3, 4, 1928.-Decided March 5, 1929.
1. An offense, committed within the territorial limits of the Eastern
District of Oklahoma as then existing was indictable and triable

64

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioners.

279 u. S.

in the court of that district after the county where the offense
was committed had been transferred by the Act of February 16,
1925, (amending Jud. Code, § 101) to the new Northern District,
this jurisdiction having been reserved by the terms of the Act
and of Jud. Code, § 59. P. 70.
2. The court of the Eastern District, as it is since the transfer pf
territory, is the same court as before, and whether exercising its
jurisdiction over its restricted district or over transferred parts
of the former district, sits as one and the same tribunal. P. 71.
3. Consistently with the Sixth Amendment, a person who committed
an offense in a part of a judicial district which was subsequently
transferred to another district, may be indicted and tried in the
court of the (himinised district exercising jurisdiction pro hac vice
over its original territory, and the jurors, both grand and petit,
may be drawn exclusively from the diminished district. Jud. Code,
§ 277. P. 72.
4. Approval by the District Judge of the removal of all names from
certain coutie* from the'jury box, may be inferred from his action
in ordering a petit jury to be drawn from it after his attention had
been called to such removal. P. 72.
5. If a written direction from the judge be essential, under Jud.
Code, § 277, to a valid drawing of jurors from part of the district
only, it may be presumed to have been given, in the absence of a
showing to the contrary. P. 73.
22 F. (2d) 760; 26 F. (2d) 465, affirmed.

CERTIOIM, 278 U. S. 587, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals affirming a conviction for violations of
the national bunking laws.
Mr. R. L. Davidson, with whom Messrs. W. I. Williams
and Finis E. Riddle were on the brief, for petitioners.
The word "court," as a mental conception, has been
defined in Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 278, as "a
place in which justice is judicially administered. It is
the exercise of judicial power by the proper officer or
officers at a time and place appointed by law." And see
In re Steele, 156 Fed. 853; United States v. Clark, 25 Fed.
Cas. 441, Case No. 14804; In re Terrell, 52 Kan. 29; State
v. LaBlonde, 108 Oh. St. 126; Belford v. State, 96 Ark. 274.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
63

Argument for Petitioners.

Where territory has been transferred from one previously existing district to another previously existing district, the identity of the old district and the identity of
the old district court must be preserved in order to commence and proceed with the prosecution of crimes and offenses committed before the change. United States v.
Hackett, 29 Fed. 848; United States v. Benson, 31 Fed.
896; Lewis v. United States 14 F. (2d) 369. Distinguishing United States v. Peuschel, 116 Fed. 642.
There is a very marked distinction between a case
where the offense was committed in transferred territory
and a case where the offense was committed in territory
not transferred; and there is also a marked distinction
between a case where the prosecution is in the court of
the District to which the transferred territory has been
added and a case where the prosecution is in the court of
a district from which the transferred territory has been
taken.
Under the Sixth Amendment, the district must have
been ascertained by law prior to the commission of the
offense. United States v. Maxon, 5 Blatch. 360, 26 Fed.
Cas. 1220, Case No. 15748; United States v. Dawson,
15 How. 468; Cook v. United States, 138 U. S. 157;
United States v. Greene, 146 Fed. 776.
The indictment in this case must be found, and the
trial had, in the court of the old Eastern District by a
grand jury and a petit jury of that district as it was constituted and existed at the time the offenses are alleged
to have been committed. This was not done.
The court in which the indictment was returned and in
which the trial was had, had no jurisdiction to summon
grand or petit jurors from the ten counties of the old
Eastern District (including Tulsa County) which under
the Act of February 16, 1925, are included in the Northern District. Lewis v. United States, 14 F. (2d) 369;
Hale v. United States, 25 F. (2d) 430.
45228°-29---5

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

If petitioners had been indicted and tried in the court
of the old Eastern District as required by the Sixth
Amendment, § 59 of the Judicial Code, and the Act of
February 16, 1925, the court would have had jurisdiction
to summon both grand and petit jurors from the utmost
limits of the old Eastern District, including the ten counties referred to. United States v. Hackett, 29 Fed. 848.
See also Gut v. Minnesota, 9 Wall. 35; Salinger v. Loisel,
265 U. S. 224; Biggerstaff v. United States, 260 Fed. 926;
Mizell v. Beard, 25 F. (2d) 324; Ruthenburg v. fUnited
States, 245 U. S. 280; United States v. Peuschel, 116 Fed.
642; United States v. Standard Oil Co., 170 Fed. 988;
May v. United States, 199 Fed. 53, certiorari denied, 229
U. S. 617; Case v. United States, 14 F. (2d) 510; Rosencrans v. United States, 165 U. S. 257; 28 C. J.,§ 88, p.
797; Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263; 'United
States v. Hill, 26 Fed. Cas. 315, Case No. 15364.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Luhring and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUsTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the Court.
In 1925 the petitioners were indicted in the District
Court for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for violations
of the National Banking Laws alleged to have been committed in 1923 at Tulsa, in Tulsa County, Oklahoma.
Motions to quash and dismiss the indictment on the
grounds that the court was without jurisdiction of the
prosecution and that the grand jury had not been legally
constituted, and to quash the petit jury panel, were overruled. The petitioners were tried, convicted and sentenced. The judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 22 F. (2d) 760; 26 F. (2d) 465. And the
cause is here for limited review. 278 U. S. 587.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

63

The contentions of the petitioners are, in substance:
that the District Court had no jurisdiction, because when
the indictment was returned and when the case was tried,
Tulsa County, in which it was alleged the offenses had
been committed, was not within the territorial limits of
the district; and that the grand and petit juries were not
legally constituted because drawn from a jury box from
which the names of all persons from Tulsa and certain
other counties had been removed.
Under § 101 of the Judicial Code, enacted in 1911,
Oklahoma was divided into two judicial districts:-the
Eastern, embracing Tulsa and thirty-nine other counties;
and the Western, the remaining counties in the State.
In 1924-the two judges of the Eastern District not
having agreed upon the division of business and assignment of cases for trial-the senior circuit judge, pursuant to § 23 of the Judicial Code, made an order assigning
the holding of sessions of the grand jury and the receiving of indictments, etc., for the entire district," and all
other judicial business arising in or coming from certain
designated counties to the senioi district judge, and all
other judicial business in or from the remaining counties,
including Tulsa County, to the junior district judge, and
assigning the Tulsa County cases for hearing and trial at
Tulsa unless otherwise ordered by that judge.
By an Act of February 16, 1925,2 § 101 of the Judicial
Code was amended so as to divide Oklahoma into three
judicial districts: the Northern, Eastern, and Western.
The Northern District embraced ten counties, including
Tulsa County, which previously had been in the Eastern
'The reason for this, as stated in the order, was that the offices and
records of the marshal and district attorney were at Muskogee [a

court town in Muskogee County], and it had been the practice to
hold there the sessions of the grand jury for the entire district.
243

Stat. 945, c. 233.

68

OGTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

District, and two counties formerly in the Western District. The Eastern District -embraced the remaining
thirty counties which previously had been in that district.
The senior judge of the Eastern District was assigned to
that District; and the junior judge, to the Northern District. Terms of court for the Eastern District, were to be
held at Muskogee, Ardmore and three other court towns,
as before, and at two other places instead of Tulsa and
another court town which were placed in the Northern
District. And the clerk, in addition to keeping his office
at Muskogee, as before, was also required to maintain an
office in charge of a deputy at Ardmore. No other change
was made in the court for the Eastern District. By
§ 5 of the Act it was further provided that:
"The jurisdiction and authority of the courts and officers of the . . eastern district of Oklahoma as heretofore
divided between them by the order of the senior judge of
the Circuit Court of Appeals . . over the territory embraced within said northern district of Oklahoma shall
continue as heretofore until the organization of the district court of said northern district, and thereupon shall
cease and determine save and except . . as to the authority expressly conferred by law on said courts, judges or
officers, or any of them, to commence and proceed with
the- prosecution of crimes and offenses committed therein
prior to the establishment of the said northern district,
and save and except as to any other authority expressly
reserved to them or any of them under any law applicable
in the case of the creation or change of the . . districts
of district courts of the United States."
This last reference, it is plain, covered the general provision in § 59 of the Judicial Code that: "Whenever any
new district . . has been or shall be established, or any
county or territory has been or shall be transferred from
one district . . to another district . . , prosecutions for
crimes and offenses committed within such district, ..

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
63

Opinion of the Court.

county, or territory prior to such transfer, shall be commenced and proceeded with the same as if such new district . . had not been created, or such county or territory
had not been transferred, unless the court, upon the application of the defendant, shall order the cause to be removed to the new district . . for trial." 3
The Northern District was organized on April 1, 1925.
Thereupon, as provided by the Act of 1925, the divisional
order of the circuit judge as to the Eastern District ceased
to be operative; and the court of the Eastern District continued to function without any reorganization under the
senior district judge.
On April 7 the clerk and jury commissioner of the
Eastern District removed from the jury box from which
the grand and petit jurors were drawn, the names of all
persons from the ten counties that had been transferred to
the Northern District. Nearly two months thereafter the
senior district judge, presiding in the Eastern District,
made an order for the drawing of the names of grand
jurors for a term to be held at Muskogee. This was one
of the court towns of the Eastern District both under
§ 101 of the Judicial Code and the amendment of 1925,
and the town at which it had been the practice to hold
sessions of the grand jury for the entire district.' In consequence of the previous removal of the names of persons
from the ten transferred counties, the grand jury, as drawn
in pursuance of the judge's order, contained no persons
from any of these counties. The indictment was returned
in June, 1925, at Muskogee.
After the return of the indictment the fact that the
names of all persons from the ten transferred counties
sAt the hearing of the motion to dismiss the indictment counsel
for the petitioners, in answer to a question from the court, stated that
it was not their purpose to claim the right to be tried in the Northern
District.
4See note 1, supra.

70

OCTYOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

had been removed from the jury box was called to the
attenton of the judge by the motion to quash and dismiss
the indictment and the evidence offered in support thereof,
on which he ruled in July. Thereafter, in December,
1925, nearly eight months after these names had been removed, he made an order directing that petit jurors be
drawn from the jury box for a term of court to be held
at Ardmore-another one of the court towns in the Eastern District under both § 101 of the Judicial Code and the
amendment of 1925. The petit jury drawn in obedience
to this order likewise contained no persons from any of
the transferred counties. The trial was had at Ardmore
in January, 1926, before a district judge of Kansas, sitting by assignment, and the petit jury.
1. The contention that the District Court was without
jurisdiction in this case rests, in substance, upon the argument that the petitioners were not indicted and tried in
the court for the old Eastern District that had jurisdiction
in Tulsa County, but in the separate court created by the
Act of 1925 for the new Eastern District that was not the
same court as that of the old Eastern District and had
jurisdiction in only thirty of the forty original counties.
This, we think, is untenable. Rightly construed, the
Act of 1925--as shown especially by the specific provisions
of § 5, including the reference to § 59 of the Judicial
Code-did not create a new court for a new district, but
merely amended § 101 of the Judicial Code by limiting
the territorial jurisdiction of the court for the Eastern
District, for most purposes, to certain counties, while continuing its original territorial jurisdiction for the purpose
of commencing and continuing prosecutions for crimes
and offenses previously committed therein. In short, the
identity of the court was not changed; and it continued to
be, as it had been before, the court of the Eastern District.
Aside from the transfer of one of the judges, its officers
continued as before, retained the custody of its records,

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
63

Opinion of the Court.

and were charged with the same duties. And while its
territorial jurisdiction was reduced for most purposes, this
was not changed for the prosecution of past offenses, but
for that purpose remained as before-that is, as defined
and ascertained by § 101 of the Judicial Code. Compare
United Stiates v. Hackett (C. C.), 29 Fed. 848, 849; United
States v. Benson (C. C.), 31 Fed. 896, 898, in which the
opin:on was delivered by Mr. Justice Field as circuit justice; In re Benson (C. C.), 58 Fed. 962, 963; In re Mason
(C. C.), 85 Fed. 145, 148; Mizell v. Beard (D. C.), 25 F.
(2d) 324, 325.
We are further of opinion that the Act of 1925 did not
contemplate that the court for the Eastern District, sitting
in a dual capacity as the court for both the original and the
restricted district, should be reorganized and divided into
two distinct tribunals-one for the original the other for
the restricted district-but that it was intended that, sitting as one and the same court, it should from time to
time exercise either its original or restricted territorial
jurisdiction, as occasion might require. Here, the indictment-which was entitled in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma and alleged specifically that
the offenses had been committed in 1923 at Tulsa, "in said
district, and within the jurisdiction of this court "-was,
plainly, sufficient to invoke the exercise of its jurisdiction
as the court for the Eastern District sitting for the commencement and conduct of prosecutions of offenses committed prior to the amendment of 1925 within the territorial limits of the district as originally constituted.
We therefore conclude that the petitioners were both
indicted and tried in the court for the Eastern District,
sitting as the court for the entire original district, including the counties that had been transferred to the Northern
District after the offenses were committed. This was in
accord with § 5 of the Act of 1925 and § 59 of the Judicial
Code. And, as this district had been ascertained by § 101

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of the Judicial Code before the offenses had been cornmitted, there was no violation of the provision of the Sixth
Amendment granting an accused person the right to a trial
by a "jury 6f the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed, which district shall have been
previously ascertained by law."
2. Since the court for the Eastern District was sitting
pro hac vice as one for the entire district as originally
constituted, it had authority for the purposes of the prosecution and trial to draw and summon jurors from the
entire district, including the ten transferred counties. See
United States v. Hackett, supra, 849. It was not necessary, however, that this be done. The Sixth Amendment
does not require that the accused be tried by jurors drawn
from the entire district. Ruthenberg,v. United States, 2A5
U. S. 480, 482, and cases cited. Section 277 of the Judicial
Code provides that "Jurors shall be returned from such
parts of the district from time to time, as the court shall
direct, so as to be most favorable to an impartial trial,
4nd so as not to incur an unnecessary expense, or unduly
burden the citizens of any part of the district with such
service."
In the situation in which the court would deal occasionally with past offenses in which jurors from the ten
transferred counties would be eligible, but ordinarily with
cases in which jurors from such counties would not
be eligible, the judge might well have thought that
it would be most favorable to impartial trials and
avoid unnecessary expense or undue burden to the
citizens of these ten counties to return only jurors from
the thirty other counties-who would be eligible to service
in all cases. The evidence, it is true, does not affirmatively
disclose that he gave any such direction or required the
names of the persons from the ten counties to be removed
from the box; nor does it affirmatively show the contrary.
But since the names of these persons had been removed

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL.
63

Syllabus.

almost two months before he made the order to draw the
grand jurors-he did not direct those names to be restored
to the box-and his attention had been called to the removal of these names before making the order to draw
the petit jurors from the box-it fairly may be inferred
that he had either directed that the names be removed
or approved the removal before making the orders for
drawing the jurors.
And even if it can be regarded as essential, under § 277
of the Judicial Code, that the judge should have given
written direction to draw the jurors from part of the district only, still, as the contrary is not expressly shown,
such a direction may be taken as sufficiently established by
the presumption of regularity. See Steers v. UnitedStates
(C. C. A.), 192 Fed. 1, 4. It is the settled general rule
that all necessary prerequisites to the validity of official
action are presumed to have been complied with, and that
where the contrary is asserted it must be affirmatively
shown. Nofire v. United States, 164 U. S. 657, 660; United
States v. Royer, 268 U. S. 394, 398; and cases cited.
We find that the District Court had jurisdiction of the
case; that the constitution of the grand and petit juries
was not illegal; and that there was no invasion of the
petitioners' rights under the Sixth Amendment. The judgment is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY, LESSEE.
UNITED STATES v. NEVADA COUNTY NARROW
GAUGE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 238 and 304. Argued February 21, 25, 1929.-Decided March
11, 1929.
Under the Act of July 28, 1916, the Interstate Commerce Commission, in fixing the compensation to be paid by the United States

