WESTERN & ATL. R. CO. v. HENDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

WESTERN & ATLANTIC RAILROAD v. HENDERSON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 519.

Argued April 17, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

A state statute which, upon the mere fact of a collision between a
railway tram and a vehicle at a highway grade crossing and resulting death, raises a presumption that the railway company and its
employees were negligent in the particulars alleged in the complaint
(even where the allegations are conflicting), and that every act or
omission so alleged was the proximate cause of the death; which
makes the company liable unless it shows due care in respect of
every matter alleged against it, and permits the jury to consider
and weigh the presumption as evidence against the testimony of
the company's witnesses tending affirmatively to prove due care, is
unreasonable and arbitrary and violates the due process clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Mobile, etc. R. Co. v. Turnipseed,219
U. S. 35, distinguished.
167 Ga. 22, reversed.

APPEAL from

a judgment of the Supreme Court of

Georgia sustaining a recovery in an action for wrongful
death. The case was twice before the Court of Appeals
of Georgia, 35 Ga. App. 353; 36 id. 679. The appeal here
was at first dismissed for want of a federal question, but
a rehearing was granted, 278 U. S. 577.
Mr. FitzgeraldHall, with whom Messrs. Frank Slemons
and Walton Whitwell were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Reuben R. Arnold, with whom Messrs. W. E.
Mann, W.

G. Mann, and J. A. McFarland were on the

brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellee, Mary E. Henderson, sued to recover damages
for the death of her husband. He was killed near Tunnel

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Hill, Georgia, at a grade crossing of a public highway and

appellant's railroad, in a collision between a motor truck
that he was driving and one of appellant's railway trains.
The jury returned a verdict for her and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed in the court of appeals and in
the supreme court of the State.
The question presented is whether the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment is violated by § 2780
of the Georgia Civil Code. It follows: "A railroad company shall be liable for any damages done to persons,
stock, or other property by the running of the locomotives,
or cars, or other machinery of such company, or for damage done by any person in the employment and service of
such company, unless the company shall make it appear
that their agents have exercised all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence, the presumption in all cases being
against the company."
Plaintiff's declaration charges that the collision and
death were caused by negligence of defendant and its employees: in leaving the crossing in a dangerous condition;
in failing to sound the whistle to give warning or to keep
a lookout ahead as the train approached the crossing; in
that defendant's employees, after they saw the truck upon
the crossing, failed to stop the train but accelerated its
speed; in running at a dangerous speed; in not having the
train under control when approaching the crossing; in
operating the train by a "practically blind engineer."
The answer denied that defendant or any of its employees
was guilty of negligence and alleged that deceased came
to his death as a result of his own fault.
Plaintiff proved that her husband was killed in the collision. She also offered some evidence of negligent maintenance and a dangerous condition of the crossing. And
it necessarily appeared that the train failed to stop in
time to avoid the collision. Plaintiff offered no evidence,
and there was none in the case, to support her other alle-

WESTERN & ATL. R. CO. v. IENDERSON.
639

Opinion of the Court.

gations of negligence. Defendant offered much evidence
tending to show that it and its employees exercised due
care for the proper maintenance of the track and crossing and in the operation of the train and that neither it
nor any employee was guilty of any negligence charged.
The court's charge included the following: "When it
has been made to appear that injury or damage has occurred by reason of the operation of the locomotive and
train of cars of a railroad company, the presumption arises
that the railroad company and its employees were negligent in each of the particulars specified in the plaintiff's
petition, and the burden thereupon shifts to the railroad
company to show that its employees exercised ordinary
care and diligence in the particulars wherein they are alleged to have been negligent, and, unless it does so, the
fact of the injury or damage having been made to appear,
the plaintiff, suing for recovery of damages by reason of
such injury, would be entitled to recover. . .. The
burden is upon the plaintiff in this case to establish her
contentions by a preponderance of the evidence. That is
subject to the qualification already given you, that, when
the fact of the killing has been made to appear, the presumption arises that the defendant company was negligent in each of the particulars specified in the petition,
and the burden thereupon shifts to the defendant company to show that its employees exercised ordinary care
and diligence in such particulars."
Upon the mere fact of collision and resulting death, the
statute is held to raise a presumption that defendant and
its employees were negligent in each of the particulars
alleged, and that every act or omission in plaintiff's specifications of negligence was the proximate cause of the
death; and it makes defendant liable unless it showed due
care in respect of every matter alleged against it. And, by
authorizing the jury, in the absence of evidence, to find
negligence in the operation of the engine and train, the
45228°-29----1

642

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

court necessarily permitted the presumption to be considered and weighed as evidence against the testimony of
defendant's witnesses tending affirmatively to prove such
operation was not negligent in any respect.*
Appellee insists that § 2780 is valid, and argues that the
presumption, being one established by statute, has the
effect of evidence and that it is for the jury to decide
whether the company's evidence is sufficient to overcome
the presumption; that "it should not as a matter of law
be dissipated the instant any testimony is taken against
it," and that the issue is to be determined on a consideration of all the evidence including the presumption.
Legislation declaring that proof of one fact or group of
facts shall constitute prima facie evidence of an ultimate
fact in issue is valid if there is a rational connection between what is proved and what is to be inferred. A prima
facie presumption casts upon the person against whom
it is applied the duty of going forward with his evidence
on the particular point to which the presumption relates.
A statute creating a presumption that is arbitrary or that
operates to deny a fair opportunity to repel it violates the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Legislative fiat may not take the place of fact in the judicial
determination of issues involving life, liberty or property.
Manley v. Georgia, ante, p. 1, and cases cited.
The mere fact of collision between a railway train and
a vehicle at a highway grade crossing furnishes no basis
" The construction of § 2780 by the trial court is in harmony with
that given it in the higher courts of the state. Western & Atlantic
R. R. v. Thompson, 38 Ga. App. 599. Western & Atlantic R. R. v.
Dobbs, 36 Ga. App. 516. Central of Georgia Ry. Co. v. ,Barnett, 35
Ga. App. 528. Payne, Agent v. Wells, 28 Ga. App. 29. Central of
Georgia Ry. Co. v. Hartley, 25 Ga. App. 110. Georgia Ry. & Electric
Co. v. Bailey, 9 Ga. App. 106. Ellenberg v. Southern Ry., 5 Ga. App.
389. And see Georgia Southern & Florida Ry. v. Thornton, 144 Ga.

481.

WESTERN & ATL. R. CO. v. HENDERSON.
639

Opinion of the Court.

for any inference as to whether the accident was caused
by negligence of the railway company or of the traveler on
the highway or of both or without fault of anyone. Reasoning does not lead from the occurrence back to its cause.
And the presumption was used to support conflicting allegations of negligence. Plaintiff claimed that the engineer failed to keep a lookout ahead, that he did not stop
the train after he saw the truck on the crossing, and that
his eyesight was so bad that he could not see the truck in
time to stop the train.
Appellee relies principally upon Mobile, J. & K. C. R. R.
v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35. That was an action in a
court of Mississippi to recover damages for the death of a
section foreman accidentally killed in that State. While
engaged about his work he stood by the track to let a
train pass; a derailment occurred and a car fell upon him.
A statute of the State provided: ". . . Proof of injury inflicted by the running of the locomotives or cars
of such [railroad] company shall be prima facie evidence
of the want of reasonable skill and care on the part of the
servants of the company in reference to such injury."
That provision was assailed as arbitrary and in violation
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
This court held it valid and said (p. 43) "The only legal
effect of this inference is to cast upon the railroad company the duty of producing some evidence to the contrary. When that is done, the inference is at an end, and
the question of negligence is one for the jury upon all of
the evidence. . . . The statute does not . . . fail in
due process of law, because it creates a presumption of
liability, since its operation is only to supply an inference
of l'ability in the absence of other evidence contradicting such inference."
That case is essentially different from this one. Each of the state enactments raises
a presumption from the fact of injury caused by the running of locomotives or cars. The M\lississippi statute cre-

644

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

ated merely a temporary inference of fact that vanished
upon the introduction of opposing evidence. Gulf, M. &
N. 1?. Co. v. Brown, 138 Miss. 39, 66, et seq. Columbus &
G. Ry. Co. v. Fondren, 145 Miss. 679. That of Georgia
as construed in this case creates an inference that is given
effect of evidence to be weighed against opposing testimony and is to prevail unless such testimony is found by
the jury to preponderate.
The presumption raised by. § 2780 is unreasonable and
arbitrary and violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Manley v. Georgia, supra. McFarland v. American Sugar Co., 241 U. S. 79. Bailey v.
Alabama, 219 U. S. 219.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. SCEWIMMER.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 484. Argued April 12, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. Because of the great value of the privileges conferred by naturalization, the statutes prescribing qualifications and governing procedure
for admission are to be construed with definite purpose to favor and
support the Government. P. 649.
2. In order to safeguard against admission of those who are unworthy
or who for any reason fail to measure up to required standards, the
law puts the burden upon every applicant to show by satisfactory
evidence that he has the specified qualifications. P. 649.
3. On applications for naturalization, the court's function is to receive
the testimony, to compare it with the law, and to judge on both law
and fact. P. 649.
4. When, upon a fair consideration of the evidence adduced upon an
application for citizenship, doubt remains in the mind of the court
as to any essential matter of fact, the United States is entitled to
the benefit of such doubt and the application should be denied.
P. 650.

