SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 555.

Argued February 18, 19, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The chairman and any of the members of the Committee on Public Lands and Surveys of the Senate are empowered to administer
oaths to witnesses before the committee. Rev. Stats. § 101. P. 291.
2. Rev. Stats. § 102, prescribing punishment for refusal to answer before congressional committees, includes witnesses who voluntarily
appear without being summoned. P. 291.
3. While the power of inquiry of the respective houses of Congress
is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function,
it must be exerted with due regard for the rights of witnesses; a
witness may rightfully refuse to answer where the bounds of the
power are exceeded or where the questions asked are not pertinent
to the matter under inquiry. McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135. P. 291.
4. A naval petroleum reserve, in charge of the Secretary of the Navy
under the Act of June 4, 1920, 41 Stat. 812, was made the subject
of an executive order purporting to give the administration and
conservation of all oil and gas lands therein to the Secretary of the
Interior under the supervision of the President. The two Secretaries, at the procurement of the defendant, leased lands in the
reserve to a company of which he owned all the shares. Questions
having arisen as to the legality and good faith of the lease and an
attendant contract, and of others similar, and also as to the future
policy of the Government regarding such matters, the Senate, by
resolutions, directed its committee to investigate the entire subject of such leases, with particular reference to the protection of
the rights and equities of the United States and the preservation
of its natural resources, to ascertain what, if any, other or additional legislation might be advisable, and to report its findings and
recommendations to the Senate. Congress, also, by joint resolution,
reciting that the lease and contract were illegal and apparently
fraudulent, directed the President to cause suit to be instituted
for their cancellation, and to prosecute such other actions, civil or
criminal, as were warranted. After suit had been begun against

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

his company pursuant to this resolution, and while criminal action
was impending against himself, the defendant appeared before the
committee and was asked a question which sought the facts within
his knowledge concerning a contract executed by him for his company to pay certain persons for a release of rights in lands embraced
in his company's lease. Defendant refused to answer, not upon
the ground of self-incrimination, but for the reason that the investigation and the question were unauthorized. He was prosecuted
for contumacy, under Rev. Stats. § 102, and convicted. Held:
(1) Neither the investigation authorized by the Senate's resolutions nor the question put by the committee related merely to
the defendant's private affairs. P. 294.
(2) Under Art. IV, § 3 of the Constitution, Congress had
plenary powers to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the naval reserves; and the Senate had power
to delegate authority to its committee to investigate and report
what had been and was being done by executive departments under
the leasing Act, the Naval Oil Reserve Act, and the President's
order in respect of the reserves, and to make any other inquiry
concerning the public domain. P. 294.
(3) The validity of the lease and the means by which it had
been obtained under existing law were subjects that properly might
be investigated in order to determine what, if any, legislation was
necessary or desirable in order to recover the leased lands or to
safeguard other parts of the domain. P. 294.
(4) Neither the joint resolution directing legal proceedings, nor
the action taken under it, operated to divest the Senate or the
committee of further power to investigate the actual administration of the land laws; the authority of Congress, directly or through
its committees, to require pertinent disclosures in aid of its own
constitutional power is not abridged because the information sQught
to be elicited may also be of use in such suits. P. 295.
(5) A refusal of the committee to pass a motion that the examination of defendant should not relate to controversies pending in
court, and the statement of one of the members that there was
nothing else to examine him about, were not enough to show that
the committee intended to depart from the purpose to ascertain
whether additional legislation might be advisable. Investigation of
the matters involved in suits brought, or to be brought, under the
joint resolution, might directly aid legislative action. P. 295.
(6) A resolution of the Senate, the purpose of which, as plainly
shown by the context and circumstances, was to keep in force

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

through the next session of Congress an earlier resolution empowering the committee to summon and swear witnesses, should not be
denied that effect because of mistakes in its references to the date
and number of the earlier resolution. P. 295.
(7) The question propounded by the committee was pertinent to
matters it was authorized to investigate, relating (a) to the rights
and equities of the United States as owner of the land leased to the
defendant, and (b) to the effect of existing laws concerning oil and
other mineral lands and the need for further legislation. P. 297.
5. In a prosecution for the offence of refusing to answer a question
put to the accused as a witness before a committee of the Senate
(R. S. § 102), the burden is upon the United States to show that the
question was pertinent to a matter under investigation; any presumption of regularity in that regard is overcome by the presumption of innocence attending the accused at the trial. P. 296.
6. In a prosecution for refusal to answer a question before a committee of the Senate, it is the province of the court, and not of the
jury, to decide whether the question was pertinent to the subjects
covered by the Senate resolutions authorizing the committee's
investigation. P. 298.
7. In such a prosecution, the fact that the accused acted in good
faith on the advice of competent counsel in refusing to answer
a question put by the committee, is not a defense. P. 299.
8. A judgment imposing a single sentence on several counts of an
indictment may be affirmed under one count without considering
the others, if the conviction as to that count be sustained, and if
the maximum punishment authorized for the offense charged in
that count be not exceeded by the sentence. P. 299.
Affirmed.

REVIEw of a judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia sentencing the defendant, under
Rev. Stats. § 102, for refusing to answer questions before
a committee of the Senate. The case was appealed from
the trial court to the Court of Appeals of the District.
That court certified certain questions for instruction, and
this Court, by order, brought up the entire record.
Messrs. Martin W. Littleton and George P. Hoover
for Sinclair.
The indictment is bad for failure to state a crime, and
for lack of certainty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

The power to compel testimony is in derogation of the
Fourth Amendment. Its possession by the courts is justified upon the grounds of necessity. Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 211 U. S. 407; Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521; Boyd v. United States, 116 U. $.
616; Re Pacific R. Comm'n, 32 Fed. 241; Robinson v.
Philadelphia& R. R. Co., 28 Fed. 340; Matter of Barnes,
204 N. Y. 108; 4, Wigmore on Evidence, 2d ed., pp. 648,
650, § 2192.
In the Chapman case, 166 U. S. 661, it was recognized
that there was no general power of investigation, embracing the right to compel testimony, enjoyed by the Senate;
that statutes should receive a sensible construction, such
as will effectuate the legislative intention, and if possible
so as to avoid an unjust or absurd conclusion; that the
word "any" in § 102 R. S. refers to matters within the
jurisdiction of the two houses of Congress before them for
consideration and proper for their action; to questions
pertinent thereto and to facts or papers bearing thereon.
The senatorial inquiry in the Chapman case related to
charges of corruption on the part, of Senators, so the investigation was obviously within the judicial functions of
the Senate. The questions were obviously pertinent.
In Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, the situation
was in many respects parallel to the one here. There were
charges in each case concerning improper protection of the
rights and interests of the United States, and, although the
subject-matter of such charges was in litigation in the
courts having jurisdiction to ascertain and determine the
"rights and equities of the Government," the respective
committees were authorized to investigate those matters.
In the Kilbourn case, the Court reached its conclusion
not from the terms of the resolution itself, but from the
nature of its subject-matter. The presence or absence of a
clause similar to that embraced in the resolution of February 7, 1928 (S. R. 147), relating to possible legislation as

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

267

Argument for Appellant.

an objective, is not controlling, but, instead, the subject
matter and nature of the investigation itself.
The resolutions previous to that, by their very tenor,
undertake an investigation falling squarely within the
class involved in the Kilbourn case, namely, a judicial inquiry and an attempt at a determination "of the rights
and equities of the United States." Indeed, as shown by
Joint Resolution 54, Congress did "adjudicate" the validity of the leases and the charges of corruption, and, realizing that its own adjudication was of no validity, then "directed" the President to take the matters to the proper
forums for enforceable adjudication.
Consequently, it is manifest that any proceedings under
the resolutions preceding S. R. 147 would be absolutely in
excess of the power of the Senate, as held in the Kilbourn
case, and, so far as any further investigation even under
S. R. 147 should be pursued to the same end, the committee would likewise be in excess of its constitutional power,
notwithstanding, as was later decided by this Court in
McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135, it had power to
compel testimony when necessary for the effective discharge of its legislative function.
The situation in the Daugherty case was that the committee was at least dealing with a subject upon which
Congress might very properly legislate, and to aid which
an investigation of the character ordered might be very
useful, whatever may have been the actual design or objective of the investigation. Had Daugherty appeared
before the committee and had it attempted to pursue an
inquiry of the nature he claimed to apprehend it intended,
then he might rightfully have refused to answer, and he
would have been protected under the Fourth Amendment.
In People v. Webb, 5 N. Y. Supp. 585, notwithstanding
an avowal of legislative intent, the court, upon examination of the subject-matter sought to be investigated,
reached the conclusion-as did this Court in the Kilbourn

268

OCTOBIER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 TI. S.

case-that it clearly concerned "judicial questions," and
that it was beyond the power of the Legislature to compel
testimony.
It is of course obvious from what has been said by this
Court in the Kilbourn and Daugherty cases, and from the
statute itself, that even were the Senate proceeding upon
an investigation within its constitutional sphere, not all
questions which might be asked, but only "pertinent"
questions are required to be answered; and "pertinent,"
as here used, has a considerably wider application than its
technical application in the trial of causes in courts of law.
There issues are framed, and the judge can readily determine with exactitude whether a question is pertinent.
Here there are no issues; the only guide-post is the subject-matter of the inquiry. In this situation, it is to be
recalled that the limits of the power are the necessity qf
the evidence to the effectual performance of the constitutional function. Obviously no court would compel a witness to answer a question concerning his private affairs
over his objection on that ground, however relevant the
matter might be, if such matter was already admitted by
the answer. For, clearly, there would be no necessity for
it, notwithstanding the pertinency. Matter of Barnes,
204 N. Y. 108. And because of the very vagueness which
enshrouds a legislative inquiry where there are no issues
and questions of pertinency are not susceptible of determination by the usual standards; and because the power,
where it exists, is exercisable without the usual provision
for resort to the courts for judicial determination of the
necessity of the evidence, such as is frequently provided
by state legislation affecting the same subject; and because
the power is in its nature a direct invasion of one of the
most sacred liberties of a freeman, it behooves the courts,
when the exercise of the power is called in question, zeal-

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

ously to safeguard the rights of the citizen, to be sure that
the power is exercised rightfully and not to allow sentiments of delicacy at interfering with another branch of
the Government to intrude in the determination of that
question. Kilbourn case, 103 U. S. at p. 192.
In a case like this, the indictment must show facts from
which the court can determine as a matter of law that the
inquiry where the witness refused to testify was one within
the authority of the committee before which he appeared.
The indictment alleges that the committee was on
March 22, 1924, proceeding under a resolution of February
7, 1924, and other resolutions, and that pursuant to the
authority of all the resolutions an oath was administered
to the witness December 4, 1923, at a time when there was
no resolution in force authorizing the administration of
an oath. It is therefore apparent that the indictment does
not purport to charge that an oath was administered pursuant to any authority of the Senate.
Inquiries upon which the committee was engaged prior
to S. R. 147 of February 7, 1924, were in their nature
judicial in character, just as in the Kilbourn case, and
quite beyond the power of the Senate. Consequently,
it does not meet the requirements of a valid indictment to
couple together S. R. 2S2 of April 21, 1922; S. R. 294
of June 5, 1922, and S. R. 434 of February 5, 1923, with
S. R. 147 of February 7, 1924, which latter resolution for
the first time avowed-along with the continuance of the
judicial inquiry-a purpose in aid of legislation, as the
source of the authority to require the giving of testimony.
An inquiry pursuant to all the resolutions other than S. R.
147 would be clearly beyond the power of the Senate itself, to say nothing of the committee, and the committee
itself was without authority to summon witnesses either
December 4, 1923, or March 19, 1924, (when the accused

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

was "again summoned ") under the earlier resolutions,
although on the latter date it had such authorization pursuant to S. R. 147 of February 7, 1924.
It will be seen from an examination of each of the questions in the four remaining counts of the indictment that
on their face there is no apparent pertinency to any conceivable legislation; and it will be further seen that the
innuendoes completely fail to show any meaning to the
questions which would render them pertinent to any possible legislation on the subject. It will not escape notice,
however, that, given certain reasonable probable meanings, the questions would be quite pertinent to the judicial
phase of the investigation.
The court erred in overruling the motion of the defendant to direct the jury to return a verdict of not guilty,
because the questions propounded to the defendant called
for testimony relating solely to his private business and
the committee had no jurisdiction to make such an inquiry, and the witness rightfully refused to answer the
questions. Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; McGrainv. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135; Re Pacific R. Comm'n,
32 Fed. 241; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447; Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Comm'n,
211 U. S. 407; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237
U. S. 434; Federal Trade Comm'Wn v. P. Lorillard Tobacco
Co., 264 U. S. 298.
We maintain that an inadmissible and unlawful object
was affirmatively and definitely avowed by the committee.
Cf. McGrain v. Daugherty, supra, at p. 180. It is conceivable that a witness appearing before a committee
might be asked questions which, while directly relating to
litigation pending in the courts, might at the same time
bear upon some discernable contemplated legislation; but
in the case here, if we take the unquestioned statement of
Mr. Sinclair to the committee which shows his many

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

appearances and examinations between October, 1923, and
March, 1924, with the production of his books and papers,
which shows that prior to his appearance and declination
to answer in March, 1924, Congress had passed Joint Resolution 54, referring all matters growing out of the lease of
Teapot Dome to the courts, civil and criminal, for disposition; if we consider the colloquy between the members of
the Committee in the presence of Mr. Sinclair, and the
decision of the committee after the colloquy as to the line
of inquiry intended and about to be proceeded with, and
if we take the questions which followed and for the refusal
to answer which Mr. Sinclair was convicted, the conclusion
seems irresistible that the questions related to matters
beyond the bounds of the committee's power; that the
purpose of the committee in propounding the questions
was affirmatively and definitely avowed, and the witness
rightfully refused to answer.
The court erred in overruling the motion of the defendant to direct the jury to return a verdict of not guilty,
because there was no proof of an authorized inquiry, a
legal summons, or duly administered oath.
It is not even pretended that there is, by standing rule,
or even practice, a general authorization on the part of
the Senate to committees to summon witnesses. On the
contrary, the uniform practice of the Senate is to adopt a
resolution authorizing and instructing a committee to conduct an inqu'ry; such resolution either expressly authorizing the requiring of testimony, when such may be the will
of the Senate, or containing no such authorization, if that
may be its will.
The obvious purpose of § 101, R. S., is merely to capacitate the members of Congress to administer oaths. It is
elementary that an oath to be legal, must be one authorized by law. The Senate alone cannot make laws. Consequently, it was necessary that a law be enacted by the

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

two Houses which would simply capacitate a certain class
of persons to administer oaths in authorized circumstances.
What is relied upon for proof of the administratlon of
an oath, is the oath administered December 4, 1923; and
there is no proof of any summons having been issued or
served prior to the administration of that oath. An oath
taken before the commencement of a proceeding is extrajudicial as to such proceeding and of no effect.
Senate Resolution 147 broadened the scope of the inquiry directed to be made and absolutely superseded prior
resolutions. An oath taken by a witness before the committee under the superseded resolutions would not survive the adoption of Resolution 147.
In order to bring the witness under the condemnation
of 1§102, R. S., he must have been summoned by the authority of one or the other of the Houses of Congress and
must have been sworn as a witness to testify before a committee of one or the other of the Houses. The record is
barren of any evidence that he was summoned regularly
or irregularly to appear on December 4, 1923, and it is
clear that this is the only date and appearance on which
it is pretended any oath was administered.
It appears clearly from Senate Resolution 294, agreed to
June 5, 1922, which was an amendment to Senate Resolution 282, that the committee then, for the first time, was
authorized by the Senate to issue subpcenas for witnesses,
compel their attendance and administer oaths. Resolution 294 was not continued in full force and effect, and
without the authority conferred by it, the committee could
not have summoned witnesses, compelled their appearance
and administered oaths on December 4, 1923. The resolution under which it is claimed in the indictment and by
the Government elsewhere that the committee continued
to enjoy its authority under Resolutions 282 and 294 is
Senate Resolution 434, agreed to February 5, 1923, from

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

which it appears without ambiguity that the Senate resolved "that Senate Resolution 282, agreed to April 21,
1922, and Senate Resolution 292, agreed to May 15, 1922,"
should be continued in full force and effect.
Nothing appears in the record to show the subject,
matter of Senate Resolution 292. The claim that the
Senate, in continuing that resolution, fell into a typographical or clerical error, is mere argument and finds no
support in the record. This is fundamental.
We scarcely think that the second claim of the Government, that an oath was not necessary to bring the defendant within the operation of § 102, R. S., requires much
discussion. There is no compulsion upon the person appearing before such a committee to testify until he has become a witness, and he cannot become a witness until he
has been duly sworn.
Standing Rule XXV of the Senate provides (2) that
the committee shall continue until their successors are
appointed, and (1) that they shall be appointed at the
commencement of each Congress (Senate Manual, pp. 27,
30, 67th Congress, 4th Sess., Sen. Does., Vol. 9, No. 349);
thus automatically, by the appointment of the new committee, with the new Congress, the old committee is dissolved. Presumably, resolutions unacted on by a committee at the expiration of the Congress die with the committee, and if it is desired that the result shall be otherwise, it may be so resolved. There is nothing in the holding of this Court in McGrain v. Daugherty,273 U. S. 135,
that the Senate is a continuing body, that conflicts with
the foregoing view.
Even if it were supposed the original purpose of the
resolution was legislative (which we deny), that had been
completely accomplished, and the further activity of the
committee was but in seeking evidence to support the
litigation ordered instituted by Joint Resolution 54,
45228*29-18

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

S. R. 147 was co-extensive with S. R. 282 and S. R. 294
combined, an exact duplicate, save for the addition of the
avowal of legislative intent. Why would a completely
new resolution be passed, thus covering the entire field,
instead of a mere amendment to add the legislative
avowal, if it were not recognized by the Senate itself that
Resolutions 282 and 294, having been acted upon, were
no longer alive?
If there is insufficient ground definitely to draw the
legal conclusion that these prior resolutions (S. R. 282
and S. R. 294) were still in force March 22, 1924, it follows that there could be no authorized inquiry pending in
which the accused had been summoned and sworn as a
witness-essential ingredients of the offense-on that date.
The inquiry under S. R. 282 was purely judicial. The
rights and equities of the Government in these leases
could not be affected by any valid legislation. Only the
courts could deal with them. The contracts were executed, delivered, and in effect. If there was fraud in their
negotiation; if they were in excess of the authority of the
Government officials, the courts, and the courts alone,
could remedy that.
One cannot read the debates in the Senate with respect
to this inquiry and escape the conclusion that precisely
what the Senate was doing was attempting to reach a
legal opinion about whether the leases were invalid for
want of authority, and attempting to assemble evidence
to determine whether corruption had attended their negotiation. Clearly these were not matters that the Senate
could adjudicate. It is obvious that the committee had
constituted itself a grand jury. When they so far "forgot
their high functions" and indulged in "such an utter
perversion of their powers," Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168, and showed such "an absolute disregard of
discretion and a mere exertion of arbitrary power coming

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

within the reach of constitutional limitations," it is the
duty of the courts to interfere. Marshall v. Gordon, 243
U. S. 521.
The burden of proof is on the prosecution, and the query
is: Can this Court say beyond a reasonable doubt that
the committee was engaged upon an inquiry in aid of
legislation? It will not do to indulge a presumption to
that effect. No presumption known to the law is as strong
as the presumption of innocence. No presumption can be
indulged in the place of proof to establish an essential
ingredient of a crime. Egan v. United States, 52 App.
D. C. 384; Agnew v. United States, 165 U. S.36; Clyatt
v. United States, 197 U. S. 207; Lilienthal's Tobacco v.
United States, 97 U. S. 237; Underhill's Criminal Evidence, 2d ed., § 23; 3 Blashfield's Instructions to Juries,
2d ed., § 5675, p. 3599; State v. Shelley, 166 Mlo. 616;
West v. State, I Wis. 209; Lucas v. United States, 163
U. S. 612; State v. McDaniel, 84 N. C. 803; Commonwealth v. Whitaker, 131 Mass. 234; People v. O'Brien, 130
Cal. 1; People v. Roderigas, 49 Cal. 11; People v. Krusick,
93 Cal. 79; Lawson, Presumptive Evidence, 2d ed., pp.
525, 526; 2 Chamberlayne, Modern Law of Evidence,
§ 1228, pp. 1557, 1558.
The court erred in overruling the motion of the defendant to direct the jury to return a verdict of not guilty,
because there was no proof that the questions propounded
were questions of the conmmittee, or were pertinent to any
inquiry which the committee was authorized to conduct.
Not a shred of evidence was introduced to establish
the innuendoes. With respect to the first count, the
Government offered in evidence the contracts referred to
by the innuendo, and Senator Walsh testified that the
contracts in question had been before the connittee, but
nothing further in relation to it; nothing about any
"facts . . . touching the execution and delivery" of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

contracts which the innuendo alleges were meant to be
elicited by the question. The plain, reasonable inference
from the situation is that there were no such known facts,
but that the Senator was conducting "a fishing expedition . . . upon the chance that something disagreeable
might turn up," (Mr. Justice Holmes in Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434,) and manifestly
a fishing expedition for evidence to aid in the prosecution
of the civil and criminal proceedings then pending and
about to be instituted in the courts.
The position confronting the trial court at the close
of the evidence was entirely different from that subsisting on demurrer. By the failure to make any proof of the
innuendoes, the averment of pertinency then remained
unsupported by anything but the naked questions; just
as though the innuendoes had been stricken from the indictment. Searles case, 25 W. L. R. 384; Shriver case,
25 W. L. R. 414.
There would be no authority to presume the pertinency
of the questions here involved, for the simple reason that
it would violate the very fundamentals of the law of
presumptions. Immediately any evidence appears to undermine a presumption, it disappears, and proof must be
produced. 5 Wigmore, Evidence, 2d. ed., §§ 2490, 2491,
2493, pp. 448-454.
If we assume that a fact is pertinent only when it is so
connected, directly or indirectly, with a fact in issue, that
evidence given respecting it may reasonably be expected
to assist in proving or disproving the fact in issue, then
the question of pertinency is a question of fact, to be determined by logical reasoning and not by legal rules. But,
when the question of its pertinency is the essential ingredient of the crime charged, we maintain that the question is one which must be submitted to a jury along with
all of the other facts in the case, to the end that the ac-

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for Appellant.

cused may be afforded a trial by jury under the Sixth
Amendment of the essential ingredients of the crime
charged.
Distinguishing Chapman v. United States, 5 App. D. C.
122; and citing Thayer's Preliminary Treatise on Evidence,
Part II, pp. 264, 265; Jones' Commentaries on Evidence,
2d ed., p. 1086, et seq.
Every essential ingredient of the crime must be proven
to the satisfaction of the jury beyond a reasonable doubt.
Egan case, 52 App. D. C. 384; Agnew case, 165 U. S. 36.
Conceding, for the moment, that a situation may exist
where an essential ingredient of an offense involves a
question of law for determination by the Court, there being no conflict of evidence or other ambiguity attendant
upon the facts which are the basis upon which such legal
conclusion is predicated, still the court can not legally
withdraw from the jury the determination of the ultimate
fact upon which rests the question of the guilt or innocence of the accused. In such case the court should instruct the jury that if they believe the facts, the predicate
of their conclusion, the legal effect of them is to establish
the essential ingredient to which they relate. Sparf &
Hansen v. United States, 156 U. S. 51; 2 Brickwood
Sackett's Instructions, 3256-3267; People v. Clemenshaw,
59 Cal. 385; 3 Thompson on Trials, 2d ed., 1§5397, p.3220;
1 Cooley's Const. Lim., 8th ed., p. 678.
The court erred in excluding evidence offered to prove
that the witness rightfully refused to answer the questions.
The decision in McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135,
has, in effect, spelled into § 102, R. S., the element of wilfulness, or, at the very least, of scienter, and it must now
be given that construction to avoid running afoul of the
Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
A statute must not be so vague and uncertain in its
terms, lacking in definable standards, as to make it im-

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellant.

279 U. S.

possible for the citizen to know that in doing an act
(entirely free of moral turpitude) he is committing a
crime or has committed one. United States v. Fox, 95
U. S. 670; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U. S.
81.
In an inquiry in aid of leg'slation, we have no issues
and no standard to measure pertinency save the subject
matter; perhaps not even any settled tendency, trend or
direction of the proposed legislation. There may be vast
differences of opinion as to the nature of legislation that
should be enacted, which will ultimately be reconciled or
settled only long after the inquiry is completed. It may
be that there is in a Senator's mind, entirely unexpressed,
an idea, a theory for legislation concerning a subject within
the competence of Congress, to which a question might
be entirely pertinent and legitimate once such theory was
disclosed, without which, however, no relevancy could be
conjectured by any one other than the particular Senator.
Again, much evidence may have been taken before the
question was asked, and it may have developed facts
pointing very reasonably in the direction of legislation
concerning the subject-matter, and to those facts or that
state of facts the question now aske4 might be clearly
enough pertinent to one conversant with such antecedent
testimony; yet, any indication of relevancy would be
entirely wanting to bne not conversant therewith. How
could the defendant know what was in the Senator's
mind-unexpressed by the question-unless it would be
through a knowledge of extraneous circumstances referred
to that would make the meaning of the question evident?
Under McGrain v. Daugherty, supra, which announces
that "a witness rightfully may refuse to answer where the
bounds of the power are exceeded or the questions are not
pertinent to the matter under inquiry," in what manner
may a witness be advised as to whether the questions

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

United States, 220 U. S. 523; United States v. Grimaud,
220 U. S. 506; Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518.
The several Senate Resolutions show beyond peradventure that Congress was exercising its proprietary as well
as its legislative power over the naval reserves. Congress
was interested as a proprietor in obtaining recovery of
possession of those portions that had been fraudulently
and illegally leased, and as a legislature in the adoption of
legislation aimed to prevent a possible recurrence of such
fraud and illegality. Insofar as the unleased portions are
concerned, Congress was interested as a proprietor in having them properly administered, and as a legislature, in
having them protected against possible future frauds and

illegality.
We have an express declaration and avowal by Congress that one of the main purposes of the present inquiry was legislative. This declaration is entitled to full
faith and credit by this Court. This Court should indulge
the presumption that legislation was the real object of
the inquiry. It would be an unwarranted invasion of another branch of the Govermnent if our courts were to
lay down lines of demarcation beyond which Congress
might not advance in the pursuit of facts necessary to
achieve the purpose of its existence. Legislative functions are not to be controlled by a capricious, petty analysis of the objects of an inquiry instituted and maintained
by Congress.
The demurrer to the indictment was properly overruled.
It is difficult to understand how appellant can argue that
the indictment discloses on its face that the inquiry was
judicial and not legislative. Distinguishing Kilbourn v.
Thompson, 103 U. S. 168.
Under § 101 R. S. the chairman of the committee could
lawfully swear appellant, as he did on December 4, 1923,
regardless of the several resolutions of Congress authorizing present inquiry.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

279

Argument for the United States.

asked are beyond the bounds of the power of the committee or are not pertinent to the matter under inquiry?
Must he exercise that right without advice and at his peril,
and must the jury who are the triers of the ultimate fact
of his guilt be denied the evidence that he had endeavored
to exercise this right in accordance with the established
law?
Where the honesty of purpose and good faith of the defendant is in issue, evidence as to the advice of counsel
is proper and should be received and considered. Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 453.
It is submitted that when in McGrain v. Daugherty,
supra, this Court used the words " rightfully refuse," it
wrote into this statute the antonym of "rightfully," i. e.,
ccwrongfully" or "wilfully."
Whatever conclusion this Court may reach upon the
foregoing contention of the necessity of reading into the
statute the word "wilful," in situations such as here present, it will at least recognize the necessity of scienter to
constitute a crime. And although it is the rule in malum
prohibitum statutes that, a knowledge of the facts existing, one may be presumed to intend the consequences of
his acts, this is not an absolutely irrebuttable presumption.
Lehigh Coal & N. Co. v. United States, 250 U. S. 556.
Messrs. Atlee Pomerene and Owen J. Roberts for the
United States.
Congress has power to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books and papers, in order
that it may wisely administer the public domain and pass
such legislation as may prove necessary for the protection of the rights of the United States therein. McGrain
v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135; Henry v. Henkel, 207 Fed.
805, s. c. 235 U. S. 219; Const. Art. IV, § 3; United States
v. Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459. See also Light v.

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

Reference to the courts of the question of the validity
of the leases upon the naval oil reserves did not preclude
Congress from investigating further, for legislative purposes, the facts and circumstances attending the negotiation and execution of said leases. Cf. McDonald v.
Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463.
The objection that there was no proof of an authorized
inquiry is founded upon the contention that Senate Resolution 434, which was adopted on February 5, 1923, inadvertently referred to the earlier Senate Resolution 294
of June 5, 1922, as Senate Resolution 292, and therefore
did not re-enact the earlier resolution. We call attention
to the fact that this typographical error does not appear
in the original Senate Resolution 434, and is attributable
solely to a subsequent error in reprinting. This Court
will take judicial notice of the correct wording of the
original Senate Resolution.
The enactment of Senate Resolution 147 on February
7, 1924, cured any possible defect in the earlier Resolution
434, since it repeated all the matters contained in Senate
Resolutions 282 and 294, and added the further direction
that the committee should "ascertain what, if any other
or additional legislation may be advisable." A reading
of all the resolutions will demonstrate that the insertion
of "Resolution 292" in Senate Resolution 434 was a
clerical and typographical error; and that what the Senate
undoubtedly intended to do was to bring forward "Resolution 294." The manifest intention of Congress was to
carry on the investigation and, therefore, the inquiry was
a duly authorized one even if the defect had not been
corrected by the subsequent Resolution. See BrunswickBalke-Collender Co. v. Evans, 228 Fed. 991; School District v. Chapman, 152 Fed. 887; Northern Pacific Export
Co. v. Metschan, 90 Fed. 80; Ross v. Schooley, 257 Fed.
290.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for the United States.

Although Resolution 147 was not passed until February
7, 1924, yet Resolution 294, passed on June 5, 1922, was
still in force and effect, and it specifically provided for
the administration of oaths to witnesses by the chairman
of the committee or any member thereof.
Counsel for appellant blocked the committee from reswearing his client as a witness by his insistence that
appellant had been sworn by the committee, and was
"already under oath before the committee." It hardly
lies in his mouth now to argue that the indictment was
defective because appellant was not properly sworn as a
witness.
The questions propounded by the committee were
pertinent to possible legislation touching the public
domain.
Until the leased lands were recovered by appropriate
judicial proceedings, Congress could not legislate in regard
thereto. But that did not prevent Congress from adopting in the meantime new and further legislation for the
protection of the remaining portions of the public domain
from fraud and illegality; nor from enacting legislation
to regulate and preserve the leased lands upon their restoration to the United States.
The so-called private business of the witness was impressed with a public interest, since it related to the administration of the naval oil reserves as part of the public
domain. The language of the questions which appellant
refused to answer shows without other evidence that they.
relate to all phases of the dealings whereby appellant
succeeded in procuring a fraudulent and illegal lease of
Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 3.
So long as the information sought to be elicited is pertinent to a legislative inquiry, it is no defense that the
information relates to the private business of the witness.
In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, s. c., 8 App. D. C. 313;
McGrainv. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Argument for the United States.

Resolution 147, which was in force on March 22, 1924,
and pursuant to which appellant was subpoenaed to appear, expressly authorized the committee to "require the
attendance of witnesses, by subpcena or otherwise." Furthermore, under a proper interpretation of Senate Resolution 434, Senate Resolution 294 was in full force and
effect at the earlier hearing on December 4, 1923, and
therefore authorized the service of a subpcena on appellant for that hearing. However, § 102, R. S., does not
require a witness to be summoned by subpoena in order
to entitle a committee of Congress to compel his testimony.
The record shows that appellant was personally served
on March 19, 1924; also that he was served to appear on
December 21, 1923; and that he was thus subpenaed for
both hearings.
Resolution 294 was re-enacted by Resolution 434 and
there was specific authority in the committee to swear
witnesses at the hearing on December 4, 1923, as well
as general authority under § 101, R. S.
The uncontradicted evidence showed that the questions
propounded were questions of the committee. The proofs
clearly establish that they were pertinent to a legislative
inquiry respecting the administration of the public domain.
The pertinency of the questions was a question of law
for the court. In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, s. c. 5 App.
D. C. 137, 164 U. S. 436.
Almost all perjury statutes make the materiality of the
alleged false testimony a substantive part of the offense.
The courts have held without exception in a great many
cases that the question of the materiality of the alleged
false testimony is one of law for the court, and that it is
error for the court to submit the question to the jury.
Cothran v. State, 39 Miss. 541. See Mulane v. United
States, 20 F. (2d) 903; Jones v. United States, 18 F. (2d)

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

573; Brown v. United States, 16 F. (2d) 682; Horning v.
District of Columbia, 254 U. S. 135.
The scope of the investigation being conducted by the
committee was not an issuable fact. The trial court determined that scope pursuant to its duty of interpreting the
four Senate resolutions offered in evidence, and of which
it took judicial notice. Having determined the scope of
the investigation, it became the further duty of the trial
court to determine whether the questions were pertinent
to the inquiry. Having answered the question of pertinency in the affirmative, an issue of fact for the jury was
presented, viz, were the questions propounded by the committee, and did appellant refuse to answer them? This
issue of fact was left to the jury in the present case together with the other issues of fact.
No error was committed in excluding evidence of appellant's alleged lack of wilfulness in refusing to answer the
questions of the committee. The same argument was unsuccessfully made in the Chapman case, and the Court of
Appeals there held that proof of wilfulness in the sense of
bad faith or evil intent was unnecessary.
MR. JUSTICE BunTIE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellant was found guilty of violating R. S., § 102;
U. S. C., Tit. 2, § 192. He was sentenced to jail for three
months and to pay a fine of $500. The case was taken
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia; that
court certified to this court certain questions of law upon
which it desired instruction for the proper decision of the
case. We directed the entire record to be sent up. Judicial Code, § 239, U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 346.
Section 102 follows: "Every person who having been
summoned as a witness by the authority of either House
of Congress, to give testimony or tco produce papers upon
any matter under inquiry before either House, or any

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

285

Opinion of the Court.

committee of either House of Congress, willfully makes
default, or who, having appeared, refuses to answer any
question pertinent to the question under inquiry, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000 nor less than $100, and imprisonment in a common jail for not less than one month nor
more than twelve months."
By way of inducement the indictment set forth the circumstances leading up to the offense, which in brief substance are as follows:
For many years, there had been progressive diminution
of petroleum necessary for the operation of naval vessels; consequently the Government was interested to conserve the supply and especially that in the public domain.
Pursuant to the Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 847, the
President, by executive orders dated September 2, 1912,
December 13, 1912, and April 30, 1915, ordered that certain oil and gas bearing lands in California and Wyoming
be held for the exclusive use of the navy. These areas
were designated Naval Petroleum Reserves 1, 2 and 3,
respectively.
The Act of February 25, 1920, 41 Stat. 437, provided
for the leasing of public lands containing oil and other
minerals. And the Act of June 4, 1920, 41 Stat. 812, directed the Secretary of the Navy to take possession of
all properties in the naval reserves "on which there are
no pending claims or applications for permits or leases under the" Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, "or pending
applications for United States patent under any law," to
conserve, develop, use and operate the same by contract,
lease or otherwise, and to use, store, exchange or sell the
oil and gas products thereof for the benefit of the United
States. And it was declared that the rights of any claimants under the Leasing Act were not thereby adversely
affected.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

May 31, 1921, the President promulgated an executive
order purporting to give the administration and conservation of all oil and gas bearing lands in the naval reserves
to the Secretary of the Interior subject to supervision by
the President.
April 7, 1922, the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of the Interior made a lease of lands in Reserve No. 3
to the Mammoth Oil Company. This was done by the
procurement of the appellant acting as the president of
the company. The lease purported to grant to the company the right to take oil and gas and contained a provision selling royalty oils to the company. And February
9, 1923, a supplemental contract was made by which the
company agreed to furnish storage facilities for the Navy.
[Mammoth Oil Company v. United States, 275 U. S. 313.1
April 25, 1922, the same Secretaries made a contract
with the Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company for the sale to it of royalty oils from Reserves 1 and
2. December 11, 1922, another contract was made by
them. The purpose of these agreements was to arrange
that the company furnish storage facilities for the Navy
in exchange for royalty oils to be received by the United
States under leases then in force and thereafter to be
made. December 11, 1922, the same Secretaries made a
lease to the Pan American Petroleum Company purporting to grant to it the right to take oil and gas from Reserve No. 1. [Pan American Co. v. United States, 273

U. S. 456.]
The lease to the Mammoth Company and the contract
with the Transport Company came to the attention of the
Senate, and it was charged that there had been fraud and
bad faith in the making of them. Questions arose as to
their legality, the future policy of the Government as to
them and similar leases and contracts, and as to the necessity and desirability of legislation upon the subject.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

April 29, 1922, the Senate adopted Resolution 282, calling upon the Secretary of the Interior for information and
containing the following: "That the Cormnittee on Public Lands and Surveys be authorized to investigate this
entire subject of leases upon naval oil reserves with particular reference to the protection of the rights and
equities of the Government of the United States and the
preservation of its natural resources, and to report its
findings and recommendations to the Senate."
June 5, 1922, Resolution 282 was amended by Resolution 294 by adding a provision that the committee "is
hereby authorized . . . to require the attendance of witnesses by subpoenas or otherwise; to require the production of books, papers and documents . . . The chairman
of the committee,.or any member thereof, may administer
oaths to witnesses and sign subpoenas for witnesses."
February 5, 1923, the Senate passed Resolution 434.
which continued in force and effect until the end of the
Sixty-eighth Congress and until otherwise ordered, "Senate Resolution 282 agreed to April 21 [29], 1922, and
Senate Resolution 292, agreed to Iay 15, 1922." [The
Government suggests that, instead of the resolution last
mentioned there was meant Resolution 294 adopted June
5, 1922.]
February 7, 1924, the Senate passed Resolution 147,
directing in substance the same as it had theretofore done
by the two resolutions first above mentioned and also that
the committee "ascertain what, if any, other or additional
legislation may be advisable, and to report its findings
and recommendations to the Senate."
The committee proceeded to exercise the authority
conferred upon it and for that purpose held hearings at
which witnesses were examined and documents produced.
Appellant was summoned, appeared and was sworn
December 4, 1923.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

And the indictment charges that, on March 22, 1924, the
matters referred to in these resolutions being under inquiry, and appellant having been summoned to give
testimony and having been sworn as aforesaid did appear
before the committee as a witness. The first count
alleges that Senator Walsh, a member of the committee,
propounded to him a question which appellant knew was
pertinent to the matters under inquiry: "Mr. Sinclair, I
desire to interrogate you about a matter concerning which
the committee had no knowledge or reliable information
at any time when you had heretofore appeared before the
committee and with respect to which you must then have
had knowledge. I refer to the testimony given by Mr.
Bonfils concerning a contract that you made with him
touching the Teapot Dome. I wish you would tell us
about that."
And, to explain that question, the indictment states:
"said Hon. Thomas J. Walsh thereby meaning and intending, as said Harry F. Sinclair then and there well
knew and understood, to- elicit from him the said Harry
F. Sinclair, facts, which then were within his knowledge,
touching the execution and delivery of a certain contract
bearing date September 25, 1922, made and executed by
and between said Mammoth Oil Company, one F. G.
Bonfils and one John Leo Stack, which was executed on
behalf of said Mammoth Oil Company by said Harry F.
Sinclair as President of said Mammoth Oil Company, and
which, among other things, provided for the payment, by
said Mammoth Oil Company, unto said F. G. Bonfils and
said John Leo Stack, of the sum of $250,000.00, on or
before October 15, 1922, in consideration of the release,
by said F. G. Bonfils and said John Leo Stack, of rights
to lands described in said Executive Order of April 30,
1915, and embraced in the aforesaid lease of April 7,
1922," And that count concluded: "and that said Harry

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

F. Sinclair then and there unlawfully did refuse to answer
said question . . ."
Senate Joint Resolution 54 was approved February 8,
1924. 43 Stat. 5. It recited that the leases and contracts above mentioned were executed under circumstances indicating fraud and corruption, that they were
without authority, contrary to law, and in defiance of the.
settled policy of the Government; and the resolution
declared that the lands embraced therein should be recovered and held for the purposes to which they were
dedicated. It directed the President to cause suit to be
instituted for the cancellation of the leases and contracts,
to prosecute such other actions or proceedings, civil and
criminal, as were warranted by the facts, and authorized
the appointment of special counsel to have charge of the
matter.
Prior to March 22, 1924, appellant, at the request of
the committee, appeared five times before it, and was
sworn as alleged. March 19, 1924, a United States marshal at New York served upon him a telegram, which
was in form a subpoena signed by the chairman of the
committee, requiring him to appear as a witness; and he
did appear on March 22. Before any questions were put,
he submitted a statement.
He disclaimed any purpose to invoke protection against
self-incrimination and asserted there was nothing in the
transaction which could incriminate him. He emphasized
his earlier appearances, testimony, production of papers
and discharge from further attendance. He called attention to Joint Resolution 54, discussed its provisions, and
stated that a suit charging conspiracy and fraud had been
commenced against the Mammoth Company and others
and that the Government's motion for injunction and receivers had been granted, and that application had been
made for a special grand jury to investigate the making
45228"-29-----9

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S,

of the lease. He asserted that the committee could not
then investigate the matters covered by the authorization
because the Senate by the adoption of the joint resolution
had exhausted its power and Congress and the President
had made the whole matter a judicial question which was
determinable only in the courts. The statement con'cluded: "I shall reserve any evidence I may be able to
give for those courts to which you and your colleagues
have deliberately referred all questions of which you had
any jurisdiction and shall respectfully decline to answer
any questions propounded by your committee."
After appellant's statement, his counsel asked the privi-.
lege of presenting to the committee reasons why it did
not have authority further to take testimony of appellant.
In the course of his remarks he said: "Mr. Sinclair is
already under oath before the committee. . . . He is on
the stand now in every sense of the word, and the objection really is to any further examination of him on the
subjects involved in this resolution." Discussion followed,
and a motion was made: "That in the examination the
inquiry shall not relate to pending controversies before
any of the Federal courts in which Mr. Sinclair is a defendant, and which questions would involve his defense."
During a colloquy that followed, one of the members said:
"Of course we will vote it [the motion] down. . . . If
we do not examine Mr. Sinclair about those matters, there
is not anything else to examine him about." The motion
was voted down. Then the appellant was asked the question set forth in the first count, and he said: "I decline
to answer on the advice of counsel on the same ground."
Appellant contends that his demurrer to the several
counts of the indictment should have been sustained and
that a verdict of not guilty should have been directed.
To support that contention he argues that the questions
related to his private affairs and to matters cognizable
only in he courts wherein they were pending, and that

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

the committee avowedly had departed from any inquiry
in aid of legislation.
He maintains that there was no proof of any authorized
inquiry by the committee or that he was legally summoned or sworn or that the questions propounded were
pertinent to any inquiry it was authorized to make, and
that because of such failure he was entitled to have a verdict directed in his favor.
He insists that the court erred in holding that the question of pertinency was one of law for the court and in not
submitting it to the jury and also erred in excluding evidence offered to sustain his refusal to answer.
1. The Committee on Public Lands and Surveys is one
of the standing committees of the Senate. No question
is raised as to the validity of its organization and existence.
Under § 101 of the Revised Statutes, U. S. C., Tit. 2,
§ 191, its chairman and any of its members are empowered
to administer oaths to witnesses before it. Section 102
plainly extends to a case where a person voluntarily appears as a witness without being summoned as well as
to the case of one required to attend.
By our opinion in McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135, 173, decided since the indictment now before us was
found, two propositions are definitely laid down: "One,
that the two houses of Congress, in their separate relations, possess not only such powers as are expressly
granted to them by the Constitution, but such auxiliary
powers as are necessary and appropriate to make the express powers effective; and, the other, that neither house
is invested with 'general' power to inquire into private
affairs and compel disclosures, but only with such limited
power of inquiry as is shown to exist when the rule of
constitutional interpretation just stated is rightly applied." And that case shows that, while the power of
inquiry is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the
legislative function, it must be exerted with due regard

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

for the rights of witnesses, and that a witness rightfully
may refuse, to answer where the bounds of the power are
exceeded or where the questions asked are not pertinent
to the matter under inquiry.
It has always been recognized in this country, and it is
well to remember, that few if any of the rights of the
people guarded by fundamental law are of greater
importance to their happiness and safety than the right
to be exempt from all unauthorized, arbitrary or unreasonable inquiries and disclosures in respect of their personal and private affairs. In order to illustrate the
purpose of the courts well to uphold the right of privacy,
we quote from some of their decisions.
In Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, this court,
speaking through Mr. Justice Miller, said (p. 190):
. . .we are sure that no person can be punished for contumacy as a witness before either House, unless his
testimony is required in a matter into which that House
has jurisdiction to inquire, and we feel equally sure that
neither of these bodies possesses the general power of
making inquiry into the private affairs of the citizen."
And referring to the failure of the authorizing resolution
there under consideration to state the purpose of the inquiry (p. 195): "Was it to be simply a fruitless investigation into the personal affairs of individuals? If so, the
House of Representatives had"no power or authority in
the matter more than any other equal, number of gentlemen interested for the government of their country. By
'fruitless' we mean that it could result in no valid legislation on the subject to which the inquiry referred."
In Re Pacific Railway Commission, (Circuit Court, N.
D., California) 32 Fed. 241, Mr. Justice Field, announcing
the opinion of the court, said (p. 250): "Of all the rights
of the citizen, few are of greater importance or more essential to his peace and happiness than the right of
personar security, and that involves, not merely protec-

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

tion of his person from assault, but exemption of his
private affairs, books, and papers from the inspection and
scrutiny of others. Without the enjoyment of this right,
all other rights would lose half their value." And the
learned Justice, referring to Kilbourn v. Thompson, supra,
said (p. 253): "This case will stand for all time as a
bulwark against the invasion of the right of the citizen
to protection in his private affairs against the unlimited
scrutiny of investigation by a congressional committee."
And see concurring opinions of Circuit Judge Sawyer, p.
259 at p. 263, and of District Judge Sabin, p. 268 at
p. 269.
In Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 447, Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for the court said
(p. 478): "We do not overlook these constitutional limitations which, for the protection of personal rights, must
necessarily attend all investigations conducted under the
authority of Congress. Neither branch of the legislative
department, still less any merely administrative body,
established by Congress, possesses, or can be invested
with, a general power of making inquiry into the private
affairs of the citizen. . . . We said in Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, 630,-and it cannot be too often
repeated,-that the principles that embody the essence of
constitutional liberty and security forbid all invasions on
the part of the government and its employs of the
sanctity of a man's home and the privacies of his life."
Harrimanv. Interstate Commerce Commission, 211 U.
S. 407, illustrates the unwillingness of this court to construe an Act of Congress to authorize any examination
of witnesses in respect of their personal affairs. And see
United States v. Louisville & Nashville R. R., 236 U. S.
318, 335.
In Federal Trade Commission v. American, Tobacco Co.,
264 U. S. 298, this court said (pp. 305-306): "Anyone who
respects the spirit as well as the letter of the Fourth

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Amendment would be loath to believe that Congress intended to authorize one of its subordinate agencies to
sweep all our traditions into the fire (Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154 U. S. 447, 479), and
to direct fishing expeditions into private papers on the
possibility that they may disclose evidence of crime. We
do not discuss the question whether it could do so if it
tried, as nothing short of the most explicit language would
induce us to attribute to Congress that intent . ..
It is contrary to the first principles of justice to allow
a search through all the respondents' records, relevant or
irrelevant, in the hope that something will turn up."
2. But it is clear that neither the investigation authorized by the Senate resolutions above mentioned nor the
question under consideration related merely to appellant's private or personal affairs. Under the Constitution
(Art. IV, § 3) Congress has plenary power to dispose of
and to make all needful rules and regulations respecting
the naval oil reserves, other public lands and property
of the United States. And undoubtedly the Senate had
power to delegate authority to its committee to investigate and report what had been and was being done by
executive departments under the Leasing Act, the Naval
Oil Reserve Act, and the President's order in respect of
the reserves, and to make any other inquiry concerning
the public domain.
While appellant caused the Mammoth .0il Company
to be organized and owned all its shares, the transaction
purporting to lease to it the lands within the reserve can
not be said to be merely or principally the personal or
private affair of appellant. If was a matter of concern
to the United States. The title to valuable government
lands was involved. The validity of the lease and the
means by which it had been obtained under existing law
were subjects that properly might be investigated in order

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

to determine what if any legislation was necessary or desirable in order to recover the leased lands or to safeguard
other parts of the public domain.
Neither Senate Joint Resolution 54 nor the action
taken under it operated to divest the Senate, or the committee, of power further to investigate the actual administration of the land laws. It may be conceded that Congress is without authority to compel disclosures for the
purpose of aiding the prosecution of pending suits; but
the authority of that body, directly or through its committees, to require pertinent disclosures in aid of its own
constitutional power is not abridged because the information sought to be elicited may also be of use in such suits.
The record does not sustain appellant's contention that
the investigation was avowedly not in aid of legislation.
He relies on the refusal of the committee to pass the motion directing that the inquiry should not relate to controversies pending in court, and the statement of one
of the members that there was nothing else to examine
appellant about. But these are not enough to show that
the committee intended to depart from the purpose to
ascertain whether additional legislation might be advisable. It is plain that investigation of the matters involved
in suits brought or to be commenced under Senate Joint
Resolution 54 might directly aid in respect of legislative
action.
3. There is no merit in appellant's contention that a
verdict should have been directed for hin because the
evidence failed to show that the committee was authorized to make the inquiry, summon witnesses and administer oaths. Resolutions 282 and 294 were sufficient until
the expiration of the Sixty-seventh Congress during which
they were adopted, but it is argued that Resolution 434
was not effective to extend the power of the committee.
As set out in the indictment and shown by the record,

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Resolution 434 does not mention 294 or refer to the date
of its adoption. The former so far as material follows:
"Resolved, That Senate Resolution 282, agreed to- April
21, 1922, and Senate Resolution 292, agreed to May 15,
1922, authorizing and directing the Committee on Public Lands and Surveys to investigate the entire subject
of leases upon naval oil reserves, with particular reference to the protection of the rights and equities of the
Government of the United States and the preservation
of its natural resources, and to report its findings and
recommendations to the Senate . . . be . . . continued
in full force and effect until the end of the Sixty-eighth
Congress. The committee . . . is authorized to sit . . .
after the expiration of the present Congress until the
assembling of the Sixty-eighth Congress and until otherwise ordered by the Senate."
There is enough in that resolution to show that where
"292" appears 294 was meant. The subject of the investigation is specifically mentioned. That is the only
matter dealt with. The sole purpose was to authorize
the committee to carry on the inquiry. It would be quite
unreasonable, if not indeed absurd, for the Senate to direct investigation by the committee and to allow its power
to summon and swear witnesses to lapse. The context
and circumstances show that Resolution 294 was intended
to be kept in force. See School Liistrict No. 11 v. Chapman, 152 Fed. 887, 893-894.
4. Appellant earnestly maintains that the question was
not shown to be pertinent to any inquiry the committee
was authorized to make. The United States suggests
that the presumption of regularity is sufficient without
proof. But, without determining whether that presumption is applicable to such a matter, it is enough to say
that the stronger presumption of innocence attended the
accused at the trial. It was therefore incumbent upon
the United States to plead and show that the question

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

pertained to some matter under investigation. Appellant
makes no claim that the evidence was not sufficient to
establish the innuendo alleged in respect of the question;
the record discloses that the proof on that point was
ample.
Congress, in addition to its general legislative power
over the public domain, had all the powers of a proprietor
and was authorized to deal with it as a private individual
may deal with lands owned by him. United States v.
Midwest Oil Co., 236 U. S. 459, 474. The committee's
authority to investigate extended to matters affecting the
interest of the United States as owner as well as to those
having relation to the legislative function.
Before the hearing at which appellant refused to
answer, the committee had discovered and reported facts
tending to warrant the passage of Senate Joint Resolution
54 and the institution of suits for the cancellation of the
naval oil reserve leases. Undoubtedly it had authority
further to investigate concerning the validity of such
leases, and to discover whether persons, other than those
who had been made defendants in the suit against the
Mammoth Oil Company, had or might assert a right or
claim in respect of the lands covered by the lease to that
company.
The contract and release made and given by Bonfils and
Stack related directly to the title to the lands covered by
the lease which had been reported by the committee as
unauthorized and fraudulent. The United States proposed to recover and hold such lands as a source of supply
of oil for the Navy. S. J. Res. 54. It is clear that the
question so propounded to appellant was pertinent to the
committee's investigation touching the rights and equities
of the United States as owner.
Moreover, it was pertinent for the Senate to ascertain
the practical effect of recent changes that had been made

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

in the laws relating to oil and other mineral lands in the
public domain. The leases and contracts charged to have
been unauthorized and fraudulent were made soon after
the executive order of May 31, 1921.. The title to the lands
in the reserves could not be cleared without ascertaining
whether there were outstanding any claims or applications
for permits, leases or patents under the Leasing Act or
other laws. It was necessary for the Government to take
into account the rights, if any there were, of such claimants. The reference in the testimony of Bonfils to the
contract referred to in the question propounded was sufficient to put the committee on inquiry concerning outstanding claims possibly adverse and superior to the Mammoth Oil Company's lease. The question propounded
was within the authorization of the committee and the
legitimate scope of investigation to enable the Senate to
determine whether the powers granted to or assumed by
the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the
Navy should be withdrawn, limited, or allowed to remain
'unchanged.
5. The question of pertinency under § 102 was rightly
decided by the court as one of law. It did not depend
upon the probative value of evidence. That question
may be likened to those concerning relevancy at the trial
of issues in court, and it is not essentially different from
the question as to materiality of false testimony charged
as perjury in prqsecutions for that crime. Upon reasons
sQ well known that their repetition is unnecessary it is
uniformly held that relevancy is a question of law.
Greenleaf on Evidence (13th ed.) § 49. Wigmore on
Evidence, §§ 2549, 2550. And the materiality of what is
falsely sworn, when an element in the crime of perjury,
is one for the court. Carrollv. United States, 16 F. (2d)
948, 950. United States v. Singleton, 54 Fed. 488.
Cothran v. State, 39 Miss. 541, 547.

SINCLAIR v. UNITED STATES.
263

Opinion of the Court.

The reasons for holding relevancy and materiality to
be questions of law in cases such as those above referred
to apply with equal force to the determination of pertinency arising under § 102. The matter for determination
in this case was whether the facts called for by the question were so related to the subjects covered by the Senate's
resolutions that such facts reasonably could be said to be
"pertinent to the question under inquiry." It would be
incongruous and contrary to well-established principles
to leave the determination of such a matter to a jury.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, supra, 489.
Horning v. District of Columbia, 254 U. S. 135.
6. There is no merit in appellant's contention that he is
entitled to a new trial because the court excluded evidence
that in refusing to answer he acted in good faith on the
advice of competent counsel. The gist of the offense is
refusal to answer pertinent questions. No moral turpitude is involved. Intentional violation is sufficient to
constitute guilt. There was no misapprehension as to
what was called for. The refusal to answer was deliberate. The facts sought were pertinent as a matter of law,
and § 102 made it appellant's duty to answer. He was
bound rightly to construe the statute. His mistaken view
of the law is no defense. Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 209 U. S. 56, 85. Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v.
United States, 226 U. S. 20, 49.
7. The conviction on the first count must be affirmed.
There were ten counts, demurrer was sustained as to four.
nolle prosequi was entered in respect of two, and conviction was had on the first, fourth, fifth and ninth counts.
As the sentence does not exceed the maximum authorized
as punishment for the offense charged in the first count,
we need not consider any other count. Abrams v. United
States, 250 U. S. 616, 619.
Judgment affirmed.

