OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

complished if eyes were examined in a great many cases
where hitherto they have not been, and the balancing of
the considerations of advantage and disadvantage is for
the legislature not for the Courts. We cannot say, as the
complainants would have us say, that the supposed benefits are a cloak for establishing a monopoly and a pretence.
Decree affirmed.

POSADOS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. WARNER, BARNES & COMPANY, LTD.
POSADOS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. MENZI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 251 and 252. Argued February 26, 1929.-Decided April 22,
1929.
1. The graduated tax rates on stock dividends imposed by Act
2833 of the Philippine Islands, as amended, apply only to individuals; and the objection that they infringe the rule of uniformity
prescribed by the Organic Act is not available to a corporation
which has been taxed only at the flat rate. P. 343.
2. Neither can this objection be maintained by an individual who
fails to show the rate at which he was assessed or any facts to
support the suggestion that the required uniformity was lacking.
P. 346.
3. The provision of the Organic Act that no bill shall embrace more
than one subject, vhich shall be expressed in the title, is not
violated by including in a bill entitled as establishing -an income
tax, a tax on stock dividends, which is not strictly an income tax.
P. 343.
4. A former decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
that stock dividends were not taxable as income under the Act
here under consideration, held not binding in this case as a rule
of property. P. 345.
5. The doctrine of stare decisis does not apply with full force prior
to decision in the court of last resort, e. g., not to a decision of

POSADOS v. WARNER, B. & CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court of the Philippines which was reviewable by this
Court. P. 345.
6. The Philippine Legislature has power to lay a tax in respect of
the advantage resulting to recipients from the allotment and delivery of stock dividends. P. 345.
Reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U.

S. 588, to review judgments of the

Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands sustaining recoveries of money collected from the plaintiffs, respolidents
here, as taxes on stock dividends.
Mr. Win. Cattron Rigby, Judge Advocate, with whom
Messrs. Edward A. Kreger, Judge Advocate General,
U. S. A., and Delfin Jaranilla,Attorney General of the
Philippine Islands, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Martin Taylor presented the oral argument for
respondents, and Messrs. Clyde Alton DeWitt and Eugene
Arthur Perkins submitted a brief in behalf of respondent
Warner, Barnes & Co., Ltd.
MR. JUSTICE BuTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
No. 251.
Respondent sued petitioner in the court of first instance
of Manila to recover a tax alleged to have been illegally
imposed on a stock dividend. The tax was levied under
Act 2833 of the Philippine Islands, approved March 7,
1919, as amended by Act 2926, March 26, 1920. The
provision here involved is substantially like that in § 2(a)
of. the Revenue Act of 1916 for the United States, which
was held invalid in Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189.
The trial court deemed that and other decisions of this
Court authoritative, held the stock dividend was not income, and gave judgment for plaintiff. Defendant appealed to the supreme court. One of the justices was

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

disqualified because as Attorney General he had acted
for the defendant in this case. The appeal was submitted to the court consisting of eight justices who divided evenly. Then the case was referred to the first
division consisting of five justices. § 138, Revised Administrative Code of 1917. The opinion of the division,
four justices concurring and one dissenting, upheld the
lower court, and thereupon the supreme court affirmed
the judgment.
There was an agreed statement of facts, the substance
of which follows. Respondent is a British corporation
authorized to carry on business in the Philippine Islands.
In 1923, it owned stock in a domestic corporation and
received a dividend of profits accruing since March 1,
1913, which was paid by the company in its shares having
a par value of 43,500 pesos. Petitioner, as Collector of
Internal Revenue, included the amount in respondent's
income for 1923 and levied thereon the tax in question.
Respondent paid under protest, requested petitioner to
refund the amount and, that being refused, brought this
suit.
Section 1 (a) imposes an annual normal tax of three per
cent. upon the net income of individuals; and § 1 (b) provides that, in additioh to such tax there shall be levied and
paid upon such income graduated surtaxes at specified
rates.
Section 2 (a) provides:
... The taxable net income
of a person shall include gains, profits, and income derived
from salaries . . . also from ... dividends ... or gains,
profits and income derived from any source whatever."
Section 10 (a) provides: "There shall be . . . paid
annually upon the total net income received in the preceding calendar year from all sources by every corporation . . . a tax of three per centum upon such income
. . . including the income derived from dividends ...
"

POSADOS v. WARNER, B. & CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

Section 25 (a) provides: "The term 'dividends' as
used in this Law shall be held to mean any distribution
made or ordered to be made by a corporation . . . out of
its earnings or profits accrued since March first, nineteen
hundred and thirteen, and payable to its shareholders,
whether in cash or in stock of the corporation . . . Stock
dividend shall be considered income, to the amount of the
earnings or profits distributed."
The petitioner admits that, strictly speaking, a stock
dividend is not income. But he insists, and respondent
concedes, that, in the absence of constitutional restriction,
such dividends may be taxed. And the parties agree
that the tax in question is within the scope and intent of
the statute.
The supreme court held that the tax on stock dividends
is a property tax and that the graduated rates infringe the
provision of § 3 of the organic act of August 9, 1916,
c. 416, 39 Stat. 545, which declares that the rule of taxation in the Islands shall be uniform. But in this case
that point has no foundation in fact. The graduated
rates are applied and imposed only upon individuals. § 1
(b). Corporations such as respondent are subject only
to a flat rate of three per cent. § 10(a). And that rate
applied to the stock dividend produced 1305 pesos, the
tax paid. The rule of uniformity was not transgressed.
And in support of the judgment below it is insisted that
the provision imposing a tax upon stock dividends violates
that clause of § 3 of the Organic Act which declares:
"That no bill which may be enacted into law shall embrace more than one subject, and that subject shall be
expressed in the title of the bill."
Act 2833 is entitled: "An Act establishing the income
tax, making other provisions relating to said tax, and
amending certain sections of Act Numbered Twenty-seven
hundred and eleven." The insular supreme court held

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

that the subject of the Act was not adequately expressed
because a tax on stock dividends is one upon capital,
while the title specified only the income tax.. But in our
opinion that is too strict a construction. Provisions in
substance the same as that above quoted are found in
many state constitutions. The purpose is to prevent the
inclusion of incongruous and unrelated matters in the
same measure and to guard against inadvertence, stealth
and fraud in legislation. When bills conform to such requirements, their titles serve conveniently to apprise
legislators and the public of the subjects under consideration. Courts strictly enforce such provisions in cases that
fall within the reasons on which they rest. But, as freedora required or convenient for the effective exertion
of the legislative power ought not unnecessarily or lightly
to be interfered with, the courts disregard mere verbal
inaccuracies, resolve doubts in favor of validity, and hold
that, in order to warrant the setting aside of enactments
for failure to comply with the rule, the violation must be
substantial and plain. Louisiana v. Plsbury, 105 U. S.
278, 289. Montclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U. S. 147, 153.
Read v. Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568, 578. City of South
St. Paul v. Lamprecht Bros. Co., 88 Fed. 449, 451. Johnson v. Harrison,47 Minn. 575. Cooley's Constitutional
Limitations (7th ed.) p. 202 et seq. Sutherland, Statutory Construction (2d ed.) §§ 111, 115-118. The Philippine income tax law was passed before our decision in
Eisner v. Macomber, supra. The Revenue Acts of 1916
and 1918, after which that measure was patterned, treated
stock dividends as income. It was then well known by
those giving attention to that sort of taxation that Congress treated stock dividends as taxable income. The inclusion of such distributions within the meaning of "income" as used in taxing statutes was not calculated or
likely to mislead. The title was sufficient to notify legislators and others interested that the bill might include

POSADOS v. WARNER, B. & CO.
340

Opinion of the Court.

and tax stock dividends. Tax Commissioner v. Putnam,
227 Mass. 522, 531. And that form of property was not
so unrelated to the subject of the bill as expressed in
the title that its inclusion was within the mischief which
the quoted provision of the Organic Act was intended to
prevent. The point cannot be sustained.
In Fisherv. Trinidad,43 Phil. 973, the insular supreme
court held that stock dividends are not taxable as income
under the Act hereunder considered. The opinion of the
first division in this case cites that decision and states that
it has become a rule of property. Respondent supports
that view, argues that the shareholders and the corporation had a right to rely on that decision, and asserts that
it disposes of the issues here presented.
The question in that case arose upon demurrer to the
complaint. The decision was announced October 30,
1922. Subsequently, the taxpayer withdrew his protest
and the case was dismissed as moot six months before
this suit was commenced. 45 Phil. 751. The even division of the eight justices and the opinion of the first division in this case make it clear that the supreme court
itself did not consider the question of the taxability of
Etock dividends as income to be foreclosed. The decisions
of the highest court of the Philippines on suchi questions
are reviewable here. The doctrine of stare decisis does
not apply with full force prior to decision in the court of
last resort. The circumstances negative the claim that
the case established any "rule of property." Calhoun
G. M. Co. v. Ajax G. M. Co., 27 Colo. 1, 11.
Moreover, Fisher v. Trinidad merely decided that
"stock dividends" are not taxable as "income" under
the Act. Petitioner does not combat that view or claim
that such distributions do constitute income. The Philippine Legislature has power to lay a tax in respect of the
advantage resulting to recipients from the allotment and
delivery of such dividend shares. Swan Brewing Co. v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Rex, [1914] A. C. 231. Respondent rightly concedes
that, there being no constitutional restriction, such dividends may be taxed and that the statute discloses a purpose to tax them. The decision of this Court in Eisner v.
Macomber rested on constitutional provisions not applicable to the Philippine Islands.
Respondent suggests no ground on which the judgment
of the lower court can be" sustained.
No. 252.
Respondent sued petitioner in the court of first instance
of Manila to recover a tax on a stock dividend. That
court held the tax valid but the supreme court reversed,
following its decision in No. 251.
Respondent owned capital stock in Menzi & Company,
Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Philippines. In 1923, that company paid to respondent out
of profits made after March 1, 1913, a dividend in stock
of the par value of 50,000 pesos. The collector included
that amount in respondent's income for that year; and, by
reason of such inclusion, assessed and collected from him
a tax of 637.87 pesos.
This case differs from No. 251 in that here the taxpayer
is an individual subject to surtaxes on income while corporations are subject to a flat rate. The supreme court
held that, as stock dividends do not constitute income, the
tax is on property and that therefore the specified graduated rates violate the rule of uniformity. But the
record does not disclose the rate at which the tax was
assessed or show any facts to support the suggestion that
the required equality was lacking.
In other respects, this case is the same as No. 251.
Judgments reversed.

