ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES.

220

Counsel for Appellees.

ALABAMA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

No. 166.

Argued February 21, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The Interstate Commerce Commission has power, after full inquiry,
to establish intrastate rates on commodities, where the maintenance
of such rates on a lower basis than those found reasonable would
result in unjust discrimination against, and undue prejudice to persons and localities in, interstate commerce. P. 230.
2. The Act of Congress requiring the consideration of applications for
interlocutory injunctions in certain cases to be made by three
judges and allowing an appeal to this Court (Jud. Code, ยง 266, as
amended), has in no way modified the well-established doctrine that
such applications are addressed to the sound discretion of the trial
court and that an order granting or denying such an injunction will
not be disturbed by an appellate court unless the discretion was
improvidently exercised. P. 230.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying an
application for a preliminary injunction to set aside orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing intrastate rates on fertilizers and fertilizing material in the
State of Alabama.

Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Messrs. Charlie C.
McCall, Attorney General of Alabama, J. Q. Smith, Special Assistant Attorney General, and Hugh White, President, Alabama Public Service Commission, were on the
brief, for appellants.
Mr. E. M. Reidy, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell,
and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the
brief, for appellees United States and Interstate Commerce Commission.

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Mr. Frank W. Gwathmey, with whom Messrs. W. A.
Northcutt, Charles Clark and W. N. McGehee were on the
brief, for appellees Alabama Carriers.
Mm.
Court.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

This suit was brought by appellants to set aside an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission establishing intrastate rates on fertilizers and fertilizing material in Alabama; and to enjoin numerous railroad companies from
making such rates effective. The ground of the Commission's order was that the maintenance of such intrastate rates on a lower basis than those found reasonable
would result in unjust discrimination against, and undue
prejudice to persons and localities in, interstate commerce.
The order of the Commission is within its general powers, Houston & Texas Ry. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342,
354-5, 358; Wisconsin R. R. Comm. v. C., B. & Q. R. R.
Co., 257 U. S. 563, 585, et seq.; and was made after a full
inquiry. After a review of the record, the court below
denied an application for a preliminary injunction. The
case is still pending in the court below for final hearing,
and the present appeal relates only to the interlocutory
order.
Congress has manifested its solicitude that the power to
grant writs of injunction against orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission shall be exercised with special
care, by requiring the consideration of applications to be
made by three judges and by giving an appeal directly
to this Court both in the case of interlocutory orders and
final decrees. Virginian Ry. v. United States, 272 U. S.
658, 672. But there is nothing in the legislation to suggest that in the exercise of the judicial power in respect
of such writs pertinent principles of equity as theretofore
understood, are to be disregarded or modified. It is well-

KARNUTH v. UNITED STATES.
229

Syllabus.

established doctrine that an application for an interlocutory injunction is addressed to the sound discretion of the
trial court; and that an order either granting or denying
such an injunction will not be disturbed by an appellate
court unless the discretion was improvidently exercised.
Meccano, Ltd., v. John Wanamaker, 253 U. S. 136, 141;
2 High on Injunctions (4th Ed.) ยง 1696. And see Rice &
Adams Corporationv. Lathrop, 278 U. S. 509. The rule
generally to be applied in the exercise of that discretion,
is stated in our recent decision in Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway,
post, p. 813.
That the doctrine to be followed in reviewing such an
order applies in the case of an order of a court of three
judges denying an interlocutory injunction does not admit
of doubt. United Fuel Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission of West Virginia, 278 U. S. 322, 326; Chicago, G.
W. Ry. v. Kendall, 266 U. S. 94, 100. The duty of this
Court, therefore, upon an appeal from such an order, at
least generally, is not to decide the merits but simply to
determine whether the discretion of the court below has
been abused. See United States v. Balt. & Ohio R. R.
Co., 225 U. S. 306, 325. An examination of the record
here reveals no such abuse, and we must remand the case
to the court below for final disposition on the merits.
Decree affirmed.
KARNUTH, DIRECTOR OF IMMIGRATION, ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES Ex EEL. ALBRO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 19S.

Argued March 5, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. Whether the stipulations of a treaty are annulled by a subsequent
war between the parties to it depends upon the intrinsic character
of the stipulations. P. 236.

