HELSON

AND

RANDOLPH v. KENTUCKY.

245

Statement of the Case.

HELSON AND RANDOLPH, CO-PARTNERS, v.
KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 296.

Argued February 27, 28, 1929.--Decided April 8, 1929.

1. The regulation of interstate and foreign commerce is within the exclusive control of Congress, and state legislation which directly
burdens such commerce, by taxation or otherwise, is invalid.
P. 248.
2. Transportation by ferry from one State to another is interstate
commerce and within the protection of the commerce clause.

P. 249.
3. The power vested in Congress to regulate commerce embraces
within its control all the instrumentalities by which that commerce
may be carried on. P. 249.
4. A State cannot "lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form,
whether by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects
of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the occupation or business of carrying it on." P. 249.
5. While a State has power to tax property having a situs within its
limits, whether employed in interstate commerce or not, it cannot
interfere with interstate commerce through the imposition of a tax
which is, in effect, a tax for the privilege of transacting such commerce. P. 249.
6 A state statute imposing a tax upon the use of gasoline, in so
far as it affects gasoline purchased outside the State for use as
fuel upon a ferry engaged in interstate commerce, is in effect a
tax upon an instrumentality of commerce, in contravention of
the commerce clause of the Constitution, notwithstanding that
the tax is confined to such only of the gasoline as is used within the
limits of the State. P. 252.
225 Ky. 45, reversed.

ERROR to

the Court of Appeals of Kentucky to review

a judgment upholding against plaintiffs in error, a ferry

company engaged in interstate commerce, the constitutionality of a statute .of Kentucky which imposed a tax
upon the use of gasoline.

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

279 U. S.

Mr. James G. Wheeler, with whom Messrs. Charles K.
Wheeler and D. H. Hughes were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. James M. Gilbert, Assistant Attorney General of
Kentucky, with whom Mr. J. W. Cammack, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The word "commerce" has been defined as "intercourse and traffic between citizens of different States, and
includes transportation of persons, property, and navigation of public waters for that purpose as well as purchase, sale and exchange of commodities." St. Clair Co.
v. InterstateS. & G. Co., 192 U. S. 454.
The gasoline consumed by plaintiffs in error was not
an article of "commerce" when botight to be used and
while being used in a ferry-boat, and the State does not
violate the commerce clause by laying an excise tax upon
such gasoline. Congress has not assumed to regulate
ferries engaged in interstate commerce (except where connected with a railroad track); therefore, the States are
within their rights to tax the ferry company, even though
engaged in interstate commerce. 12 C. J. 40, 92, § 120;
Conway v. Taylor, 1 Black 603; St. ClairCo. v. Interstate
S. & G. Co., 192 U. S. 454; Penna. Gas Co. v. PublicService Comm'n, 252 U. S. 23; Mayor v. McNeely, 274 U. S.
630.
The States have power to impose excise, or privilege,
taxes for use of their roads for cost of maintenance, construction or improvement without violating the "commerce clause" of the Federal Constitution. This view is
shared in the opinions of the highest court of every State
where the questi6n has been considered. InterstateBusses
Co. v. Holyoke Street R. Co., 273 U. S. 45; Interstate
Motor Transit Co. v. Kuykendall, 284 Fed. 882; Liberty
Highway Co. v. Public Utilities Co., 294 Fed. 703; Red
Ball Transit Co. v. Marshall, 8 F. (2d) 635; N. Ky.
TransportationCo. v. Bellevue, 215 Ky. 514.

HELSON
245

AND

RANDOLPH v. KENTUCKY. 247
Opinion of the Court.

It is well settled that a state excise tax which affects
interstate commerce, not directly, but only indirectly and
remotely, is entirely valid where it is shown it is not imposed with the covert purpose to defeat federal constitutional rights. Hump HairpinCo. v. Emmerson, 258, U. S.
290; U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 355; Maine
v. Grand Trunk R. Co., 142 U. S. 217.
The gasoline statutes complained of do not contravene
the Fourteenth Amendment nor are they taxes on property. Dawson v. Kentucky Distillers, 225 U. S. 288, distinguished.
The Fourteenth Amendment simply requires that the
state legislature treat all alike when passing laws, and
where the law operates with uniformity upon all similarly
situated, it does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky against plaintiffs in error to recover an amount
levied under § 1, c. 120, Acts 1924,* which imposes a tax
of three cents per gallon on all gasoline sold within the
Commonwealth at wholesale. The words "sold 'at
wholesale,'" as used in the act, are defined to include
" any and all sales made for the purpose of resale or distribution or for use," and also to include any person who
* ...A State tax of Three cents (3¢) per gallon is hereby imposed
on all gasoline, as defined herein, sold in this Commonwealth at wholesale, as the words "at wholesale" are hereinafter defined ...
The words "at wholesale," as used in this act, shall be held and construed to mean and include any and all sales made for the purpose of
resale or distribution or for use, and, as well, the gasoline furnished or
supplied for distribution within this State, whether the distributor be
the same person who so furnished the same, his agent or employer or
another person; and also to mean and include any person who shall
purchase or obtain such gasoline without the State and sell or distribute or use the same within the State ...

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

shall purchase such gasoline without the state "and sell
or distribute or use the same within the State." The tax
was increased from three cents to five cents a gallon by
§ 1, c. 169, Acts 1926; and part of the amount sued for was
computed at the latter rate.
Plaintiffs in error are engaged in operating a ferry boat
on the Ohio River between Kentucky and Illinois. They
do an exclusively interstate business. They are citizens
and residents of Illinois. Their office and place of business and the situs of all their personal property is in that
state. The motive power of the boat is created by the use
of gasoline, all of which is purchased and delivered to
plaintiffs in error in Illinois. It is stipulated that 75%
of this gasoline was actually consumed within the limits
of Kentucky, but all of it in the making of interstate journeys. The tax, in question, was computed and imposed
upon the use of the gasoline thus consumed.
The trial court rendered judgment for the Commonwealth, which was affirmed by the state court of appeals.
225 Ky. 45. The validity of the statute as applied by the
state courts was assailed upon the grounds-(1) that it
violated the provisions of the state constitution requiring
that taxes should be uniform upon all property of the
same class, and (2) that it was in contravention of the commerce clause and other provisions of the federal Constitution. The state court of appeals held that the tax was
not a property tax, but an excise, and, therefore, the uniformity clause of the state constitution was not involved.
The claim under the commerce clause of the federal Constitution was denied on the ground that the tax was confined to gasoline used within the limits of the state and
the commerce clause was not affected. It is with the
latter question only that we are here concerned.
Regulation of interstate and foreign commerce is a
matter committed exclusively to the control of Congress,
and the rule is settled by innumerable decisions of this

HELSON
245

AND

RANDOLPH v. KENTUCKY. 249
Opinion of the Court.

Court, unnecessary to be cited, that a state law which directly burdens such commerce by taxation or otherwise,
constitutes a regulation beyond the power of the state
under the Constitution. It is likewise settled that transportation by ferry from one state to another is interstate
commerce and immune from the interference of such state
legislation. GloucesterFerry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U.
S. 196, 217; Mayor of Vidalia v. McNeely, 274 U. S. 676,
680. The power vested in Congress to regulate commerce
embraces within its control all the instrumentalities by
which that commerce may be carried on. Gloucester
Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, p. 204. A state cannot
"lay a tax on interstate commerce in any form, whether
by way of duties laid on the transportation of the subjects
of that commerce, or on the receipts derived from that
transportation, or on the occupation or business of
carrying it on." Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 117 U. S. 640,
648; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166; Ozark Pipe
Line v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, 562. While a state has
power to tax property having a situs within its limits,
whether employed in interstate commerce or not, it cannot
interfere with interstate commerce through the imposition
of a tax which is, in effect, a tax for the privilege of transacting such commerce. Adams Express Company v. Ohio,
166 U. S. 185, 218.
The following are a few of the cases illustrating the
many applications of these principles.
A state statute imposing a tax upon freight, taken up
within the state and . carried out of it, or taken up
without the state and brought within it, was held, in the
Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232, to constitute
a regulation of interstate commerce in conflict with the
Constitution. The Court said (pp. 275-276):
"Then, why is not a tax upon freight transported from
State to State a regulation of interstate transportation.
and, therefore, a regulation of commerce among the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

States? Is it not prescribing a rule for the transporter,
by which he is to be controlled in bringing the subjects
of commerce into the State, and in taking them out? The
present case is the best possible illustration. The legislature of Pennsylvania has in effect declared that every
ton of freight taken up within the State and carried out,
or taken up in other States and brought within her limits,
shall pay a specified tax. The payment of that tax is a
condition, upon which is made dependent the prosecution
of this branch of commerce. And as there is no limit to
the rate of taxation she may impose, if she can tax at all,
it is obvious the condition may be made so onerous that
an interchange of commodities with other States would
be rendered impossible. The same power that may impose
a tax of two cents per ton upon coal carried out of the
State, may impose one of five dollars. Such an imposition,
whether large or small, is a restraint of the privilege or
right to have the subjects of commerce pass freely from
one State to another without being obstructed by the intervention of State lines."
A state or state municipality is without power to impose a tax upon persons for selling or seeking to sell the
goods of a nonresident within the state prior to their introduction therein, Stockard v. Morgan, 185 U. §. 27; or
for securing or seeking to secure the transportation of
freight or passengers in interstate or foreign commerce.
McCall v. California,136 U. S.104; Texas Transp. Co. v.
New Orleans,264 U. S. 150. Nor can a state impose a tax
on alien passengers coming by vessels from foreign countries. People v. Compagnie Gen. Transatlantique, 107
U. S.59; and see PassengerCases, 7 How. 283. In Minot
v. Philadelphia,W. & B. R. Co., 2 Abb. (N. S.) 323, 343;
17 Fed. Cas. 468, 464, it was held that a state law imposing
a tax for the use within the state of locomotives, passenger and freight cars, and for the use of rolling stock generally, was a license fee exacted for the privilege of such

HELSON AiD RANDOLPH v. KENTUCKY. 251
245

Opinion of the Court.

use. It appearing that the larger portion of the locomotives, etc., was used for the interstate transportation of
persons and property, the court held that the statute constituted a regulation of such commerce. In the course of
the opinion, by Mr. Justice Strong, it is said:
" It is of national importance that in regard to such
subjects there should be but one regulating power, for if
one state can directly tax persons and property passing
through it, or indirectly, by taxing the use of means of
transportation,every other may; thus commercial intercourse between states remote from each other may be
destroyed."
To the same effect is a decision by Mr. Justice
Matthews, in respect of a similar state statute imposing a
tax for the running or using of sleeping cars within the
state in the transportation of interstate passengers.
Pullman Southern Car Co. v. Nolan, 22 Fed. 276, 280281. On error from this Court, the decision was affirmed
and the tax condemned as one laid on the right of transit
between states. Sub nom. Pickard v. Pullman Southern
Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, 46. To impose a tax upon the transit
of passengers from foreign countries or between states is
to regulate commerce and is beyond state power. The
doctrine of Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, so far as it is
to the contrary, has not been followed. Head Money
Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 591-594; Henderson v. Mayor of
N. Y., 92 U. S. 259, 270; Pickard v. Pullman Southern
Car Co., supra, p. 48. The stamp tax on bills of lading for
the transportation of gold and silver from within the state
to points outside, which was held invalid (inadvertently
on the ground that it was a tax on exports) in Almy v.
California,24 How. 169, was characterized in Woodruff v.
Parham, 8 Wall. 123, 138, as "a regulation of commerce,
a tax imposed upon the transportation of goods from one
State to another, over the high seas, in conflict with that
freedom of transit of goods and persons between one State

252

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
STONE, J., concurring.

279 U.S.

and another, which is within the rule laid down in Crandall v. Nevada, and with [-in] the authority of Congress
to regulate commerce among the States."
The statute here assailed clearly comes within the principle of these and numerous other decisions of like character which might be added. The tax is exacted as the price
of the privilege of using an instrumentality of interstate
commerce. It reasonably cannot be distinguished from
a tax for using a locomotive or a car employed in such
commerce. A tax laid upon the use of the ferry boat,
would present an exact parallel. And is not the fuel consumed in propelling the boat an instrumentality of commerce no less than the boat itself? A tax, which falls
directly upon the use of one of the means by which commerce is carried on, directly burdens that commerce. If a
tax cannot be laid by a state upon the interstate transportation of the subjects of commerce, as this Court definitely has held, it is little more than repetition to say that
such a tax cannot be laid upon the use of a medium by
which such transportation is effected. "All restraints by
exactions in the form of taxes upon such transportation,
or upon acts necessary to its completion, are so many
invasions of the exclusive power of Congress to regulate
that portion of commerce between the States." Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,supra, p. 214.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

is of opinion that the judg-

ment below should be affirmed.

Concurring opinion of MR.

JUSTICE

STONE.

In view of earlier decisions of the Court, I acquiesce
in the result. But I cannot yield assent to the reasoning
by which the present forbidden tax on the use of property
in interstate commerce is distinguished from a permissible

HELSON AND RANDOLPH v. KENTUCKY.
245

253

STONE, J., concurring.

tax on property, measured by its use or use value in interstate commerce. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246
U. S. 450, 456; Cleveland, Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis
Ry. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S: 439, 445; Adams Express Co.
v. Ohio State Auditor, 165 U. S 194, 220; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. Missouri, 190 U. S. 412, 422; cf. Pullman's
Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18. Nor can I
find any practical justification for this distinction or for
an interpretation of the commerce clause which would
relieve those engaged in interstate commerce from their
fair share of the expense of government of the states in
which they operate by exempting them from the payment of a tax of general application, which is neither
aimed at nor discriminates against interstate commerce.
It "affects commerce among the States and impedes the
transit of persons and property from one State to another
just in the same way, and in no other, that taxation of
any kind necessarily increases the expenses attendant upon
the use or possession of the thing taxed." DelawareRailroad Tax, 18 Wall. 206, 232.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

and MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

concur

in this opinion.
HIGHLAND v. RUSSELL CAR & SNOW PLOW
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 8. Argued February 23, 24, 1929-Decided April 8, 1929.
1. An order of the President, under the Lever Act, fixing a maximum
price on coal during the late war, when the railroads were under
government control and when there was need of such price regulation in the interest of national safety, was a valid exercise of the
power of the Government and not a violation of the Fifth Amend-

