310

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

outside the taxing jurisdiction. The ambiguous phraseology of the stipulation failing to disclose precisely how
the business was done, we may not speculate as to its
actual character. See Cochranv. United States, 254 U. S.
387, 393.
The burden is on him who seeks the recovery of a tax
already paid, to establish those facts which show its invalidity. United States v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 422, 428;
Fidelity Title Co. v. United States, 259 U. S. 304, 306.
Further, in the absence of a clear showing of error, this
Court should be slow to reverse the judgment of a territorial court on questions of fact or of local law. Villanueva v. Villanueva, 239 U. S. 293, 298; Fox v. Haarstick,
156 U. S. 674, 679. For the reason indicated, the stipulation here does not sustain the burden resting on petitioner.
We need not consider petitioner's contention that the
taxing act, when applied to sales outside the Philippine
Islands, conflicts with the " equal protection" clause of
the Philippine Organic Law. This argument presupposes
that the sales were so made, an assumption which, as
already stated, we cannot make.

Affirmed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
EDWARD H. JOHNSON.
SAME v. MYRTLE J. JOHNSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 455 and 456.

Argued March 8, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

1. In an action against a railroad company to recover damages for
personal injuries alleged to have resulted from negligence in the operation of its train, it is competent for the defendant to show, in

N. Y. CENTRAL R. I. CO. v. JOHNSON.
310

Syllabus.

defense, that the plaintiff's physical condition was attributable to
disease as an independent cause; and this defense may be established as well by cross-examination of plaintiff's witnesses as by
direct testimony of witnesses for the defendant. P. 316.
2. Where, in an action in damages against a railroad for personal injuries, counsel for the defendant attempted to develop, by crossexamination of plaintiff's witnesses, evidence which would support
a defense that the physical condition of the plaintiff was due to
syphilis as an independent cause, but formally abandoned this defense at the close of the case, the conduct of counsel for the plaintiff in repeating before the jury that syphilis was the defense in the
case, and the use of vituperative language in denouncing the defendant for charging the plaintiff with indecency-although plaintiff's own witness had testified that the disease was frequently transmitted to innocent parties-was calculated improperly to influence
the verdict by appealing to passion and prejudice, and is ground
for reversal. P. 317.
3. Defense counsel's want of good judgment or good taste, or even
misconduct, in following a line of inquiry on cross-examination
which might be availed of to establish a valid defense, but one which
was formally abandoned at the close of the case, was not an issue for
the jury and could not excuse misconduct on the part of opposing
counsel. P. 317.
4. A bitter and passionate attack on opposing counsel's conduct of
the case, under circumstances tending to stir the resentment and
arouse the prejudice of the jury, should be promptly suppressed
by the trial court, and failure to sustain an objection to the misconduct or otherwise to make certain that the jury would disregard
it, enhances its prejudicial effect. P. 318.
5. The public interest requires that litigation be fairly and impartially conducted, and it is the duty of the court to protect
suitors in their rights to a verdict uninfluenced by the appeals of
counsel to passion and prejudice. P. 318.
6. Failure of counsel to particularize an exception will not preclude
the court from correcting error in a case involving a verdict influenced by passion or prejudice. P. 318.
7. In an action against a railroad company to recover damages for
personal injuries, the repeated assertion by plaintiff's counsel, without supporting evidence, that the defense was a "claim agent defense "; references to defendant as an " eastern railroad "; and statements that the railroad had " come into this town" and that witnesses and records had been "sent on from New York" for the trial

312

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of the cause; all tending to create an atmosphere of hostility towards
the defendant as a railroad company located in another section of
the country, should have been condemned as an improper appeal
to sectional or local prejudice. P. 319.
8. It is the duty of counsel presenting cases to this Court to be adequately prepared and to be fair and candid in the argument.
P. 319.
27 F. (2d) 699, reversed.
WRITS OF CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 590, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals to review a decision affirming judgments
against the petitioner on causes of action arising out of
the alleged negligent operation of one of its trains. The
cases had been removed from a state court to the District
Court upon the ground of diversity of citizenship.

Messrs. Sidney C. Murray and Albert S. Marley, with
whom Mr. Marvin A. Jersild was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Price Wickersham, with whom Messrs. John H. Atwood, Oscar S. Hill, and Clarence C. Chilcott were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTIc E STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent in No. 456 brought suit in the Circuit
Court of Jackson County, Missouri, to recover for personal injuries alleged to have been caused by the negligent
operation of one of petitioner's trains. The suit in No.
455 was brought in the same court by the husband of
respondent in No. 456, to recover for the loss of her
services. Both cases were removed to the District Court
for Western Missouri, where they were tried together.
Judgment there on a verdict for respondents was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. 27 F.
(2d) 699. This Court granted certiorari October 15,
1928, 278 U. S. 590, the order allowing the writ directing

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
310

Opinion of the Court.

that the argument in this Court "be limited to the question whether the alleged misconduct of counsel for the
plaintiffs in their arguments to the jury was so unfairly
prejudicial to the defendant as to justify a new trial."
At the trial, there was evidence that respondent, while
a passenger on petitioner's train, was thrown to the floor
by a sudden and unusual motion of the train, receiving
a blow on her head which caused paralysis of one side of
the body, impaired locomotion and other physical disabilities. All material allegations of the complaint were
denied, including those specially setting up the cause and
nature of respondent's injuries. In the course of the
cross-examination of respondents' witnesses, petitioner's
counsel elicited the fact that, following the accident, one
of respondent's physicians had administered a treatment
usually given for syphilis. He asked other questions
tending to show, had favorable answers been received,
that she had exhibited symptoms recognized to be those
of this disease; that the Wasserman test for syphilis,
which had been applied to her by her physician with
negative results, was not necessarily conclusive as to its
non-existence; that other more reliable tests had not been
applied; that the disease might cause the paralysis complained of and the treatment for it produce the other
symptoms exhibited by respondent.
The opening statement for petitioner to the jury had
contained no suggestion that the alleged condition of
respondent was due to syphilis. No evidence to that
effect was offered in its behalf, counsel contenting himself
with calling witnesses to disprove only the negligence
and the occurrence of the accident. In the closing argument petitioner's counsel denied any belief that respondent was afflicted with the disease and disclaimed any purpose to show that her present condition was due to it.
He then for the first time suggested, although there was no

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

evidence to support it, that her condition was caused by
the administration, by one of her physicians, of a specific
for syphilis in consequence of a mistaken diagnosis.
Two counsel for respondents participated in the closing
argument. The first, who preceded counsel for petitioner, made the following statements to the jury, to
which, at several points, objection was made, overruled
and an exception noted:
"But, gentlemen, the vilest defense made in this case, a
defense which would bar that girl from all society, intimated in this case that she had the syphilis. That is the
defense in this case, that she had syphilis.
"Gentlemen of the jury, they would charge her with
a disease which would brand her as bad as a leper and
exclude her from the society of decent people. That is
the kind of a defense that is in this case,. and I resent it.
I resent the New York Central coming into this town and
saying that that girl has the syphilis and trying to make
this jury believe that she has the syphilis.
"She will be a misery to herself; every time she attempts to take a step and is unable to do so, she suffers
mental anguish; every time she sees people watching her,
and knowning what she is doing, she suffers mental
anguish. And gentlemen, it is sought to say that that is
the result of syphilis. Syphilis, one of the most-the
worst disease that is known in human history, a disease
that can never be freed from the body; a disease that is
worse than leprosy. That is the defense in this case.
And, gentlemen, with not one, not one scintilla of evidence
in this case to justify it."
The second counsel for respondents, whose argument
followed that of petitioner's counsel and his disclaimer

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
310

Opinion of the Court.

already mentioned, was pernitted, over objection and exception, to say to the jury:
"You mean to tell me he [petitioner's counsel] didn't
talk to those doctors about it?, . . . That he wasn't
aware of that, and he wasn't trying to put the stigma of
indecency upon this young woman in his defense? You
mean to say that he wasn't aware of that situation?
"Oh, I have been too long in this business of trying
law suits not to know that. So I immediately came to
the front and exposed hin, and proved it to the hilt; so
much so that they stopped . . . Never again will you
ever dare to put that letter of syphilis upon the brow of
a decent woman-"
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in affirming the judgment
for respondent, said, p. 702:
"Both counsel for the plaintiff who addressed the jury
stated that . . .
"' The vilest defense made in this case, a defense which
would bar that girl from all society, intimated in this case
that she had the syphilis. That is the defense in this case,
that she had the syphilis.' And then proceeded to dilate
on and exploit this text. We find no justification for this
assumption, or for the verbal pyrotechnics that counsel
were permitted to indulge in over the objections of the
attorneys for the defendant. The defense put no witnesses on the stand to controvert the plaintiff's evidence
that the plaintiff did not have syphilis. The only evidence
counsel for the plaintiff cites as justifying their argument
was the cross-examination of some of plaintiff's witnesses;
but an affirmative defense of this character can not ordinarily be proved by cross-examination. Moreover, defendant's interrogatories along this line were no more than
a continuation of similar questions propounded on the
direct examination. We therefore deem it proper to

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

observe that this line of argument was likely to create
prejudice, and did not aid the court or jury in the performance of their duties."
Petitioner argues, as the court below stated, that there
was no defense in the case that respondent's condition was
due to syphilis, that the quoted remarks of counsel were
without foundation in the record and that they were so
prejudicial as to deprive petitioner of a fair trial.
From what has been said, it is apparent, as respondents
assert, that in a strict sense the court of appeals did not,
by the remarks quoted, correctly interpret the record or
characterize with accuracy the issue which had been
raised under the pleadings by the evidence. The burden
was on respondents to prove that the physical condition
complained of was caused by injuries received on petitioner's train. It was open to petitioner, if so advised,
to seek in good faith to show that respondent's condition was not due to the accident, but was attributable
to disease as an independent cause. This was a matter
of defense which, under petitioner's general denial,
might have been established either by the cross-examination of respondents' witnesses or by the testimony of
its own.
Examination of the record discloses that counsel for
petitioner took the initiative in attempting to develop, by
cross-examination of respondents' witnesses, evidence
whose only apparent purpose was to support this defense,
and this course was continued by him through a considerable portion of the trial. He first directed the inquiry to
the symptoms of respondent which, if they existed, would
have indicated that she was suffering from the disease.
He first brought out that she had been subjected by her
own physicians to the Wasserman test. But whatever
motive inspired this course of conduct, it was evident that
this line of defense came to nothing. The cross-examina-

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
310

317

Opinion of the Court.

tion developed little of moment and no witnesses were
called by petitioner to support it. At the close of the
case it was apparent that the attempted or suggested defense that respondent's condition was due to syphilis was
without substance, and it was formally abandoned by
petitioner's counsel in his address to the jury.
In this condition of the record, the repeated statements
of counsel that syphilis was the defense, coupled with the
vituperative language which we have quoted and the statements that the petitioner had charged respondent with
indecency, made in the face of testimony of respondents'
own witness that the disease was frequently transmitted
by the use of drinking cups or other innocent means, was
not fair comment on the evidence or justified by the record. Cf. Cherry Creek Nat, Bank v. Fidelity & Casualty
Co., 207 App. Div. (N. Y.) 787; Grabowsky v. Baumgart,
128 Mich. 267, 272; Fisherv. Weinholzer, 91 Minn. 22, 25;
Strudgeon v. Village of Sand Beach, 107 Mich. 496, 504.
Their obvious purpose and effect were improperly to influence the verdict by their appeal to passion and prejudice.
However ill advised, counsel for petitioner was within
his rights in following this line of inquiry, and even if it
be assumed that the situation was one calling for comment
on the evidence so elicited, neither petitioner nor its
counsel was on trial for pursuing it. Want of good judgment or good taste, or even misconduct on the part of
either, was not an issue in the case for the jury, nor could
it excuse like conduct on the part of respondents' counsel.
See Tucker v. Henniker, 41 N. H. 317, 322; 3littleman v.
Bartikowsky, 283 Pa. 485, 488; Alitchum v. Georgia, 11
Ga. 615, 629; Welch v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 117
Iowa 394, 404. An exhibition of any or all of these faults
was not ground for a verdict in respondents' favor or for
enhancing it.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Such a bitter and passionate attack on petitioner's conduct of the case, under circumstances tending to stir the
resentment and arouse the prejudice of the jury, should
have been promptly suppressed. See Masterson v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 102 Wis. 571, 574; Gulf, Colorado &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. Butcher, 83 Tex. 309, 316; Tucker v.
Henniker,supra, at 322; Monroe v. Chicago & Alton R. R.
Co., 297 Mo. 633, 644. The failure of the trial judge to
sustain petitioner's objection or otherwise to make certain
that the jury would disregard the appeal, could only have
left them with the impression that they might properly
be influenced by it in rendering their verdict, and thus
its prejudicial effect was enhanced. See Hall v. United
States, 150 U. S. 76, 81; Graves v. UnitedStates, 150 U .S.
118, 121; Wilson v. United States, 149 U. S. 60, 68. That
the quoted remarks of respondents' counsel so plainly
tended to excite prejudice as to be ground for reversal, is,
we think, not open to argument. The judgments must be
reversed with instructions to grant a new trial. Respondents urge that the objections were not sufficiently specific to justify a reversal. But a trial in court
is never, as respondents in their brief argue this one was,
"purely a private controversy . . . of no importance to
the public." The state, whose interest it is the duty of
court and counsel alike to uphold, is concerned that every
litigation be fairly and impartially conducted and that
verdicts of juries be rendered only on the issues made by
the pleadings and the evidence. The public interest requires that the court of its own motion, as is its power
and duty, protect suitors in their right to a verdict uninfluenced by the appeals of counsel to passion or prejudice.
See Union Pac. Ry. Co. v. Field, 137 Fed. 14, 15; Brown
v. Swineford, 44 Wis. 282, 293. Where such paramount
considerations are involved, the failure of counsel to particularize an exception will not preclude this Court from

N. Y. CENTRAL R. R. CO. v. JOHNSON.
310

Opinion of the Court.

correcting the error. Brasfieldv. United States, 272 U. S.
448, 450.
As there must be a new trial, attention should be directed to other objectionable conduct by respondents'
counsel in the course of the trial; their repeated assertion,
without supporting evidence, that the defense was a
"claim agent defense"; references to petitioner as an
"eastern railroad "; and statements that the railroad had
"come into this town" and that witnesses and records
had been "sent on from New York" for the trial of the
cause. Such remarks of counsel, and others of similar
character, all tending to create an atmosphere of hostility
toward petitioner as a railroad corporation located in
another section of the country, have been so often condemned as an appeal to sectional or local prejudice as to
require no comment. See Cherry Creek Nat. Bk. v.
Fidelity & Casualty Co., supra; Dolph v. Lake Shore etc.
Ry. Co., 149 Mich. 278, 280; Southern Ry. Co. v. Simmons, 105 Va. 651, 665.
These writs of certiorari were granted on a petition
signed by counsel for petitioner who did not participate
in the trial. It stated that the cases were of importance
and were such a departure "from the accepted and usual
course of judicial proceedings, as to call for an exercise
of this Court's power of supervision." But his argument
here was so inadequately prepared and exhibited such
lack of familiarity with the record as not to be of assistance to the Court, and in the argument of counsel on
both sides, who had participated in the trial below, there
was a want of that candor which is essential to the
proper and adequate presentation of a cause in this Court.
The occasion seems appropriate to remind counsel that
the attempted presentation of cases without adequate
preparation and with want of fairness and candor discredits the bar and obstructs the administration of justice.
Reversed.

