OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

of the method employed or the condition of the drain at
the time and place in question. Nelson v. Southern Ry.
Co., 246 U. S. 253. Missouri Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Aeby, 275 U. S. 426.
The court takes judicial notice of the fact that for some
weeks immediately before the accident the sun rose and
it was light for some time before plaintiff's quitting hour.
Montenes v. MetropolitanStreet R. Co., 77 App. Div. 493.
He worked in daylight for some time every morning during the spring and summer months, and during one year
he worked days. There was nothing obscure or of recent
origin about the place where he was injured. The conditions were constant and of long standing. The evidence
requires a finding that he had long known the location of
the drain and its condition at the place in question.
The dangers attending jumping from engines in the vicinity of the drain, especially in the dark, were obvious.
Plaintiff must be held to have fully understood and appreciated the risk.
It was the duty of the judge presiding at the trial to
direct the jury to return a verdict in favor of the defendant. Butler v. Frazee, 211 U. S. 459, 467.
Judgment reversed.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIZ FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 117. Argued January 10, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. Service on a vessel of foreign registry can not be considered residence in the United States for naturalization purposes. P. 19.
2. A proviso is not always limited in its effect to the part of the
enactment with which it is immediately associated; it may apply
generally to all cases within the meaning of the language used.
P. 20.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Petitioner.

12

3. For the proper construction of a proviso, consideration need not
be limited to the subdivision in which it is found; the general
purpose of the section may be taken into account. P. 22.
4. In paragraph Seven, added to the Naturalization Law by the
Act of May 9, 1918, the proviso declaring "That service by aliens
upon vessels other than of American registry . . shall not be
considered as residence for naturalization purposes within the
jurisdiction of the United States, and such aliens can not secure
residence for naturalization purposes during service upon vessels
of foreign registry," does not relate to the special classes of persons made eligible to naturalization by the preceding parts of the
same paragraph, but (like other provisions in the paragaph)
states a rule of general application. P. 22.
22 F. (2d) 747, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

277 U.

S. 581,

to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the District Court denying a petition for naturalization.
Messrs. J. Harry Covington and Dean G. Acheson, with
whom Mr. Win. K. Jackson was on the brief, for petitioner.
Under § 4 of the Naturalization Act, continuous physical presence in the United States and in the particular
State or Territory is not required, but continuous domicile
for the statutory period must have been maintained;
and the physical absence of a seaman from his domicilewhether on a foreign or a domestic vessel--does not interrupt the statutory residence required. United States v.
RockteschelU, 208 Fed. 530; In re Schneider, 164 Fed. 335;
In re Deans, 208 Fed. 1018; In re Timourian, 225 Fed.
570; United States v. Jorgenson, 241 Fed. 412; United
States v. Habbick, 287 Fed. 593; United States v. Dick,
291 Fed. 420; U. S. ex rel. Devenuto v. Curran,299 Fed.
206; Neuberger v. United States, 13 F. (2d) 541.
Subdivision 7 of § 4, added by the Act of May 9, 1918,
was a war-time measure, applicable only to particular
classes of aliens therein designated, and did not change
the law applicable to this petitioner.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

279 U. S.

The provisos are incorporated in the very body of the
subdivision. They are attached at the end of the long,
involved first paragraph which specifies the aliens entitled
to the special privileges and exemptions therein mentioned, and details the procedure to be observed. This
procedure is singularly informal as compared with that
which other aliens must follow. The provisos are immediately followed by a second paragraph of the same subdivision dealing with the same subject matter, to-wit:
further exemption of such favored aliens from payment of
court costs. It is evident that Congress, when it inserted
these piovisos, was dealing with these favored aliens; for,
before turning to the consideration of other subjects
covered by the Act, it completed the provisions relating
to them by enacting exemptions in their favor from court
costs.
Evidently it was thought by Congress that the unqualified provisions of the "seventh" subdivision were too lax
as applied to alien seamen. These provisions, if the provisos had not been added, would have permitted: (a) Discontinuous or intermittent service on American ships for
three years to establish residence within the United States
for naturalization purposes, if some part of the service on
American vessels was rendered within six months of the
filing of the petition; (b) the declaration of intention to
be filed within thirty days of an election; (c) the certificate of the master of such ship to be prima facie proof of
such service and of necessary residence.
Such provisions would have been peculiarly open to
abuse. But by the provisos this broad statute is restricted
by providing: That declaration of intention cannot be
filed within thirty days of an election; that service by
aliens upon vessels other than of American registry,
whether continuous or broken, shall not be considered as
residence for naturalization purposes within the jurisdiction of the United States, and that such aliens can not se-

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
12

Argument for Petitioner.

cure residence for naturalization purposes during service
upon vessels of foreign registry; or, per contra, that residence within the United States for naturalization purposes
can be established by such privileged aliens only by three
years' continuous service on American ships, and discharge
from such service had within six months prior to the filing
of the petition. These circumstances show the direct and
necessary relations of the provisos to the immediately
preceding general enacting clauses of the "seventh" subdivision.
Keeping in mind the object and purpose of this
amendatory Act, it would seem absurd that Congress,
anxious as it was to make citizens of aliens who could be
of service to the United States in the military, naval or
merchant marine service, should at the same time deliberately cut off from citizenship persons even more desirable, and even more deserving of citizenship than the
classes they were dealing with in this Act. For, if the Circuit Court of Appeals' construction is correct, an alien
master mariner who had lived continuously in continental United States for twenty years, who had declared
his intention of becoming a citizen and was in all other
respects qualified, would be denied the privilege of citizenship, if at any time, no matter how short, within the
last preceding five years he had served on a foreign vessel. Yet Congress deliberately extended citizenship to an
alien who had never been in continental United States,
or even in any of its territories or possessions, under less
rigorous requirements, if he happened to have served the
last preceding three years on a fishing vessel of the United
States over twenty tons burden. United States v. Nicolich, 25 F. (2d) 245.
To give the proviso the effect and meaning claimed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals would be to reverse the
century-old policy of the Government as expressed in
its naturalization laws and in the decisions of its courts.

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

279 U. S.

If Congress had intended to reverse this policy, it would
seem that it would have done so by separate enactment
or in unmistakable language, and not by an obscure,
aihbiguous proviso.
The reports of committees and the explanations by
committee members occurring in Congress while the Act
of May 9, 1918, was under consideration, definitely show
that the purpose of this Act was not to place any additional limitations or restrictions upon the naturalization
of aliens under the provisions of the Act of June 29,
1906, but was to enlarge the right of naturalization and
to extend to the classes of aliens specifically described
in the Act of May 9, 1918, the opportunity to become
citizens of the United States under conditions much more
favorable than those extended to aliens generally by the
Act of 1906.
The opinion below apparently centers on the failure
of Congress to place the word "such" in front of the word
"alien" in the opening clause of the proviso. That this
omission was an accident is clearly shown by the second
clause of the same sentence,-"and such aliens can not
secure residence for naturalization purposes during service upon vessels of foreign registry." If necessary to
make the intent of Congress a rational one, the Court
should interpolate the word "such." Ozawa v. United
States, 260 U. S. 178.
Distinguishing Petition of MacKinnon, 21 F. (2d) 445;
United States v. Habbick, 287 Fed. 593; In re Willis, 169
N. Y. Supp. 261.
The proviso, even if given general scope, is not applicable to the facts of this case. Petitioner does not
claim constructive residence within the United States, but
actual residence. He claims a residence not on a ship,
but in Massachusetts where his family is and has been
established for more than five years. He does not claim

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
12

Argument for the United States.

that anything be regarded as residence within the United
States which is not actual bona fide legal residence in a
particular house in a particular town in Massachusetts.
Therefore, the first clause of the proviso can have no
application to him on any view of its scope.
Its second clause is also inapplicable, since he did not
secure his residence for naturalization or any other
purpose, during service upon vessels of foreign registry.
He came to the United States as a passenger and entered
as an immigrant paying the head tax.
If the proviso is sought to be given any application
to aliens outside the special and privileged classes created
by subdivision "seventh," its plain words will permit no
wider meaning than, that an alien seaman serving on a
foreign ship can not come ashore in the United States
under a seaman's temporary permit and, while so present
in this country, attempt to "secure" a shore residence.
Mr. George C. Butte, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistont
Attorney General Luhring, and Mr. HarryS. Ridgely were
on the brief, for the United States.
The words of the proviso show the intention of Congress
to deny applicants for naturalization credit for domicile
or residence in the United States during periods they serve
on vessels of foreign registry. Congress had previously
given advantages in naturalization to alien seamen serving
on American vessels, allowing them to be naturalized after
three years of such maritime service. The Act now being
considered was intended to further encourage service on
American merchant ships by discouraging alien seamen
domiciled in the United States from serving on foreign
ships. There is nothing unreasonable about this. An
alien, though technically domiciled here, who spends most
of his time outside the United States serving on foreign
45228°-29-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ships, is not in a position to learn much of our institutions or to acquire an attachment to the principles of the
Constitution.
A reading of the entire subdivision shows that the proviso is not limited to the classes of aliens dealt with in the
subdivision, as there is no relation between service on foreign ships and the other classes of aliens dealt with in
the new subdivision.
The words "service by aliens upon vessels other than
of American registry" relate to all aliens in that service,
and the words "such aliens" in the last clause of the proviso refer to the aliens serving on foreign vessels, mentioned in the preceding clause.
The reasoning of the courts below is more persuasive
than that in United States v. Nicolich, 25 F. (2d) 245, in
which the contrary conclusion was reached. The argument
there that the proviso was intended only to prevent service on foreign ships from constituting in itself residence
in the United States, is not reasonable. Saying that
aliens serving three years on vessels of American registry
might be naturalized did not make it necessary, out of
abundance of caution, to add a proviso that service on
vessels of foreign registry should not be considered service on American ships.
The proviso obviously deals with aliens serving on foreign ships who, by having domicile here, could claim residence. The phrase "residence for naturalization purposes" implies the existence of residence for other purposes. Nothing in the Congressional Record or Reports of
Committees supports the contention of the petitioner or
discloses an intention not derived from the words of the
statute.
Mr. JUSTICE BuTLm delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, a British subject, was born in Nova Scotia
in 1877. He lawfully entered the United States at New

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
12

Opinion of the Court.

York, September 17, 1920. He immediately established
and has since maintained a place of residence at or near
Boston, Massachusetts, where his wife and child joined
him September 1, 1921, and have since lived. Since his
entry he has continuously served as a master of a vessel
of British registry belonging to the United Fruit Company, a New Jersey corporation, plying between Boston
and Central American countries. November 30, 1921, he
filed his declaration of intention to become a citizen in the
district court for Massachusetts, and December 22, 1926,
his petition for naturalization. That court denied his application, and its judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 22 F. (2d) 747. There is conflict between that decision and one of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit. United States v. Nicolich, 25
F. (2d) 245. This Court granted a writ of certiorari.
277 U. S. 581.
The sole question is whether service on a vessel of foreign registry is to be considered residence in the United
States for naturalization purposes.
The Fourth subdivision of § 4 of the Act of June 29,
1906, 34 Stat. 598, provides that on the petition of an
alien for citizenship it shall be made to appear "that
immediately preceding the date of his application he has
resided continuously within the United States five years
at least." U. S. C., Tit. 8, § 382.
That Act was amended May 9, 1918, 40 Stat. 542, by
adding to § 4 seven subdivisions. The Seventh subdivision, being the first of those so added, is here involved;
and, so far as material, its substance is indicated in the
margin.* It contains the following: "Provided further,
* [The numbers and other matter within brackets are added for
convenience in reading.]
Seventh. [1] Any native-born Filipino of the age of twenty-one
years and upward who has declared his intention to become a citizen
of the United States and who has enlisted or may hereafter enlist in

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

That service by aliens upon vessels other than of American registry, whether continuous or broken, shall not be
considered as residence for naturalization purposes within
the jurisdiction of the United States, and such aliens can
not secure residence for naturalization purposes during
service upon vessels of foreign registry." U. S. C., Tit. 8,
§ 384.
If that provision relates only to those classified in the
added subdivision, petitioner is entitled to naturalization;
but if it is given general application the judgment below

is right.
As a general rule, a proviso is intended to take a special
case or class of cases out of the operation of the body of
"the United States Navy or Marine Corps or the. Naval Auxiliary
Service, and who, after service of not less than three years, may be
honorably discharged therefrom, or who may receive an ordinary
discharge with recommendation for reenlistment;
[2] or any alien, or any Porto Rican not a citizen of the United
States, of the age of twenty-one years and upward, who has enlisted
or entered or may hereafter enlist in or enter the armies of the United
States, . . . or in the ... Navy or Marine Corps, or in the ...
Coast Guard, or who has served for three years on board of any
vessel of the United States Government, or for three years on board
of merchant or fishing vessels of the United States of more than
twenty tons burden, and while still in the service on a reenlistment
or reappointment, or within six months after an honorable discharge
or separation therefrom, or while on furlough . . .,
[The Filipinos, aliens and Porto Ricans aforesaid] may, on presentation of the required declaration of intention petition for naturalization without proof of the required five years' residence within the
United States ... ; [U. S. C., Tit. 8, § 388 and see R. S. § 2174]
[3] any alien serving in the military or naval service of the United
States during the time this country is engaged in the present war
may file his petition for naturalization without making the preliminary declaration of intention and without proof of the required five
years' residence within the United States; [id. § 392]
[4] any alien declarant who has served in the United States Army,
or Navy, or the Philippine Constabulary, and has been honorably

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

12

the section in which it is found.
10 Wheat. 1, 30.

165.

21

Wayman v. Southard,

United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141,

Ryan v. Carter, 03 U. S. 78, 83.

United States v.

McElvain, 272 U. S. 633, 635. But a proviso is not always limited in its effect to the part of the enactment with

which it is immediately associated; it may apply generally to all cases within the meaning of the language used.

United States v. Babbit, 1 Black 55. Springer v. Philippine Islands,277 U. S. 189, 207. Little if any significance
is to be given to the use of the word "provided." In
discharged therefrom, and has been accepted for service in either the
military or naval service of the United States on the condition that
he becomes a citizen of the United States, may file his petition for
naturalization upon proof of continuous residence within the United
States for the three years immediately preceding his petition,...
and in these cases only residence in the Philippine Islands and the
Panama Canal Zone by aliens may be considered residence within
the United States, and the place of such military service shall be
construed as the place of residence required to be established for ...
naturalization. [id. § 389.]
... [Provisions governing procedure follow] ...
[5] Members of the Naturalization Bureau and Service may be
designated by the Secretary of Labor to administer oaths relating to
the administration of the naturalization law; [id. § 354]
[6] and the requirement of section ten of notice to take depositions to the United States attorneys is repealed, and the duty they
perform under section fifteen of the Act of June twenty-ninth,
nineteen hundred and six . . ., may also be performed by the Commissioner or deputy Commissioner of Naturalization: [id. § 405]
[7] Provided, That it shall not be lawful to make a declaration of
intention before the clerk of any court on election day or during the
period of thirty days preceding the day of holding any election in the
jurisdiction of the court: [id. § 374, and see § 362]
[8] Provided further, That service by aliens upon vessels other
than of American registry, whether continuous or broken, shall not
be considered as residence for naturalization purposes within the
jurisdiction of the United States, and such aliens can not secure residence for naturalization purposes during service upon vessels of
foreign registry. [id. § 384.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Acts of Congress, that word is employed for many purposes. Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester, &c. Ry., 205
U. S. 1, 10. Sometimes it is used merely to safeguard
against misinterpretation or to distinguish different paragraphs or sentences. Georgia Banking Co. v. Smith, 128
U. S. 174, 181. For the proper construction of the provision in question, consideration need not be limited to
the subdivision in which it is found; the general purpose
of the section may be taken into account. United States
v. Whitridge, 197 U. S. 135, 143.
The general rule in respect of residence of aliens seeking
naturalization was established by. § 4 of the Act of 1906.
The subdivision added by the amendatory Act takes out of
that rule four classes, which include (1) native-born
Filipino declarants, having served in the Navy, Marine
Corps or Naval Auxiliary, (2) aliens, or Porto Ricans not
citizens of the United States, having served in the Army,
Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard or on merchant or fishing vessels of the United States, (3) aliens in the military
or naval service during the war, and (4) alien declarants
who have been honorably discharged from the Army, Navy
or Philippine constabulary and have been accepted for
military or naval service on condition that they naturalize.
As to those included in the first three classes, no proof of
residence is required. As to members of the fourth class,
three years' residence is required. Provisions regulating
procedure in cases covered by the subdivision follow.
After these are the clauses designated in the margin, 5, 6
and 7, followed by the proviso above quoted.
Petitioner contends and it may be assumed that, under
the Act of 1906 before the amendment, mere absence of a
sailor in pursuit of his calling whether serving on vessels of
United States or of foreign registry did not interrupt the
required period of residence in the case of one maintaining
a domicile in this country. United States v. Rockteschell,.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
12

Opinion of the Court.

208 Fed. 530. United States v. Habbick, 287 Fed. 593,
595.
The amendatory Act was passed in war time, and the
new classes include those who, by reason of service in
support of the national purpose, specially merit the protection of our flag and the benefits of citizenship. As to
them Congress undoubtedly intended generously to relax
the requirements for naturalization. See House Report
No. 502, 65th Congress, 2d Session. But petitioner is not
within any of the new classes; he claims under the earlier
Act. And he insists that service on vessels of foreign registration is to be deemed residence for naturalization of
aliens domiciled here who are within the five year rule.
But under that construction, such service cannot be considered as residence for those within the favored classes
created by the amendment.
Moreover, there is nothing in the subdivision to which
the proviso can reasonably be held to relate. And, if not
construed to apply to those who like petitioner are subject
to the five year rule, it would have no effect. This is
plainly so because those in the first three classes are not
required to prove any period of residence; and the place
of their military service is the place of residence required
to be established by those belonging to the fourth class.
The subdivision contains provisions plainly not limited
to the special classes created by it. It is manifest without
discussion that the clauses numbered 5, 6 and 7 in the
margin are intended to have effect beyond the scope of the
subdivision. The language and circumstances attending
the enactment of the amendment do not permit a construction of the proviso limiting its effect to the special
classes aforesaid. It was intended to apply generally according to its terms and to establish the rule that service
on foreign vessels would not be deemed residence within
the United States for the purposes of naturalization.
Decree affirmed.

