CASES ADJUDGED
IN T=

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
MANLEY v. STATE OF GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.

No. 429.

Argued December 4, 1928.-Decided February 18, 1929.

Section 28, Art. XX, of the Georgia Banking Act declares that "every
insolvency of a bank shall be deemed fraudulent, and the president and directors shall be severally punished by imprisonment
and labor in the penitentiary ... provided that the defendant
...may repel the presumption of fraud by showing that the affairs of the bank have been fairly and legally administered, and
generally, with the same care and diligence that agents receiving a
commission for their services are required and bound by law to
observe . . ." The Act elsewhere declares that a bank is to be
deemed insolvent when it cannot meet its liabilities as they become
due in the regular course of business, or when the cash market
value of its assets is insufficient to pay its liabilities, or when its
reserve falls under a required amount and is not made good within
the time prescribed. Held that the presumption created by § 28
is unreasonable and arbitrary, and conflicts with the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 5.
166 Ga. 563, reversed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Georgia affirming a conviction of the appellant of an alleged violation of the state banking law.
Messrs. Walter T. Colquitt and Marion Smith, with
whom Messrs. Ben J. Conyers, Paul S. Etheridge, and
A. G. Powell were on the brief, for appellant.
45228 -29--l

i

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Appellee.

279 U. S

Mr. Reuben R. Arnold, with whom Mr. John A. Boykin, Solicitor General of Georgia was on the brief, for
appellee.
Under the statute as construed, the presumption is
primafacie only; anything excluding the idea that defendants' fraudulent or illegal management caused the insolvency is a defense. Griffin v. State, 142 Ga. 636; Fordham
v. State, 148 Ga. 758; Snead v. State, 165 Ga. 44; and the
present case, 166 Ga. 563.
The statute satisfies due process. It is not too vague.
The word "fraud" is of plain signification, especially
when used in connection with the management of a bank
by its officers.
Cf. United States v. Dexter, 154 Fed. 890; United States
v. Jones, 10 Fed. 469; United States v. Loring, 98 Fed. 881;
Oesting v. United States, 234 Fed. 304, certiorari denied,
242 U. S. 647; Rimmerman v. United States, 186 Fed. 307,
certiorari denied, 223 U. S. 721; Harrisonv. United States,
200 Fed. 662; Miller v. United States, 133 Fed. 337; Crawford v. United States, 30 App. D. C. 1; Waters-Pierce Oil
Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86; Nash v. United States, 229 U. S.
373; Tozer v. United States, 52 Fed. 917; Standard Oil Co.
v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United States v. American
Tobacco Co., 221 U. S: 106; Sears Roebuck v. Federal
Trade Comm'n, 258 Fed. 307. Distinguishing' Collins v.
Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634; United States v. Pennsylvania
R. R. Co., 242 U. S. 208; United States v. Cohen Grocery
Co., 255 U. S. 581.
The fact that the statute raises the presumption does
not render it unconstitutional. There is a rational connection between the facts from which the presumption is
raised, to-wit, the facts that the defendants are the managing and ontrolling officers of the bank, and that the bank
becomes insolvent, and the thing presumed, which is that
the bank became insolvent because of the fraudulent or illegal management of those officers, In a large percentage

MANLEY v. GEORGIA.
I

Opinion of the Court.

of cases, it is a matter of public knowledge that the wrongful acts of the officers in charge have caused the insolvency
of banks. It is enough that the connection between the
thing presumed and the facts from which it is presumed is
reasonable. It is not necessary that the inference be true in
every case, or even in a majority of cases. The presumption is only prima facie and can be rebutted. Griffin v.
State, 142 Ga. 636. Distinguishing McFarlandv. American Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79; and citing Hawes v.
Georgia, 258 U. S. 1; State v. Donato, 127 La. 393; State
v. Dowdy, 145 N. C. 432; State v. Buck, 120 Mo. 479;
State v. Sattley, 131 Mo. 464; Robertson v. People, 20
Colo. 279; State v. Beach, 147 ind. 74; Meadowcroft v.
People, 163 Ill. 56; In re Milecke, 52 Wash. 312; State v.
Yardley, 95 Tenn. 546; People v. Cannon, 139 N. Y. 32;
Anselvich case, 186 Mass. 376.
There could be no vagueness growing out of the word
"illegal" as applied to the defendant's acts causing insolvency of the bank. The State has various laws regulating bank management, and violation of any of these laws,
causing insolvency of a bank, comes within the statute.
Mr. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant was convicted in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, of a violation of § 28, Art. XX of the
state Banking Act of 1919. The judgment was affirmed
in the highest court of the State. 166 Ga. 563. Appellant challenged the validity of that section on the ground,
among others, that the presumption created by it is so
unreasonable and arbitrary as to amount to a denial of
due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. His contentions were overruled by both courts,
and that question is here for decision. § 237 (a), Judicial
Code.
The questioned section follows: "Every insolvency of a
bank shall be deemed fraudulent, and the president and

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

directors shall be severally punished by imprisonment and
labor in the penitentiary for not less than one (1) year
nor longer than ten (10) years; provided, that the defendant in a case arising under this section, may repel the
presumption of fraud by showing that the affairs of the
bank have been fairly and legally administered, and generally, with the same care and diligence that agents receiving a commission for their services are required and bound
by law to observe; and upon such showing the jury shall
acquit the prisoner."
This section is in words substantially the same as one
first found in the Georgia Penal Code of 1833. But its
meaning has been changed by a recent statutory definition
of insolvency. Section 5, Art. I, Banking Act of 1919,
declares: "A bank shall be deemed to be insolvent, first,
when it cannot meet its liabilities as they become due in
the regular course of business; second, when the actual
cash market value of its assets is insufficient to pay its
liabilities to depositors and other creditors; third, when its
reserve shall fall under the amount herein required and it
shall fail to make good such reserve within thirty (30)
days after being required to do so by the Superintendent
of Banks." Prior to its enactment, none of the conditions
specified was deemed insolvency. Griffin v. State, 142
Ga. 636, 642, et seq.
Construing § 28, after this enlargement of the meaning
of insolvency, the state court, Snead v. State (1927), 165
Ga. 44, held that upon proof of insolvency, it is presumed
to be fraudulent, and an accused president or director is
presumed to be guilty. The court said (p. 53) that this
"is but an application to a criminal case of the doctrine of
res ipsa loquitur, often applied in civil proceedings. . ..
(p. 55) The State is only required to prove that the bank
was under the management and control of the accused,
and that it became insolvent while it was within the
management and control of the defendant either by

MANLEY v. GEORGIA.
1

Opinion of the Court.

himself alone or conjointly with associates in its management."
The indictment in the case at bar merely alleges that at
a time and place specified appellant, being president of a
bank named and he and two others being directors of said
bank "and the said accused being by law then and there
charged with the fair and legal administration of the business and affairs of the said" bank "then and there pending and during the said official charge and responsibility of
the said accused, the said" bank "did become fraudulently insolvent, contrary . . ." etc.
Referring to the language of the section, the court in this
case declared that the affairs of a bank are "fairly and
legally" administered when they are administered "honestly" and " in accordance with law." And it said (p. 578)
that the presumption that the insolvency is fraudulent
"places upon these officers the burden of showing that
they administered the affairs of the bank with the same
care and diligence that agents receiving a commission for
their services are required and bound by law to observe.
(p. 579) In addition, this statute . . . permits the
accused to rebut the presumption against him . . .by
showing other facts, such as that the insolvency was caused
by an unexpected panic in the country, or by the speculation of some officer or agent for which the accused was in
no way responsible, or by any other facts rebutting the
presumption of fraudulent conduct on his part." The
proviso permits the presumption that a crime has been
committed to be repelled by the showing specified therein;
and, under the decisions of the court, the accused may
show any facts that tend to rebut the presumption that
he is guilty of the offense charged.
State legislation declaring that proof of one fact or a
group of facts shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
main or ultimate fact in issue is valid if there is a rational
connection between what is proved and what is to be in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ferred. If the presumption is not unreasonable and is not
made conclusive of the rights of the person against whom
raised, it does not constitute a denial of due process of
law. Mobile, J. & K. C. R. R. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S.
35, 43. A prima facie presumption casts upon the person
against whom it is applied the duty of going forward with
his evidence on the particular point to which the presumption relates. A statute creating a presumption that
is arbitrary or that operates to deny a fair opportunity to
repel it violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Bailey v. Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 233, et
seq. Mere legislative fiat may not take the place of fact
in the determination of issues involving life, liberty or
property. " . . . it is not within the province of a legislature to declare an individual guilty or presumptively
guilty of a crime." McFarland v. American Sugar Co.,
241 U. S. 79, 86.
The presumption here involved does not rest upon any
definite basis. It is raised upon proof of any one or more
of the conditions described as insolvency and without regard to the facts from which such condition resulted.
The statute does not specify the eleinents of the offense;
and so the inference is not restricted to any particular
point or specific issue. The facts so to be presumed are
as uncertain and vague as the terms "fraudulent" and
"fraud" contrasted with "fairly," "legally," "honestly,"
and "in accordance with law," when used to describe the
management of a bank. Connally v. General Construction Co., 269 U. S. 385, 391. Cline v. Frink Dairy Co.,
274 U. S. 445, 454. Nor is the generality of the presumption aided by the allegations of the accusation. The indictment merely follows the general words of the statute
without specifying facts to disclose the nature or circumstances of the charge. Snead v. State, supra, 54. And
see United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 562. And
as to guilt also, the presumption is sweeping. It extends

DELAWARE &c. R. R. v. KOSKE.
Syllabus.

to all directors. There may be from three to twenty-five.
The president is required to be a director.
The presumption extends to the corpus delicti as well
as to the responsibility of the president or director accused. The proof which makes a prima facie case points
to no specific transaction, matter or thing as the cause of
the fraudulent insolvency or to any act or omission of the
accused tending to show his responsibility. He is to be
convicted unless he negatives every fact, whether act or
omission in the management of the bank, from which
fraudulent insolvency might result or shows that he is in
no way responsible for the condition of the bank.
Inference of crime and guilt may not reasonably be
drawn from mere inability to pay demand deposits and
other debts as they mature. In Georgia banks are permitted to lend up to 85 per cent. of their deposits. Unforeseen demands in excess of the reserves required do not
tend to show that the crime created by § 28 has been committed. The same may be said as to the other conditions
defined as insolvency. The connection between the fact
proved and that presumed is not sufficient. Reasoning
does not lead from one to the other. Hawes v. Georgia,
258 U. S. 1, 4. The presumption created by § 28 is unreasonable and arbitrary. Bailey v. Alabama, supra.
McFarlandv. American Sugar Co., supra.
Judgment reversed.
DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY v. KOSKE.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

COURT

OF

ERRORS

AND

APPEALS

OF

NEW JERSEY.

No. 219.

Argued January 17, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. A case under the Employers' Liability Act that was tried in

the courts below upon the theory that the place of the accident
was a certain ditch in a railway yard, as to which it was adjudged

