DELAWARE &c. R. R. v. KOSKE.
Syllabus.

to all directors. There may be from three to twenty-five.
The president is required to be a director.
The presumption extends to the corpus delicti as well
as to the responsibility of the president or director accused. The proof which makes a prima facie case points
to no specific transaction, matter or thing as the cause of
the fraudulent insolvency or to any act or omission of the
accused tending to show his responsibility. He is to be
convicted unless he negatives every fact, whether act or
omission in the management of the bank, from which
fraudulent insolvency might result or shows that he is in
no way responsible for the condition of the bank.
Inference of crime and guilt may not reasonably be
drawn from mere inability to pay demand deposits and
other debts as they mature. In Georgia banks are permitted to lend up to 85 per cent. of their deposits. Unforeseen demands in excess of the reserves required do not
tend to show that the crime created by ยง 28 has been committed. The same may be said as to the other conditions
defined as insolvency. The connection between the fact
proved and that presumed is not sufficient. Reasoning
does not lead from one to the other. Hawes v. Georgia,
258 U. S. 1, 4. The presumption created by ยง 28 is unreasonable and arbitrary. Bailey v. Alabama, supra.
McFarlandv. American Sugar Co., supra.
Judgment reversed.
DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN
RAILROAD COMPANY v. KOSKE.
CERTIORARI

TO

THE

COURT

OF

ERRORS

AND

APPEALS

OF

NEW JERSEY.

No. 219.

Argued January 17, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.

1. A case under the Employers' Liability Act that was tried in

the courts below upon the theory that the place of the accident
was a certain ditch in a railway yard, as to which it was adjudged

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

that the railroad company was negligent and that the plaintiff
had not assumed the risk, can not be reviewed upon the theory
that the place may have been some other depression or hole in
the yard of the existence of which no finding is warranted by the
evidence. P. 9.
2. A railway employee, alighting in the dark from an engine in a
railway yard in the course of his employment, fell into a shallow
ditch near the track which had long been maintained there for
drainage purposes and with the location and condition of which
he had long been familiar. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act for resulting injuries, held:
(1) That the railway company was not proven to have been
guilty of any breach of duty owed the employee, either in adopting and maintaining the ditch rather than some other method of
drainage, or in respect of its condition at the time and place in
question. P. 11.
(2) That, as a matter of law, the employee had assumed the
risk, and the company was entitled to a directed verdict. P. 12.
3. The fact that sunrise occurs considerably before seven o'clock
during some weeks immediately before June 4th, may be judicially noticed. P. 12.
104 N. J. L. 627, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 586, to a judgment of the Court

of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey, affirming a recovery of damages in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Walter J. Larrabee, with whom Mr. Frederic B.
Scott was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. I. FaerberGoldenhorn,with whom Mr. Saul Nemser was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. JusTICE BuTizR delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent sued petitioner under the Federal Employers' Liability Act in the circuit court of Hudson County,
New Jersey, to recover damages for injuries sustained by
him while in the service of petitioner. At the close of the
evidence, defendant moved the court to direct a verdict in

DELAWARE &c. R. R. v. KOSKE.
7

Opinion of the Court.

its favor on the grounds that the evidence was not suffi-

cient to warrant a finding of negligence on the part of
defendant and that it conclusively appeared that plaintiff
assumed the risk of the accident and injury complained
of. The motion was denied, there was a verdict for plaintiff, and the judgment entered thereon was affirmed by
the highest court of the State.
Plaintiff was employed in defendant's roundhouse and
coal-chute yard at Hoboken. The complaint alleged that
defendant negligently "permitted an open, uncovered and
unlighted and dangerous hole to exist between certain
parts of said tracks," that plaintiff was there employed
at four o'clock in the morning of June 4, 1925, and "while
alighting from an engine in the course of his said employment fell into said opening," and was injured.
Plaintiff's work was to put sand into the boxes on
engines and to turn switches for them. During eleven
years he worked nights from nine o'clock in the evening
until seven in the morning and for one year, about five
years before the accident, he worked in the day time. He
was familiar with the tracks and ground in the yard.
Throughout the period of his employment, the yard was
drained by a shallow open ditch or trench. This depression varied in depth from eight to eleven inches and in
width from eight to twenty-four inches. It passed
between ties under the tracks and, at a place not far from
the coal-chute, it extended a short distance longitudinally
between the tracks. During all the time that plaintiff
worked there the drain or ditch was in the same place and
was maintained in the same condition as it was at the
time of the accident.
The case was tried, the jury charged and the judgment
given and affirmed upon the understanding that the place
where plaintiff fell was a part of the above-mentioned
longitudinal section of the drain. Nevertheless, plaintiff
here suggests that it is not certain that the hole coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

plained of was a part of the trench. But, as it was in
respect of the ditch or drain that defendant was found
negligent and plaintiff was held not to have assumed the
risk and as that only was considered by the lower courts,
the judgment cannot be affirmed on the theory that plaintiff was not injured there but at another place.
Three or four days after the accident, plantiff went to
the yard to get his pay and then told the coal-chute foreman of the accident saying he "fell down in the ditch
somewhere off an engine." He also indicated to the
roundhouse foreman not the exact spot but the vicinity
of the place where he claimed to have been injured. The
part of the yard so pointed out includes the section of the
drain here in question.
In his testimony plaintiff described the accident in
substance as follows. He went upon an engine standing
near the roundhouse and rode it to a point about 60 feet
from the coal-chute, where it stopped near a switch he
intended to turn. The engine step was between three
and four feet above the general level of the ground
between the tracks. He said he jumped from the engine
and "just struck a certain hole "; that there was coal or
stone in the hole; "there was something there very hard,"
that he immediately became unconscious and did not
know what happened or who took him "out of that hole
or how they took" him. He also said that he did not
know about the hole before he jumped; that it was gb
dark that he could not see the hole; that he thought
everything was level and did not expect the hole to be
in that place. There is nothing to support a finding that
there was then any hole or depression in the yard other
than the open drain.
The Federal Employers Liability Act permits recovery
upon the basis of negligence only. The carrier is not liable
to its employees because of any defect or insufficiency
in plant or equipment that is not attributable to fbegli-

DELAWARE &c. R. R. v. KOSKE.
7

Opinion of the Court.

gence. The burden was on plaintiff to adduce reasonable
evidence to show a breach of duty owed by defendant to
him in respect of the place where he was injured and that
in whole or in part his injuries resulted proximately therefrom. And, except as provided in ยง 4 of the Act, the
employee assumes the ordinary risks of his employment;
and, when obvious or fully known and appreciated, he
assumes the extraordinary risks and those due to negligence of his employer and fellow employees. Seaboard
Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501. St. Louis, etc. Ry.
v. Mills, 271 U. S. 344. Northern Ry. Co. v. Page, 274
U. S. 65, 75.
The record contains no description of the place where
plaintiff was injured other than that above referred to.
Fault or negligence may not be found from the mere
existence of the drain and the happening of the accident.
The measure of duty owed by defendant to plaintiff was
reasonable or ordinary care having regard to the circumstances. Patton v. Texas and Pacific Railway Co., 179
U. S. 658, 664. There is no evidence that the open drain
was not suitable or appropriate for the purpose for which
it was maintained or that there was in use by defendant
or other carriers any means for the drainage of railroad
yards which involve less of danger to switchmen and
others employed therein. Defendant was not bound to
maintain its yard in the best or safest condition; it had
much freedom in the selection of methods to drain its
yard and in the choice of facilities and places for the use
of its employees. Courts will not prescribe standards in
respect of such matters or leave engineering questions such
as are involved in the construction and maintenance of
railroad yards and the drainage systems therein to the
uncertain and varying judgment of juries. Toledo, St. L.
& W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 170. The evidence
is not sufficient to warrant a finding that defendant was
guilty of any breach of duty owed to plaintiff in respect

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

of the method employed or the condition of the drain at
the time and place in question. Nelson v. Southern Ry.
Co., 246 U. S. 253. Missouri Pacific Railroad Co. v.
Aeby, 275 U. S. 426.
The court takes judicial notice of the fact that for some
weeks immediately before the accident the sun rose and
it was light for some time before plaintiff's quitting hour.
Montenes v. MetropolitanStreet R. Co., 77 App. Div. 493.
He worked in daylight for some time every morning during the spring and summer months, and during one year
he worked days. There was nothing obscure or of recent
origin about the place where he was injured. The conditions were constant and of long standing. The evidence
requires a finding that he had long known the location of
the drain and its condition at the place in question.
The dangers attending jumping from engines in the vicinity of the drain, especially in the dark, were obvious.
Plaintiff must be held to have fully understood and appreciated the risk.
It was the duty of the judge presiding at the trial to
direct the jury to return a verdict in favor of the defendant. Butler v. Frazee, 211 U. S. 459, 467.
Judgment reversed.

McDONALD v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAIZ FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 117. Argued January 10, 1929.-Decided February 18, 1929.
1. Service on a vessel of foreign registry can not be considered residence in the United States for naturalization purposes. P. 19.
2. A proviso is not always limited in its effect to the part of the
enactment with which it is immediately associated; it may apply
generally to all cases within the meaning of the language used.
P. 20.

