B. & 0. i. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
768

Syllabus.

425. Moreover, here the competition is not for transportation of the identical merchandise.
Third. In this Court, there is a faint contention that the
evidence before the Commission did not support the finding of unreasonableness. It was not made either before
the Commission or the District Court and is clearly unfounded. See Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272
U. S. 658, 665; Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564, 580.
There is also a suggestion that the Commission should
have suspended and ordered cancelled the Southern's varying proportional rate. Its action in that respect is not
subject to review in this proceeding.
Affirmed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

.kPPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 563.

Argued April 24, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

After this Court had reversed a decree of the District Court of
three judges erroneously refusing to vacate an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission by which appellant railroads (plaintiffs below) were required to absorb transfer charges on certain
traffic moving west at St. Louis, (277 U. S. 291), and by its
mandate had directed such further proceedings in the case, in
conformity with this Court's opinion and decree, as according to
right and justice and the laws of the United States ought to be
had, the appellants applied to the District Court for a decree in
accordance with the mandate, including restitution by the appellee
railroads of the amounts which the appellants had borne and
paid under the order because of the erroneous decree, and for a
reference to a master to ascertain such amounts. The District
Court reversed that decree, set aside the Commission's order,
retained jurisdiction, and later entered its final decree denying
the restitution and reference. Held:
1. The decree denying the application for restitution and for
reference to a master, was appealable to this Court under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913. P. 784.

782

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

2. The application for restitution was in effect an equity suit
resulting in a final decree. P. 785.
3. When a lower federal court refuses to give effect to or misconstrues a mandate of this Court, its action may be controlled by this
Court. P. 785.
4. Under the Act, a court of three judges was required for the
entry of decree on mandate; its jurisdiction necessarily included
power to make all orders required to carry on the suit and enforce
the rights and obligations of the parties arising in it. And appeal
from the decree refusing restitution rested on the same foundation
as the first appeal. P. 785.
5. The appellants were entitled to restitution of the amounts paid
under the original erroneous decree, with interest at the rate established by the law of the State. P. 785.
6. The District Court should have retained jurisdiction and
awarded restitution, in avoidance of a multiplicity of suits and the
virtual denial of justice that would result if each claim must be
separately litigated at law. P. 786.
7. The district judges should give their reasons in deciding
important cases. P. 787.
Reversed.
APPEFAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges denying an application for restitution and for a
reference to a master. The proceedings below occurred
after the receipt of the mandate issued by this Court
pursuant to its decision upon a former appeal. 277 U. S.
291.
Mr. FredericD. McKenney, with whom Messrs. Morison R. Waite, Theodore Schmidt, and John S. Flannery
were on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Charles S. Burg and Henry H. Larimore, with
whom Messrs. Morris G. Roberts and Wallace T. Hughes
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BuTLRE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is the second appeal in this case; the first was
heard and determined at last term. 277 U. S. 291. The

B. & 0. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
781

Opinion of the Court.

appellants and appellees are the same here as they were on
that appeal. The former are called the east side roads and
the appellee carriers are called the west side roads. The
western termini of the appellants are at East St. Louis and
the eastern termini of the appellee carriers are at St. Louis.
For many years the east side roads and- the west side roads
have exchanged traffic by means of the facilities of the
Terminal Railroad Association. United States v. St. Louis
Terminal, 224 U. S. 383. Ex parte United States, 226 U.
S. 420. United States v. St. Louis Terminal, 236 U. S. 194.
Terminal R. R. Ass'n v. United States, 266 U. S. 17.
The west side roads in order to meet the competition of
other rail carriers west of the river whose lines reached
East St. Louis made the same rates to both cities and absorbed and bore the cost of transferring all freight across
the river. On most of the traffic the east side roads made
the same rates to both cities; but on through traffic moving on combination rates through both points, their rates
applied only to East St. Louis.
After the decision of this court in Terminal R. R. Ass'n
v. United States, 266 U. S. 17, the west side roads made
complaint to the Interstate Commerce Commission and
secured its order requiring the east side roads to absorb
the charges for transfer across the river on all westbound
through traffic moving on combination rates which were
the same on St. Louis as on East St. Louis. 113 I. C. C.
681. The east side roads brought this suit against the
United States to set aside the order; the Commission and
west side roads intervened. The court, consisting of three
judges, dismissed the suit for want of equity. This court
reversed the decree and by its mandate directed that such
further proceedings be had in the case, in conformity with
the opinion and decree, as according to right and justice
and the laws of the United States ought to be had.
The mandate having been filed in the district court, the
appellants applied for a decree in conformity with it.

784

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

They averred that, by reason of the erroneous dismissal
of the suit, they had been compelled, up to the time our
decree of reversal went into effect, to comply with the order of the Commission from its effective date, December
11, 1926, and had paid the transfer charges covered by the
order. They prayed that the decree require the west side
roads severally to restore to the respective east side roads
the amounts which, because of the erroneous decree of
dismissal, they had borne and paid, and that the case be
referred to a master to ascertain the amounts.
After hearing, the district court, as before consisting of
three judges, vacated its earlier decree and set aside the
order of the Commission. The court found that appellants
had complied with the order of the Commission as alleged,
retained jurisdiction of the case and later entered its final
decree denying appellants' application for restitution and
for reference to a master. This appeal was taken from
such denial.
The west side roads move to dismiss on the ground that
the part of the decree complained of is not reviewable here
on this appeal.
The Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, 38
Stat. 219,* provides that no decree setting aside any order
of the Commission shall be granted by any district court
unless the case shall be heard and determined by three
judges. And the Act gives aggrieved parties the right to
appeal to this court from a final decree in any suit brought
to set aside such orders. There is no question as to the
*"... No interlocutory injunction suspending ... or setting
aside -.. any order made . . .by the Interstate Commerce Commission shall be ... granted by any district court of the United
States .. .unless the application for the same .. . shall be heard
and determined by three judges. ....
An appeal may be taken direct to the Supreme Court of the United
States from the order_ granting or denying, after notice and hearing,
an interlocutory injunction, in such case . ..
And upon the final hearing of any suit brought to suspend or set
aside, in whole or in part, any order of said commission the same

B. & 0. R. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

781

jurisdiction of this court on the first appeal or as to the
validity of its mandate. The present controversy concerns the construction and effect to be given to the
mandate.
Appellants' application for restitution was in effect an
equity proceeding resulting in a final decree. Perkins v.
Fourniquet,14 How. 328, 330. When a lower federal court
refuses to give effect to or misconstrues our mandate, its
action may be controlled by this court, either upon a new
appeal or by writ of mandamus. In re Potts, 166 U. S.
263, 265. In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247,
255, and cases cited. It is well understood that this court
has power to do all that is necessary to give effect to its
judgments. The Act authorizes this appeal.
Moreover the proceeding below out of which the denial
of restitution arose is incidental to and in effect a part of
the main suit. Under the Act a court of three judges was
required for the entry of the decree on the mandate. Ex
parte United States, supra, 424. Ex parte 3fetropolitan
Water Co., 220 U. S. 539, 544. The jurisdiction of the
court so constituted necessarily includes power to make
all orders required to carry on such suits and to enforce
the rights and obligations of the parties that arise in the
litigation. This appeal rests on the same foundation as
did the first. Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W. -?y., 249
U. S. 134, 142.
The east side roads are entitled to restitution. The order should have been set aside in the first instance. As
a result of the erroneous refusal of the court, the burden
of the transfer charges in question was shifted from the
requirement as to judges and the same procedure as to expedition and
appeal shall apply.
A final judgment or decree of the district court may be reviewed
by the Supreme Court of the United States . . . and such appeals
may be taken in like manner as appeals are taken under existing
law in equity cases." [Paragraphing added] U. S. C., Tit. 28,
ยง ยง 47, 47a.
4522829-- 0

786

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

west side roads to the east side roads and was by them
borne until the order was set aside on the reversal of the
decree dismissing the bill. All payments made by appellants in compliance with the invalid order enured to the
benefit of the west side roads just as if made directly to
them.
The right to recover what one has lost by the enforcement of a judgment subsequently reversed is well established. And, while the subject of the controversy and
the parties are before the court, it has jurisdiction to enforce restitution and so far as possible to correct what has
been wrongfully done. Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock,
139 U. S. 216, 219. Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis S. W.
Ry. Co., supra, 145. Ex parte Linclon Gas Co., 256 U. S.
512, 516. When the erroneous decree was reversed and
the invalid order was set aside, the law raised an obligation
against each of the west side roads to make restitution of
the payments made by the east side roads in compliance
with the order. And thereupon each of the east side roads
became entitled to have the amounts so paid by it together
with interest thereon from the dates of such payments at
the rate established by the law of the State in which such
sums were paid.
Before the reversal of the erroneous decree, there was
transferred across the river a very great number of shipments covered by the order. The transfer charge on each
constitutes a claim in favor of an east side road and against
a west side road. If each claim is treated as a separate
cause of action enforceable only at law, the number of
suits and the burden of maintaining them would be so
enormous that the relegation of the east side roads to
that remedy would be a virtual denial of justice. It was
the duty of the court to retain jurisdiction of the case,
enter a decree that appellants are entitled to restitution,

ATLANTIC C. L. R. CO. v. DRIGGERS.
781

Syllabus.

and refer the case to a master as prayed in appellants'
motion. Ex parte Lincoln Gas Co., supra, 517.
The lower court entered its decree dismissing the suit
and, after reversal here, denied restitution without opinion, statement of reasons or citation of authority. The
questions were important, and the amounts involved were
large. The judges should have given the reasons on which
they rested their decisions. Virginian Ry. v. United
States, 272 U. S. 658, 675. Lawrence v. St. L.-S. F. By.,
274 U. S. 588, 596. Arkansas Commission v. Chicago, etc.
R. R., 274 U. S. 597, 603. Cleveland, etc. Ry. v. United
States, 275 U. S. 404, 414. Hammond v. Schappi Bus
Line, 275 U. S. 164.
Decree reversed.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
DRIGGERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 225. Argued January 18, 1929. Reargued April 9, 10, 1929.Decided June 3, 1929.
1. In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, if it
appears from the record that under the applicable principles of law
as interpreted by the federal courts, the evidence was not sufficient
in kind or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence of the
Railroad Company was the cause of the death, the judgment must
be reversed. P. 788.
2. Upon the facts of this case, held that death of a railway switchman
who stepped from the foot-board of a moving switch engine and
fell or was thrown against the side of another engine drawing a
passenger train on an adjacent track, was attributable solely to his
own negligence and not to any negligence of the railway company.
P. 792.
3. In an action for death of a railway employee under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, if there is no support for the contention
that the death was caused by the negligence of the Railway Com-

