156

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioner.

UNITED STATES PRINTING

279 U. S.

& LITHOGRAPH

COMPANY v. GRIGGS, COOPER & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OHIO.

No. 372. Argued March 6, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.
The Trade Mark Act of 1905 provides no remedy where the infringe:
ment of a trade mark registered under it is within the limits of a
State and does not interfere with interstate or foreign commerce,
nor does it enlarge common law rights within a State where the
mark has not been used. P. 158.
119 Oh. St. 151, reversed.

278 U. S. 592, to the Supreme Court of
Ohio to review a judgment affirming a decree which enjoined petitioner from the printing and selling of labels
alleged to infringe respondent's trade mark.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Walter F. Murray, with whom Mr. Frank F. Dinmore was on the brief, for petitioner.
Trade-mark rights, resting on the laws of the States,
are limited to States in which the trade-marks are used.
Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 425;
United Drug Co. v. Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 100.
Congress has no right to legislate upqn the substantive
law of trade-marks. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 93;
Hanover Star Milling Co. v. Metcalf, 240 U. S. 416.
Registration under the Trade-Mark Act does not extend
the rights of the registrant into States in which he has
done no business. General Baking Co. v. Gorman, 3 F.
(2d) 893. It confers no rights that the registrant did not
have under the common law. Waldes v. International
Mfrs. Agency, 237 Fed. 502; Robertson v. U. S. ex rel.
Baldwin Co., 287 Fed. 943; Andrew Jergens Co. v. Woodbury, 273 Fed. 952; Ammon & Person v. Narragansett
Dairy Co., 262 Fed. 880.

U. S. PRINTING CO. v. GRIGGS & CO.
156

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. E. Howard Morphy and Carl W. Cummins, with
whom Messrs. Orris P. Cobb and Oliver G. Bailey were
on the brief, for respondent.
The Trade-Mark Act projects the protection afforded
by the Act to the owner of registered trade-marks throughout the entire United States in all of the channels of interstate commerce in advance of the sale of merchandise bearing the registered trade-mark. Standard Brewing Co. v.
Interboro Brewing Co., 229 Fed. 543.
A registered trade-mark owner actually using the mark
in interstate commerce is entitled to protection in interstate commerce against any infringer or contributing infringer where it appears that goods bearing the infringing
labels move in the channels of interstate commerce.
The common law has no application to the facts in this
case, for the reason that the registered trade-mark of respondent was projected by trade into a certain territory
in which the customers of petitioner thereafter engaged
in business. The petitioner was a common law contributing infringer. Colman v. Crump, 40 N. Y. Supp. 584,
affirmed, 70 N. Y. 573; Carson v. Urg, 39 Fed. 777; Hennessy v. Herrman, 89 Fed. 669.
IR.

JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the respondent, a corporation
of Minnesota, against the petitioner, a corporation of
Ohio, alleging that the plaintiff has a trade mark 'Home
Brand', registered in the Patent Office for various grocers'
goods which it sells at wholesale in certain named States of
the northwest; and that the defendant is printing and selling labels for similar grocers' goods, containing the word
'Home', which labels are used by the purchasers in States
other than those in which the plaintiff has established a
market. No interference with interstate or foreign commerce is alleged. The bill seeks an injunction against

158

OCTOBER TEiRM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

printing and selling such labels for any groceries that the
plaintiff sells. The trial court found the facts to be as
above stated and the Supreme Court held that the "purpose and effect of the [Trade Mark Act of February 20,
1905, c. 592, ยง 16; 33 Stat. 728, (C., Tit. 15, ยง 96)] was to
project the trade mark rights of the registrant and owner
thereof into all the states even in advance of the establishment of trade therein, and to afford full protection to such
registrant and owner." It affirmed a judgment for the
plaintiff giving the relief prayed and a writ of certiorari
was granted by this Court.
In the Trade Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, it was held that
the earlier acts attempting to give these unlimited rights
were beyond the power of Congress. Soon after that -decision, an Act of March 3, 1881, gave remedies for the
wrongful use of a registered trade mark in foreign commerce or commerce with Indian Tribes. It was said that
obviously the Act was passed in view of the above mentioned case, that only the trade mark used in such commerce was admitted to registry and that the registered
mark could only be infringed when used in that commerce,
Warren v. Searle & Hereth Co., 191 U. S. 195, 204, (see
United Drug Co. v. Theodore Rectanus Co., 248 U. S. 90,
99,) and the constitutionality of the Act even when so
limited was left open. 191 U. S. 206. The Act of 1905
goes a little farther and gives remedies against reproduction, &c., of the registered trade mark 'in commerce among
the several States' as well as in commerce with foreign
nations, &c., ยง 16, supra. A remedy for such infringement
was given in Thaddeus Davids Co. v. Davids Manufacturing Co., 233 U. S. 461, see also American Steel Foundries
v. Robertson, 262 U. S. 209. Baldwin Co. v. Robertson,
265 U. S. 168. But neither authority nor the plain words
of the Act allow a remedy upon it for infringing a trade
mark registered under it, within the limits of a State and
not affecting the commerce named. More obviously still

GILCHRIST v. INTERBOROUGH CO.
156

Syllabus.

it does not enlarge common law rights within a State
where the mark has not been used. General Baking Co.
v. Gorman, 3 F. (2d) 891, 894. Some attempt was made
to support the decision upon other grounds, but we .do not
think them presented by the record, and they are not
mentioned by the Ohio Court.
Judgment reversed.
GILCHRIST ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE TRANSIT
COMMISSION, ET AL. v. INTERBOROUGH RAPID
TRANSIT COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UINITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

No. 159.

Argued October 16, 17, 18, 1928. Reargued January 14,
15, 16, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.

A New York street railway corporation, operating in the City of New
York (1) subway lines belonging to and leased from the city, and
which were part of the city streets, in connection with (2) elevated
lines belonging to and leased from another corporation, and (3)
extensions of such elevated lines, sought to increase the rate of
fare, which had been fixed at five cents for all the lines by the
leases and by the agreement under which the extensions had been
constructed, and to that end proposed a seven cent fare and applied
to the Transit Commission of New York to sanction the change, on
the ground that the existing rate was confiscatory. The commission, acting within the time allowed it by statute, made an order
denying the application for want of power to change the rate fixed
by the subway contracts, and brought proceedings in a state court,
as did also the city, to compel the company to observe, that rate.
On the same day when this formal action was taken, but earlier
and when there was merely a consensus among the commission's
members that it should be taken, the company filed its original
bill in the federal court alleging that the five cent rate had become
confiscatory and that the commission had failed to grant relief, and
praying an injunction against any attempt on the part of the commission or the city to enforce that rate, or to interfere with the
establishment of the one proposed; and thereafter it filed a sup-

