BARRY
587

V.

U. S.

EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM\1.

597

Syllabus.

for public safety on the enforcement of the state law as
against the employees of all railroads, state or interstate.
The application of the state statute was not by way of
enlargement or contraction of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. See Salabrin v. Ann Arbor R. R., 194 Mich.
458; PennsylvaniaR. R. v. Stalker, 67 Ind. App. 329.
We think that the statute of Kentucky limiting the age
of employees and punishing its violation has no bearing
on the civil liability of a railway to its employees injured
in interstate commerce and that application of it in this
case was error.
Reversed.
BARRY, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS OF THE UNITED
STATES SENATE, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
EX REL. CUNNINGHAM.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 647.

Argued April 23, 1929.--Decided MIay 27, 1929.

1. A resolution of the Senate which recites the refusal of a witness
to answer questions asked of him by a committee pursuing an
investigation under authority from the Senate, and which directs
that he be attached and brought before the bar of the Senate "to
answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry as
the Senate through its said committee or the President of the
Senate may propound," expresses the purpose of the Senate to
elicit testimony in response to questions to be propounded at its
bar; and in deciding whether the witness must attend, it is not
material to consider whether the information sought to be elicited
from him by the committee was pertinent to the inquiry which it
had been directed to make. P. 612.
2. Exercise by the Senate of its judicial power to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, Const., Art. I,
§ 5, cl. 1, necessarily involves the ascertainment of facts, the
attendance of witnesses, the examination of such witnesses, with
the power to compel answers to pertinent questions, to determine

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

the facts and apply the appropriate rules of law, and, finally, to
render a judgment which is beyond the authority of any other
tribunal to review. P. 613.
3. In the exercise of this power, the Senate may dispense with the
services of a committee and itself take the testimony, or, after conferring authority on its committee, it may at any stage resume
charge of the inquiry, and deal with the subject without regard to
the limitations that were put upon the committee and subject only
to the restraints of the Constitution. P. 613.
4. It is not to be assumed, in advance of a witness' interrogation at
the bar of the Senate, that constitutional restraints will n6t be
faithfully observed. P. 614.
5. When one who, upon the face of the returns, has been elected to
the Senate and who has a certificate from the Governor of his
State to that effect, presents himself to the Senate claiming the
right of membership, the jurisdiction of the Senate to determine
the rightfulness of the claim is invoked and its power to adjudicate
such right immediately attaches by virtue of § 5 of Article I of the
Constitution, empowering it to judge of the elections, returns and
qualifications of its "members." P. 614.
6. Whether, pending this adjudication, the credentials should be
accepted, the oath administered, and the full right accorded to
participate in the business of the Senate, is a matter within the
discretion of the Senate. P. 614.
7. Refusal by the Senate to seat the claimant pending the investigation does not deprive the State of its "equal suffrage in the Senate ".
within the meaning of Article V of the Constitution. P. 615.
8. The power of the Senate to require the attendance of witnesses,
when judging of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, is a necessary incident of the power to adjudicate in nowise
inferior under like circumstances to that exercised by a court of
justice, and includes in some cases the power to issue a warrant of
arrest to compel such attendance. P. 616.
9. The warrant may issue without previous subpoena, where there is
good reason to believe that otherwise the witness will not be forthcoming. P. 616.
10. The Senate, having sole authority under the Constitution to judge
of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, may
exercise in its own right the incidental power of compelling the
attendance of witnesses without the aid of a statute. P. 618.
11. The act of the Senate in issuing its warrant for the arrest of a
witness is attended by the presumption of regularity which applies
to the proceedings of courts. P. 619.

BARRY v. U. S.
597

EX

ML.

CUNNINGHAM.

599

Argument for Petitioners.

12. It is to be assumed that the Senate will deal with the witness in
accordance with well-settled rules and discharge him from custody
upon proper assurance, by recognizance or otherwise, that he will
appear for interrogation when required. P. 619.
13. If judicial interference can be successfully invoked by the person
so arrested, it can only be upon a clear showing of arbitrary and
improvident use of the power constituting a denial of due process
of law. P. 620.
29 F. (2d) 817, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 827, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals reversing a decision of the District Court, 25 F. (2d) 733, which discharged a writ of
habeas corpus sued out by Cunningham and remanded
him to the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate,
who had arrested him under a warrant issued pursuant to
a resolution of the Senate.

Mr. George TV. Wickersham, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell
was on the brief, for petitioners.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding the warrant under authority of which respondent was arrested to
be a process in a proceeding to punish for contempt, and
in not holding it to be a warrant of attachment to compel
respondent's presence and testhnony. The purpose of the
Senate is obvious from the face of the warrant and
resolution.
It is well settled that the Senate has the power to
punish for contempt a witness in an inquiry which the
Senate had the power to make, who refuses to answer
questions pertinent to the inquiry. Anderson v. Dunn, 6
Wheat. 204; In re Clpman, 166 U. S. 661; Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135.
It is also now equally well settled that the Senate has
the power to compel the presence and testimony of a
recalcitrant witness by a body attachment in the form of
an arrest, in a proper case. McGrain v. Daugherty, 273

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioners.

279 U. S.

U. S. 135; Matter of Stewart, Sup. Ct., Dist. of Columbia,
Feb. 25, 1928.
The compelling of the presence and testimony of
respondent before the bar of the Senate after a refusal
to answer questions put to him by a member of a committee, is in full accord with congressional precedent.
Woolley's Case, Hinds' Pre., Vol. 3, §§ 1685 et seq.;
Stewart's Case, Id., § 1689; Irwin's Case, Id., § 1690;
Barnes' Case, Id., § 1695; Jefferson's Manual, § 13.
The inquiry was within the constitutional powers of the
Senate, to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, and to make or alter regulations as
to the times and manner of holding elections for Senators.
Art. I, § 3; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135.
The respondent's second examination before the committee was preceded by Resolution 324, expressly reciting
the election contest, and the subsequent resolutions
adopted December 9, 1927, December 12, 1927, December
17, 1927, referring the claims to the committee, emphasize this as the primary purpose of the inquiry. The
same resolution under which the proceedings against respondent were initiated, was before this Court in Reed v.
County Comm'rs, 277 U. S.376.
The Senate, in judging of the elections, returns and
qualifications of its members, is not limited to the enforcement of prohibitions contained in Article I, § 3, cl. -3.
Sen. Doe. No. 4, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.
The provisions of Article I, § 5, do not require that
one must be seated and sworn as a member before an
investigation is possible. The practical construction
placed upon the word "member" by legislation is entirely at variance with respondent's contention. For
example, see R. S. § 105.
The language in Article V of the Constitution "that
no State without its consent, shall be deprived of its

BARRY
597

V.

U. S. EX REL. CUNNINGHAM.
Argument for Petitioners.

equal Suffrage in the Senate," has no reference to such
a condition as we are considering. Story, 1 Const., § 627.
Provision is made in the Seventeenth Amendment for
temporarily filling any vacancy which may occur in the
representation of a State in the Senate.
The Senate had power and jurisdiction to order the
arrest of respondent to bring him to its bar to testify,
under its judicial power as the sole constitutional judge of
the elections, returns and qualifications of its members.
Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103 U. S.168; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.135.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that a
subpoena served on a witness followed by his neglect to
appear constituted necessary preliminaries to the issue
of the attachment. It is conceded that the Senate has the
powers of a court in a proceeding such as this. It is of
course admitted that a court (at least in a civil case) will
not ordinarily order the arrest of a witness without a previous disobedience of a subpoena, or a showing that the
witness is about to leave the jurisdiction, or something
of the sort. But it must be borne in mind that this general practice is the result of the usual way of exercising
discretion, and has nothing to do with the power or the
jurisdiction of the courts to issue such process. Chamberlayne's Modern Law of Evidence, Vol. 5, § 3612.
The power to issue such summary warrants of attachment is amply demonstrated by the common practice, well
known to this Court, of issuing bench warrants for material
witnesses in criminal cases. See U. S. Code, Tit. 28, §
659; Blair v. United States, 250 U. S.273; In re Aliens,
231 Fed%335; G. L. Mass., 1921, c. 277, § 70; § 618-b,
N. Y. Code Crim. Pro.; People v. Sharp, 78 Misc. 528;
People ex rel. Maloney v. Sheriff, 117 Misc. 421; People
ex rel. Farinav. Wallis, 208 App. Div. 720; People ex rel.
Bruno v. Maudlin, 206 N. Y. Supp. 523.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Petitioners.

279 U. S.

These cases and statutes also show to be unfounded the
contention that the warrant was violative of the Fourth
Amelndment because issued without probable cause. It
is clear that the fact that the person arrested is a material
witness in a case involving the interests of the people or
of the Government, is sufficient cause. But even were
more needed, the contumacy of the witness at his hearings before the committee, and the difficulty found in
serving a subpoena on him for the first examination
should be more than sufficient cause.
In exercising its separate power to "judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members," the
Senate cannot be made to depend upon the concurrence
of the House of Representatives or upon any statute.
Reed v. County Comm'rs, 277 U. S. 376.
Since the Senate has jurisdiction to bring the respondent before it by process of attachment, no inquiry should
be made by this Court on habeas corpus ilto the reasons
which induced it to do so, and he should be remanded
to custody.
The recitals in Resolution 179 of the previous double
recusance of respondent may strengthen the position of
the Senate, as was held in the Stewart case, supra, regarding a legislative inquiry; but it is wholly unnecessary
where, as in the case at bar, the Senate acts in its judicial
capacity. If the Senate's questions to respondent are
to be inquired into at all by a court, it can be only after
they have been formulated and put to him at its bar, and
he has refused to answer and has been committed to close
custody until he shall answer.
Unless this Court were able to say that no question
pertinent to the elections, returns or qualifications of
members of the Senate elected in November, 1926, could
or would be asked of respondent by the Senate on his
production at its bar, there can be no basis on which to
order his discharge upon habeas corpus.

BARRY v. U. S. Ex REL. CUNNINGHAM.
597

Argument for Petitioners.

The propriety of an inquiry into the method and
amount of moneys expended to secure the nomination of
a candidate, is demonstrated by the provisions of the Pennsylvania Corrupt Practices Act. If it should appear as
the result of the investigation that the conduct of either
the primary or the general election for Senator was such
that a candidate would have been disqualified for the office
had he been seeking a state office, can it be contended that
the Senate under its powers to judge the qualifications of
its own members, might not refuse to seat that candidate?
Newberry v. United States, 256 U. S. 232, is not decisive
on the power of Congress to regulate primary elections
within the States, since the adoption of the Seventeenth
Amendment, especially as this Court has more recently
recognized the direct relation between the primary and
the general election in the case of Nixon v. Herndon, 273
U. S. 536. But even if it were decisive, it has no bearing
on this case, which is concerned not with Congressional
regulation of primaries, but with violations of state
primary laws; which is concerned, not with a criminal
prosecution, but with an inquiry to judge of the elections,
returns and qualifications of a member-elect of the Senate.
If the warrant was an attachment to compel respondent
to testify, the propriety or pertinency of the questions he
refused to answer is immaterial.
Even if this were a contempt process, so that pertinency of the questions respondent refused to answer was
involved, the questions were clearly pertinent and proper.
The arrest was not violative of the Fourth Amendment,
because unsupported by oath or affirmation. McGrain
v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. at p. 158.
The fact that a new Congress has convened since respondent's examinations, is wholly immaterial to this case,
whether considered from the viewpoint of the Senate's
legislative power or its judicial power in regard to its own
members. McGrain v. Daugherty, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent.

279 U. S.

Mr. Ruby R. Vale, with whom Messrs. Otto Kraus, Jr.,
and Benjamin M. Golder were on the brief, for respondent.
Respondent has always admitted the.Senate's power
to compel his attendance as a witness by subpoena or
other legal process. The broad inquiry as to the existence
of that power, will not then be discussed, because not
raised.
Respondent has always assumed, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals has concluded, in effect, that the special committee recommended that he be adjudged in contempt
because of contumacy committed by him on two occasions in the 69th Congress; that the Senate acted on this
recommendation when, on the same day that the report
was filed, it passed Resolution 179 of the 70th Congress,
the recital of which charged him with this specific offense;
that because of such contumacy, Resolution 179 was the
first step taken by the Senate in the contempt proceedings to have him legally punished therefor, if finally so
adjudged, when he appeared before the Senate "to answer
such questions.., as the Senate... may propound."
Uniformly it has been urged that the inclusion in
Senate Resolution 179 of the order to appear before the
bar of the Senate and there to answer "questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry," was to give the accused an opportunity to purge himself of the contempt
charged.
Since a contumacious witness should not be punished
without proper proceedings being instituted against him
after the commission of the offense, Resolution 179 was
in effect, and in analogy to the practice which obtains in
the courts, a rule to show cause why he should not be
adjudged in contempt for the past offense charged in the
recital of the resolution. The final adjudication of the
fact of contempt with the imposition of punishment then

BARRY V. U. S. EX EL. CUNNINGHAM.
597

Argument for Respondent.

depends upon the answer and attitude of the accused
witness when he appears at the bar of the Senate.
Courts have jurisdiction in habeas corpus proceedings
to pass on the power of the Senate to institute proceedings
in contempt against an alleged contumacious witness, or
to imprison a witness not contumacious for future examination. Anderson v. Dunn, 6 Wheat. 204; Marshall v.
Gordon, 243 U. S. 521; McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135; Matter of Stewart, Supreme Court, District of
Columbia, Feb. 25, 1928; Kilbourn v. Thompson, 103
U. S. 168; In re Chapman, 166 U. S. 135.
The American cases, federal and state, are uniform in
holding that a legislative body is not the final judge of its
power and privileges in cases involving the rights and liberties of individuals; but the courts may discharge on habeas
corpus a relator arrested and detained in excess of legislative authority. Anderson v. Dunn, supra; McGrain v.
Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135; Sinclair v. United States, 279
U. S. 263; Kilbournv. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168; Kielley v.
Carson, 4 Moo. P. C. 63; Burnhanm v. Morrissey, 14 Gray
226; Marshall v. Gordon, 243 U. S. 521; In re Chapman,
166 U. S. 661; McDonald v. Keeler, 99 N. Y. 463; Interstate Commerce Coinm'n v. Brinson, 154 U. S. 478.
The transforming of the warrant of arrest into a process
to appear, is without precedent. Distinguishing McGrain
v. Daugherty, 273 U. S. 135; Matter of Stewart, Supreme
Court, District of Columbia.
The treating of the warrant as a process to compel attendance of a witness and to take and hold his body without outstanding process or "without probable cause,"
violates the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Ex parte
Field, 5 Blatch. C. C. Rep. 63.
Text-book writers and the courts generally regard the
power to compel the attendance of a witness by attachment as analogous to a proceeding for contempt; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent.

279 U. S.

they all emphasize the necessity of showing the service
of a subpoena as a condition precedent. Commonwealth
v. Shecter, 250 Pa. 282; Douglass Co. v. Simpson, 233
Pa. 517; Respublica v. Duane, 4 Yeates 347; Commonwealth v. Carter, 11 Pick. 277; Andrews v. Andrews, 2
Johns. 109; Sanderson v. The State, 168 Ala. 109; Brand
v. The State, 13 Ala. App. 390; Ex parte Humphrey,
2 Blatchf. 228; Ex parte Beebees, 2 Wall. Jr., 127; Burnham v. Morrissey, 14 Gray 226; Jones, Evidence, (Civil
Cases) § 799; Wigmore, Evidence, 2d ed., Vol. 4; § 2199,
p. 663.
In § 881, Rev. Stats., Congress was careful to safeguard
the rights of individuals against an arbitrary use of this
extraordinary remedy by permitting its issuance only
after formal application in open court had been made
by the District Attorney; and when the court was "satisfied by proof that the testimony of any person is competent and will be necessary on the trial." This Act and
also that of March 3, 1887, c. 397, § 2, 24 Stat. 635, and
§ 660, U. S. C., emphasize and make clear, not only that
an attachment will not issue without a previous subpoena
or to prevent the absconding of a material witness, but
also that statutory authority has been deemed necessary,
even in such instances.
Neither the Senate nor the House of Representatives
has ever assumed the power here asserted by the Senate
to arrest and bring to its bar a witness without first summoning him by subpoena. Hinds Preced., Vol. 3, pp.
1-67. In every other case where warrant of arrest issued, the witness refused to answer certain specific questions after he had disobeyed the subpoena.
The warrant is issued without probable cause because
the record does not disclose respondent to be guilty of
defiant and contumacious conduct as a witness before the
special committee: (a) since he answered truthfully all

BARRY
597

V.

U. S. EX REL. CUNNINGHAM.

Argument for Respondent.

relevant questions, and (b) refused to answer only improper inquiries concerning his personal affairs.
The Senate can not commit for a contempt by an individual in an investigation involving either the election or
qualifications of an individual certified as elected, but who
in fact, by its own resolution, is not a member of the
Senate.
The Senate can perform its judicial function only if
and when the election of a member is in question; or the
age, residence, or citizenship of a member, or his conduct,
or character, raise the issue of his qualification. Membership in the Senate is essential to its passing on the fact
of "either his election or qualification." The nomination
of a Senator at a primary or convention is distinct from
his final election. The formality of the oath is necessary
to membership in the Senate.
Legislative bodies, on many occasions, have refused to
administer the oath of office to a member-elect, pending
an examination into the legality of his credentials, but the
Senate will search in vain for a precedent where a Senatorelect has presented credentials in legal form, evidencing
his election, and possesses the constitutional qualifications, who has been denied membership.
When the Senate declared that Vare was not a member
of that body, it, by that formal act, deprived itself of
power to pass on his constitutional qualifications, or to
investigate either his election or inquire into his nomination; and when it forfeited its power so to function in a
judicial capacity, it was without authority or jurisdiction
to commit respondent for contempt.
The qualifications as to age, citizenship, residence and
inhabitancy, as set forth in § 3 of Article I of the Constitution, are the only qualifications which can determine
his right to be qualified as a Senator under the legal certificate of the Governor of the State whose accredited repre-

608

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondent.

279 U. S.

sentative he is; and this because the words of the Constitution confer power to judge of the qualifications of members
only.
If the Senate has power to pass upon the non- or extraconstitutional qualifications of a Senator-elect, and before
he becomes a member, then any qualification pleasing to
the Senate, as then constituted, is added to the qualifications named in the Constitution; and the latter, by arbitrary act of the Senate, is in fact amended.
If the Senate has the power to ignore the legal -certificate of election of the Governor of a State and deny membership to one who possesses the qualifications as defined
in the Constitution, the safeguards for coltinuous and
perpetual representation in the Senate will have been
stricken down; the Senate by its act will have written
into the Constitution qualifications not defined therein;
and the State thereby will have been deprived of its equal
suffrage in the Senate for the length of time, at least,
intervening between the vote denying him membership
and the determination of the issue of the election or his
qualifications.
The scope of the special committee functioning under
Resolution 195 embraces a subject-matter as to which
there can be no valid legislation, because it relates to
nominations of Senators at primaries. Newberry v.
United States, 256 U. S. 232.
The Senate having taken no action in the 69th Congress upon the recommendation of the committee, is
without power in the 70th Congress to punish for a
contempt committed in the preceding Congress.
The revival of the special committee by Resolution 10
of the 70th Congress, confers no authority to commit
for a contempt committed in the 69th Congress, because
there can be no imprisonment for a contempt beyond the
Congress in which it was committed.

BARRY
597

V.

U. S. EX REL. CUNNINGHA.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The questions here presented for determination grow
out of an inquiry instituted by the United States Senate in
respect of the validity of the election of a United States
Senator from Pennsylvania in November, 1926. The inquiry began before the election, immediately after the
conclusion of the primaries, by the adoption of a resolution
appointing a special committee to investigate expenditures, promises, etc., made to influence the nomination of
any person as a candidate or promote the election of any
person as a member of the Senate at the general election
to be held in November, 1926.
After the Pennsylvania primaries, Cunningham was
subpoenaed and appeared before this committee. Among
other things, he testified that he was a member of an
organization which supported William S. Vare for Senator
at the primary election; that he had given to the chairman
of the organization $50,000 in two instalments of $25,000
each prior to the holding of the primaries. He had been
clerk of a court for 21 years and was then receiving a
salary of $8,000 a year. He paid the money to the chairman in cash, but refused to say where he obtained it
except that he had not drawn it from a bank. He would
not say how long the money had been in his possession;
said he had never inherited any, but declined to answer
whether he had made money in speculation. In short, he
declined to give any information in respect of the sources
of the money, insisting that it was his own and the question where he had obtained it was a personal matter. He
further said that he had learned the trick from a former
senator of "saving money and putting it away and keeping
it under cover "; that this senator "was a past master in
not letting his right hand know what his left hand done,
45228*-29-

39

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and he dealt absolutely in cash. The 'long green' was
the issue."
Mr. Vare was nominated and elected at the succeeding
November election. The special committee thereafter
submitted a partial report in respect of Cunningham's refusal to testify. In January, 1927, Vare's election having
been contested by William B. Wilson upon the ground of
fraud and unlawful practices in connection with the nomination and election, the Senate adopted a resolution further authorizing the special committee to take possession
of ballot boxes, tally sheets, etc., and to preserve evidence
in respect of the charges made by Wilson. In February,
1927, Cunningham was recalled and, questions previously
put to him having been repeated, he again refused to give
the information called for, as he had done at the first
hearing.
At the opening of Congress in December, 1927, the Senate adopted an additional resolution, reciting, among other
things, that there were numerous instances of fraud and
corruption in behalf of Vare's cand'dacy and that there
had been expended in his behalf at the primary election a
sum exceeding $785,000. Expenditure of such a large sum
of money was declared to be contrary to sound public
policy; and the special committee was directed to inquire
into the claim of Vare to a seat in the Senate, to take evidence in respect thereto, and report to the Senate--in the
meantime, it was resolved, Vare should be denied a seat
in the Senate. By a subsequent resolution, the Committee on Privileges and Elections was directed to hear and
determine the contest between Vare and Wilson.
The special committee, in March, 1928, reported its
proceedings, including testimony given by Cunningham,
recited his refusal to give information in response to questions, as hereinbefore set forth, and recommended that he
be adjudged in contempt of the committee and of the
Senate. The Senate, however, did not adopt the recom-

BARRY v. U. S. Ex itEI. CUNNINGHAM.
597

Opinion of the Court.

mendation of the committee, but, instead, passed a resolution reciting Cunningham's contumacy and instructing the
President to issue his warrant commanding the Sergeantat-Arms or his deputy to take the body of Cunningham
into custody, and to bring him before the bar of the Senate, "then and there or elsewhere as it may direct, to
answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry as the Senate, through its said committee, or the
President of the Senate, may propound, and to keep the
said Thomas W. Cunningham in custody to await further
order of the Senate." The warrant was issued and executed; and thereupon Cunningham brought a habeas
corpus proceeding in the federal district court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
In his petition for the writ of habeas corpus, Cunningham averred that he was arrested under the warrant by
reason of an alleged contempt; and that, by reason of his
refusal to disclose his private and individual affairs to the
special committee, the Senate had illegally and without
authority adjudged him to be in contempt and had issued
its warrant accordingly. A return was made to the writ,
denying that the Senate had adjudged Cunningham in
contempt and, in substance, averring that the warrant
by which he was held simply required that he be brought
to the bar of the Senate to answer questions pertaining to
the matter under inquiry, etc.
The district court, to which the return was made, after
a hearing and consideration of written briefs and oral arguments, entered an order discharging the writ and remanding Cunningham to the custody of the Sergeantat-Arms. A written opinion was handed down by Judge
Dickinson, sustaining the power of the Senate to compel
the attendance of witnesses under the circumstances above
set forth, and holding that the Senate had not proceeded
against Cunningham for a contempt; but by its resolution
had required his arrest and production at the bar of the

612

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Senate, simply to answer questions pertinent to the matter
under inquiry. 25 F. (2d) 733.
Upon appeal, the court of appeals reversed the district
court, holding that the arrest was in reality one for contempt, but, if it should be regarded as an arrest to procure Cunningham's attendance as a witness, it was void
because a subpoena to attend at the bar of the Senate
had not previously been served upon him, and that this
was a necessary prerequisite to the issue of an attachment. Treating the proceeding as one for contempt, that
court held that the information sought to be elicited and
which Cunningham refused to give was not pertinent to
the inquiry authorized to be made by the committee,
and that Cunningham was justified in declining to answer
the questions in respect thereof. Circuit Judge Woolley
dissented, substantially adopting the view of the district
court. 29 F. '(2d) 817.
The correct interpretation of the Senate's action is that
given by the district judge and by Judge Woolley. It is
true the special committee in its report to the Senate recited Cunningham's contumacy and recommended that
he be adjudged in contempt, but the resolution passed by
the Senate makes it entirely plain that this recommendation of the committee was not followed. The Senate
resolution, after a recital of Cunningham's refusal to answer certain questions, directs that he be attached and
brought before the bar of the Senate, not to show cause
why he should not be punished for contempt, but "to
answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry as the Senate through its said committee or the
President of the Senate may propound . . ." We must
accept this unequivocal language as expressing the purpose of the Senate to elicit testimony in response to questions to be propounded at the bar of the Senate, and the
question whether the information sought to be elicited

BARRY v. U. S.
597

EX REL.

CUNTNINGHAM,1.

Opinion of the Court.

from Cunningham by the committee was pertinent to the
inquiry which the committee had been directed to make
may be put aside as immaterial.
It results that the following are the sole questions here
for determination: (1) whether the Senate was engaged
in an inquiry which it had constitutional power to make;
(2) if so, whether that body had power to bring Cunningham to its bar as a witness by means of a warrant of arrest; and (3) whether as a necessary prerequisite to the
issue of such warrant of arrest a subpoena should first
have been served and disobeyed.
First. Generally, the Senate is a legislative body, exercising in connection with the House only the power to
make laws. But it has had conferred upon it by the Constitution certain powers which are not legislative but
judicial in character. Among these is the power to judge
of the elections, returns and qualifications of its own members. Art. I, § 5, el. 1. "That power carries with it authority to take such steps as may be appropriate and
necessary to secure information upon which to decide concerning elections." Reed v. County Commissioners, 277
U. S. 376, 388. Exercise of the power necessarily involves
the ascertainment of facts, the attendance of witnesses,
the examination of such witnesses, with the power to compel them to answer pertinent questions, to determine
the facts and apply the appropriate rules of law, and,
finally, to render a judgment which is beyond the authority of any other tribunal to review. In exercising this
power, the Senate may, of course, devolve upon a committee of its members the authority to investigate and
report; and this is the general, if not the uniform, practice.
When evidence is taken by a committee, the pertinency of
questions propounded must be determined by reference
to the scope of the authority vested in the committee
by the Senate. But undoubtedly, the Senate, if it so de-

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

termine, may in whole or in part dispense with the services of a committee and itself take testimony; and, after
conferring authority upon its committee, the Senate, for
any reason satisfactory to it and at any stage of the proceeding, may resume charge of the inquiry and conduct it
to a conclusion or to such extent as it may see fit. In that
event, the limitations put upon the committee obviously
do not control the Senate; but that body may deal with
the matter, without regard to these limitations, subject
only to the restraints imposed by or found in the implications of the Constitution. We cannot assume, in advance
of Cunningham's interrogation at the bar of the Senate,
that these restraints will not faithfully be observed. It
sufficiently appears from the foregoing that the inquiry in
which the Senate was engaged, and in respect of which it
required the arrest and production of Cunningham, was
within its constitutional authority.
It is said, however, that the power conferred upon the
Senate is to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its "members," and, since the Senate had refused to admit Vare to a seat in the Senate or permit him
to take the oath of office, that he was not a member. It
is enough to say of this, that upon the face of the returns
he had been elected and had received a certificate from
the Governor of the state to that effect. Upon these returns and with this certificate, he presented himself to the
Senate, claiming all the rights of membership. Thereby,
the jurisdiction of the Senate to determine the rightfulness
of the claim was invoked and its power to adjudicate such
right immediately attached by virtue of § 5 of Article I
of the Constitution. Whether, pending this adjudication,
the credentials should be accepted, the oath administered,
and the full right accorded to participate in the business
of the Senate, was a matter within the discretion of the
Senate. This has been the practical construction of the

BARRY v. U. S.
597

EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM.

Opinion of the Court.

power by both Houses of Congress;* and we perceive no
reason why we should reach a different conclusion. When
a candidate is elected to either House, he of course is
elected a member of the body; and when that body determines, upon presentation of his credentials, without
first giving him his seat, that the election is void, there
would seem to be no real substance in a claim that the
election of a " member" has not been adjudged. To hold
otherwise would be to interpret the word "member" with
a strictness in no way required by the obvious purpose of
the constitutional provision, or necessary to its effective
enforcement in accordance with such purpose, which, so
far as the present case is concerned, was to vest the Senate
with authority to exclude persons asserting membership,
who either had not been elected or, what amounts to the
same thing, had been elected by resort to fraud, bribery,
corruption, or other sinister methods having the effect
of vitiating the election.
Nor is there merit in the suggestion that the effect of
the refusal of the Senate to seat Vare pending investigation was to deprive the state of its equal representation in
the Senate. The equal representation clause is found in
Article V, which authorizes and regulates amendments to
the Constitution, "provided, . . . that no state, without
its consent, shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the
Senate." This constitutes a limitation upon the power
* Among the typical cases in the House, where that body refused to
seat members in advance of investigation although presenting credentials unimpeachable in form, was that of Roberts, in the 56th
Congress, where it was so decided after full debate by a vote of 268
to 50. Cong. Record, Vol. 33, pt. 2, p. 1217.
It was stated at the bar in this case that the Senate in 29 cases
had, in advance of investigation, seated persons exhibiting prima
facie credentials, and in 16 cases had taken the opposite course of
refusing to seat such persons, before investigation and determination
of charges challenging the right to the seat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

of amendment and has nothing to do with a situation
such as the one here presented. The temporary deprivation of equal representation which results from the refusal
of the Senate to seat a member pending inquiry as to his
election or qualifications is the necessary consequence of
the exercise of a constitutional power, and no more deprives the state of its "equal suffrage" in the constitutional sense than would a vote of the Senate vacating the
seat of a sitting member or a vote of expulsion.
Second. In exercising the power to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, the Senate acts as a judicial tribunal, and the authority to require
the attendance of witnesses is a necessary incident of
the power to adjudge, in no wise inferior under like circumstances to that exercised by a court of justice. That
this includes the power in some cases to issue a warrant of
arrest to compel such attendance, as was done here, does
not admit of doubt. McGrain v. Daugherty, 273 U. S.
135, 160, 180. That case dealt with the power of the Senate thus to compel a witness to appear, to give testimony
necessary to enable that body efficiently to exercise a legislative function; but the principle is equally, if not a
fortiori, applicable where the Senate is exercising a judicial function.
Third. The real question is not whether the Senate had
power to issue the warrant of arrest, but whether it could
do so under the circumstances disclosed by the record.
The decision of the court of appeals is that, as a necessary prerequisite to the issue of a warrant of arrest, a subpoena first should have been issued, served, and disobeyed.
And undoubtedly the courts recognize this as the practice generally to be followed. But undoubtedly also, a
court has power in the exercise of a sound discretion to
issue a warrant of arrest without a previous subpoena
when there is good reason to believe that otherwise the
witness will not be forthcoming. A statute of the United

BARRY v. U. S.
597

EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM.

Opinion of the Court.

States (U. S. Code, Title 28, § 659) provides that any
federal judge, on application of the district attorney, and
being satisfied by proof that any person is a competent
and necessary witness in a criminal proceeding in which
the United States is a party or interested, may have such
person brought before him by a warrant of arrest, to
give recognizance, and that such person may be confined
until removed for the purpose of giving his testimony, or
until he gives the recognizance required by said judge.
The constitutionality of this statute apparently has never
been doubted. Similar statutes exist in many of the
states and have been enforced without question.
United States v. Lloyd, 4 Blatchf. 427, was a case arising
under the federal statute. The validity of the statute was
not doubted, although the witness was held under peculiar
conditions of severity, because of which the court allowed
him to be discharged upon his own recognizance in the
sum of $1,000.
In State of Minnesota ex rel. v. Grace, IS Minn. 398, a
similar statute was upheld and applied in the case of a
material witness where it was claimed that there was good
reason to believe that he would leave the state before the
trial and not return to be present at the time of such
trial. The court, using the words of Lord Ellenborough
in Bennett v. Watson, 3 M'aule & Selwyn 1, said (p. 402):
"The law intends that the witness shall be forthcoming
at all events, and it is a lenient mode which it provides
to permit him to go at large upon his own recognizance.
However this is only one mode of accomplishing the end,
which is his due appearance." The witness, however, was
discharged because of an entire absence of proof of any
intention on his part not to appear and testify.
The comment of the court in Crosby v. Potts, 8 Ga.
App. 463, 468, is peculiarly apposite:
"It is a hardship upon one whose only connection with
a case is that he happens to know some material fact in

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U3. S.

relation thereto that he should be taken into control by
the court and held in the custody of the jailer unless he
gives bond (which, from poverty, he may be unable to
give), conditioned that he will appear and testify; but
the exigencies of particular instances do often require just
such stringent methods in order to compel the performance of the duty of the witness's appearing and testifying.
There are many cases in which an ordinary subpoena
would prove inadequate to secure the presence of the witness at the trial. The danger of punishment for contempt
on account of a refusal to appear is sometimes too slight
to deter the witness from absenting himself; especially is
this true where there are but few ties to hold the witness
in the jurisdiction where the trial is to be held, and there
are reasons why he desires not to testify; for when once
he has crossed the state line, he is beyond the grasp of any
of the court's processes to bring him to the trial or to
punish him for his refusal to answer to a subpoena. We
conclude, therefore, that since the law manifestly intends
that the courts shall have adequate power to compel the
performance of the respective duties falling on those connected in any wise with the case, it may, where the exigencies so require, cause a witness to be held in custody,
and in jail if need be, unless he gives reasonable bail for
his appearance at the trial."
See also Ex parte Sheppard, 43 Tex. Cr. Rep. 372;
Chamberlayne, Modern Law of Evidence, § 3622.
The rule is stated by Wharton, 1 Law of Evidence, § 385,
that where suspicions exist that a witness may disappear,
or be spirited away, before trial, in criminal cases, and
when allowed by statute in civil cases, he may be held to
bail to appear at the trial and may be committed on failure to furnish it, and that such imprisonment does not
violate the sanctions of the federal or state constitutions.
The validity of acts of Congress authorizing courts to
exercise the power in question thus seems to be established.

BARRY v. U. S.
597

EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM.

619

Opinion of the Court.

The Senate, having sole authority under the Constitution
to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its
members, may exercise in its own right the incidental
power of compelling the attendance of witnesses without
the aid of a statute. Compare Reed v. County Commissioners, supra, p. 388. The following appears from the
report of the committee to the Senate upon which the action here complained of was taken. "A subpoena was
issued for his appearance early in June. A diligent search
failed to locate him. Finally Representative Golder of the
Fourth District of Pennsylvania communicated with the
committee, stating that Cunningham would accept service.
His whereabouts was disclosed and he was served." Upon
examination by the committee, he repeatedly refused to
answer questions which the committee deemed relevant
and of great importance, not upon the ground that the
answers would tend to incriminate him, but that they involved personal matters. These questions have already
been recited, and it is impossible for us to say that the
information sought and refused would not reflect light
upon the validity of Vare's election.
It is not necessary to determine whether the information sought was pertinent to the inquiry before the Cominittee, the scope of which was fixed by the provisions of
the Senate resolution. But it might well have been pertinent in an inquiry conducted by the Senate itself, exercising the full, original and unqualified power conferred
by the Constitution. If the Senate thought so, and, from
the facts before it reasonably believing that this or other
important evidence otherwise might be lost, issued its
warrant of arrest, it is not for the court to say that in
doing so the Senate abused its discretion. The presumption In favor of regularity, which applies to the proceedings of courts, cannot be denied to the proceedings of the
Houses of Congress, when acting upon matters within
their constitutional authority. It fairly may be assumed
that the Senate will deal with the witness in accordance

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

with well-settled rules and discharge him from custody
upon proper assurance, by recognizance or otherwise, that
he will appear for interrogation when required. This is

all he could properly demand of a court under similar
circumstances.
Here the question under consideration concerns the ex-

ercise by the Senate of an indubitable power; and if
judicial interference can be successfully invoked it can

only be upon a clear showing of such arbitrary and improvident use of the power as will constitute a denial of
due process of law. That condition we are unable to find
Judgment reversed.
in the present case.

THE MACALLEN COMPANY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPR.ME JUDICIAL COURT OF MASSACHUSETrs.
No. 578.

Argued April 25, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. A state tax on federal securities, or on the interest therefrom, is
invalid, regardless of the amount of the tax. P. 624.
2. In determining whether a tax is an excise on the privilege of doing
business as a corporation, or is in reality a tax on income from taxexempt securities, this Court must inquire independently and is not
bound by the designation of the tax in the taxing act or the opinion
of the state court as to its nature. P. 625.
3. In the decisions of this Court holding that a tax lawfully imposed
on the exercise of corporate privileges within the taxing power
may be measured by income from the property of the corporation although a part of such income is derived from non-taxable
property, it is implicit that the thing taxed in form was in fact and
reality the subject aimed at, and that any burden put upon the
non-taxable subject by its use as a measure of value was fortuitous
and incidental. P. 627.
4. The fact that a tax ostensibly laid upon a taxable subject is to be
measured by the value of a non-taxable subject at once suggests the
probability that it was the latter rather than the former that the
law-maker sought to reach. If inquiry discloses persuasive grounds
for the conclusion that such is the real purpose and effect of the
legislation, the tax cannot be upheld, P. 628,

