OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S

the pilot, in a position where he was not and could not
have been seen by the engineer, and when it was impossible to stop the train.
Under these circumstances, it is clear that Driggers, by
his own negligence, as the sole and direct cause of the accident, brought on his own death, and that there is no
ground upon which the liability of the Railroad Company
may be predicated. Compare Atlantic Coast Line v.
Davis, supra, p. 39; and cases cited.
The rate of speed at which the passenger train was
running was, plainly, not a proximate cause of the injury, as the engine of that train did not run into Driggers,
but he, as the result of his own action, was thrown against
the side of the engine as it was passing. See Pattersonv.
Director General, 115 S. C. 390, 396.
The contention that his death was caused by the negligence of the Railroad Company in any respect in which
it owed a duty to him is without any substantial support;
and the jury should have been instructed to find for the
Railroad Company.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to
the Supreme Court of South Carolina for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MARYLAND CASUALTY COMPANY v. JONES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 524. Argued April 18, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.
1. -In a case at law tried in the District Court without a jury under
Rev. Stats. §§ 649, 700, rulings made in the progress of the trial on
questions of law, such as rulings admitting or rejecting evidence,
denying a motion for a nonsuit or referring the case to a special
master to take further testimony and state an account, are reviewable, and the right to review them is not lost because of the fact

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. JONES.
792

Opinion of the Court.

that a general finding or special findings sufficient apparently to
support the judgment are thereafter made by the court. P. 795.
2. A motion for a nonsuit at the close of such a trial, upon the ground
that the evidence, with every inference of fact that may be drawn
from it in favor of the plaintiff, is insufficient to sustain a judgment
in his favor, presents a question of law reviewable by the appellate
court. P. 795.
3. Where the Circuit Court of Appeals considered only a part of
the assignments of error, treating them as all that were in the
case, it is not to be assumed that the others were deemed to have
been waived under its rules through not having been specified in
the brief, where there is nothing in that court's opinion or in the
record referring to such a waiver. P. 796.
4. This Court can not go out of the record to examine a copy of a
brief used in the Circuit Court of Appeals, for the purpose of
determining whether assignments of error in that court were
deemed to have been waived by a failure to specify them in the
brief. P. 796.
5. Where a failure of the Circuit Court of Appeals to consider assignments of error is unexplained and apparently erroneous, the case
will be remanded with instructions to consider them and, unless
they have been waived, take further proceedings in the case.
P. 796.
27 F. (2d) 521, reversed.

CERTioRARi, 278 U. S. 596, to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a recovery in the District Court in an action on an indemnity bond.
Mr. Walter L. Clark, with whom Messrs. John Ralph
Wilson, W. G. Bonta, and Roszel C. Thomsen were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Nat Schmulowitz, with whom Messrs. Ernest L.
Brune and Frederick T. Hyde were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The respondent brought an action at law against the
petitioner in a superior court of California, to recover upon
!in indemnity bond. The case was removed to the federal

794

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

District Court; and was there tried by the court, without
the intervention of a jury, which was duly waived by a
written stipulation of the parties. Rev. Stat. § 649. The
District Court made special findings of fact on which it
gave judgment against the defendant. Upon a writ of
error this judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 27 F. (2d) 521. The case is here for limited
review, on the question whether that court erred in failing
to review the rulings of the District Court in the progress
of the trial, excepted to at the time and duly presented
by a bill of exceptions. 278 U. S. 596.
In the progress of the trial the court made various rulings adverse to the defendant in respect to the admission
and exclusion of evidence; denied a motion for nonsuit
made by the defendant at the close of the evidence, based
on the asserted lack of evidence as to various matters essential to a recovery on the bond; and referred the case
to a special master to take further testimony and state an
account. To each of these rulings the defendant excepted
at the time; and all of these exceptions were duly presented
by a bill of exceptions.
After the coming in of the report of the special master
the court made special .findings of fact, upon which it
entered judgment against the defendant. There was no
exception to these findings; nor any request for different
findings.
In connection with the writ of error the defendant filed
twenty-one assignments of error. Some of these were directed to special findings made by the court, and others
were specifically directed to the rulings of the court on
the admission and rejection of evidence, the denial of the
motion for nonsuit, and the reference to the special master.
Despite the fact that all of these assignments of error
appeared in the record, the Circuit Court of Appeals stated
in its opinion that "All the assignments of error are based

MARYLAND CASUALTY CO. v. JONES.
792

Opinion of the Court.

upon the insufficiency of the testimony to support the
special findings," and-after stating that on the record
presented the court could not consider the sufficiency of
the testimony to support the special findings, and that it
was not contended that the findings were in themselves
insufficient to support the judgment,-affirmed the judgment of the District Court, without referring to or considering the assignments of error relating to the rulings
of the court in the progress of the trial.
1. Upon the record in this case the action of the Circuit
Court of Appeals appears to have been erroneous. Sec.
700, Rev. Stats., specifically provides that when an issue
of fact in a civil cause is found and determined by the
court without the intervention of a jury, according to
§ 649, "the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial
of the cause, if excepted to at the time and duly presented
by a bill of exceptions, may be reviewed." The right
granted by the statute to a review of the rulings made during the progress of the trial, is not lost because of the fact
that a general finding or special findings sufficient apparently to support the judgment are thereafter made by the
court. See Fleischmann Co. v. United States, 270 U. S.
349, 355, 356; Lewellyn v. Elec. Reduction Co., 275 U. S.
243, 248.
Here the rulings of the court to which the defendant
excepted and as to which it assigned errors, plainly related
to matters of law. The motion for nonsuit-which corresponded to a motion for a directed verdict-presented the
question whether the evidence, with every inference of
fact that might be drawn from it in favor of the plaintiff,
was sufficient in matter of law to sustain a judgment. See
Central Transp. Co. v. Pullman's Car Co., 139 U. S. 24.
38. This presented a question of law which is reviewable-just as a motion by the plaintiff at the close of a
trial without the intervention of a jury, for a declaration

796

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 UJ. S.

that he is entitled to judgment, presents a question of law
which is reviewable by the appellate court. St. Louis v.
Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92, 96; Bank oJ
Waterproof v. Fidelity & Deposit Co., 299 Fed. 478, 482;
Griffin v. Thompson (C. C. A.), 10 F. (2d) 127, 128;
Sartoris v. Utah Construction Co., 21 F. (2d) 1, 2. The
statement made in Humphreys v. Third National Bank
(C. C. A.) 75 Fed. 852, 855, quoted in Fleischmann Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 356, on which the plaintiff relies,
has, plainly, no reference to the review of a ruling made
in the progress of a trial as to such a question of law, but
relates merely to the mode of presenting for review the
conclusions of law involved in special findings.
2. It is urged that the action of the Circuit Court of
Appeals in stating that the assignments of error related
only to the special findings and in failing to consider
the assignments relating to the rulings of the court during
the trial, is to be explained by the fact that all the assignments of error except those relating to the special findings had been waived, under the rules of the court, by
the failure of the defendant to set them forth in the
specifications of error contained in its brief. And for the
purpose of determining this question we are asked to
examine a copy of the defendant's brief in the Circuit
Court of Appeals which has been tendered as an exhibit
to the plaintiff's brief in this Court. This is not a part
of the record and cannot be looked to by us. The record,
to whose consideration we are limited, discloses no waiver
of any of the assignments of error that had been filed.
Nor does the court in its opinion refer to any waiver as a
reason for not considering the assignments.
3. Since on the face of the record the failure of the
Circuit Court of Appeals to consider the assignments of
error relating to rulings at the hearing is unexplained, and
its action appears to have been erroneous, its judgment
must be reversed. And the case will be remanded to that

KIRK v. MfAUMEE VALLEY CO.
792

Syllabus.

court, with instructions to consider the several assignments of error relating to the rulings of the trial court in
the progress of the trial, and-unless they have been
waived-take further proceedings in regard thereto. See
Krauss Bros. Co. v. Mellon, 276 U. S. 386, 394; Buzynski

v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 277 U. S. 226, 228.
Reversed and remanded.

KIRK, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
ET AL. v. MAUMEE VALLEY ELECTRIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 674.

Argued April 25, 26, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

The State of Ohio constructed and owned a canal for the primary purpose of navigation and for the incidental and subordinate purpose of
permitting use of its surplus water for hydraulic power. An Act of
March 23, 1S40, authorized the leasing of such surplus water for
hydraulic purposes when not required for navigation, and subject
to resumption of use by the State whenever its use for hydraulic
purposes should injuriously affect navigation. Having acquired
leases under the Act and improved the canal at large expense under
a contract with the State, the plaintiff employed the water leased in
the business of generating and selling electricity. Later, an Act
of May I1, 1927, directed that a section of the canal above the
plaintiff's intake and upon which plaintiff was dependent for its
water, should be abandoned for both canal and hydraulic purposes
and be held by the State for the purpose of constructing a highway
upon the lands occupied by the canal. Held:
1. That such abandonment did not impair the obligation of the
contracts in the leases or deprive the lessee of property without
due proces-, the leases being only incidental to the use and maintenance of the canal for purposes of navigation and imposing no
obligation on the State to maintain the canal for any purpose,
P. 802.
2. The making of such leases by administrative officers under the
granting act after the canal had ceased to be used by the public

