KIRK v. MfAUMEE VALLEY CO.
792

Syllabus.

court, with instructions to consider the several assignments of error relating to the rulings of the trial court in
the progress of the trial, and-unless they have been
waived-take further proceedings in regard thereto. See
Krauss Bros. Co. v. Mellon, 276 U. S. 386, 394; Buzynski

v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 277 U. S. 226, 228.
Reversed and remanded.

KIRK, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
ET AL. v. MAUMEE VALLEY ELECTRIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 674.

Argued April 25, 26, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

The State of Ohio constructed and owned a canal for the primary purpose of navigation and for the incidental and subordinate purpose of
permitting use of its surplus water for hydraulic power. An Act of
March 23, 1S40, authorized the leasing of such surplus water for
hydraulic purposes when not required for navigation, and subject
to resumption of use by the State whenever its use for hydraulic
purposes should injuriously affect navigation. Having acquired
leases under the Act and improved the canal at large expense under
a contract with the State, the plaintiff employed the water leased in
the business of generating and selling electricity. Later, an Act
of May I1, 1927, directed that a section of the canal above the
plaintiff's intake and upon which plaintiff was dependent for its
water, should be abandoned for both canal and hydraulic purposes
and be held by the State for the purpose of constructing a highway
upon the lands occupied by the canal. Held:
1. That such abandonment did not impair the obligation of the
contracts in the leases or deprive the lessee of property without
due proces-, the leases being only incidental to the use and maintenance of the canal for purposes of navigation and imposing no
obligation on the State to maintain the canal for any purpose,
P. 802.
2. The making of such leases by administrative officers under the
granting act after the canal had ceased to be used by the public

798

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

for navigation, but before the passage of the Act providing for its

abandonment, did not constitute an abandonment of the navigation purpose by the State and a devotion of the canal by the State
to the sale of water rights free from reserved power to abandon the
canal and devote it to other uses. P. 804.
33 F. (2d) 318, reversed.
APPEAL from a final decree of a District Court of three
judges enjoining the appellants from interfering with the
flow of water in part of a canal in such manner as to
infringe certain water rights claimed by the appellee.

Mr. George W. Ritter, with whom Messrs. Gilbert Bettman, Attorney General of Ohio, L. F. Laylin, Joseph A.
Godown, Leroy Hunt, Martin S. Dodd, and Dudley F.
Smith were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. U. G. Denman, with whom Mr. Karl E. Burr was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUsTIcE SToNE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a direct appeal under § 266 of the Judicial Code
from a final decree, following an interlocutory decree,
of a district court of three judges for southern Ohio.
The decree enjoined appellants, the Superintendent
of Public Works of Ohio, a state officer, the City of
Toledo, certain villages in Ohio, and the Board of County
Commissioners of Lucas County, Ohio, from draining or
otherwise interfering with the flow of water in a section of
the Miami & Erie Canal in such manner as to interfere
with rights of appellee to take surplus water from the
canal under certain -leases and a grant acquired by it
or its assignors from the state. Appellee contends that
the Act of the Ohio legislature of May 11, 1927, under
which appellants purport to act, is in violation of the
Federal Constitution.
The section of the canal in question extends from a
point on the Maumee River northeasterly along the river

KIRK v. MAUMEE VALLEY CO.
797

Opinion of the Court.

to Toledo and thence to Lake Erie. The water from the
river enters this section of the canal at its western end and
flows past the Providence Mills involved in No. 675, Kirk
v. Providence Mill Co., post, p. 807. Some sixteen miles
from the inlet is a side-cut through which water may be
discharged into the river and so diverted from the rest
of the canal. The section from the inlet to this side-cut
is described as Lineal Part 2. Appellee's plant is located
on Lineal Part 1 which extends from the side-cut northeasterly to the outlet at Toledo, and is thus dependent for
its supply of water on a continuous flow through Lineal
Part 2.
The several leases were granted by the state, acting
through its Board of Public Works, in 1895, 1901, two
in 1903, and 1906. Each for a specified consideration or
a stipulated rental, purported to grant for a period of
thirty years, with privilege of renewal, the right to take
from the canal specified amounts of water for hydraulic
purposes. In 1910 the lease of 1895 was supplemented
and amended to provide for an increased amount of water.
For present purposes, we may assume that all rights under
these leases and any extension or renewal of them are
vested in appellee.
The canal in question and the waters passing through
it are the property of the state and all the leases were
granted under the provisions of the Act of March 23, 1840,
38 Ohio Laws, 87, authorizing, upon specified terms, disposition for hydraulic purposes of the surplus waters of
the canals of the state not required for navigation. By
§ 22 of that act it was provided that no right to use the
waters should be disposed of "except such as shall accrue
from the surplus water of the canal . . . after supplying

the full quantity necessary for the purposes of navigation" and by § 23 it was enacted that the leases should
contain, as did the present leases in substance, a stipu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

lation that the. state or its authorized agents "may at any
time resume the privilege or right to the use of water, or
any portion thereof, whenever it may be deemed necessary
for the purpose of navigation, or whenever its use for
hydraulic purposes shall be found in any manner to interfere with and injuriously affect the navigation. .. "
Following the acquisition of its first lease in 1900, appellee constructed a small hydraulic electric plant on land
adjacent to Lineal Part 1. In 1910, appellee, having secured three of the other leases, reconstructed its plant and,
pursuant to an agreement with the state, improved the
canal at large expense and is now using the water from
it in the business of generating and selling electric light
and power.
By Act of May 11, 1927, 112 Ohio Laws, 360-363,
§§ 14178 to 14178-12 of General Code of Ohio, it was
directed that that portion of the Miami & Erie Canal
known here as Lineal Part 2 be abandoned for both canal
and hydraulic purposes and held by the state for the purpose of constructing a highway upon lands occupied by
the canal. It transferred the abandoned part to the supervision and control of the State Highway Director and
directed him within sixty days after the Act should take
effect, to drain the water from the abandoned part of the
canal and to prevent water from flowing into or through
that part. Section 4, provided that all leases previously
granted for canal or hydraulic purposes on the part of
the canal referred to "shall become and be null and void
on and after sixty days from the taking effect of this Act."
Since Lineal Part 1, from which appellee withdraws water
from the canal under its several leases, is fed only by the
water flowing from Lineal Part 2, compliance with the
statute will also result in draining the water from Lineal
Part 1 of the canal and will deprive appellee of the use of
the water which it has been withdrawing under its leases.

KIRK v. MAUMEE VALLEY CO.
797

Opinion of the Court.

Appellee asserts, as the district court held, that the effect
of the Act of 1927 is to impair the obligation of the contracts embodied in its leases in violation of § 10, Art. I,
and to deprive it of property without due process of law
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution.
By Act of January 22, 1920, 108 Ohio Laws, Part 2,
1138, the Ohio Legislature had declared that Lineal Part
1 of the canal should be abandoned. By the same act,
purchase of this section by the City of Toledo was authorized, subject to the rights of owners of existing leases.
It was provided that if the city should deprive the lessees
of "their water privileges" the city should pay them " a
fair compensation for the loss of the water to which they
are entitled" ' and the conveyance to the city should so
provide. Under this statute Lineal Part 1 was sold and
conveyed to the city. Upon the adoption of a resolution by the city council directing that the water be shut
off from Lineal Part 1, and upon refusal of the city to pay
appellee for the deprivation of its use of the water, appellee brought suit in the Western Division of the Northern
District of Ohio for an injunction restraining the city from
cutting off the water. A decree of that court denying an
injunction was reversed by the Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit. Maumee Valley Electric Co. v. City of Toledo, 13 F. [2d] 98. That court declined to pass upon the
power and right of the state to abandon the canal and cut
off the water from the lessees but held that the city had
entered into a contract with the state for the benefit of
appellee to permit the water to flow through the canal unless compensation was paid. The bill of complaint in the
present suit sets up the contract with the city and the
1 Similar legislation authorizing the purchase of Lineal Part 2 by
the county commissioners of Lucas County was enacted March 27,

1925, 111 0. L. 367. The option to purchase has not been exercised,
45228"-29----1

802

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

decree in the suit in the northern district, but that decree
is not before us for review. It does not appear that the
city threatens to violate the decree or that there are any
circumstances entitling appellee to any further relief
against it upon the contract for its benefit, or that the
state through its legislation and conveyance of Lineal
Part 1 to the City of Toledo intended to surrender or has
surrendered any of its rights in or powers over Lineal Part
2, or has subjected itself to any new or additional obligation to maintain the canal or continue the flow of water
through it.
The present suit, therefore, must turn upon the nature
and extent of the right to withdraw water from the canal
which appellee acquired under the grant and its several
leases. To establish that its constitutional rights are infringed, it must show that compliance with the Act of 1927
is inconsistent with and infringes the rights conferred
upon it by them. They are public grants by the state, to
be construed in the light of the statute of 1840 authorizing them, and the other laws of the state. What the state
has granted it-may not take away, but the exercise of powers reserved to it under the grant cannot infringe either
the contract or due process clauses of the Constitution.
The section of the canal now in question was originally
constructed and operated by the state as a part of a
larger canal system for purposes of navigation. By Act
of February 23, 1820, 18 Ohio Laws 147, commissioners
were appointed to locate a canal between Lake Erie and
the Ohio River. The canal was constructed under the
Act of February 4, 1825, 23 Ohio Laws 50, which created
a board of canal commissioners and empowered them to
construct a navigable canal, including the section presently involved, to take and use the waters of the state for
that pprpose, to establish reasonable tolls for the use of
that canal and to provide for their collection. Provision
was first made for the use of the surplus waters of the

KIRK v. MAUMEE VALLEY CO.
797

Opinion of the Court.

canal for hydraulic power by Act of February 18, 1830, 28
Ohio Laws 58, which was superseded by the Act of March
23, 1840, 38 Ohio Laws 87, under which the present leases
were granted.
The paramount object of the state in constructing the
canal was to effect navigable communication between
Lake Erie and the Ohio River. See State v. Railway
Company, 37 Ohio St. 157. The use of the water for hydraulic purposes was only incidental and subordinate to
the declared purpose of the state to promote navigation
and was expressly made so by the Leasing Act of 1840,
which limited all leases to the use of surplus water not
required for purposes of navigation and provided for their
abrogation whenever the use of the water for hydraulic
purposes interfered with navigation. Leases of surplus
water, granted under the Act of 1840 and similar in terms
to those involved in the present litigation, have been repeatedly construed by the highest court of the State of
Ohio, which has uniformly held that they were only incidental to the use and maintenance of the canal for purposes of navigation; that they imposed no obligation on
the state to maintain the canal either for navigation or
other purposes and when abandoned by the state the
right of lessees to surplus water ceased. Hubbard v. City
of Toledo [18711, 21 Ohio St. 379; Elevator Co. v. Cincinnati [18761, 30 Ohio St. 629; Fox v. Cincinnati [1878], 33
Ohio St. 492; Vought v. Railroad Co. [1898], 58 Ohio St.
123, 161. In Fox v. Cincinnati,supra, it was held that a
lease of surplus waters in the Miami & Erie Canal under
the Act of 1840 was subject to the power of the state to
abandon the locus in quo for purposes of navigation and
to convert it into a city highway. On writ of error, this
Court affirmed the judgment of the state court, 104 U. S.
783, saying by Chief Justice Waite [p. 785]:
" The use of the water for hydraulic purposes is but
an incident to the principal object for which the canal was

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

built; to wit, navigation. The large exfenditures of the
State were to furnish, not water-power, but a navigable
highway for the transportation of persons and property.
The authority of the board of public works to contract in
respect to power was expressly confined to such water as
remained after the wants of navigation had been supplied; and it never could have been intended in this way
to impose on the State an obligation to keep up the canal,
no matter what the cost, for the sole purpose of meeting
the requirements of its water leases. There was certainly
no duty resting on the State to maintain the canal for
navigation any longer than the public necessities seem to
require. When it was no longer needed, it might be
abandoned; and, if abandoned, the water might be withdrawn altogether."
The court below, recognizing that such had been the
established construction of surplus water leases, thought
nevertheless that as at the time of appellee's first lease,
1895, navigation on the canal had very much diminished
and at the time of the later leases had caeased, the state,
by continuing to grant leases of surplus water under the
Act of 1840 must be taken to have abandoned the use
of the canal for navigation and to have made use of it
only as a source of water for. sale for hydraulic purposes.
Hence it conclfided that the leases could no longer be construed as were the earlier leases by this and the state
court, but that they must be taken as grants of the right
to use the water without any power reserved in the state
to abandon the canal or to devote it to other uses.
Even if it be assumed- that there was a complete nonuse by the public of the canal for purposes of navigation as early as 1895, which seems to be in dispute,
neither the court below nor the appellee points to any act
or omission on the part of the state indicating abandonment of the canal by it as an instrument of navigation
before the act of the Legislature of 1927, or any act devot-

KIRK v. MAUMEE VALLEY CO.
797

805

Opinion of the Court.

ing it to other purposes, other than the making of leases
or grants which, as before, purported to deal only with
surplus waters not required for navigation. Instead, reliance is placed on the fact that there had been a gradual
abandonment of the use of the canal for navigation by the
public.
If, under the local law, the state might abandon the
canal, while still used for navigation, by appropriate legislative action and by such abandonment terminate the
rights of lessees under the Act of 1840, which appellee does
not deny, it is difficult to see how the failure of the public
to use the canal and the continued practice of granting
leases of surplus waters by administrative officials under
the Act of 1840, which the courts of Ohio had repeatedly
held were subject to the power of the state to abandon the
canal, evidenced a change of state policy or forfeited the
right which had resided in it from the beginning to abandon the canal and devote it to other purposes.
The power to abandon the canal as an instrument of
navigation resided in the state legislature and has been
exercised from time to time with respect to designated
sections.! That it had not, before the Act of 1927, abandoned the section of the canal now in question as such an
instrumentality appears from the Act of the Legislature
of April 25, 1898, 93 Ohio Laws 370, authorizing the board
of public works to grant leases or licenses to persons or
corporations to operate boats in the canal by electric power
and requiring them to propel the boats of others for hire
and by the Act of April 9, 1902, 95 Ohio Laws 118, declaring it to be the settled policy of the state to maintain the
IAct of March 24, 1863, 60 0. L. 44 (involved in Fox v. Cincinnati.
a-upra); Act of March 26, 1864, 61 0. L. 74; Act of April 12, 1888, 85
0. L. 207; Act of March 3, 1891, 88 0. L. 72; Act of January 22, 1920,
108 0. L. Part 2, 1138; Act of March 25, 1925, 111 0. L. 208; Act of
March 27, 1925, 111 0. L. 367; Act of April 21, 1927, 112 0. L. 388;
Act of May 11, 1927, 112 0. L. 360.

806

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Miami & Erie Canal as a public canal and providing that
boats built for use upon it for freight transportation should
be purchased by the state at their fair value if, in the
future, the policy of the state should be changed by abandonment of the canal so as to make the boats useless for
transportation.
These statutes exhibit a continuing purpose of the legislature to stimulate and encourage the use of the canal for
purposes of navigation for which it was established. The
fact that such stimulation was found necessary or desirable
and that it ultimately failed of its object, does not indicate,
in event of failure, a purpose on the part of the state to
relinquish its power to abandon the canal and devote it
to other purposes unhindered by the lpases of surplus
waters.
We find in this case no circumstances differentiating it
from the earlier decisions in this and the Ohio courts. In
each, as in the present case, the failure of the public to
make sufficient use of a particular sector for transportation
led to its abandonment and appropriation to other purposes and to the necessary termination of all rIghts under
grants of surplus water which, being but incidents to the
maintenance of the canal for navigation, ceased when that
purpose was abandoned. The fact that some of the
earlier cases involved other state canals on which there
was still some navigation at the time of the granting of
the leases there involved, and the additional fact that the
present appellee under its supplemental agreement with
the state bears the expense bf maintaining and patroling
the canal, we do not regard as sufficient to distinguish this
case from those so long acquiesced in. Nor can the case
of State ex rel. Crabbe v. Middletown Hydraulic Ca., 114
Ohio St. 437, be taken to have overruled, sub silentio, the
rule announced in the former cases which was not involved
in its decision.

KIRK v. PROVIDENCE MILL CO.
797

Syllabus.

The grant was of water to be taken from the river near
the entrance to the canal. Appellee admits that of itself
the grant imposed no obligation on the state to continue
the canal in use. The only claim made by appellee under
this grant is of the right to have the specified amount of
water come to it through the canal so long as it is maintained as such. Consequently, appellee has no right under
this grant, apart from the right claimed under its leases,
to have the state maintain the canal, which latter we find
to be non-existent, and we need not decide what effect in
other respects, if any, the Act of 1927 had upon the grant.
The decree below will be reversed, but the decree to be
entered will be without prejudice to the rights of appellee
against the City of Toledo under the Ohio statute of January 22, 1920, and under the conveyance to the City of
Toledo made pursuant to it, and without prejudice to the
rights of appellee under the final decree of the District
Court for Northern Ohio, entered on the mandate of the
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in the suit entitled
Maumee Valley Electric Company v. The City of Toledo,
et al.
Reversed.
KIRK, SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS,
ET AL. v. THE PROVIDENCE MILL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 675.

Argued April 26, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

A grant of the right to use surplus water from a state canal, held
subject to the right of the State to abandon the canal and devote
it to other purposes-on the authority of Kirk v. Maumee Valley
Co., ante, p. 797. P. 809.

Reversed.

