716

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

OLD COLONY TRUST COMPANY TA. v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 130.

Argued January 10, 11, 1929. Reargued April 15, 1929.Decided June 3, 1929.

1. A proceeding before the Circuit Court of Appeals, under Revenue
Act of 1926, §§ 283 (b), 1001 et seq., in which a taxpayer sought
review of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals finding a deficiency in his income tax return, held to present a "case or controversy" cognizable by that court under the judicial article of the
Constitution. Pp. 722, et seq.
2. A proceeding begun by an administrative or executive determination may he a "case or controversy" when it comes on review
before a court, if it call for the exercise of judicial power only; nor
is it essential that there should be power to award execution,
where the final judgment establishes a duty of an executive department and is enforceable through action of the department. P. 722.
3. Under §§ 1001-1005 of the Revenue Act of 1926, the courts
authorized to review decisions of the Board of Tax Appeals have
power to award execution of their final judgments. P. 726.
4. Assuming that, under § 283 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1926, a
taxpayer, whose appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals was taken
before the date of that Act and decided adversely td him after it,
may resort both to the Circuit Court of Appeals, by way of review,
and to the District Court by way of an action to recover the tax
(having trst paid it), this does not prevent the Circuit Court of
Appeals, being a constitutional court, from having jurisdiction
under the Act, since, on the principle of res judicata, if both
remedies were pursued, the judgment first in time would be a final
adjudication conclusive on both courts. P. 727.
5. A certificate by the Circuit Court of Appeals of a question of
law involved in a review of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
held within the appellate jurisdiction of this Court under the
Constitution. P. 728.
6. Payment by an employer of the income taxes assessable against
the compensation of an employee, made in consideration of his
services, constitutes additional taxable income of the employee
under the Revenue Act of 1918. P. 729.

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 717
716

Statement of the Case.

7. The objection that this construction would lead to an absurdity not
contemplated by Congress, if the employer were called upon to pay
the tax on the additional income, and a further tax on that payment, and so on, will not be considered, no attempt having been
made by the Treasury to collect further taxes upon the theory that
payment of additional taxes creates further income. P. 730.
RzSPONSE to

a question of law certified by the Circuit

Court of Appeals, arising upon review of a decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals approving a finding by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of deficiencies in income tax
returns. See 7 B. T. A. 648. This case was reargued and
decided with the one next following.*
*After the first argument, the Court, on February 18, 1929, made

the following order:
"It is ordered that the above cause be restored to the docket for
reargument. The Court especially desires assistance of counsel in
respect of the following matters:
1. Was there power in Congress to confer jurisdiction upon the
Circuit Court of Appeals to review action by the Board of Tax

Appeals?
2. Does the Circuit Court of Appeals act as a tribunal of original
jurisdiction when onsidering appeals from the Board of Tax
Appeals? If so, may it under Title 28, United States Code, sec. 346,
certify to this Court questions deemed necessary for the proper
decision of a pending cause?
3. What has been the practice of taxing officers relative to assessments where, by agreement between the parties, the tax laid upon
the income actually received by one of them has been paid by
another?
4. Do applicable statutes authorize the taxing officers to estimate
total income by adding to the amount actually received by the taxpayer any tax which another has paid thereon under agreement
between the parties?
It is suggested that counsel apply to the court below for an amendment so that the certificate will show distinctly when the original
assessments were made, and under what acts. Also when the appeals
were taken to the Board of Tax Appeals; when they were there
decided; and when the appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals were
perfected."

718

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

Mr. Arthur A. Ballantine, with whom Mr. George E.
Cleary was on the brief, for Old Colony Trust Company.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Attorney General Mitchell, Assistant
Attorney General Willebrandt, and Messrs. Sewall Key, J.
Louis Monarch, and Morton P. Fisher, Special Assistants
to the Attorney General, and Mr. William E. Davis, Special Attorney, Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the
briefs, for the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
Mr. Warren E. Miller filed the brief bf Mr. James
Walton, as amicus curia,, by special leave of Court.
Messrs. George M. Morris, Hugh Satterlee, Albert L.
Hopkins, Louis A. Lecher, Robert N. Miller, Murray M.
Shoemaker, Harry C. Weeks, Frederic P. Lee, and Ellsworth C. Alvord, filed a brief as amici'curice, on behaHf of
the Committee on Federal Taxation of the American Bar
Association, by special leave of Court.
Messrs. W. A. Sutherlandand Joseph B. Brennan filed a
brief, as amici curiw, by special leave of Court.
MR. C-nmF JUsTICE TAw

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We have before us for consideration two questions certified from the same Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 130 and
No. 129. They are presented upon different statements
of facts and the cases reach the certifying court in different ways, but the questions are so nearly alike that the
certifying judges deemed it convenient to present them in
consolidated form. We prefer to separate the questions,
discuss and decide No. 130 first, and then consider No. 129.
No. 130 comes here by certificate from the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the First Circuit. The action in that court
was begun by a petition to review a decision of the United

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 719
716

Opinion of the Court.

States Board of Tax Appeals. The petitioners are the executors of the will of William M. Wood, deceased. On
June 27, 1925, before Mr. Wood's death, the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue notified him by registered mail of
the determination of a deficiency in income tax against
him for the years 1919 and 1920, under the Revenue Act
of 1918. The deficiency was revised by the Commissioner August 18, 1925. An appeal was taken to the
Board of Tax Appeals, which was filed October 27, 1925.
A hearing before the Board, April 11, 1927, resulted in a
decision November 12, 1927. The Board approved the
action of the Commissioner and found a deficiency in the
federal income tax return of Mr. Wood for the year 1919
of $708,781.93, and for the year 1920 of $350,837.14. The
petition for review was perfected December 23, 1927,
pursuant to the Revenue Act of 1926, § 283(b), and
§§ 1001 to 1005, c. 27, 44 Stat., Part 2, 9, 65, 109, and
Rule 38 of the First Circuit Court of Appeals.
The facts certified to us are substantially as follows:
William M. Wood was president of the American
Woolen Company during the years 1918, 1919 and 1920.
In 1918 he received as salary and commissions from the
company $978,725, which he included in his federal income
tax return for 1918. In 1919 he received as salary and
commissions from the company $548,132.27, which he included in his return for 1919.
August 3, 1916, the American Woolen Company had
adopted the following resolution, which was in effect in
1919 and 1920:
"Voted: That this company pay any and all income
taxes, State and Federal, that may hereafter become due
and payable upon the salaries of all the officers of the company, including the president, William M. Wood the
comptroller, Parry C. Wiggin; the auditor, George R.
Lawton; and the following members of the staff, to wit:
Frank H. Carpenter, Edwin L. Heath, Samuel R. Haines,

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

and William M. Lasbury, to the end that said persons and
officers shall receive their salaries or other compensation in
full without deduction on account of income taxes, State
or Federal, which taxes are to be paid out of the treasury
of this corporation."
This resolution was amended on March 25, 1918, as
follows:
"Voted: That, in referring to the vote passed by this
board on August 3, 1916, in reference to income taxes,
State and Federal, payable upon the salaries or compensation of the officers and certain employees of this company,
the method of computing said taxes shall be as follows,

viz:
"' The difference between what the total amount of his
tax would be, including his income from all sources, and
the amount of his tax when computed upon his income
excluding such compensation or salaries paid by this
company.'"
Pursuant to these resolutions, the American Woolen
Company paid to the collector of internal revenue Mr.
Wood's federal income and surtaxes due to salary and
commissions paid him by the company, as follows:
Taxes for 1918 paid in 1919 ...... $681, 169. 88
Taxes for 1919 paid in 1920 ...... 351, 179.27
The decision of the Board of Tax Appeals here sought
to be reviewed was that the income taxes of $681,169.88
and $351,179.27 paid by the American Woolen Company
for Mr. Wood were additional income to him for the years
1919 and 1920.
The question certifiect by the Circuit Court of Appeals
for answer by this Court is:
"Did the payment by the employer of the income taxes
assessable against the employee constitute additional taxable income to such employee?"
The first point presented to us is that of the jurisdiction
of this Court to answer the question of law certified. It

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 721
716

Opinion of the Court.

requires us to examine the original statute providing for
the Board of Tax Appeals under the Revenue Act of 1924,
and the amending Act of 1926.
The Board of Tax Appeals, established by § 900 of the
Revenue Act of 1924, Tit. IX, c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 336,
was created by Congress to provide taxpayers an opportunity to secure an independent review of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue's determination of additional
income and estate taxes by the Board in advance of their
paying the tax found by the Commissioner to be due.
Before the Act of 1924 the taxpayer could only contest
the Commissioner's determination of the amount of the
tax after its payment. The Board's duty under the Act
of 1924 was to hear, consider and decide whether deficiencies reported by the Commiss-oner were right.
Section 273 of that Act defined a " deficiency" to be the
amount by which the tax imposed exceeded the amount
shown by the return of the taxpayer after the return was
increased by the amounts previously assessed or disallowed. There was under the Act of 1924 no direct judicial
review of the proceedings before the Board of Tax Appeals.
But each party had the unhindered right to seek separate
action by a court of competent jurisdiction to test the
correctness of the Board's action. Such court proceedings
were to be begun within one year after the final decision
of the Board.
Section 274 (b) provided that if the Board determined
there was a deficiency, the amount so determined should
be assessed and paid upon notice and demand from the
collector. No part of the amount determined as a deficiency by the Commissioner but disallowed as a deficiency
by the Board, could be assessed, but the Commissioner
was at liberty, notwithstanding the decision of the Board
against him, to bring a suit in a proper court against the
taxpayer to collect the alleged deficiency.
On the other hand, by § 900 (g) it was provided that in
any suit brought by the Commissioner, or by the taxpayer
45228-29-------46

722

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

to recover any amounts paid in pursuance of a decision
of the Board, the findings of the Board were prima facie
evidence of the facts.
By the Revenue Act of 1926, this procedure was changed
and a direct judicial review of the Board's decision was
substituted.
The Act of 1926 also enlarged the original jurisdiction
of the Board of Tax Appeals to consider deficiencies beyond those shown in the Commissioner's notice, if the
Commissioner made such a claim at or before the hearing,
§ 274(e), and also to determine that the taxpayer not
only did not owe the tax but had over paid. Section

284 (e).
The chief change made by the Act of 1926 was the provision for direct judicial review of the Board's decisions
by the filing by the Commissioner or the taxpayer of a
petition for review in a Circuit Court of Appeals or the
Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia under rules
adopted by such courts.
It is suggested that the proceedings before the Circuit
Courts of Appeals or the District Court of Appeals on a
petition to review are not and can not be judicial, for they
involve "no case or controversy," and without this a
Circuit. Court of Appeals, which is a; constitutional court
(Ex parte Bakelite Corporation,ante, p. 438) is incapable
of exercising its judicial function. This view of the nature
of the proceedings we can not sustain.
The case is, analogous to the suits which are lodged in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals upon petition or finding of
an executive or administrative tribunal. It is not important whether such a proceeding was originally begun
by an administrative or executive determination, if when
it comes to the court, whether legislative or constitutional,
it calls for the exercise of only the judicial power of the
court upon which jurisdiction has been conferred by law.

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 723
716

Opinion of the Court.

The jurisdiction in this cause is quite like that of Circuit
Courts of Appeals in review of orders of the Federal Trade
Commission. Federal Trade Commission v. Eastman,
274 U. S. 623; Silver Co. v. Federal Trade Commission,
292 Fed. 752. There are other instances of a like kind
which can be cited. United States v. Ritchie, 17 How.
525, 534; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson,
154 U. S. 447, 469; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S.
445, 447. See also Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149
U. S. 698, 714.
It is not necessary that the proceeding to be judicial
should be one entirely de novo; it is enough that, before
the judgment which must be final has been invoked as an
exercise of judicial power, it shall have certain necessary
features. What these are has been often declared by this
Court. Perhaps the most comprehensive definitions of
them are set forth in Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S.
346, 356, where this Court entered into the inquiry what
was the exercise of judicial power as conferred by the
Constitution. There was cited there a definition by Mr.
Justice Field, in Re Pacific Railway Commission, 32 Fed.
241, 255, which has been generally accepted as accurate.
He said:
" The judicial article of the Constitution mentions cases
and controversies. The term 'controversies,' if distinguishable at all from 'cases,' is so in that it is less comprehensive than the latter; and includes only suits of a
civil nature. Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 431, 432; 1
Tuch. Bl. Comm. App. 420, 421. By cases and controversies are intended the claims of litigants brought before
the courts for determination by such regular proceedings
as are established by law or custom for the protection
or enforcement of rights, or the prevention, redress, or
punishment of wrongs. Whenever the claim of a party
under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United

724

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

States takes such a form that the judicial power is capable
of acting upon it, then it has become a case. The term
implies the existence of present or possible adverse parties
whose contentions are submitted to the court for adjudication."
In Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, Chief
Justice Marshall construed Article III of the Constitution
as follows (p. 819):
"This clause enables the judicial department to receive jurisdiction to the full extent of the constitution,
laws and treaties of the United States, when any question
respecting them shall assume such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting on it. That power is
capable of acting only when the subject is submitted to
it, by a party who asserts his rights in the form prescribed
by law. It then becomes a case, and the constitution
declares, that the judicial power shall extend to all cases
arising under the constitution, laws and treaties of the
United States."
The Circuit Court of Appealh is a constitutional court
under the definition .ofsuch courts as given in the Bakelite
case, supra, and a case or controversy may come before it,
provided it involves neither advisory nor executive action
by it.
In the case we have here, there are adverse parties.
The United States or its authorized official asserts its right
to the payment by a taxpayer of a tax due from him to
the Government, and the taxpayer is resisting that payment or is seeking to recover what he has already paid as
taxes when by law they were not properly due. That
makes a case or controversy, and the proper disposition
of it is the exercise of judicial power. The courts are
either the Circuit Court of Appeals or the District of
Columbia Court of Appeals. The subject matter of the
controversy is the amount of the tax claimed to be due or

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 725
716

Opinion of the Court.

refundable and its validity, and the judgment to be rendered is a judicial judgment.
The Board of Tax Appeals is not a court. It is an
executive or administrative board, upon the decision of
which the parties are given an opportunity to base a petition for review to the courts after the administrative inquiry of the Board has been had and decided.
It is next suggested that there is no adequate finality
provided in respect to the action of these courts. In the
first place, it is not necessary, in order to constitute a
judicial judgment that there should be both a determination of the rights of the litigants and also power to issue
formal execution to carry the judgment into effect, in the
way that judgments for money or for the possession of
land usually are enforced. A judgment is sometimes regarded as properly enforceable through the executive departments instead of through an award of execution by
this Court, where the effect of the judgment is to establish
the duty of the department to enforce it. La Abra Silver
Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 423, 457, 461.
The case of Fidelity National Bank & Trust Co. v. Swope,
274 U. S. 123, 132, shows clearly that there are instances
where the award of execution is not an indispensable element of a constitutional case or controversy. In that decision there are collected familiar examples of judicial
proceedings resulting in a final adjudication of the rights
of litigants without it.
But even if a formal execution be required, we think
power to resort to it is clearly shown with respect to the
enforcement of the action of the courts here involved by
§§ 1001 to 1005.
By the first, the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals
rendered after the passage of the Act of 1926 may be reviewed by the Circuit Court of Appeals or the District
Court of Appeals if a petition for such review is filed

726

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opiniou of the Court.

279 U. S.

either by the Commissioner or the taxpayer within six
months after the decision is rendered. The courts are to
adopt rules for the filing of the petition, the preparation of the record, and the conduct of the proceedings
upon such review. The review is not to operate as a stay
of assessment or collection of any portion of the amount
of the deficiency determined by the Board, unless a petition for review is filed by the taxpayer, and unless the taxpayer has filed a bond which when enforced will operate
finally to settle the rights of the parties as found by the
courts.
By §1002, it is provided in what venue the decision may
be reviewed. In § 1003, the Circuit Courts of Appeals and
the Court of Appeals of the District are given exclusive
jurisdiction to review the decisions of the Board and it
is declared that their judgments shall be final except that
they shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court of
the United States, on certificate or by certiorari in the
manner provided in § 240 of the Judicial Code as amended, and in such review the courts shall have the power to
affirm, or if the decision of the Board is not in accordance
with law, to modify or reverse the decision of the Boerd,
with or without remanding the case for a rehearing as
justice may require.
By § 1004, the same courts are given power to impose
damages in any case where the decision of the Board is
affirmed, and it appears that the petition was filed merely
for delay.
By § 1005, the decision of the Board is to become final
in respect to all the numerous instances which in the
course of the review may naturally end further litigation.
In the provisions of these sections, the legislation prescribes minute details for the enforcement of the judgments that are the result of these petitions for review in
the several courts vested with jurisdiction over them.

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 727
716

Opinion of the Court.

The complete purpose of Congress to provide a final
adjudication in such proceedings, binding all the parties,
is manifest and demonstrates the unsoundness of the
objection.
We have before us, however, for actual inquiry a case
different from one just considered in the regular course
of a petition for review of a decision of the Board, begun
and decided all after the enactment of the Act of 1926.
It is one in which the appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals
had been taken, but the appeal had not been decided by the
Board before the passage of the Act of 1926. That presents what involves a troublesome exception or duplication in the procedure. This occurs because of the last
excepting clause of § 283 (b) of the amending Act of 1926,
which is as follows:
"If before the enactment of this Act any person has
appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals under subdivision
(a) of Section 274 of the Revenue Act of 1924...
and the appeal is pending before the Board at the time
of the enactment of this Act, the Board shall have jurisdiction of the appeal. In all such cases the powers, duties, rights, and privileges of the Commissioner and of the
person who has brought the appeal, and the jurisdiction
of the Board and of the courts, shall be determined, and
the computation of the tax shall be made in the same
manner as provided in subdivision (a) of this section,
except as provided in subdivision (j) of this section and
except that the person liable for the tax shall not be subject to the provisions of subdivision (d) of Section 284."
The provisions of § 284 (d) are those which deny to
the taxpayer the power to bring any suit for the recovery
of the tax after he has adopted the procedure of appealing to the Board of Tax Appeals or to the Circuit Court
of Appeals.
By this last exception in § 283 (b), there seems still
open to the taxpayers who have filed a petition under the

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

law of 1924 and have not had a decision by the Board before the enactment of the law of 1926, the right to pay the
tax and sue for a refund in the proper District Court
(Par. 20 of § 24 of the Judicial Code, as amended by
§ 1310 (c), c. 136, 42 Stat. 311, U. S. Code, Title 28, § 41).
Emery v. United States, 27 F. (2d) 992, and Old Colony
R. R. v. United States, 27 F. (2d) 994, hold that the
petitioner still retains this earlier remedy.
The truth seems to be that in making provision to
render conclusive judgments on petitions for review in
the Circuit Courts of Appeals, Congress was not willing
in cases where the Board of Tax Appeals had not decided
the issue before the passage of the Act of 1926; to cut off
the taxpayer from paying the tax and suing for a refund
in the proper District Court. But the apparent conflict
in such cases can be easily resolved by the use of the
principles of res judicata. If both remedies are pursued,
the one in a District Court for refund, and the other on a
petition for review in the Circuit Court of Appeals, the
judgment which is first rendered will then put an end to
the questions involved and in effect make all proceedings
in the other court of no avail. Whichever judgment is first
in time is necessarily final to the extent to which it becomes a judgment. There is no reason, therefore, in the
case before us to decline to take jurisdiction. See Bryar
v. Campbell, 177 U. S. 649; Kline v. Burke Construction
Co., 260 U. S. 226, 230; Stanton v. Embrey, 93 U. S. 548,
554.
Second. The jurisdiction here is based upon the certificate of a question of law. That is whether the payment by the employer of the income taxes assessed against
the employee constitutes additional returnable taxable
income to such employee. The certification of such a
question by the Circuit Court of Appeals is an invocation

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 729
716

Opinion of the Court.

of the appellate jurisdiction of this Court and therefore
within the Constitution.
Third. Coming now to the merits of this case, we
think the question presented is whether a taxpayer, having
induced a third person to pay his income tax or having
acquiesced in such payment as made in discharge of an
obligation to him, may avoid the making of a return
thereof and the payment of a corresponding tax. We
think he may not do so. The payment of the tax by the
employers was in consideration of the services rendered
by the employee and was a gain derived by the employee
from his labor. The form of the payment is expressly
declared to make no difference. Section 213, Revenue
Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1065. It is therefore immaterial that the taxes were directly paid over to the Government. The discharge by a third person of an obligation
to him is equivalent to receipt by the person taxed. The
certificate shows that the taxes were imposed upon the
employee, that the taxes were actually paid by the employer and that the employee entered upon his duties
in the years in question under the express agreement that
his income taxes would be paid by his employer. This
is evidenced by the terms of the resolution passed August
3, 1916, more than one year prior to the year in which the
taxes were imposed. The taxes were paid upon a valuable consideration, namely, the services rendered by the
employee and as part of the compensation therefor. We
think therefore that the payment constituted income to
the employee.
This result is sustained by many decisions. Providence
& Worcester R. R. Co., 5 B. T. A. 1186; Houston Belt &
Terminal Ry. Co. v. Commissioner, 6 B. T. A. 1364; West
End Street Railway Co. v. Malley, 246 Fed. 625; Rennselaer & S. R. Co. v. Irwin, 249 Fed. 726; Northern R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Co. of New Jersey v. Lowe, 250 Fed. 856; Houston Belt &
Terminal Ry. Co. v. United States, 250 Fed. 1; Blalock v.
Georgia Ry. & Electric Co., 246 Fed. 387; Hamilton v.
Kentucky & IndianaTerminal R. R. 289 Fed. 20; American Telegraph & Cable Co. v. United S&ates, 61 Ct. Cl.
326; United States v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 19
Fed. (2d) 157; Estate of Levalley, 191 Wis. 356; Estate of
Irwin, 196 Cal. 366.
Nor can it be argued that the payment of the tax in
No. 130 was a gift. The payment for services, even
though entirely voluntary, was nevertheless compensation within the statute. This is shown by the case of
Noel v. Parrott, 15 F. (2d) 669. There it was resolved
that a gratuitous appropriation equal in amount to $3
per share on the outstanding stock of the company be set
aside out of the assets for distribution to certain officers
and employees of the company and that the executive
committee be authorized to make such distribution as they
deemed wise and proper. The executive committee gave
$35,000 to be paid to the plaintiff taxpayer. The court
said, p. 672:
"In no view of the evidence, therefore, can the $35,000
be regarded as a gift. It was either compensation for
services rendered, or a gain or profit derived from the sale
of the stock of the corporation, or both; and, in any view,
it was taxable as income."
It is next argued against the payment of this tax that
if these payments by the employer constitute income to
the employee, the employer will be called upon to pay the
tax imposed upon this additional income, and that the
payment of the additional tax will create further income
which will in turn be subject to tax, with the result that
there would be a tax upon a tax. This it is urged is the
result of the Government's theory, when carried to its

OLD COLONY TR. CO. v. COMM'R INT. REV. 731
716

MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

logical conclusion, and results in an absurdity which Congress could not have contemplated.
In the first place, no attempt has been made by the
Treasury to collect further taxes, upon the theory that
the payment of the additional taxes creates further income, and the question of a tax upon a tax was not before
the Circuit Court of Appeals and has not been certified
to this Court. We can settle questions of that sort when
an attempt to impose a tax upon a tax is undertaken, but
not now. United States v. Sullivan, 274 U. S. 259, 264;
Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. v. Jackson Vinegar Co.,
226 U. S. 217, 219. It is not, therefore, necessary to
answer the argument based upon an algebraic formula to
reach the amount of taxes due. The question in this case
is, "Did the payment by the employer of the income taxes
assessable against the employee constitute additional taxable income to such employee?" The answer must be
"Yes."

Separate opinion of MR.

JUsTIcE M REYNOLDS.

The Board of Tax Appeals belongs to the executive department of the Government and performs administrative
functions-the assessment of taxes. The statute attempts to grant a broad appeal to the courts and directs
them to reconsider the Board's action-to do or to say
what it should have done. This enjoins the use of executive power, not judicial. The duty thus imposed upon
the courts is wholly different from that which arises upon
the filing of a petition to annul or enforce the action of the
Interstate Commerce Commission or the Federal Trade
Commission.
I think the Circuit Court of Appeals was without
jurisdiction.

