768

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

Considering the whole record, we think appellants had
a patient hearing upon adequately defined issues, with
abundant opportunity to put forward all proper defenses
and explanations. With the exception already stated,
there is ample evidence to support the judgment; the
punishments imposed are not excessive; the court kept
within the limits of its reasonable discretion and did nothing which injuriously affected the substantial rights of
the parties. Judicial Code, § 269; U. S. Code, Title 28,
§ 391.
The judgment as to William J. Burns must be reversed;
as to the other appellants it is affirmed.
MR. JusTICE STONE took no part in the consideration
or determination of this cause.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL. v. UNITED STATES E AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STAT S
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 466.

Argued April 11, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

The plaintiff railroad offered standard rates on wheat over its line
from Dodge City to Kansas City, a primary grain market, and
from Kansas City to the Gulf, and a through rate from Dodge
City via Kansas City to the Gulf which was lower than the
sum of the standard rates. Under the practice known as
"through rates with transit privilege," owners of wheat which,
within a certain period, had been shipped from Dodge City to
Kansas City without other destination and for the standard rate
between those points, could reship the same or substituted wheat
from Kansas City to the Gulf by paying only a ".proportional rate"
or "balance of the through rate," allowing them a discount equal
to the difference between the through rate from Dodge City to the
Gulf and the sum of the standard rates. To overcome the competition of a railroad with a line from Kansas City to the Gulf
which offered a lower rate from Kansas City to the Gulf on

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

769

Statement of the Case.

wheat which had originated in Dodge City, the plaintiff filed a
tariff increasing its standard rate from Dodge City to Kansas City
applicable only to such wheat as should later be reshipped from
Kansas City to the Gulf over the competing line; and it contended
that the Interstate Commerce Commission was without power to
set aside the increase, though unreasonable and discriminatory, because, by so doing, it compelled the plaintiff to participate in a
through route and rate with the competing carrier and thereby
short-haul itself, in disregard of the limitations imposed by Oaragraph 4 of § 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act on the Commission's power to establish through routes. Held:
I. That in ordering cancellation of the proposed increase the
Commission exercised only its function of determining the reasonableness of rates. P. 776.
2. The Commission's power to declare rates unreasonable applies alike to all rates, be they joint, local, or proportional, and
in controversies involving through rates, it may if it sees fit deal
with one factor only of the combination of rates which make up
the through rates. P. 776.
3. In conferring the restricted power to establish through routes,
Congress did not intend to limit the theretofore unrestricted power
of the Commission to pass upon the reasonableness of rates. P. 777.
4. The inbound and outbound movements of the Kansas City
grain to which the proportional rate applied, were wholly independent and distinct, and the fiction of a "through rate with
transit privilege" could not convert them legally into a through
movement from Dodge City to the Gulf. P. 777.
5. There is no rule of law or practice which gives to a carrier
the right to recapture traffic which it originated. P. 780.
6. A finding of the Commission that a rate is unreasonable
is binding on this Court when supported by evidence. P. 781.
7. In a suit to set aside an order of the Commission canceling
a rate proposed by the plaintiff carrier, failure of the Commission
to suspend and cancel a rate of a competing carrier is not subjeet
to review. P. 781.
33 F. (2d) 345, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of a District Court of three judges

denying an injunction and dismissing the bill in a suit
to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission canceling proposed tariffs.
45228*-29-----49

770

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Mr. R. S. Outlaw, with whom Messrs. A. B. Enoch,
H. H. Larimore, E. E. McInnis, M. L. Bell, W. F. Dickinson, and E. J. White were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Attorney General Mitchell and Mr. Elmer B. Collins, Special Assistant
to the Attorney General, -were on the brief, for appellees
United States and Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Frank H. Towner, with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn, FrankH. Moore, and Wm, E. Davis were on the
brief, for appellees Kansas City Southern Railway Company et al.
Mn . JusTIcE BRA-DNIs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought in the federal court for northern
Illinois, under the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, to enjoin and annul an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission entered July 6,
1927. That order directed the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe and two other railroads to cancel proposed tariffs increasing the respective grain rates from numerous
country points in Colorado, Kansas and Nebraska to
Kansas City, Missouri, and Wichita, Kansas. Grain and
Grain Products from Colorado, Kansas and Nebraska to
Gulf Ports for Export, 129 I. C. C. 261. Those three carriers are the plaintiffs. Besides the United States and the
Commission, the Kansas City Southern, and certain other
carrers, which compete with the plaintiffs for the grain
export traffic from Kansas City to Gulf ports, re the defendants. The District Court, three judges sitting, denied
the injunction and dismissed the bill. 33 F. (2d) 345.
The case is here on direct Appeal from the final decree.
We are of opinion that it should be affirmed.
The legal question presented is not dependent upon
the fact that the tariffs halenged are those of three inde-

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

Opinion of the Court.

pendent railroads; nor upon the fact that the rates are
different for wheat than for some other grain; nor upon
the fact that the tariff of each railroad includes differing
rates from numerous country points in each of the three
States; nor upon the fact that some of the rates from
those points are for transportation to Kansas City, and
some to Wichita; nor upon the fact that there are several
railroads which, as competitors of the plaintiffs for traffic
from those cities to several Gulf ports, are affected by the
rates challenged. The statement of the facts may, therefore, be simplified by limiting it to a single rate of one
of the plaintiff carriers for wheat to Kansas City; and
showing the effect of that increased rate on one of that
carrier's competitors for traffic from that market to a
single Gulf port.
The Santa Fe has a line direct from Dodge City, Kansas,
to the Gulf via which its through rate on wheat for export
is 47 cents per 100 pounds. It has also a line from Dodge
City via Kansas City to the Gulf on which its through
rate, prior to 1924, was 51 cents, being the sum (or combination) of the local rate from Dodge City to Kansas
City (20.5 cents) and the standard proportional rate from
Kansas City to the Gulf (30.5 cents).' Usually, the volume of grain in storage at Kansas City is large, as it is
an important primary grain market. The Kansas City
Southern has no line from Dodge City to Kansas City.
1

A through rate is ordinarily lower than the combination of the

local rates.

When a through rate is made by combination of rates

for intermediate distances the rate for the later link in the shipment
is, when lower than the local, spoken of as a proportional rate. See
Hocking Valley Ry. Co. v. Lackawanna Coal & Lumber Co., 224 Fed.
930, 931. Also, Railroad Commissioners of Kansas v. A. T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., 22 I. C. C. 407; Swift & Co. v. Director General, 66 I. C. C.
409; Kansas City Board of Trade v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co., 69 I. C. C. 185; Rates on Bunker Coal, 73 I. C. C. 62; Lumber from San Francisco Bay Points, 78 I. C. C. 760; Wichita Chamber of Commerce v. Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co., 109 I. C. C. 368.

772

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

But it has a line from Kansas City to the Gulf; and its
standard proportional rate also is 30.5 cents per 100
pounds. Prior to 1924, the Southern was in a position to
compete on equal terms with the Santa Fe for the transportation to the Gulf of the grain from Dodge City on
storage in Kansas City. In that year, the Santa Fe reduced its through rate from Dodge City to the Gulf via
Kansas City to 47 cents. Thereby the Santa Fe's net proportional rate from Kansas City to the Gulf was reduced
4 cents, that is, from 30.5 cents to 26.5 cents. For, under
a practice prevailing at primary grain markets, known as
the through rates with transit privilege, one who re-ships
grain on the same railroad which had brougit it into the
market is entitled to re-ship on what is called the balance
of the through rate. That is, a discount is allowed equal
to the difference between the through rate from the
point of its origin to the destination ultimately selected
and the sum of the standard inbound and outbound rates.
Thus, the Southern was disabled from competing with
the Santa Fe for the transportation from Kansas City to
the Gulf of grain in storage at Kansas City which had
come from Dodge City. For the Santa Fe refused to establish a similar through route via the Southern from
Kansas City; and the Commission did not order it. Compare St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States,
245 U. S. 136. The Southern undertook to help itself.
It filed a tariff with what is called a varying proportional
rate by lowering to 26.5 its own rate from Kansas City
to the Gulf on such grain as had come to Kansas City
from Dodge City.' The Santa Fe protested to the Com2

This varying proportional rate was less advantageous to t.he

Southern than if a joint rate had been established by agreement with
the Santa Fe. For in acting alone, the Southern was obliged to absorb
the whole of the 4-cent reduction; whereas, if the Santa Fe had
joined with the Southern in establishing a through route and a joint
rate, the 4-cent reduction would presumably have been divided between the two carriers.

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

773

Opinion of the Court.

mission against the Southern's varying proportional rate;
but the Commission refused to suspend it.' Then, the
Santa Fe, in order to exclude the Southern, filed the tariff
here in question, imposing the 4-cent addition to its Kansas City rate on any Dodge City grain that should later
be re-shipped over the Southern's line. It is this conditional addition of 4 cents to the Dodge City-Kansas City
rate which the Commission ordered cancelled.
The order followed extensive hearings before the Commission, had after suspension of the tariffs pursuant to
paragraph 7 of § 15 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Since the proposed tariff involved an increase in the rate,
the burden of justifying the increase before the Commission was imposed upon the carrier by paragraph 7 of § 15,
if applicable. Moreover, to make an additional charge for
having brought merchandise into a city if it should afterwards be shipped out, is on its face unreasonable. And it
is discriminatory to make that additional charge only
3 Varying proportional rates had been approved in Export Rates
on Grain, 31 I. C. C. 616. The occasion for such rates and their
operation are described in Southern Kansas Grain Association v.
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 139 I. C. C. 641, 653. "The
method of publication may be briefly explained by the statement
that proportional rates are provided from Kansas City in varying
amounts depending upon the point of origin of the grain, which, when
added to the local rates into Kansas City, are equal to the specific
rates published by the lines which originate the grain. If these
varying proportionals or balances were not maintained the lines
whiah serve Kansas City, but not the grain fields, would be compelled to apply the flat proportional rate of 30.5 cents from that
market to the Gulf ports. That flat proportional exceeds the balances maintained by other lines and therefore would attract little, if
any, traffic. By providing these varying proportionals the lines
serving Kansas City have placed themselves on a competitive basis
for the outbound movement of grain stored at that point." Compare Grain and Grain Products from Kansas and Missouri to Gulf
Ports, 115 I. C. C. 153.

774

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

if the outbound shipment is over one of several possible
railroads. The Santa Fe made no attempt to justify the
increase. It contended that the general rules of law concerning reasonableness of rates axe not applicable; and
that the Commission lacked power to order the rate cancelled, because by so doing it compelled the Santa Fe to
participate in a through route and rate and thereby
short haul itself, in disregard of the limitations imposed
by paragraph 4 of § 15 upon the Commission's power
to establish through routes. Compare United States v.
MissouriPacific R. R., 278 U. S. 269.
The Santa Fe, regarding the grain in storage at Kansas
City as tonnage which, although temporarily held in abeyance, is in the course of a throughmovement and, as such,
is to be held on its lines, makes this argument: At the
time that the cancelled tariff was filed, the Santa Fe had
a through route on its own lines from Dodge City via
Kansas City to the Gulf; and there existed no through
route from Dodge City to the Gulf via the S6uthern from
Kansas City. The Santa Fe was therefore legally entitled
to carry to the Gulf at the through rate all Dodge City
grain stored at Kansas City, which had been brought in
by it. The Southern's varying proportional rate on Dodge
City grain enabled the Southern to secure some of this
grain. The Santa Fe's proposed varying rate was essential
to prevent that invasion of its right not to be short hauled
on Dodge City grain. By ordering its proposed tariff cancelled, the Commission made possible a through route
via the Southern which compelled the Santa Fe to short
haul itself. As the Commission was prohibited by paragraph 4 of § 15 from establishing a through route via the
Southern which would short haul the Santa Fe, Congress must have intended to deny to it also the power
to cancel as unreasonable a tariff which was essential to
the preservation of the Santa Fe's long haul.

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

Opinion of the Court.

A supplemental argument is made by the Santa Fe to
overcome the finding of the Commission that, at the time
when the tariff here in question was filed, there already
existed (without any order by the Commission) a through
route for grain over the Santa Fe from Dodge City to
Kansas City and thence to the Gulf via the Southern.
Compare St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States,
245 U. S. 136, 139; Virginian Ry. v. United States, 272
U. S. 658, 666. The supplemental argument is this: Since
the Commission could not have ordered this through route
via the Southern, it could not prevent the Santa Fe's withdrawing from the same.4 Its proposed tariff was in effect
a withdrawal. For, as the bill alleges, the rates were
"published, not for the purpose of facilitating movement
via the routes in connection with which they were published, but were published by plaintiffs to preclude and
prevent movement via such routes." We have no occasion to consider the issue of fact whether there was in
existence when the Santa Fe fied its proposed tariff a
through route from Dodge City via the Southern from
Kansas City; nor need we consider the issue of law
whether, if there was such a route in existence, the Commission would have been powerless, by reason of paragraph 4 of § 15, to prevent the Santa Fe's withdrawal
'In support of this proposition the Santa Fe relies upon Marble
Rates from Vermont Points, 29 I. C. C. 607; Ogden Gateway Case,
35 . C. C. 131; Ocean-and-Rail Rates to Charlotte,N. C., 38 1. C. C.
405; West Coast Lumber Mfgs. Ass'n v. S. P. & S. Ry. Co., 45 1. C. C.
230; Routing on Sheep from K. C., M. & 0. Texas Points, 69 1. C. C.
4; Restrictions in Routings over S. L. & U. R. R., 115 I. C. C. 357;
Port of New York Authority v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 144 I. C. C. 514. But see Lake & Lake Rate Cancellations,42 1.
C. C. W13, 516; Western Pacific R. R. v. Southern Pacific Co., 55 I,
C. C. 71, 73; Routing on Coal from Western Maryland Ry. Mines, 66
I. C. C. 103; Armour & Co. v. D. L. & W. R. R., 66 I. C. C. 445;
Fruits & Vegetables from Texas Points, 74 I. C. C. 575, 578-579.

776

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

from it. For we are of opinion that, although the Santa
Fe brought the grain into Kansas City, there is nothing
in the situation which precluded the Commission from
cancelling the Santa Fe's proposed tariff as being unreasonable.
First. In ordering cancellation of the proposed, tariff
the Commission exercised only its function of determining
the reasonableness of rates. It made a rate order to which
the matter of routing was merely an incident. The Santa
Fe calls the proposed rate by which it undertook to add 4
cents to the Dodge City-Kansas City rate, if the grain
should be re-shipped on the Southern, proportional. To
call it proportional is misleading." But if it were truly
a part of a through rate, the fact would be without legal
significance. The Commission's power'to declare rates
unreasonable applies alike to all rates, be they joint, local
or proportional. The Commission may, and in controversies involving through rates often does, deal with one
factor only of the combination of rates which make up the
through rate. And .that factor may be a proportionAl
rate.'
The broad power to pass on the reasonableness of rates
conferred upon the Commission in 1887 has not been in
terms limited by any amendatory act. On the other hand,
there has been much legislation designed to make the
power more effective7 The special power to establish
5 See note 1.

6 Compare Cairo Board of Trade v. C. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co.,
46 I. C. C. 343; Atchison Board of Trade v. A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
80 I. C. C. 350; Basing Rates on Paving Brick, 100 1 C. C. 390.
TAct of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 4, 34 Stat. 584; Act of June 18,
1910, § 12, o. 303, 36 Stat. 539; Act of August 9, 1916, c. g0l, 39
Stat. 441; Act of August 9, 1917, c. 50, § 4, 40 Stat. 270; Act of
February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41 Stat. 484; Joint Resolution, approved January 30, 1925, 43 Stat. 801; Act of March 4, 1927, c. 510,
§ 2, 44 Stat. 1446.

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

777

Opinion of the Court.

through routes and joint rates was not conferred until
1906. Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 4, 34 Stat. 584..
There is not in that Act as amended, see United States v.
American Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 430, note 2, or in any
decision of this Court construing it; 8 or in any of the
decisions of the Commission applying it, to which attention has been called," the slightest basis for the suggestion
that in conferring the restricted power to establish through
routes, Congress intended to limit the theretofore unrestricted power of the Commission to pa~s upon the reasonableness of rates. Compare Nashville, Chattanooga& St.
Louis Ry. Co. v. Tennessee, 262 U. S. 318, 323.
Second. The contention that the Santa Fe's cancelled
tariff was legally part of a through rate is also unsound.
The argument rests upon a fiction-the fiction of a
through rate with transit privilege. As applied here, the
fiction is inconsistent with every fact of legal significance.
When grain is shipped from a country point to a primary
market its ultimate disposition is rarely known. Who
the owner of the grain will be when it reaches the primary market is uncertain. It may be sold en route before
arrival there. While stored there, it may be resold several times. Some of it may be consumed in local flour
mills. Most of that stored in local elevators will probably be shipped out. But until the grain is shipped out
it will not be known to what place or even in what direc8

See Interstate Commerce Commission v. Northern Pacific Ry.,
216 U. S. 538; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. United States, 238
U. S. 1, 18; St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 245 U. S. 136;
Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457; New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; United States v. Illinois Central R. R.,
263 U. S. 515; United States v. Missouri Pacific R. R., 278 U. S. 269.
9 See cases in note 4, supra; also, Wichita Board of Trade v. A. &
S. Ry. Co., 28 I. C. C. 376; Restriction in Routing of Traffic from
Pacific Northwest, 73 I. C. C. 305; Lemon-Cove-Woodlake Ass'n v.
A. T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 139 I. C. 0. 239.

OCTOBER.TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tion or by what railroad it will be carried. Southern
Kansas GrainAss'n v. Chicago, Rock Island & PacificRy.
Co., 139 I. C. C. 641, 666. The treatment of substantially
all grain coming from the country point is this: The bill
of lading is for a shipment from the country point to the
primary market. There is nothing in any of the papers
connected with that transportation to indicate that the
grain has a destination beyond the primary market.
Upon arrival there, the owner requires delivery to be made
at such elevator or'other place as he selects. The freight
charges are paid; the amount being the full local rate for
transportation from the country point to the primary market.'
The car is then released. And the movementcalled inbound-ends.
The practice by which grain shipped to a primary
market is given when shipped out the benefit of the low
rate which would normally have applied if the grain had
actually been shipped from the country point through to
its ultimate destination antedates the enactment of the
Interstate Commerce Act, Transit Case, 24 I. C. C. 340,
348. The benefit attaching to grain shipped into the primary market is commonly so broad that it is transferable
not only to another owner of the same grain, but to like
grain coming from the same country point. Thus, the
owner of any grain in Kansas City can get the benefit
of the proportional rate out for Dodge City grain by making proof that he had brought from there into the market,
within the period of twelve months, an equivalent quantity of like grain. This he may do although it appears
that the grain which he brought in was actually consumed
10 If

the then owner has directed delivery of the car to some local

elevator, not on the line of the carrier which brought the grain to
Kansas City, he pays the switching charge.

A., T. & S. F. RY. v. UNITED STATES.
768

in Kansas City."

Opinion of the Court.

Alleged Unlawful Rates and Practices

in the Transportationof Grain and Grain Products, 7 I.
C. C. 240, 247; In re Substitution of Tonnage at Transit
Points, 18 I. C. C. 280; Transit Case, 24 I. C. C. 340.1"

The practice prevails often even where the haul to the
primary market is out-of-line; that is, is not on the direct
route from the point of origin to the point which ulti-

mately becomes the destination of the grain.
When the outbound shipment from Kansas City is made
the grain goes forward on a new bill of lading at the

balance of the through rate.

Obviously, this practice can-

not convert the independent shipment

of grain

from

Kansas City to the Gulf via the Southern into a through
movement from Dodge City to the Gulf. The two transportation services are not only entirely distinct, but they
are often rendered in respect to wholly different merchandise. This coinvenient fiction is employed as a justifica11 The outbound proportional as so reduced is spoken of as the
transit balance. The proof that the shipper brought grain into the
market entitling him to the reduction is made by presentation of
what is called "expense bills." This substitution has by some carriers
been extended to grain coming from other country points with rates
equally favorable to the carrier. The validity of that practice has at
times been questioned. See In re Substitution of Tonnage at Transit
Points, 18 I. C. C. 280, 284-285. Compare Alleged Unlawful Rates,
7 I. C. C. 240, 244; Transit Case, 24 I. C. C. 340, 350; LathropMarshall Grain Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 144 I. C. C.
227, 228. As to rate-breaking points, see Wichita Board of Trade v.
Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 29 I. C. C. 376; Mississippi R. R. Commission v. Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Co., 93 1. C. C. 435, 444.
12 Compare Nonapplication of Transit Privileges on Deficiencies in
Weight of Grain, 69 I. C. C. 19; Southern Kansas Grain Assn. v.
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 139 I. C. C. 641, 646;
Lathrop-MarshallGrain Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry. Co., 144
I. C. C. 227; Omaha Corporation Commission v. Abilene & Southern
Ry. Co., 148 I C. C. 316, 320.

780

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tion for the discrimination involved in giving rates lower
than those ordinarily applicable to the service outboind.
It is, of course, true that a carload of grain might be
shipped from Dodge City to the Gulf as a through shipment, although under the transit privilege it is to break
bulk at Kansas City, and the grain is not only to be stored
there, but is to be treated or even converted into flour,
before it proceeds on its journey to the Gulf. See Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 217, 237. Compare Texas & New Orleans-R. R. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227
U. S. 111; Baltimore & Ohio Southwestern R. R. v. Settle,
260 U. S. 166; Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95.
But the grain with which the carriers are here concerned
is not that so shipped from Dodge City to the Gulf. It
is grain whose only destination, when shipped from Dodge
City, was Kansas City. Such reshipment inder the
transit privilege is also entirely unlike the through shipment effected under the reconsignment or diversion privilege. See Reconsignment Case, 47 I. C. C. 590; Wood v.
New York, Philadelphia& Norfolk R. R. 53 I. C. C. 183,
185; Carolina Portland Cement Co. v. Director General,
83 I. C. C. 388, 391.
The grain, while in storage at Kansas City, is, in every
sense, free grain. When delivered to elevators in Kansas
City the Santa Fe's charges for the carriage to Kansas
City were fully paid. Its legal interest therein ended
then. If the consignee or his successor in title should at
any time thereafter con~clude to ship elsewhere grain which
he had brought into Kansas City, he was at liberty to
select not only the destination, but the carrier by which it
should be transported. And every railroad serving Kansas City had like liberty to compete for the traffic. There
is no rule of law or practice which gives to a carrier the
right to recapture traffic which it originated. Compare
United States v. Illinois Central R. R. Co., 263 U. S. 515,
523; United States v. American Ry. Express Co., 265 U. S.

B. & 0. i. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
768

Syllabus.

425. Moreover, here the competition is not for transportation of the identical merchandise.
Third. In this Court, there is a faint contention that the
evidence before the Commission did not support the finding of unreasonableness. It was not made either before
the Commission or the District Court and is clearly unfounded. See Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272
U. S. 658, 665; Assigned Car Cases, 274 U. S. 564, 580.
There is also a suggestion that the Commission should
have suspended and ordered cancelled the Southern's varying proportional rate. Its action in that respect is not
subject to review in this proceeding.
Affirmed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.

v. UNITED STATES

ET AL.

.kPPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 563.

Argued April 24, 1929.-Decided June 3, 1929.

After this Court had reversed a decree of the District Court of
three judges erroneously refusing to vacate an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission by which appellant railroads (plaintiffs below) were required to absorb transfer charges on certain
traffic moving west at St. Louis, (277 U. S. 291), and by its
mandate had directed such further proceedings in the case, in
conformity with this Court's opinion and decree, as according to
right and justice and the laws of the United States ought to be
had, the appellants applied to the District Court for a decree in
accordance with the mandate, including restitution by the appellee
railroads of the amounts which the appellants had borne and
paid under the order because of the erroneous decree, and for a
reference to a master to ascertain such amounts. The District
Court reversed that decree, set aside the Commission's order,
retained jurisdiction, and later entered its final decree denying
the restitution and reference. Held:
1. The decree denying the application for restitution and for
reference to a master, was appealable to this Court under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913. P. 784.

