OCTOBER TERM, 198.

300

279 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

GRAYSON

ET A.

v. HARRIS

r

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SU-PREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 116. Argued January 10, 1929.-Decided April 8, 1929.
1. The extension to the Indian Territory by Act of Congress (Act
of May 2, 1890, § 31, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 94) of § 4471 of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, a seven year statute of
limitations, operated to make that statute, with the settled construction placed upon it by the Arkansas courts, a law of the United
States as though originally enacted by Congress, and its construction and effect present federal questions to be determined
on review by this Court in the exercise of its independent judgment. P. 303.
2. Under § 4471 of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas
(extended to the Indian Territory by the Act of May 2, 1890, §
31, c. 182, 26 Stat. 81, 94) requiring suits for the recovery of
land to be brought within seven years "after title or cause of action
accrued," the period of limitations does not begin to run against
an heir from the date of the acquisition of title by inheritance,
where no cause of action had at that time accrued, as where no
one was in adverse possession or claiming any title thereby. P. 304.
129 Okla. 281, 285, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 555, to the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma to review a decision reversing a judgment
which confirmed title of petitioners to certain lands
claimed by respondents by adverse possession.

Mr. Streeter B. Flynn, with whom Messrs. Robert M.
Rainey, William Neff, Louis E. Neff, Jess W. Watts, and
Calvin Jones were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert F. Blair for respoindents.
MR.

JUSTICE SA-OiRD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case was before us at an earlier stage in Grayson v.
Harris,267 U. S. 352.

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
300

Opinion of the Court.

In August, 1917, the petitioners brought an action
against the respondents in the district court of Creek
County, Oklahoma, to recover an undivided half interest
in certain lands in that county lying within the former
Creek Nation in the Indian Territory. These lands had
been allotted on July 9, 1906, in the names of two freedmen, Creek citizens, who had previously died; and the
title to an undivided half interest in the lands had thereupon passed to Gertrude Grayson, a Creek citizen, who
was an heir of each of the allottees. She died, intestate,
and without issue, in April, 1907, leaving as her next of
kin certain remote kindred who were Creeks, and a maternal grandmother who was not a Creek. On November
16, 1907, Oklahoma was admitted as a State.!
The plaintiffs alleged that upon the death of Gertrude
Grayson the undivided half interest in the lands of which
she had died possessed vested in fee in them as her surviving Creek heirs; and that when the suit was brought
they were entitled to the possession thereof but were
being kept out of possession by the defendants who were
then in possession under some claim of ownership. The
defendants, answering, denied the plaintiffs' title and alleged that the title to Gertrude Grayson's half interest
had upon her death descended to her grandmother, from
whom the defendants derived title by mesne conveyances;
that they and those through whom they claimed had been
in adverse possession of the lands from the year 1906;
and that the plaintiffs' cause of action was barred by the
statute of limitations of seven years. The plaintiffs, replying, denied these allegations.
The case was tried by the court without a jury, which
was waived. The court held that upon the death of Gertrude Grayson her undivided half interest had descended
I President's Proclamation, 35 Stat. 2160; Oklahoma v. Texas, 272
U. S. 21, 36; Joines v. Patterson,274 U. S. 544, 549.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

to her surviving Creek kindred under § 6 of the Supplemental Creek Agreement, ratified and confirmed by the
Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323;2 found that the evidence
failed to show an adverse possession in the defendants and
their predecessors prior to November 17, 1907, and that
neither the defendants nor those under whom they claimed
"took any possession whatever of said land until some
time in 1912 "; and adjudged that,-with certain exceptions not here material,-the plaintiffs were the owners
of the undivided half interest in suit.
On an appeal the Supreme Court of Oklahoma filed in
1922 an opinion to the effect that the plaintiffs' action was
barred by the statute of limitations; but later, on a petition for rehearing, in 1923 withdrew the original opinion and substituted another opinion holding, without reference to the statute of limitations, that under the Supplemental Creek Agreement the undivided half interest of
Gertrude Grayson had been inherited by her maternal
grandmother; and accordingly reversed the judgment of
the trial court, with instructions to enter judgment quieting the title of the defendants. 90 Okla. 147.
On a writ of certiorari this Court, holding that under
the Supplemental Creek Agreement the undivided half
interest of Gertrude Grayson had been inherited by her
Creek kindred and not by her grandmother, without passing on the question of the statute of limitations, which
a we stated was not then open to our consideration, reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma,
and remanded the cause for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinion. Grayson v. Harris, 267 U. S.
352.
Thereafter the Supreme Court of Oklahoma readopted
the withdrawn opinion of 1922 on the question of the
statute of limitations, and ordered it filed as the opinion
232 Stat. 500, 501.

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
300

Opinion of the Court.

of the court, 129 Okla. 285; and holding, as therein set
out, that the plaintiffs' action was barred under § 4471
of Mansfield's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas-which,
as a part of Chapter 97 relating to limitations, had been
extended over and put in force in the Indian Territory
by § 31 of the Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182 3-- again entered
judgment reversing the judgment of the trial court and
remanding the cause with instructions to confirm the defendants' title. 129 Olda. 281. And this final judgment
has been brought here for review under a second writ of
certiorari. 278 U. S. 555.
See. 4471 of Mansfield's Digest, when extended over the
Indian Territory by the Act of Congress, became, in effect,
with the settled construction placed upon it by the
Arkansas courts, a law of the United States as though
originally enacted by .Congress. Joines v. Patterson, 274
U. S. 544, 549. Therefore its construction and effect present federal questions that are to be determined by this
Court in the exercise of its own independent judgment.
This section provides-subject to a saving clause in
favor of minors, married women and persons non compos
mentis-that: "No person or persons, or their heirs, shall
have, sue or maintain any action or suit, either in law
or equity, for any lands, tenements or hereditaments but
within seven years next after his, her or their right to
commence, have or maintain such suit shall have come,
fallen or accrued; and all suits, either in law or equity,
for the recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments
shall be had and sued within seven years next after title
or cause of action accrued, and no time after said seven
years shall have passed."
The Supreme Court of Oklahoma--without referring
to the finding of the trial court that the defendants and
those through whom they claimed had not taken any
1126 Stat. 81, 94.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

possession of the land until some time in 1912-held that,
although § 4471 provided that a suit for the recovery of
land should be brought within seven years "after title
or cause of action accrued," it might be read by leaving
out the words "or cause of action," that is, as if it provided that the suit should be brought within seven years
after the title accrued; that the title of Gertrude Grayson
accrued on July 9, 1906, when she acquired her title by
inheritance; that the statute then commenced to run,
and, as this was before Oklahoma was admitted as a State,
remained the controlling statute; that under its provisions, neither Gertrude Grayson nor her heirs could sue or
maintain any action for the recovery of the lands except
within seven years after her title so accrued, that is,
within seven years after July 9, 1906; and that, as the suit
was not brought until August, 1917, eleven years thereafter, and the plaintiffs had not pleaded or proven any
disabilities or other facts which relieved them from the
operation of the statute, their action was barred.
The construction thus placed upon § 4471 and the effect
given to it as applied to the facts in this case, are in our
judgment erroneous. The first clause requires a suit for
land to be brought within seven years after the "right
to commence, have or maintain such suit shall have come,
fallen or accrued." Under the entire section it is clear
that the statute does not begin to run until the plaintiff's
cause of action accrues, even although his title had been
previously acquired. While under some circumstances
there may be a cause of action when the title is acquired,
as where the land is then adversely held-obviously the
mere acquisition of title cannot of itself give the owner
of land a cause of action against persons who have not
asserted an adverse claim under circumstances constituting an invasion of his justiciable rights. A different construction of the statute would lead to the anomalous
result that an owner of land whose title appeared to be

GRAYSON v. HARRIS.
300

Opinion of the Court.

unquestioned would be prevented from recovering it if he
did not bring suit within seven years after he acquired
title against persons who during such seven years had
neither asserted any claim to the land nor held adverse
possession of it nor otherwise invaded his rights; that is,
that his suit would be barred before any cause of action
had accrued on which he could have brought suit. This,
manifestly, was not intended.
Here it does not appear that the defendants or their
predecessors had asserted any claim to the undivided onehalf interest before taking possession of it in 1912. Upon
the facts found by the trial court-which were not questioned by the Supreme Court-the plaintiffs' cause of
action against the defendants did not accrue until that
time. And as the suit was brought within less than seven
years thereafter it was not barred by the statute of
limitations.
We find no decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
that gives to § 4471 the construction placed upon it by
the Oklahoma court. And, on the contrary, it was said
by this Court in Joines v. Patterson,supra,at p. 533, that:
"Under the settled construction given to the seven-year
statute of limitations by the courts of Arkansas, it began
to run against (the plaintiff) when (the defendant) took
possession." And see Shearman v. Irvine's Lessee, 4
Cranch 367, 369, involving the construction of a similar
Georgia statute.
In view of our conclusion as to the construction and
effect of § 4471, the controlling federal question remaining
in the case, it is unnecessary to deal in detail with other
contentions urged in behalf of the defendants, which, in
so far as they may bear upon the federal question, are
insufficient to sustain the judgment.
The judgment will be reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed,
45228°-29----20

