410

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. ROCK.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT OF THE FIRST
DISTRICT, STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 454.

Argued March 8, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. A judgment of the Appellate Court of Illinois which the Supreme
Court of the State may review by certiorari, becomes final when
the latter court denies the writ, and, if it involve a federal question, is thereupon reviewable here. The defeated party need not
first apply to the judges of the Appellate Court for a certificate of
importance and to grant appeal to the State Supreme Court. Cahill's Rev. Stats. Ill., c. 110, § 120. P. 411.
2. One who obtains a job as switchman by fraudulently evading the
company's rule for physical examination, and who is injured in the
course of his employment whiAe the company remains unaware of
the deception, is not of right an employee within the meaning of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act, and so can not maintain an action
for the injury under that statute. P. 412.
247 Ill. App. 600, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 278

U. S. 593, to review a judgment of the

Appellate Court of Illinois affirming a recovery under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Supreme Court
of the State denied a petition for review by certiorari.
Mr. Henry S. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. John E.
Palmer, John L. McInerney, and James L. Hetland were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Herbert H. Pattersonfor respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered

the opinion of the Court.

Respondent sued petitioner in the circuit court of Cook
County, Illinois, under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, U. S. C., Tit. 45, §§ 51-59, to recover damages for
personal injuries sustained by him while employed in
petitioner's railroad yard at Kolze in that State. There

MINNEAPOLIS &c. R. CO. v. ROCK.
410

Opinion of the Court.

was a verdict for $15,000 in favor of respondent, and the
judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the Appellate
Court of the First District. 247 II. App. 600. Petitioner applied to the state Supreme Court to have the
case certified to it for review and determination, but the
application was denied.
Respondent asserts that the judgment is not one of the
highest court of the State in which a decision in the suit
could be had and that therefore this Court has no jurisdiction.
Section 120, c. 110, Cahill's Revised Statutes of Illinois,
the material parts of which are printed in the margin,*
makes judgments of the Appellate Courts final in all cases
except those reviewable in the Supreme Court as a matter
of right under the state constitution, those in which a
majority of the judges of the Appellate Court make certificates of importance and grant appeals, and those
brought up on writ of certiorari issued by the Supreme
Court. This case is one in which the Supreme Court may
issue writ of certiorari. Kenna v. Calurnet &c. R. Co.,
*

In all ca.es in which their jurisdiction is invoked pursuant to

law, except those wherein appeals and writs of error are specifically
required by the Constitution of the State to be allowed from the
Appellate Courts to the Supreme Court, the judgments or decrees of
the Appellate Courts shall be final, subject however, to the following
exceptions: (1) In case a majority of the judges of the Appellate
Court or of any branch thereof shal be of opinion that a case .. .
decided by them involves a question of such importance . ..that it
should be passed upon by the Supreme Court, they may in such cases
grant appeals to the Supreme Court on petition of parties to the
cause, in which case the said Appellate Court shall certify to the
Supreme Court the grounds of granting said appeal. (2) In any
such case as is hereinbefore made final in the said Appellate Courts it
shall be competent for the Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or
otherwise, any such case to be certified to the Supreme Court for its
review and determination with th same power and authority in the
case, and with like effect, as if it had been carried by appeal or writ
of error to the Supreme Court. .. "

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

206 Ill. App. 17, 44. The statute does not require one
seeking review to apply to the judges of the lower court
before presenting petition for certiorari to the Supreme
Court. It is held by the state courts that a denial of petition for certiorari in a case where a certificate of importance has not been granted makes the judgment of the
Appellate Court. final. While such denial is not an approval of the reasons on which the Appellate Court rests
its judgment, it is an approval of the conclusion reached
by it "and is therefore, in effect, an affirmance of the
judgment." Soden v. Claney, 269 Ill. 98, 102. People v.
Grant, 283 Ill. 391, 397. It would be unreasonable to
require a defeated party to apply to the judges of the
lower court for a certificate of importance and appeal
after the Supreme Court had so approved the judgment.
The judgment is reviewable here. "Whenever the
highest court of a State by any form of decision affirms
or denies the validity of a judgment of an inferior court,
over which it by law can exercise appellate authority, the
jurisdiction of this court to review such decision, if it
involves a Federal question, will, upon a proper proceeding, attach." Williams v. Bruffy, 102 U. S. 248, 255.
And see Gregory v. McVeigh, 23 Wall. 294, 306.
We come to the merits. Respondent was an impostor.
His true name is Joe Rock. He obtained employment
and remained at work by means of deception and fraud.
October 1, 1923, he applied for employment as a switchman in petitioner's yard at Kolze. In accordance with a
rule and the practice of petitioner, respondent was sent to
the company's physician for physical examination. It
was found that he had been treated surgically for ulcer of
the stomach and removal of the appendix and that at the
time of the examination he had a rupture. His application was rejected because of his condition. A few days
later, respondent under the .name of John Rock, representing that he had not theretofore applied, again made

MINNEAPOLIS &c. R. CO. v. ROCK.
410

Opinion of the Court.

application for such employment. Petitioner's superintendent was deceived as to respondent's identity and accepted him, subject to examination to ascertain whether
he was physically fit for such work, and sent him to the
physician to be examined. Then respondent procured
one Lenhart to impersonate him and in his place to submit to the required examination. The physician found
Lenhart's condition satisfactory; and, believing that he
was the applicant, reported favorably on the application.
As a result of the deception petitioner gave respondent
employment and it did not learn of the fraud until after
December 24, 1924, the date on which respondent was
injured.
We are called upon to decide whether, notwithstanding
the means by which he got employment and retained his
position, respondent may maintain an action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The Act abrogates the fellow-servant rule, restricts the
defenses of contributory negligence and assumption of
risk, and extends liability to cases of death. And respondent in this action seeks, in virtue of its provisions and despite the rules of the common law, to hold petitioner
liable for negligence of his fellow servants and notwithstanding his own negligence may have contributed to
cause his injuries. Since the decision of this Court in the
Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 48, 51, it
has been well understood that the protection of interstate
commerce and the safety of those employed therein have
direct relation to the public interests which Congress by
that Act intended to promote. Phila.,Balt. & Wash. R. R.
v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603, 614. Watson v. St. Louis, I. M.
& S. Ry. Co., 169 Fed. 942, 950. And see McNamara v.
Washington Terminal Co., 37 App. D. C. 384, 393.
The carriers owe a duty to their patrons as well as to
those engaged in the operation of their railroads to take

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

care to employ only those who are careful and competent
to do the work assigned to them and to exclude the unfit
from their service. The enforcement of the Act is calculated to stimulate them to proper performance of that
duty. Petitioner had a right to require applicants for
work on its railroad to pass appropriate physical examinations. Respondent's physical condition was an adequate cause for the rejection of his application. The deception by which he subsequently secured employment set
at naught the carrier's reasonable rule and practice established to promote the safety of employees and to protect
commerce. It was directly opposed to the public interest
because calculated to embarrass and hinder the carrier in
the performance of its duties and to defeat important purposes sought to be advanced by the Act.
The evils and disadvantages likely to flow from such
impostures are the same in kind as those which invalidate
attempts of common carriers by contract stipulations to
escape liability for their own negligence in respect of duties essential to their public calling. In Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, an action to recover
damages by one injured while being transported on a railroad train in pursuance of an agreement purporting to
exempt the carrier from responsibility for the negligence
of itself or its employees, the court said (p. 377): "In
regulating the public establishment of common carriers,
the great object of the law was to secure the utmost care
and diligence in the performance of their important duties-an object essential to the welfare of every civilized
community. . . . It is obvious . . . that if a carrier stipulate not to be bound to the exercise of care and diligence,
but to be at liberty to indulge in the contrary, he seeks to
put off the essential duties of his employment."
Respondent's position as employee is essential to his
right to recover under the Act. He in fact performed the
work of a switchman for petitioner but he was not of right

CENT. N. ENG. R. CO. v. B. & A. R. CO.
410

415

Syllabus.

its employee, within the meaning of the Act. He obtained
and held his place through fraudulent means. While his
physical condition was not a cause of his injuries, it did
have direct relation to the propriety of admitting him to
such employment. It was at all times his duty to disclose
his identity and physical condition to petitioner. His
failure so to do was a continuing wrong in the nature of
a cheat. The misrepresentation and injury may not be
regarded as unrelated contemporary facts. As a result of
his concealment his status was at all times wrongful, a,
fraud upon the petitioner, and a peril to its patrons and
its other employees. Right to recover may not justify or
reasonably be rested on a foundation so abhorrent to public policy. Railway Company v. Lockwood, supra. Great
Northern Ry. v. Wiles, 240 U. S. 444, 448. Stafford v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 262 Fed. 807.
We need not consider any other question.
Judgment reversed.
CENTRAL NEW ENGLAND RAILWAY COMPANY
v. BOSTON & ALBANY RAILROAD COMPANY,
ASSIGNOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE COUNTY OF

SUFFOLK, STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 532.

Argued April 19, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. The writ of certiorari is properly directed to an intermediate state
court when the judgment entered by it is, under the local practice,
a final decision of the highest court of the State in which the decision could be had. P. 417.
2. An interstate carrier which enjoyed trackage rights beyond the
terminus of its branch line over a line of another interstate carrier
under an agreement for a term of years obligating the first carrier
to make annual payments to the second for the privilege, abandoned a section of the branch, including the trackage connection,
pursuant to a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued

