C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
Counsel for Parties.

342. It does not preclude petitioners from locating their
storage tanks without the city limits. Hence, the burden
imposed upon them cannot be greater or otherwise more
objectionable than that imposed by the enforced removal
from cities by legislative action of dangerous or offensive
trades or businesses. See PierceOil Corporationv. City of
Hope, supra; Hadacheck v. Los Angeles, supra; Reinman
,V.Little Rock, 237 U. S. 171; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co.,
supra; Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U. S. 361; Laurel Hill
Cemetery v. San Francisco,supra.
We have considered but do not discuss other objections
to the ordinance which are without merit.
Affirmed.
CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STAPLETON.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 133. Submitted January 2, 1929. Restored to docket and argued
April 9, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.
1. A right of action cannot arise under the Federal Employers' Liability Act upon any other basis than negligence. P. 589.
2. The carrier cannot be held for negligence under this Act upon the
ground that the employee was under sixteen years of age, employed
in violation of a statute of the State where the accident occurred
forbidding and penalizing the employment of infants of his years
for work upon any railroad. P. 593.
3. The question whether the carrier is so liable is a federal question
and is not determined by rulings of the state court holding violations of the state statute to be negligence per se. P. 593.
233 Ky. 154, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 585, to review a judgment of the
Court of Appeals of Kentucky affirming a recovery of damages in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.

Mr. Le Wright Browning for petitioner.
Mr. George B. Martin for respondent.

OCTOBER TEIR.M, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

279 U. S.

TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff is a citizen of Kentucky, and at the time of
the suit was between 15 and 16 years of age. Marion
Stapleton was his father and guardian. The Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company is a railway corporation of
Virginia, doing an interstate commerce business in Keiatucky. The plaintiff and his father were employed by the
defendant as section hands and were engaged in maintaining the railroad and the roadbed for interstate commerce. The plaintiff was directed by his father, who was
his foreman, to get water for his companions. In returning with the water he passed between or under the cars
of a train standing on a switch track. The train moved
unexpectedly while he was under the cars, he was run
over and sustained permanent injury. The evidence
showed that the boy was large and well developed and
had been working as a section hand and water carrier for
nine months previously.
The law of Kentucky in force at the time of the accident was ยง331a-9 Carroll's Kentucky Statutes, 1922, as
follows:
"Children under sixteen; where not to work.
"No child under the age of sixteen years shall be em'ployed, permitted or suffered (1) to sew or assist in sewing belts in any capacity whatever; (2) nor to adjust any
(6) nor to work upon any
belt to machinery; . .
railroad whether steam, electric or hydraulic; (7) nor to
operate or to assist in operating any passenger or freight
elevator.
"
Section 331a,-16 of the same statute provided:
"Whoever employs or suffers- or permits a child under
sixteen years of age to work, and any parent, guardian or
any adult person under whose care or control a child under
such age is, who suffers or permits such child to work,
in violation of any of the provisions of this act, shall be

C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
587

Opinion of the Court.

punished for the first offense by a fine of not less than
fifteen dollars nor more than fifty dollars; for second offense by a fine of not less than fifteen dollars and nor [not]
more than one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for
not more than thirty days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; for a third or any subsequent offense by a fine
of not less than two hundred dollars, or by imprisonment
for not less than thirty days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. . .
Suit was brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65. The case
was tried to a jury and resulted in a verdict of $17,500.
The Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment.
233 Ky. 154. The case comes here on certiorari, and the
error chiefly pressed is the giving of charge No. 3, as
follows:
"The court instructs the jury that if they believe and
find from the evidence that the defendant Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company employed the plaintiff to
work for it as a section hand at a time when he was under
sixteen years of age, and if they further believe and find
from the evidence that the plaintiff while working for
it as a section hand in the course of said employment,
was injured at a time when he was under the age of sixteen years, then the law is for the plaintiff, and the jury
will so find. Unless they so believe they will find for
the defendant."
The language of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
shows unmistakably that the basis of recovery is negligence and that without such negligence no right of action
is given under this Act. New York CentralR. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147, 150; Erie R. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S.
170, 172. The question squarely presented here is whether
the employment by an interstate carrier in Kentucky in
the business of interstate commerce of a worker under
the age of sixteen years is by reason of the state statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

negligence justifying a recovery under the federal Act for
injuries received during such employment. Instruction
No. 3 as given above dispenses with any burden on the
part of the plaintiff to show that his injury was due to
his age.
This Court, in the case of Chicago, M. & St. P. By. v.
Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 474, said:
"By the Federal Employers' Liability Act, Congress
took possession of the field of employers' liability to employees in interstate transportation by rail.; and all state
laws upon that subject were superseded. Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 55; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 501. The rights and obligations
of the petitioner depend upon that Act and applicable
principles of common law as interpreted by the federal
courts. The employer is liable for injury or death resulting in whole or in part from the negligence specified in the
Act; and proof of such negligence is essential to recovery.
The kind or anount of evidence required to establish it
is not subject to the control of the several States. This
court wili examine the record, and if it is found that as a
matter of law, the evidence is not sufficient to sustain a
finding that the carrier's negligence was a cause of the
death, judgment against the carrier will be reversed."
In St. Louis, Iron Mountain& Southern Ry. v. Hesterly,
228 U. S. 702, it was held that the federal Act saves a
right of action to relatives for pecuniary loss sustained by
the death of the one wrongfully injured, but does not permit a recovery for pain and suffering of the decedent,
although in suits under the state law such a recovery may
be had. See also Michigan Central R. R. v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59.
In Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, this
Court held that a state statute as to assumption of risk
does not apply to a suit for an injury under the Federal

C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
587

Opinion of the Court.

Employers' Liability Act, but only the common law on
that subject as interpreted by the Federal courts.
In New York Central R. R. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147,
Winfield was a section laborer in interstate commerce.
He was tamping a cross tie and a pebble rebounded and
hit his eye. He applied for compensation under a workmen's compensation act of the State. It was held that as
his injury was not due to negligence on part of the railroad, and did occur in interstate commerce, the Federal
Employers' Liability Act excluded recovery for it.
In North CarolinaR. R. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, the
action was brought in a state court of North Carolina
to recover damages for the negligent killing of a locomotive fireman of the Southern Railway Company, lessee
of the defendant. Under the law of the State, the North
Carolina Railroad as lessor of the Southern Railway Company was held responsible for all acts of negligence occurring in the conduct of business upon the lessor's road and
its liability was extended to employees of the lessee, injured through the negligence of the latter. The State
Supreme Court held that the Federal Employers' Liability
Act did not apply. This Court reversing that court held
that the Federal Employers' Liability Act did apply to
the case and that the case should be submitted to the
jury on the issue whether the fireman was engaged in
interstate commerce at the time of death.
New Orleans & Northeastern R. R. v. Harris,247 U. S.
367, was a suit for damages under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. It was there sought to apply a Mississippi
statute making it prima facie proof of negligence that an
injury was done by a locomotive engine. It was held that
the state statute was inapplicable. See also New Orleans
& N. E. R. R. v. Scarlet, 249 U. S. 528; Yazoo & Mississippi Valley R. R. v. Mullins, 249 U. S. 531; Central Vermont Ry. v. White, 238 U. S. 507; Toledo, St. Louis &

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Western R. R. v. SlNavin, 236 U. S. 454; Chicago, B. I. &
P. By. v. Wright, 239 U. S. 548; Wabash R. R. v. Hayes,
234 U. S. 86.
The exclusive operation of the Federal Employers' Liability Act within the field of rights and duties as between
an interstate commerce common carrier and its employees
has been illustrated in opinions of this Court applying that
Act by quotation of the words of Mr. Justice Story in
Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Pet. 539, 617, used in another
association:
"If this be so, then it would seem, upon just principles
of construction, that the legislation of Congress, if constitutional, must supersede all state legislation upon the
same subject; and by necessary implication prohibit it.
For, if Congress have a constitutional power to regulate
a particular subject, and they do actually regulate it in
a given manner, and in a certain form, it can not be that
the state legislatures have a right to interfere, and, as it
were, by way of complement to the legislation of Congress, to prescribe additional regulations, and what they
may deem auxiliary provisions for the same purpose. In
such a case, the legislation of Congress, in what it does
prescribe, manifestly indicates, that it does not intend that
there shall be any further legislation to act upon the subject-matter. Its silence as to what it does not do is as
expressive of what its intention is as the direct provisions
made by it. This doctrine was fully recognized by this
Court, in the case of Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 21, 22,
where it was expressly held that where Congress have
exercised a power over a particular subject given them by
the Constitution, it is not competent for state legislation
to add to the provisions of Congress uliOn that subject;
for that the will of Congress upon the whole subject is as
clearly established by what it has not declared, as by what
it has expressed."

C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
587

Opinion of the Court.

We come then to the specific question whether the violation of a statute of a State prohibiting the employment
of workmen under a certain age and providing for punishment of such employment should be held to be negligence in a suit brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. That the State has power to forbid such employment and to punish the forbidden employment when
occurring in intrastate commerce, and also has like power
in respect of interstate commerce so long as Congress does
not legislate on the subject, goes without saying. But it
is a different question whether such a state Act can be
made to bear the construction that a violation of it constitutes negligence per se or negligence at all under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. The Kentucky Act,
as we have set it out above, is a criminal act and imposes
a graduated system of penalties. There is nothing to
indicate that it was intended to apply to the subject of
negligence as between common carriers and their employees. It is true that in Kentucky and in a number of
other States it is held that a violation of this or a similar
state act is negligence per se, and such a construction of
the Act by a state court is binding and is to be respected
in every case in which the state law is to be enforced.
Louisville H. & St. L. Ry. v. Lyons, 155 Ky. 396; Terry
Dairy Co. v. Nalley, 146 Ark. 448; Grand Rapids Trust
Co. v. Petersen Beverage Co., 219 Mich. 208; Elk Cotton
Mills v. Grant, 140 Ga. 727'. But when the field of the
relations between an interstate carrier and its interstate
employees is the subject of consideration, it becomes a
federal question and is to be decided exclusively as such.
We have not found any case in which this question has
been presented to the federal courts, but there are three
or four well-reasoned cases in state courts, wherein this
exact point is considered and decided,
45228'-29----38

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

In the case of Smithson v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry., 174
Cal. 148, an action was brought under the Federal Employers' Liability Act by an employee against an interstate carrier. The California law provided that no minor
under the age of 18 years should be employed between
10 o'clock in the evening and 5 o'clock in the morning, and
the trial court charged that if the jury believed from the
evidence that the employment or permission to work at
night hours contributed to his injuries, the plaintiff was
not guilty of contributory negligence. This was held to
be error because of the exclusive provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
In Petranek v. Minneapolis, St. Paul & S. S. M. Ry.,
240 Mich. 655, where an accident causing an injury to a
16 year old boy working for a railroad as a section hand
occurred while the boy and railroad were engaged in interstate commerce, it was held that the plaintiff could not
rely on the violation of a state statute forbidding the hiring of boys under 18 in a hazardous employment as evidence of negligence, but that in its exercise of its right to
control means by which interstate commerce should be
carried on, Congress dealt exclusively with the matter of
employers' liability to employees for in-juries occurring in
that commerce.
In St. Louis-San Francisco Ry. v. Conly, 154 Ark. 29,
plaintiff was a minor 15 years of age working for defendant railroad in interstate commerce and was injured
therein. It was held that a state law prohibiting such
employment could not supplement or change the rule as
to negligence under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The court said:
"It is therefore wholly beyond the power of the State
legislature to make carriers engaged in interstate commerce civilly liable in damages for injuries to their employees while engaged in such commerce for the violation of some police regulation of the State. This power

C. & 0. R. CO. v. STAPLETON.
587

Opinion of the Court.

of Congress under the commerce clause of the Constitution does not in any manner trench upon or dislodge the
police power of the states from their own local and internal affairs which are reserved to them under the 10th
Amendment to the Constitution."
See also St. Louis, Iron M11ountain & Southern R. R. v.
Steel, 129 Ark. 520.
A similar case was McLain v. Chicago Great Western
R. R., 140 MNinn. 35. In that case an action was brought
by the plaintiff under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, and it was held that a city ordinance and police regulation limiting the speed of trains, having all the effect of
a statute, could not be admitted as evidence of contributory negligence. The Supreme Court of Minnesota said:
"The Act covers the entire field under which the employer in interstate commerce shall be liable for injury to
its employees likewise engaged. It pertains solely to the
relation of master and servant. It does not supersede
state legislation outside of this field, nor does it deal with
the duties and obligations of either to the public; but it
does supersede all state and municipal legislation governing the circumstances under which the master while
within the provisions of the Act, shall be liable for injury
to the servant. It follows that the ordinance in question
was superseded by the Act of Congress and was not admissible in evidence."
The citations from these state cases, four of them, seem
to show that their effect is confined to the government of
the relation between the employer and the employee, between the common carrier and the interstate commerce
agent. A different rule might well apply where the issue
and the litigation is with reference to the duties of the
common carrier in dealing with the public, with passengers or with strangers. The cases cited were decided only
after a full examination of the cases on the subject of the
Federal Employers' Liability Act in this Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

The cases chiefly relied on by respondent are cases
which were decided before the Federal Employers' Liability Act was passed. A palpable instance of this is the
case of Narramore v. Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. Ry., 96
Fed. 298. It was a suit of which the federal court took
jurisdiction because of diverse citizenship of the parties,
but it involved the application of an Ohio statute requiring railroads to block the frogs, switches, and guard rails
on their tracks, on penalty of a fine. State statutes relating to duties of the railroad company as a common carrier
and enacted to secure the safety of the public are obligations on the company in many ways; but they cannot encroach on the field occupied by admissible federal statutes. Therefore the Narramoreand other cases cited have
no application to the present case because they did not
involve the construction or effect of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Hover & Co. v. Denver & Rio Grande
Western R. R., 17 F. (2d) 881; Star Clay Co. v. Budno,
269 Fed. 508; Klicke v. Allegheny Steel Co., 200 Fed.
933; Steel Car Forge Co. v. Chec, 184 Fed. 868.
Frese v. Chicago, B. & Q. Ry., 263 U. S. 1, is relied on
by the plaintiff. In that case a state statute made it the
duty of a locomotive engineer to stop his train within a
certain distance of a crossing of another railroad and
positively to ascertain that the way was clear and that
the train could safely resume its course before proceeding
to pass the crossing. The duty was a personal one which
could not be devolved by custom upon the fireman and
it was held that the failure of the engineer to comply
with the duty was a defense to an action for his resulting
death brought by his administratrix under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. This was a crossing of two
railroads, a crossing where appropriate precautions must
be taken to avoid collision between railroad trains
whether state or interstate. It was a situation dependent

BARRY
587

V.

U. S.

EX REL.

CUNNINGHAM\1.

597

Syllabus.

for public safety on the enforcement of the state law as
against the employees of all railroads, state or interstate.
The application of the state statute was not by way of
enlargement or contraction of the Federal Employers' Liability Act. See Salabrin v. Ann Arbor R. R., 194 Mich.
458; PennsylvaniaR. R. v. Stalker, 67 Ind. App. 329.
We think that the statute of Kentucky limiting the age
of employees and punishing its violation has no bearing
on the civil liability of a railway to its employees injured
in interstate commerce and that application of it in this
case was error.
Reversed.
BARRY, SERGEANT-AT-ARMS OF THE UNITED
STATES SENATE, ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
EX REL. CUNNINGHAM.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 647.

Argued April 23, 1929.--Decided MIay 27, 1929.

1. A resolution of the Senate which recites the refusal of a witness
to answer questions asked of him by a committee pursuing an
investigation under authority from the Senate, and which directs
that he be attached and brought before the bar of the Senate "to
answer such questions pertinent to the matter under inquiry as
the Senate through its said committee or the President of the
Senate may propound," expresses the purpose of the Senate to
elicit testimony in response to questions to be propounded at its
bar; and in deciding whether the witness must attend, it is not
material to consider whether the information sought to be elicited
from him by the committee was pertinent to the inquiry which it
had been directed to make. P. 612.
2. Exercise by the Senate of its judicial power to judge of the elections, returns and qualifications of its members, Const., Art. I,
ยง 5, cl. 1, necessarily involves the ascertainment of facts, the
attendance of witnesses, the examination of such witnesses, with
the power to compel answers to pertinent questions, to determine

