ROSCHEN v. WARD.
333

Syllabus.

the lessee from which it is deducted, whereas the wear and
tear of a house or shop in any given year may be only
recognizable by theory and, as has happened in this case,
may cost the lessee nothing while the premises are in his
hands.
It does not matter that in Ohio, where the properties lie,
these long leases are treated as in many respects like conveyances of the fee. The Act of Congress has its own
criteria, irrespective of local law, that look to certain rather
severe tests of liability and exemption and that do not
allow the deductions demanded whatever the lessees may
be called. We understand this to be the view taken by
the Department for a long time and we are of opinion
that it should not be disturbed.
Judgment of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgment of District Court affirmed.
ROSCHEN v. WARD, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF
NEW YORK, ET

AL.

S. S. KRESGE COMPANY v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 667 and 668.

Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided April 22, 1929.

1. A state statute making it unlawful to sell at retail in any store or
established place of business any spectacles, eye glasses, or lenses
for correction of vision, unless a physician or optometrist is in
charge of the place of sale and in personal attendance at it, though
not providing specifically for an examination by the specialist, is
valid. P. 339.
2. A statute is not invalid under the Constitution because it might
have gone farther than it did, or because it may not succeed in
bringing about the result that it tends to produce. P. 339.
3. It being obvious that much good will be accomplished by a statute
requiring the attendance of a physician or optometrist at any place
45228-29-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

where spectacles or eye glasses are sold at retail, the question of
the expediency of such legislation is not for the courts, and no presumption will be indulged that the benefits are a pretence and a
cloak for establishing a monopoly. P. 339.
29 F. (2d) 762, affirmed.

APPiAis from decrees of the District Court, three judges
sitting, denying preliminary injunctions and dismissing
the bills in suits to restrain state officers from enforcing a
statute requiring the attendance of a physician or optometrist at places where spectacles, eye glasses, or lenses for
the correction of vision are sold at retail. The opinion
below was reported sub nom. S. S. Kresge Co. v. Ottinger.
Mr. Walter N. Seligsberg, with whom Mr. I. Maurice
Wormser was on the brief, for appellants.
Messrs. Hamilton Ward, Attorney General of New
York, and Henry S. Manley, Assistant Attorney General,
were on the brief for appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are suits brought by dealers in eye glasses for an
injunction prohibiting the enforcement of chapter 379 of
the New York Laws of 1928, which amends the Education
Law by inserting two sections, of which the material portion makes it unlawful to sell at retail in any store or established place of business 'any spectacles, eye glasses,
or lenses for the correction of vision, unless a duly licensed
physician or duly qualified optometrist, certified under
this article, be in charge of and [in] personal attendance
at the booth, counter or place, where such articles are sold
in such store or established place of business.' The complainants moved for a preliminary injunction, a statutory
court of three judges was convened and after a hearing
the injunction was refused and the bills were dismissed on

ROSCHEN v. WARD.
337

Opinion of the Court.

the ground that no cause of action was shown. 29 F.
(2d) 762.
The complainants sell only ordinary spectacles with
convex spherical lenses, which merely magnify and which
it is said can do no harm. The customers select for themselves without being examined and buy glasses for a relatively small sum. It is said that the cost of employing
an optometrist would make the complainants' business impossible, and that in the common case of eyes only grown
weaker by age the requirement is unreasonable. But the
argument most pressed is that the statute does not provide
for an examination by the optometrist in charge of the
counter. This as it is presented seems to us a perversion
of the Act. When the statute requires a physician or
optometrist to be in charge of the place of sale and in personal attendance at it, obviously it means in charge of it
by reason of and in the exercise of his professional capacity. If we assume that an examination of the eye is not
required in every case, it plainly is the duty of the specialist to make up his mind whether one is necessary and, if
he thinks it necessary, to make it. We agree to all the
generalities about not supplying criminal laws with what
they omit, but there is no canon against using common
sense in construing laws as saying what they obviously
mean. Moreover, as pointed out below, wherever the requirements of the Act stop, there can be no doubt that the
presence and superintendence of the specialist tend to diminish an evil. A statute is not invalid under the Constitution because it might have gone farther than it did, or
because it may not succeed in bringing about the result
that it tends to produce.
Of course we cannot suppose the Act to have been
passed for sinister motives. We will assume that there
are strong reasons against interference with the business as
now done-but it is obvious that much good would be ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

complished if eyes were examined in a great many cases
where hitherto they have not been, and the balancing of
the considerations of advantage and disadvantage is for
the legislature not for the Courts. We cannot say, as the
complainants would have us say, that the supposed benefits are a cloak for establishing a monopoly and a pretence.
Decree affirmed.

POSADOS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. WARNER, BARNES & COMPANY, LTD.
POSADOS, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. MENZI.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

Nos. 251 and 252. Argued February 26, 1929.-Decided April 22,
1929.
1. The graduated tax rates on stock dividends imposed by Act
2833 of the Philippine Islands, as amended, apply only to individuals; and the objection that they infringe the rule of uniformity
prescribed by the Organic Act is not available to a corporation
which has been taxed only at the flat rate. P. 343.
2. Neither can this objection be maintained by an individual who
fails to show the rate at which he was assessed or any facts to
support the suggestion that the required uniformity was lacking.
P. 346.
3. The provision of the Organic Act that no bill shall embrace more
than one subject, vhich shall be expressed in the title, is not
violated by including in a bill entitled as establishing -an income
tax, a tax on stock dividends, which is not strictly an income tax.
P. 343.
4. A former decision of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
that stock dividends were not taxable as income under the Act
here under consideration, held not binding in this case as a rule
of property. P. 345.
5. The doctrine of stare decisis does not apply with full force prior
to decision in the court of last resort, e. g., not to a decision of

