U. S. v. GALVESTON &c. RY. CO.
Syllabus.

398

Lapina v. Williams, 232 U. S. 78, 91. Lewis v. Frick, 233
U. S. 291. His declared purpose to naturalize does not
serve him here as he had not become a citizen. If his
landing at Boston in 1918 was an entry he is rightly held.
Section 1 provides that "United States" as used in the
Act shall be construed to mean the United States and any
waters, territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction
thereof except the Isthmian Canal Zone. An entry into
the United States is not effected by embarking on an
American vessel in a foreign port. Such a vessel outside
the United States whether on the high seas or in foreign
waters is not a place included within the United States as
defined by the Act. See Cunard S. S. Co. v. Mellon, 262
U. S. 100, 122. Scharrenbergv. DollarS. S. Co., 245 U. S.
122, 127. The word "entry" by its own force implies a
coming from outside. The context shows that in order
that there be an entry within the meaning of the Act
there must be an arrival from some foreign port or place.
There is no such entry where one goes to sea on board
an American vessel from a port of the United States and
returns to the same or another port of this country without
having been in any foreign port or place. See §§ 19,
32, 33, 35.
And it is clear that petitioner departed from the United
States on the Elisha Atkins and that, when he landed at
Boston on his return from South American and Cuban
ports, he made an entry into the United States within the
Judgment affirmed.
meaning of the Act.
UNITED STATES v. GALVESTON, HARRISBURG
& SAN ANTONIO RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 440. Argued April 10, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. The obligation of railroads, under the land grant acts, to transport
property of the United States at less than commercial rates, is to
45228*-29----26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

be fairly and sensibly read according to the words employed and
not expanded or restricted by construction. P. 404.
2. Authorized mounts furnished by army officers and transported
at the expense of the United States, are not property of the United
States within the meaning of the land grant acts. P. 405.
66 Ct. Cls. 739, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

278 U. S. 593, to review a judgment of

the .Court of Claims allowing a claim for railroad
transportation.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom Attorney General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Charles H. Bates, with whom Mr. Win. R. Harr
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Quartermaster Corps of the Army shipped on
government bills of lading over the lines of respondent
and connecting carriers a number of authorized private
mounts of army officers ordered to change stations. Respondent was the last carrier and presented bills based
on tariff rates applicable for the transportation of private property. The charges have been paid less $475.17,
withheld by the Government on the ground that it is
entitled to land grant deductions. This writ brings up
for review a judgment of the Court of Claims for that
amount.
The question for decision is whether the United States
is entitled to land grant rates for the transportation of
such mounts.
The United States concedes that it is liable for such
transportation; but it insists that applicable statutory
provisions and army regulations show that it has a property interest in the horses and the right to require the
officers to use them in discharge of their duties; that they

U. S. v. GALVESTON &c. RY. CO.
401

Opinion of the Court.

are the property of the United States within the meaning
of the land grant Acts, and that therefore it is entitled
to the reduced rates.
Respondent was not aided by government land grant.
Some of the carriers so aided are bound to transport
" property or troops of the United States" for less than
commercial rates.' By what is known as the equalization
agreement, railroad carriers, including respondent and
its connections, severally agreed with the Government
to accept for transportation, where the Government is
entitled to reduced rates on lines so aided, the lowest
rates available as derived through deductions on account
of land grants from the regular tariff rates.2
The authorized number of mounts for which maintenance is allowed to each officer is fixed by statute.3 And
that number is also authorized for the purpose of transportation. It is assumed, as stated in the briefs of the
parties, that officers of and above the grade of major are
required to furnish their own mounts. The Government will furnish mounts and equipment for officers below that rank; but, if any such officer provides mounts
for himself, he is allowed additional pay.' When the
cost of transportation exceeds the sum allowed in army
regulations, the Secretary of War may permit the purAnd the
chase of such horses by the Quartermaster.'
Secretary may have the authorized mounts of an officer
who dies in service transported at government expense
from his last duty station to the home of his family; or
such horses may be disposed of as directed by representa-

I§ 3, Act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 773. § 5, Act of July 25, 1866,
14 Stat. 240. And see § 11, Act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 297.
2 Appendix No. 9 to Manual for Quartermaster Corps, 1916, Vol.
II, pp. 223, 228-230.
3U. S. C., Tit. 10, § 801.
4
U. S. C., Tit. 10 §§ 802, 803.
5U. S. C., Tit. 10, § 811.

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

tives of the deceased.6 The army regulations state that
authorized mounts shall be transported at government
expense "provided the horses are owned by the officer, are
intended to be used by him at his new station, and are
suitable mounts."
The right of the United States to have the concessions
and allowances in respect of transportation made by the
carriers in consideration of the aid given is a continuing
one. It is of great value to the Government and of course
correspondingly burdensome to the carriers. The terms
of the obligation are to be sensibly and fairly read according to the words employed and not expanded or restricted by construction.
When considering another
question arising under a like provision in a land grant
Act, this Court said: "It might be very convenient for
the government to have more rights than it has stipulated for; but we are on a question of construction, and
on this question the usus loquendi is a far more valuable
aid than the inquiry what might be desirable." Lake Superior & Mississippi R. R. Co. v. United States, 93 U. S.
442, 454.
In Alabama Great Southern R. R. v. United States, 49
C. Cls. 522, it was held that when not actually in the
service of the United States the men in the national guard
of a State transported upon proper government requisition for participation by authority of the Secretary of
War in, the encampment, maneuvers and field instruction
of a part of the regular army, are not "troops of the
United States." And see United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 249 U. S. 354. In Oregon-Washington R. R.
& Nay. Co. v. United States, 58 C. Cls. 645, the court held
that the effects, household goods, etc., and authorized
mounts of army officers on change of stations are not
government property within the purview of such Acts.
6 U. S. C.,

Tit. 10, § 810.

MORRIS & CO. v. INS. CO.
401

405

Syllabus.

And in Oregon-Washington R. R. Co. v. United States,
255 U. S. 339, 345, this Court held that the personal baggage of an officer is not property of the United States
entitled to transportation at land grant rates.
We are of opinion that the principle of these decisions is
controlling here. The United States demands service from
its army officers which requires the use of things furnished
by them. But it does not own and, as between it and
them, it does not claim to own, hold or have any property
rights in the uniforms, manuals, clothes, private mounts
or other things by them furnished and used in the service. It would be unreasonable to hold valid the Government's claim of ownership asserted merely to secure
land grant rates for the transportation of such mounts.
The construction contended for is without support and
cannot be sustained.
Judgment affirmed.
MORRIS & COMPANY ET AL. v. SKANDINAVIA
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 450. Argued March 7, 1929.--Decided May 13, 1929.
1. A foreign corporation held not suable without its consent in a
State wherein it had done no business. P. 408.
2. In making compacts of reinsurance in one State with insurers of
property situate in another State, a foreign insurance company is
not doing business in the second State. Id.
3. A Danish insurance company, whose business in this country was
confined to reinsurance contracts made in New York, in order to
comply with the law of Mississippi (Hemingway's Code, 1927, §
5864) where property covered by some of the insured risks was
situate, appointed the Mississippi insurance commissioner its attorney upon whom process might be served, the authorization stating
that service upon him should be deemed valid personal service upon
the company and that such authority should continue so long as

