OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Statement of the Case.

279 U. S.

duty. But there is nothing in the Act of Congress that
purports to force a duty upon such Courts as against an
otherwise valid excuse. Second Employers' Liability
Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 56, 57.
Judgment affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent.

BECHER v. CONTOURE LABORATORIES, INCOR-

PORATED, ET

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 559.

Argued April 24, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.

1. An undisclosed invention does not need a patent to protect it from
disclosure by breach of trust. P. 391.
2. 0, being the inventor of a machine, employed B as a machinist to
construct it, B agreeing to keep secret the information concerning
the invention imparted to him by 0 and not to make use of it for
the benefit of himself or any other than 0. B, in breach of his trust,
surreptitiously obtained a patent for the invention as his own, and
0, in a suit in a state court, obtained a decree holding B a trustee
ex maleficio of the invention and patent, commanding him to assign
the patent to 0 and forbidding him to use, make or sell, etc., such
machines or to transfer any rights under the patent. Held:
(1) That the suit was not one arising under the patent laws and
was within the jurisdiction of the state court. P. 390.
(2) That the decree of the state court was an estoppel against B
in a suit brought by him in the federal court to enjoin 0 from infringing the patent. P. 391.
29 F. (2d) 31, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 278 U. S. 597, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed a decree of the
District Court refusing a preliminary injunction in a suit

for infringement of a patent, and dismissed the bill.

BECHER v. CONTOURE LABORATORIES.
388

389

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Floyd M. Sheffield presented the oral argument, and
Mr. 0. Ellery Edwards filed a brief for petitioner.
The complaint on its face shows that Oppenheimer and
not Becher was the inventor of the subject matter of the
Becher patent. Becher denies this, thereby raising an
issue which the state court proceeded to try and determine. This issue is the dominant one in the case, and
the only one which had to be decided. Clearly, under
the rule laid down in Prattv. ParisGas Co., 168 U. S. 255,
and in view of the earlier case of Oliver v. Rumford, 109
U. S. 75, and yet the earlier case of Henry T. Slemmer's
Appeal, 58 Penn. 162, it appears that the state court had
no jurisdiction in the premises. The reasoning of these
cases fully supports the position taken by Judge Manton
in his dissenting opinion in the case at bar.
See Sec. 256, Jud. Code; Robinson on Patents, Vol. 3,
p. 21, ยง 865; Oliver v. Rumford, supra.
Distinguishing Irving Iron Works v. Kerlow Steel
Flooring Co., 96 N. J. Eq. 702; Smith v. Webster, 87
Conn. 74.
Mr. Charles S. Rosenschein, 'with whom Mr. Robert
Moers was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JusricE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In September, 1927, the respondents brought an action
in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in which
they obtained a jtdgment that the defendant, the petitioner, was trustee ex maleficio for Oppenheimer of an
invention and letters patent issued to the defendant; that
the defendant deliver to the plaintiffs an assignment of
the letters patent and give up instruments similar to the
invention; that he be enjoined from using, manufacturing,
selling, &c., such instruments, and from transferring any
rights under the patent, and that he pay costs. The jadg-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

ment was based on the facts alleged and found, that Oppenheimer, having made the invention in question, employed Becher as a machinist to construct the invented
machine and improvements made by Oppenheimer from
time to time, and that Becher agreed to keep secret and
confidential the information thus obtained and not to use
it for the benefit of himself or of any other than Oppenheimer. It was found further, that while engaged in
making instruments for Oppenheimer and after having
learned from him all the facts, Becher without the knowledge of the plaintiffs and in violation of his agreement
and of the confidential relation existing, applied for and
obtained a patent, of which Oppenheimer knew nothing
until after it had been issued, and while Becher was still
making for him the Oppenheimer machine.
The judgment was entered on July 5, 1928, and at about
the same time the present suit was brought in the District Court for the Southern District of New York, in
which the parties are reversed. Becher sets up his patent,
alleges infringement of it and prays an injunction. He
also states the earlier proceedings in the State Court, and,
although not in very distinct terms, seems to deny the
jurisdiction of that Court inasmuch as the allegations of
Oppenheimer if sustained, as they were, would show the
Becher patent to be invalid; a question, it is said, for
the Patent Office and the Courts of the United States
alone. An injunction was asked restraining the defendants from further prosecuting their suit in the State
Court. A preliminary injunction was denied by the District Court and on appeal the decree was affirmed, and the
appellant's counsel consenting if the Court decided that
the State Court had jurisdiction, the bill was dismissed.
29 F. (2d) 31.
It is not denied that the jurisdiction of the Courts of
the United States is exclusive in the case of suits arising
under the patent laws, but it was held below that the

BECHER v. CONTOURE LABORATORIES.
388

391

Opinion of the Court.

suit in the State Court did not arise under those laws. It
is plain that that suit had for its cause of action the
breach of a contract or wrongful disregard of confidential
relations, both matters independent of the patent law,
and that the subject matter of Oppenheimer's claim was
an undisclosed invention which did not need a patent to
protect it from disclosure by breach of trust. Irving
Iron Works v. Kerlow Steel Flooring Co., 96 N. J. Eq.
702. Du Pont de Nenzours Powder Co. v. Masland, 244
U. S. 100. Oppenheimer's right was independent of and
prior to any arising out of the patent law, and it seems a
strange suggestion that the assertion of that right can
be removed from the cognizance of the tribunals established to protect it by its opponent going into the patent
office for a later title. It is said that to establish Oppenheimer's claim is to invalidate Becher's patent. But, even
if mistakenly, the attempt was not to invalidate that
patent but to get an assignment of it, and an assignment
was decreed. Suits against one who has received a patent of land to make him a trustee for the plaintiff on the
ground of some paramount equity are well known.
Again, even if the logical conclusion from the establishing of Oppenheimer's claim is that Becher's patent is void,
that is not the effect of the judgment. Establishing a
fact and giving a specific effect to it by judgment are
quite distinct. A judgment in rein binds all the world,
but the facts on which it necessarily proceeds are not established against all the world, Manson v. Williams, 213
U. S. 453, 455, and conversely establishing the facts is
iiot equivalent to a judgment in rem.
That decrees validating or invalidating patents belong
to the Courts of the United States does not give sacrosanctity to facts that may be conclusive upon the question in issue. A fact is not prevented from being proved
in any case in which it is material, by the suggestion that

392

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

if it is true an important patent is void- and, although
there is language here and there that seems to suggest
it, we can see no ground for giving less effect to proof of
such a fact than to any other. A party may go into a
suit estopped as to a vital fact by a covenant. We see
no sufficient reason for denying that he may be equally
estopped by a judgment. See Pratt v. Paris Gas Light
& Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255. Smith & Egge Manufacturing Co. v. Webster, 87 Conn. 74, 85.
Decree affirmed.

LEONARD & LEONARD, CO-PARTNERS, v. EARLE,
CONSERVATION COMMISSIONER OF MARYLAND.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARY-LAND.

No. 260. Argued February 26, 27, 1929.-Decided May 13, 1929.
1. The business of buying oysters and preparing them for marketing
is one upon which the State may impose a reasonable privilege or
license tax. P. 396.
2. As a part of such tax, the State may require that the licensee turn
over to it a portion (in this case 10%) of the empty oyster shells
resulting from the operations of his business, or, at the election of
the State, pay the equivalent of their market value in money, the
shells being but ordinary articles of commerce and desired by the
State for use in supporting and maintaining the producing oyster
beds within her limits and preventing their exhaustion. P. 396.
3. The exaction of the tax in shells is not a taking of private property
for public use without compensation, in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment. P. 397.
4. Nor is it a violation of the commerce clause though some of the
oysters come from other States. P. 397.
5. Placing oyster-packers in a separate class for taxation purposes
does not deny them the equal protection of the laws. P. 398.

