564

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Respondent.

279 U. S

W. A. MARSHALL & COMPANY, INCORPORATED,
v. S. S. "PRESIDENT-ARTHUR," ETc.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 272. Argued February 27, 1929.-Decided May 20, 1929.
1. The Ship Mortgage Act, Subsections P and S, gives a maritime
lien on any vessel, whether foreign or domestic, for necessaries furnished on the order of the owner or his authorized agent, and relieves the libellant from the necessity of alleging or proving that
credit was given to the vessel, but no other change in the general
principles of the existing law of maritime liens was intended.
Pp. 567-568.
2. The lien may be waived by agreement or otherwise, and no express renunciation of the lien is essential. P. 568.
3. Coal was sold to the owner of a vessel under contracts providing
that payment should be made on delivery by trade acceptances
endorsed by designated persons who, in consideration of the contracts, agreed to make such endorsements. Neither contract referred to any lien on the vessel and each recited that the entire
contract was as therein stated and that there was no outside condition, warranty or understanding. Upon delivery of the coal, the
libellant accepted the endorsed acceptances, (one of which was
later paid,) and when it filed the libel against the vessel it still
retained the unpaid acceptance, and afterwards brought suit upon

it against the endorsers. Held that the right to a lien was waived.
P. 572.
25 F. (2d) 648, affirming 22 F. (2d) 584, affirmed.
CERTIORARI

to the Circuit Court of Appeals to review a

decision affirming a decree of the District Court which
denied petitioner's claim to a maritime lien for an unpaid
balance of the purchase price of bunker coal furnished by
it on the request of the owner to and for the use of the
steamship.

Mr. George Wright Hinckley for petitioner.
Messrs. John M. Woolsey and Samuel D. Stein, with
whom Mr, Saul S. Myers was on the brief, for respondent.

MARSHALL & CO. v. "PRES. ARTHUR."
64

565

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In May, 1925, W. A. Marshall & Co., Inc., filed a libel
in admiralty in the federal District Court for Southern
New York against the Steamship "President Arthur,"
asserting a maritime lien thereon for an unpaid balance
of the purchase price of bunker coal furnished by it on the
request of the owner to and for the use of the steamship.
The owner, the American Palestine Line, Inc., answered
as claimant, denying that the Company had a lien on the
steamship and alleging that the entire purchase price had
been paid in accordance with the contract of sale.
At the hearing the District Court held, on the evidence,
that the Company had no lien on the vessel, and dismissed the libel. 22 F. (2d) 584. This decree was
affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 25 F. (2d) 648.
The evidence-which is undisputed-shows that when
the negotiations were entered into for the coal the Line
wished to pay for it on longer terms than were usually
granted, and that the Company, after investigating the
standing of the Line, not believing that it was financially
responsible, and wanting additional security, required the
Line to give trade acceptances endorsed by responsible
and acceptable persons; with the purpose that, if needed
at any time, the money could be obtained by discounting
the acceptances, thus endorsed, prior to their maturity.
Thereupon, in February and March, 1925, the parties
entered into two written contracts for the coal. Each
of these provided that the Company should sell and the
Line, as owner of the steamship, should buy, at a specified
price, a designated amount of coal "to be used as bunker
coal for" the steamship, and to be delivered on specified
dates. Each provided that the Line should "pay for
the said coal as follows: By delivering" to the Company
two trade acceptances, dated the date of the delivery of

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

the coal, due March 10 and May 8, respectively, and "endorsed by Jacob Wacht, Jacob S. Strahl and Joseph W.
Gottlieb." Neither contract referred to any lien on the
vessel; and each recited that "The entire contract between the parties is stated above and there is no outside
condition, warranty, agreement, or understanding." At
the foot of each contract the persons named as endorsers
also signed an agreement reciting that "In consideration
of the execution of the foregoing contract" and the delivery of the coal to the Line and of one dollar, they jointly
and severally agreed to endorse the trade acceptances described in the contract.
Without the consideration of such endorsements, it was
shown, the Company would not have sold the Line the
coal.
The coal called for by the contracts was delivered to the
steamship. The purchase price amounted to $21,736.16.
For this the Line gave the Company its two trade acceptances endorsed by the three designated persons; these
being consolidations of the four acceptances required by
the two contracts. , The acceptance for $11,794.54, first
maturing, was duly paid. The acceptance for $9,382.62,
maturing later, was not paid and was protested. This
was the amount of the balance for which the Company
claimed a lien.
After filing the libel, the Company also brought a civil
action upon the unpaid acceptance in a state court,
against the endorsers only. This is still pending and
undetermined.
The questions presented here are: Whether under the
contracts the Company waived the maritime lien which
it would otherwise have had on the steamship to secure the
payment of the purchase price; and, if not, whether the
delivery of the endorsed acceptances constituted under
the contracts payments of the purchase price which extinguished the lien.

MARSHALL & CO. v. "PRES. ARTHUR."
564

567

Opinion of the Court.

1. As to the first of these questions it is necessary to
consider the provisions of the Maritime Lien Act of 1910,1
relating to liens for necessaries, which were reenacted in
the Ship Mortgage Act of 1920.2 Subsec. P of the latter
Act provides that: "Any person furnishing repairs, supplies . . or other necessaries, to any vessel, whether foreign or domestic, upon the order of the owner of such
vessel, or of a person authorized by the owner, shall have
a maritime lien on the vessel, which may be enforced by
suit in rem, and it shall not be necessary to allege or prove
that credit was given to the vessel." Subsec. S provides
that: "Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the furnisher of repairs, supplies . . or other necessaries . . from waiving his right to a lien . . at any time,
by agreement or otherwise..."
Prior to the Act of 1910 it had been settled that by the
maritime law as administered in this country a lien was
given for necessaries furnished a vessel in a port of a foreign country or state upon the credit of such vessel; but
that no such lien was given for necessaries furnished in
the home port or state. The Roanoke, 189 U. S. 185, 193.
The purpose of the Act of 1910, as shown by the Reports
of the Committees of Congress, was to do away with this
"artificial distinction " and "the doctrine that, when the
owner of a vessel contracts in person for necessaries or is
present in the port when they are ordered, it is presumed
that the materialman did not intend to rely upon the
credit of the vessel, and that hence, no lien arises "; and
"to substitute a single federal statute for the state statutes in so far as they confer liens for repairs, supplies and
necessaries." Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries
Co., 254 U. S. 1, 11.
136 Stat. 604, c. 373.
2

This is the separate designation of § 30 of the Merchant Marine

Act of 1920, 41 Stat. 988, 1005, c. 250.
3 U. S. C., Tit. 46, §§ 971, 974.

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U3. S.

To this end the Act gave a maritime lien on any vessel,
whether foreign or domestic, for necessaries furnished on
the order of the owner or his authorized agent, and relieved
the libellant from the necessity of alleging or proving that
credit was given to the vessel. The Committee reports
show, however, that it was not intended to make any other

change in the general principles of the existing law of
maritime liens, Piedmont Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries
Co., supra, p. 11; and the specific provision that the Act
should not be construed as preventing the furnisher of the
necessaries from waiving his right to a lien, "by agreement or otherwise," indicates clearly, we think, that it
was not intended to change the principles of the maritime
law in respect thereto. That an express renunciation of
the lien is not essential, is plain.
We need not enter here into the general field of the
waiver of maritime liens. Such liens differ in their character and are not equally favored-the lien for necessaries,
which is a secret one, being stricti juris, Piedmont Coal
Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., supra, 12. It suffices to
say that we think the principles applicable to the question
whether the lien was waived by the contracts entered into
here, are aptly indicated in the following cases, which, in
the main, were analogous in their facts to the preseirt case,
and were decided by members of this Court, sitting at

circuit.
In Murray v. Lazarus, 1 Paine 572, 17 Fed. Cas. 1049,
1051 (1826), the libellants made a special agreement with
the master for the payment of their advances for repairs

and supplies furnished the vessel in a foreign port, and
took from him a bill of exchange drawn upon the agents

of the owner. Thompson, Circuit Justice, in holding that
the libellants had no lien for these advances on the freight
monies received by the owners, said: "When an express
contract has been entered into for the payment of such

MARSHALL & CO. v. "PRES. ARTHUR."
564

569

Opinion of the Court.

expenses, that must be resorted to, and will be considered
a waiver of such implied lien if any existed. And a party
who has waived his right in this respect cannot be permitted, at a subsequent time, and under a change of circumstances to reinstate himself in his former condition to
the injury of others . . . If this is to be considered a regular and ordinary bill of exchange, it was a substitution for
any lien that might have existed, and must be considered
a relinquishment thereof."
In Phelps v. The Camilla, Taney, 400, 19 Fed. Cas. 441,
445 (1838), the libellants furnished the agents of the vessel
in a foreign port copper which was used in repairing the
vessel. The sale was made on a written order of the agents
that made no mention of the vessel or her owners. The
copper was charged to the agents, and they gave the libellants their negotiable note, which was not paid. The
libellants claimed that the charge to the agents had been
made by mistake, and some months later changed the account on the'r books and charged the copper to the ship
and her owners. Taney, Circuit Justice, finding upon the
evidence that the copper was sold to the agents upon their
personal credit and was not furnished upon the credit of
the brig and her owners, held that the libellants had no
lien, but added: "It must not, however, be understood,
that the decision would be different, if the copper had been
originally charged to The Camilla and her owners. It is
true, that upon such a sale, the libellants would, in the
first instance, have acquired a lien upon the brig; but
that lien, in my opinion, would have been waived by taking afterwards the note of [the agents]. . . If the party
does not choose to rely on the contract which the maritime
law implies in such cases, but takes an express written
contract, he must rely on the contract he makes for himself, and cannot, upon a change of circumstances, resort to
the securities upon which, in the absence of any special

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

agreement, the law presumes that he relied; and if he
takes a note or bill of exchange, or any other personal
engagement, for the payment of the debt, he is presumed
to rely on this personal security, ,and to waive his lien,
unless he stipulates that the liability of the vessel shall
still continue."
In Leland v. Medora, 2 Woodb. & M. 92, 15 Fed.
Cas. 298, 299 (1846), Woodbury, Circuit Justice, speaking
of the lien for repairs on a vessel, said that "if the evidence . . shows, that the ship was not relied on originally,

though foreign, but the master or owners or other security were, the lien does not attach any where, or under
any form. The Maitland, 2 Hagg. Adm. 253; The Nestor
[1 Sumner (U. S. C. C.) 73]."
In The Ann C. Pratt, 1 Curt. 340, 1 Fed. Cas. 947, 950
(1853), Curtis, Circuit Justice, in holding that there was
no maritime lien for advances to the master of the vessel
in a foreign port to make necessary repairs that had been
secured by a void bottomry bond, said, citing The Nestor
and other cases, "that the lien created by the maritime
law may be, and is, waived by the creditor, by any act
or contract which is inconsistent with an intention to receive or retain that lien." The decree in this case was
affirmed in Carringtonv. Pratt, 18 How. 63, 68, in which
this Court said that "it is well settled that the lien implied by the general admiralty law, may be waived by the
express contract of the parties, or by necessary implication; and the implication arises in all cases where the
express contract is inconsistent with an intention to rely
upon the lien. A familiar instance is where the money is
advanced or repairs made, looking solely to the personal
responsibility of the owner or master."
In Taylor v. The Commonwealth, 23 Fed. Cas. 7566 757
(1875), the libellant, before making repairs on the vessel

MARSHALL & CO. v. "PRES. ARTHUR."
564

571

Opinion of the Court.

at her home port, had entered into a written contract
specifying that they were to be paid for partly in cash and
partly in endorsed notes, that is, negotiable notes, with
personal security. Miller, Circuit Justice, in holding that
under these circumstances there was no lien on the vessel for the repairs, said: "I have no doubt of the fact that
a man doing that kind of work may rely on the owner of
the vessel, and that if he makes no specific contract on the
subject, he will have a right against the owner and the
vessel . . ; but that is a lien which the law implies from
the circumstances, and if a specific contract is made which
shows that the party relied upon other security and othec
modes of payment, then he cannot enforce the admiralty
lien. It is very clear to me, here, that [the libellant] in
making this contract, never intended to rely on the security of the vessel itself, because he made this contract for
the very best kind of other payment. . . I think, having
made an express contract for an express security, he cannot say, 'I did this work on the credit of the vessel.' In
other words, I think if there is any question of admiralty
lien, that it must have been the intention in the mind of
the party who furnishes the supplies and repairs whether
in a home or foreign port, to rely on the credit of the
vessel. . . If it can be shown that he did not rely on that
alone, and that he intended to rely on other security,
which he supposed sufficient, or which was supposed to be
better, then he had no lien, because the lien arises from
implication, from the fact expressed or implied that the
man in furnishing the supplies or contracting a debt, relied on the vessel as security, and if he relied on anything
else it is another security sufficient, or supposed to be,
which, in case that turned out to be insufficient, does not
restore his lien."
In the present case the libellant, being unwilling to sell
the coal to the owner for the use of the vessel without per-

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

sonal security for the payment of the purchase price, before furnishing the coal made contracts which specifically
provided that the owner should "pay for" the coal at the
time of its delivery by trade acceptances endorsed by three
designated persons, who in consideration for the contracts
agreed to endorse the acceptances. Neither of the contracts provided for any lien uponf the vessel; and each, on
the contrary, specifically recited that it stated the entire
contract between the parties and that there was no outside agreement or understanding. Furthermore, upon the
delivery of the coal, the libellant accepted the trade acceptances endorsed by the designated persons, and when
it filed the libel against*the vessel still retained the unpaid acceptance, on which later it brought suit against
the endorsers.
Applying the principles stated in the foregoing cases,
we think that the libellant, having made specific contracts
for an express security, instead of resting on the lien
which the law would otherwise give, must rely on the
contracts it made for itself, and cannot no*, in a change
of circumstances, resort to the lien it would have had in
the absence of the special agreements; and that by taking other and different security, upon which it relied, and
which it still retains, without stipulating for the retention of the lien, it has waived the lien which it otherwise
would have had.
2. Holding that the lien was waived, it becomes unnecessary to determine whether the deliveries of the endorsed
acceptances constituted under the contracts payments of
the purchase price which would have extinguished the
lien.
The decree is

Affirmed.

