692

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

stitutional provision, from returning Senate Bill No. 3185
within ten days, Sundays excepted, after it had been presented to him, and that it did not become a law.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.

WHITE RIVER LUMBER COMPANY v. ARKANSAS
EX REL.

APPLEGATE, ATTORNEY GENERAL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 101.

Argued January 7, 8, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. A state statute authorizing the collection of back taxes on lands
which, through inadequate assessment, have escaped their just
burden of taxation, is not invalid under the equal protection clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment because it is limited to the recovery
of such additional taxes on lands of corporations and does not
extend to the recovery of such additional taxes on lands of natural
persons, which may likewise have been assessed at an inadequate
valuation. P. 695.
2. A constitutional question which does not appear by the record
to have been presented to, or passed upon by, a state supreme
court, but which is raised for the first time by the assignment of
errors in this Court, can not be considered here. P. 699.
175 Ark. 956, affirmed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Arkansas which affirmed with modifications a judgment
of the state chancery court assessing back taxes and
declaring them a lien on the land taxed.
Mr. Thomas S. Buzbee, with whom Messrs. George B.
Pugh, H. T. Harrison,and A. S. Buzbee were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error.
Messrs. John M. Rose and George Vaughan, with whom
Messrs. R. E. L. Johnson and H. W. Applegate, Attorney
General of Arkansas, were on the brief, for defendant in
error.

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

698

Opinion of the Court.

Mmt. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves a question as to the constitutional
validity of the back tax law of Arkansas. Section 1 of
Act No. 169 of the Arkansas Acts of 1913-which is set
forth in the margin '-provides that where, because of
any inadequate or insufficient valuation or assessment, or
undervaluation, of any property which belonged to any
corporation at the time taxes thereon should have been
properly assessed and paid, there are overdue and unpaid
taxes thereon owing to the State or a political subdivision
thereof by any corporation, the Attorney General shall institute a suit in chancery in the name of the State for
the collection thereof.
2 This section amended ยง 1 of Act No. 354 of the Acts of 1911, so
as to read: "Where the Attorney General is satisfied from his own
investigations or it is made to appear to him by the statement in
writing of any reputable taxpayer of the State, that in consequence
of the failure from any cause to assess and levy taxes, or because of
any pretended assessment and levy of taxes upon any basis of valuation other than the true value in money of any property hereinafter
mentioned or because of any inadequate or insufficient valuation or
assessment of such property, or undervaluation thereof, or from any
other cause, that there are overdue and unpaid taxes owing to the
State, or any county or municipal corporation, or road district, or
school district, by any corporation upon any property now in this
State which belonged to any corporation at the time such taxes should
have been properly assessed and paid; that it shall become his duty
to at once institute a suit or suits in chancery in the name of the
State of Arkansas, for the collection of the same, in any county in
which the corporation owing such taxes may be found, or in any
county in which any part of such property as may be found, or in
any county in which any part of such property as may have escaped
the payment in whole or in part of the taxes as aforesaid may be
situated . . ." C. & M. Digest, ยง 10204. It was also provided by
an earlier act that the State and its political subdivisions should have
a lien on the property for the payment of such overdue taxes, to
be enforced by this suit, C. & M. Digest, ยง 10207,

694

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U.S.

In July, 1925, the State of Arkansas, proceeding under
this section, brought suit in a chancery court, on the relation of the Attorney General, against the White River
Lumber Company, a foreign corporation doing business
in the State, for the recovery of back taxes. The complaint, as amended, alleged that the Company owned
large tracts of valuable timber lands in four counties of
the State,2 which were worth from $30 to $50 an acre but
had been undervalued and underassessed for taxation for
the years 1915 to 1926, inclusive, at a valuation of about
$4 per acre; and prayed judgment for overdue and unpaid taxes for those years at 50 per cent of their true
value-the basis of valuation that had been fixed by an
order of the State Tax Commission-less the assessments
actually made. The Company, answering, denied that
there had been any undervaluation; claimed that the
lands had been valued on the same basis as like timber
lands owned by other individuals and corporations; and
alleged that section 1 of the law as attempted to be enforced against it, was repugnant to the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The chancery court-finding that for the years in question the value of the lands constituting the "Big Island
group," 3 was $50 an acre, and that of the remaining
lands $33.33 an acre, and that the average assessments of
other lands in these counties had been at approximately
30 per cent of their value-back assessed the Big Island
group at $15 per acre, and the other lands at $10 per acre,
less credits for timber stolen and sold and the valuations
at which they had been originally assessed; and, declared
a lien on the several tracts for the amount of the back
taxes due on them, respectively, as thus reassessed.
Upon cross appeals the Supreme Court held that the
fact that the statute authorizing suits for back taxes
2These contained 41,500 acres.
8These contained 7,964 acres.

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

Opinion of the Court.

applied only to corporations, did not render it repugnant
to the Fourteenth Amendment; that under it the State
might maintain suit to recover additional taxes on the
ground that there had been an inadequate or insufficient
valuation or assessment of the corporate property; that
in such case the reassessment should be on the same
basis as that upon which the original and inadequate assessment should have been made; and that as it appeared
that all other property was assessed at an average of 30
per cent of its value, the Company's lands, under the
uniformity clause of the State Constitution, should be
assessed at that per cent, despite the fact that the State
Commission had fixed a higher basis. Applying these
rules of law the court found from the testimony that it
was not shown that there had been any inadequate or insufficient valuation of any of the lands except the Big
Island group, but that this group was a body of lands
that were unusually well timbered, had a value not possessed by the other timbered lands which were assessed at
from $4 to $5 per acre, and "were of an average value,
during the entire time covered by the assessments in question, of $40 per acre, taking into account the timber
stolen and the timber sold." And holding that they
should be assessed at a valuation of 30 per cent of that
amount, that is, $12 per acre, less the valuation on which
the taxes had been paid, the decree of the chancery court
was modified so as to permit a recovery of back taxes on
the Big Island group only, and on those lands only to the
extent indicated. 175 Ark. 956.
1. It is urged here that the back tax act of Arkansas,
in providing for the reassessment of property of corporations by judicial proceedings and the imposition of additional taxes thereon after the payment of the taxes assessed by the duly constituted assessing authorities, and
in not providing for such reassessment of property belong"ng to natural persons, denies to the Company and other

696

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

corporations the equal protection of the laws in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
We cannot sustain this contention. It is unquestioned
that the Arkansas statutes providing for the original assessment of property for taxation make no distinction between the lands of corporations and those of natural persons and that it is the duty of the assessing officers to assess
them in like manner, according to their value. And the
question now presented is merely whether a statute authorizing the collection of back taxes on lands which have
escaped their just burden of taxation, is invalid because
it is limited to the recovery of additional taxes on the lands
of corporations which have been assessed at an inadequate
or insufficient valuation, and does not extend to the recovery of such additional taxes on the lands of -natural
persons, which may likewise have been assessed at an
inadequate or insufficient valuation. The decision in
Quaker City Cab Co. v. Penna., 277 U. S. 389, on which
the Company chiefly relies, involved merely a question
as to the invalidity of the discrimination made by a statute
levying an original tax on the gross receipts derived by
corporations from their operation of taxicabs. As there
was no question whatever as to back taxes and no back
tax act was involved, the decision is not controlling in the
present case.
In Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357, 370, we saidciting various cases-that: "A statute does not violate the
equal protection clause merely because it is not all-embracing . . . A -State may properly direct its legislation
against what it deems an existing evil without covering
the whole field of possible abuses . . . The statute must
be presumed to be aimed at an evil where experience shows
it to be most felt, and to be deemed by the legislature
coextensive with the practical need; and is not to be overthrown merely because other instalnces may be suggested
to which also it might have been applied; that being a

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

Opinion of the Court.

matter for the legislature to determine unless the case is
very clear . . . And it is not open to objection unless the
classification is so lacking in any adequate or reasonable
basis as to preclude the assumption that it was made in the
exercise of the legislative judgment and discretion."
These and like principles have been applied by this Court
in four cases dealing directly with classifications made in
back tax statutes and similar legislation.
In Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S.
526, 539, in which it was held that a state statute providing for the collection of back taxes on real property without including a like provision for collecting back taxes on
personal property, should be sustained, the Court said:
"The case is different from that of an ordinary tax law in
which there may be some foundation for the claim that the
legislature is expected to make no discrimination...
For this statute rests on the assumption that, generally
speaking, all property subject to taxation has been reached
and aims only to provide for those accidents which may
happen under any system of taxation, in consequence of
which here and there some item of property has escaped
its proper burden; and it may well be that the legislature
in view of the probabilities of changes in the title or situs
of personal property might deem it unwise to attempt to
charge it with back taxes, while at the same time, by reason of the stationary character of real estate, it might elect
to proceed against that. At any rate, if it did so it would
violate no provision of the Federal Constitution.
In New York State v. Barker, 179 U. S. 279, 285, a general state statute imposed a tax on the real estate of individuals and corporations upon its full and true value as
found by the assessors. In the case of individuals no resort was permitted to any other proceeding by which the
tax could be increased by any subsequent assessment on
the difference between the assessed and the actual value.

698

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

But in the case of corporations, if real estate should be
mistakenly assessed at an undervaluation another statute
afforded an opportunity to reach the difference between
the assessed and actual value by making an assessment
upon the actual value of the corporate capital, including
the real estate. The only claim was that "in this opportunity to correct a mistaken assessment upon its real
estate in the case of a corporation when assessed upon its
capital, which does not exist in the case of an individual,
the corporation is denied the equal protection of the laws."
In overruling this contention the court said: "The mere
fact that the law gives the assessors in the case of corporations two dhances to arrive at a correct valuation of their
real estate, when they have but one in the case of individuals, cannot be held to be a denial to the corporations
of the equal protection of the laws, so long as the real
estate of the individual is, in fact, generally assessed at its
full value."
In FloridaCentral, &c. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471,
480, in which it was held that in so far as the Federal Constitution was concerned the legislature had the power to
compel the collection of delinquent taxes from railroad
companies for certain years, even though it made no
provision for the collection of delinquent taxes for those
years on other property, the Court, quoting with approval
from the Winona Land Co. case, said: "If the State, as
has been seen, has the power, in the first instance, to classify property for taxation, it has the same right of classification as to property which in the past years has escaped taxation. We must assume that the legislature
acts according to its judgment for the best interests of
the State. A wrong intent cannot be imputed to it. It
may have found that the railroad delinquent tax was large,
and the delinquent tax on other property was small and
not worth the trouble of special provision therefor. If

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

Opinion of the Court.

taxes are to be regarded as mere debts, then the effort
of the State to collect from one debtor is not prejudiced
by its failure to make like effort to collect from another.
And if regarded in the truer light as a contribution to the
support of government, then it does not lie in the mouth
of one called upon to make his contribution to complain
that some other person has not been coerced into a like
contribution."
In Ft. Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532, 534,
the State, proceeding under the statute here involved, had
brought suit against a corporation to recover back taxes
alleged to be due upon a proper valuation of its capital
stock by reason of the fact that in assessing its value there
had been omitted the value of stock owned by the corporation in two other corporations, each of which had paid
full taxes. The corporation defended "on the ground that
individuals are not taxed for such stock or subject to suit
for back taxes, and that the taxation is double, setting up
the Fourteenth Amendment." This Court, in overruling
the defense "with regard to confining the recovery of
back taxes to those due from corporations," said: "It is
to be presumed, until the contrary appears, that there were
reasons for more strenuous efforts to collect admitted
dues from corporations than in other cases, and we cannot
pronounce it an unlawful policy on the part of the State.
See New York v. Barker, 179 U. S. 279, 283."
We see no ground for distinguishing the Ft. Smith
Lumber Co. case from that now under consideration, and
on that authority and for the reasons stated therein and
in the earlier cases which we have cited, hold that the
back tax statute of Arkansas, although confined to the
property of corporations, does not deny to them the equal
protection of the laws in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
2. It is also urged in behalf of the Company, that even
if the back tax statute be valid on its face, it was so

700

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BuTiR, J., dissenting.

279 U.S.

applied by the Supreme Court of the State in the present
case, by selecting thirty-four tracts of land, constituting
the Big Island group, and reassessing the same on the
basis of their average value for twelve years on an average
basis of assessment instead of assessing them in accordance
with the Arkansas statutes according to the actual value
of each separate tract for each separate year on the actual
basis of assessment for that year, as to constitute a denial
of the equal protection of the laws. It does not appear,
however, from the record that this constitutional question was presented in or passed upon by the Supreme
Court of the State; and as it was sought to raise this question for the first time by assignments of error in this
Court, it is necessarily excluded from our consideration.
Whitney v. California,supra, 316; and cases therein cited.
3. No other federal question is presented by the record
for our consideration. The decree is
Affirmed.

Mr. Justice

BuTLER,

dissenting.

Plaintiff in error attacks a provision of an Arkansas
statute,* on the ground that it is repugnant to the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
*The original Act was passed in 1887. Laws 1887, p. 33. There
was an amendment in 1911, which is not material here. Laws 1911,
p. 324. It was again amended in 1913. Laws 1913, p. 724. (The
words added by the last amendment are italicized, and those omitted
by it are included in brackets.)
"Where the Attorney General is satisfied from his own investigation or it is made to appear to him by the statement in writing of

any reputable taxpayer of the State, that in consequence of the
failure from any cause to assess and levy taxes, or because of any
pretended assessment and levy of taxes upon any basis of valuation
other than the true value in money of any property hereinafter mentioned or because of any inadequateor insufficient valuation or assessment of such property, or undervaluation thereof, or from any other

cause, that there are overdue and unpaid taxes owing to the State,

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

Burrun, J., dissenting.

It directs that, where because of undervaluation there
are overdue and unpaid taxes upon any property which
belonged to a corporation at the time such taxes should
have been assessed and paid, the Attorney General shall
bring a suit to collect them unless the title passes to an individual before suit. No law of the State creates or permits the enforcement of any like or similar liability against
the property of individuals. The fact that the property is
owned by a corporation is the sole basis of the classification. The claim here is for additional taxes upon land,
and the land alone is liable. The owner cannot be held
for either the original or back taxes. See decision below,
175 Ark. 956, 973. Like lands of individuals are shown
to have been grossly underassessed. And if such lands
were owned by corporations, they would be liable for back
taxes.
The discrimination is deliberate. The statute, passed in
1887, is entitled "An Act to provide for the collection of
overdue taxes from corporations doing business in this
State." It was amended in 1913. In State ex rel. Attorney General v. K. C. & 31. Ry. and Bridge Co., 117 Ark.
606, the court said (p. 613): "The object of the amendatory act of 1913 was to give a complete remedy for the
or any county or municipal corporation, or road district, or school
district, by any corporation, [or] upon any property now in this State
which belonged to any corporation at the time such taxes should have
been properly assessed and paid, it shall become his duty to at once
institute a suit or suits in chancery in the name of the State of
Arkansas, for the collection of the same, in any county in which the
corporation owing such taxes may be found, or in any county in which
any part of such property as may have escaped the payment in
whole or in part of the taxes as aforesaid may be situated, in which
suit or suits the corporation owing such taxes, or any corporation
[or person] claiming an interest in any such property as may have
escaped taxation as aforesaid, shall be made a party defendant.
" ยง 10204 Crawford & Moses' Digest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

recovery of back taxes due by a corporation upon any
property then in the State, which belonged to any corporation at the time such taxes should have been properly
assessed and paid. It takes away the right conferred by
the original act to proceed against property where the title
had passed to an individual, although it had been owned
by a corporation when the assessment was made and the
taxes were payable . . ." And see concurring opinion,
Stdte ex rel. Attorney General v. Bodcaw Lumber Co., 128
Ark. 505, 523.
This suit was brought in 1925; its original purpose was
to recover from plaintiff in error additional taxes, for each
of the 10 years ending with 1924, on the value of the
company's "capital stock or intangible property." The
complaint stated that plaintiff in error had paid taxes
upon its real and personal property. It alleged that the
assessed value of its tangible property "upon which defendant had actually paid taxes as provided by statute"
was much less than the market value of its capital stock,
and judgment was demanded against plaintiff in error for
back taxes on such intangibles.
But it was found that the company had no property in
Arkansas other than real estate, and about the same time
the state supreme court, in State v. Lyon Oil and Refining
Co., [19261 171 Ark. 209, held that the capital stock of a
foreign corporation which is neither located nor used
within the State cannot be taxed therein.
Then the complaint was amended to allege that the
company owned timber lands in Arkansas which had been
underassessed in each of the 12 years ending with 1926.
The chancery court charged the lands with back taxes.
The supreme court held that there had been undervaluation of only a part of the company's lands and that the
amount of back taxes imposed by the decree should be
reduced accordingly.

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

Bumrt,

J., dissenting.

Such taxes are imposed upon the sole ground that
through mistake the original assessments were too low.
The procedure for the enforcement of taxes on lands is not
affected by the character of the owner; the State looks
only to the land. Lands of individuals are as likely to
be erroneously undervalued as are those belonging to corporations. But the law directs the Attorney General to
collect back taxes not in all cases where the taxes originally levied and paid were based on undervaluation, but
only where property belongs to corporations at the time
of the assessment and also at time of suit. He is not permitted to bring suit to make such collections against lands
owned by individuals even if they were owned by corporations when undertaxed. As here applied, the Act singles
out the lands of a corporation, leaving those of natural
persons free from such claims. Transfer to an individual,
whenever made, prevents the operation of the Act.
This case cannot be distinguished from Quaker City Cab
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 277 U. S. 389. There the tax in controversy was imposed upon the corporation's gross receipts derived from the operation of taxicabs. But the
gross receipts of individuals in the same line of business
were not taxed. And for that reason the law was held
repugnant to the equal protection clause. The Court said
(p. 402): "Here the tax is one that can be laid upon receipts belonging to a natural person quite as conveniently
as upon those of a corporation. It is not peculiarly applicable to corporations as are taxes on their capital stock
or franchises. . .
The character of the owner is the sole
fact on which the distinction and discrimination are made
to depend. The tax is imposed merely because the owner
is a corporation. The discrimination is not justified by
any difference . . . in the situation or character of the
property employed." It is not pretended that such back
taxes on lands of individuals may not be imposed as con-

704

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
, J., dissenting.
BUT&Rn

279 U. S.

veniently as upon those of corporations. The Arkansas
law im'poses a tax liability on lands of a corporation to
which lands of an individual are not subjected. That
case rules this one.
But there are cited in support of the decision below
Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S. 526;
New York State v. Barker, 179 U. S. 279, 285; Florida
Central, &c. R. R. Co. v. Reynolds, 183 U. S. 471, 480;
and Fort Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S. 532,
534.
Winona & St. Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, supra, did
not present any question under the equal protection clause.
A state law provided generally for the assessment and
taxation of both real and personal property which had
been omitted from the tax roll. Lands of the company
were assessed under the Act. It insisted (p. 528) that
the Act violated the contract clause and the due process
clause.
In support of the latter contention, the company
argued that, as to back taxes on personal property, the
Act was invalid because it failed to provide for notice to
owners before the charges were fixed against them; that
it could not be assumed that the legislature would attempt
to enforce back taxes against lands alone, and that therefore the whole Act fell. But the state court declined to
pass upon that contention, 40 Minn. 512, 521, and held
that in any event back taxes on personal property might
be enforced by an ordinary personal action. This court
said (p. 539): "It seems to us . . that the assumption that it cannot be believed that the legislature would
never seek to provide for the collection of back taxes on
real property without at the same time including therein
a like provision for collecting back taxes on personal property, cannot be sustained. The case is different from that
of an ordinary tax law in which there may be some
foundation for the claim that the legislature is expected

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

BTum, J., dissenting.

to make no discrimination, and would not attempt to provide for the collection of taxes on one kind of property
without also making provision for collection of taxes on
all other property equally subject to taxation ...
and it may well be that the legislature in view of the probabilities of changes in the title or situs of personal property might deem it unwise to attempt to charge it with
back taxes, while at the same time, by reason of the stationary character of real estate, it might elect to proceed
against that." The court concluded that in any event it
was for the state court to determine whether the Act was
severable.
Both in Minnesota and Arkansas, taxes and back taxes
on personal property are enforceable against the owner;
taxes and back taxes on land are enforced only against
the land. The Minnesota Act did not attempt to make
any classification. Moreover, a discrimination between
personal property and land is essentially different from
that attempted by the Arkansas statute. The equal protection clause does not require that, for purposes of taxation, land must be put in the class with merchandise,
moneys, credits, livestock and other personal property.
The differences in kind are sufficient to warrant classification.
In New York State v. Barker, supra, the controversy
concerned an assessment of a corporation's capital stock.
It was a proceeding against the corporation itself. There
was no question in the case of increasing, reassessing or
collecting taxes on land. The real estate of corporations
and individuals was directly assessed, and the law required
this assessment to be at actual value. In addition, there
was imposed on corporations a capital stock tax, to be
determined by deducting from total value of all its property, tangible and intangible, its debts and the assessed
value of real estate, the remainder to be taxed as capital
stock.
45228*-29---45

706

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
BuT.BR,

J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

The taxing officers found the "actual value" of real
estate to be $965,000 and added other property, making
to tal gross assets, $1,095,049; they deducted debts,
$329,050, and "assessed value" of real estate, $600,000,
leaving $165,999, to be taxed as capital stock. The corporation insisted that in determining total gross assets
the assessed value of the real estate should be substituted
for its actual value; that would leave nothing to be taxed
as capital stock.
Its contention was that the taking of its real estate at
actual value instead of assessed value denied to it equal
protection of the laws. This court pointed out (p. 284)
that the failure to assess the company's real estate at its
actual value for separate taxation and the use of actual
value to ascertain the capital stock, tax could work no
denial of equal protection if the real estate of individuals
was in fact assessed at its full and true value as required
by law. And it said: "There is no allegation . . that
there has been any undervaluation of real estate, either
with regard to individuals or corporations. . . (p.
285). But we are . . asked . . in the absence of
allegations or proof of habitual, or indeed of any undervaluation, to assume or take judicial notice of its existence,
notwithstanding such undervaluation would constitute a
clear violation of the law of the State. . . (p. 286).
Whether, if the case were proved, as assumed by counsel,
it would in fact amount to any such discrimination
against corporations as to work a denial to the plaintiff
of the equal protection of the laws, is a question not
raised by this record, and, therefore, not necessary to be
decided." It requires no discussion to show that this case
is not in point.
Florida Central, &c. Railroad Co. v. Reynolds, supra,
considered a Florida statute providing for collection of
back taxes on railroad properties. The single questiou
was (p. 474) whether to reach backward and collect taxes

WHITE RIVER CO. v. ARKANSAS.
692

BurLER,

J., dissenting.

from certain kinds of property without also making provision for collecting taxes on other kinds of property transgressed the equal protection clause. It was held, as is
well understood, that railroads so differ from other kinds
of property that they may be separately classified. The
case has no bearing here.
In Fort Smith Lumber Co. v. Arkansas, supra, the suit
was to enforce an obligation of the corporation itself and
not merely a claim for taxes against its land. The company in that case owned stock in two other Arkansas corporations and claimed it was entitled to omit such shares
from the taxable value of its own stock. It defended
on the ground that individuals are not taxed on such stock
or subject to suits for back taxes. The Court said: "If
the State of Arkansas wished to discourage but not to
forbid the holding of stock in one corporation by another
and sought to attain the result by this tax or if it simply
saw fit to make corporations pay for the privilege, there
would be nothing in the Constitution to hinder. ....
The same is true with regard to confining the recovery of
back taxes to those due from corporations. It is to be
presumed, until the contrary appears, that there were
reasons for more strenuous efforts to collect admitted dues
from corporations than in other cases, and we cannot
pronounce it an unlawful policy on the part of the State."
This court assumed that the special burden was imposed
in pursuit of a definite purpose on the part of the State in
respect of incorporated owners of stock in Arkansas corporations. That decision rests upon the ground that the
tax was peculiarly applicable to corporations. But a tax
on land is not.
As the back taxes claimed are enforceable only against
the land, there is no basis for the suggestion that there
exists here any reason for more strenuous efforts to collect
from corporations than from natural persons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

And there is no basis for an assumption like that made
in the Fort Smith Lumber Co. case. The classification,
at least when applied to land, is fanciful and capricious.
Liggett Co. v. Baldridge,278 U. S. 105, 114.
The decree should be reversed.
The CHIEF JusTIcE and MR. JUsTIcE VA
concur in this opinion.

D]zVANTzR

GULF REFINING COMPANY v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANGE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPAI.B FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 506. Argued April 17, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.
1. In adjusting a general average loss upon cargo insurance under a
valued policy, the insured is co-insurer to the extent that the sound
value of the cargo at the time of contribution exceeds the agreed
value in the policy, and recovers that proportion of his loss which
the agreed value bears to such sound value. P. 709.
2. The co-insurance principle long and consistently applied in the
case of particular average losses under both open and valued policies, gives a reasonable and equitable effect to the stipulation fxing
value, consonant with principles generally applicable to marine insurance. It may be applied to general average contributions 'with
like effect and with added consistency and harmony in the law.
P. 712.
3. The application of the agreed value to the adjustment of the insurance loss does not depend on estoppel. P. 712.
27 F. (2d) 678, affirmed.
CkPTIORARI, 278

U. S. 595, to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals (see 1927 Am. Mar. Cas. 1669), which
reversed a decree of the District Court for the present
petitioner in a suit in admiralty on a policy of-insurance.
Mr. Ira A. Campbell for petitioner.
Mr. J. M. Richardson Lyeth for respondent.

