644

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Syllabus.

279 U. S.

ated merely a temporary inference of fact that vanished
upon the introduction of opposing evidence. Gulf, M. &
N. 1?. Co. v. Brown, 138 Miss. 39, 66, et seq. Columbus &
G. Ry. Co. v. Fondren, 145 Miss. 679. That of Georgia
as construed in this case creates an inference that is given
effect of evidence to be weighed against opposing testimony and is to prevail unless such testimony is found by
the jury to preponderate.
The presumption raised by. ยง 2780 is unreasonable and
arbitrary and violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Manley v. Georgia, supra. McFarland v. American Sugar Co., 241 U. S. 79. Bailey v.
Alabama, 219 U. S. 219.
Judgment reversed.
UNITED STATES v. SCEWIMMER.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 484. Argued April 12, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. Because of the great value of the privileges conferred by naturalization, the statutes prescribing qualifications and governing procedure
for admission are to be construed with definite purpose to favor and
support the Government. P. 649.
2. In order to safeguard against admission of those who are unworthy
or who for any reason fail to measure up to required standards, the
law puts the burden upon every applicant to show by satisfactory
evidence that he has the specified qualifications. P. 649.
3. On applications for naturalization, the court's function is to receive
the testimony, to compare it with the law, and to judge on both law
and fact. P. 649.
4. When, upon a fair consideration of the evidence adduced upon an
application for citizenship, doubt remains in the mind of the court
as to any essential matter of fact, the United States is entitled to
the benefit of such doubt and the application should be denied.
P. 650.

UNITED STATES v. SCHWIMMER.
644

Statement of the Case.

5. That it is the duty of citizens by force of arms to defend our Government against all enemies whenever necessity arises, is a fundamental principle of the Constitution. P. 650.
6. Whatever tends to lessen the willingness of citizens to discharge
their duty to bear arms in the country's defense detracts frpm the
strength and safety of the Government. And their opinions and
beliefs as well as their behavior indicating a disposition to hinder
in the performance of that duty are subjects of inquiry under the
statutory provisions governing naturalization, and are of vital
importance. P. 650.
7. The influence of conscientious objectors against the use of military
force in defense of the principles cf our Government is apt to be
more detrimental than their mere refusal to bear arms. The fact
that, by reason of sex, age or other cause, they may be unfit to
serve does not lessen their purpose or power to influence others.
P. 661.
8. The applicant was a woman 49 years of age, a linguist, lecturer
and writer, well educated and accustomed to discuss governments
and civic affairs. She testified that she would not take up arms in
defense of the country; that she was willing to be treated as the
Government dealt with conscientious objectors who refused to take
up arms in the recent war; and that she was an uncompromising
pacifist with no sense of nationalism but only a "cosmic" sense
of belonging to the human family. Taken as a whole, her testimony
showed that her objection to military service rested upon reasons
other than mere inability because of her age and sex personally to
bear arms; it was vague and uncertain in its description of her
attitude towards the principles of the Constitution, and failed to
sustain the burden resting upon her to show what she meant and that
her pacifism and lack of nationalistic sense did not oppose the
principle making it a duty of citizenship by force of arms, when
necessary, to defend the country against its enemies, and that her
opinions and beliefs would not impair the true faith and allegiance
required by the Naturalization Act. Held, that the District Court
was bound by the law to deny her application. P. 651.
27 F. (2d) 742, reversed; District Court affirmed.

CERTioRARi, 278 U. S. 595, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the
District Court denying the present respondent's application for naturalization.

646

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, with whom Attorney General
Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General Luhring, and Mr.
HarryS. Ridgely were on the brief, for the United States.
Mrs. Olive H. Rabe for respondent.
MR. JUsTIcE BUTLE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent filed a petition for naturalization in the
District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The
court found her unable, without mental reservation, to
take the prescribed oath of allegiance and not attached
to the principles of the Constitution of the United States
and not well disposed to the good order and happiness
of the same; and it denied her application. The Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed the decree and directed the District Court to grant respondent's petition. 27 F. (2d) 742.
The Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906 requires:
"He [the applicant for naturalization] shall, before he
is admitted to citizenship, declare on oath in open court
. . . that he will support and defend the Constitution
and laws of the United States against all enemies, foreign
and domestic, and bear true faith and allegiance to the
same." U. S. C., Tit. 8, ยง 381.
"It shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
court . . . that during that time [at least 5 years preceding the application] he has behaved as a man of good
moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States, and well disposed to the good
order and happiness of the same. . . ." ยง 382.
Respondent was born in Hungary in 1877 and is a citizen of that country. She came to the United States in
August, 1921, to visit and lecture, has resided in Illinois
since the latter part of that month, declared her intention
to become a citizen the following November, and filed
petition for naturalization in September, 1926. On a preliminary form, she stated that she understood the prin-

UNITED STATES v. SCHWIMMER.
644

Opinion of the Court.

ciples of and fully believed in our form of government
and that she had read, and in becoming a citizen was willing to take, the oath of allegiance. Question 22 was this:
" If necessary, are you willing to take up arms in defense
of this country?" She answered: "I would not take up
arms personally."
She testified that she did not want to remain subject to
Hungary, found the United States nearest her ideals of
a democratic republic, and that she could whole-heartedly
take the oath of allegiance. She said: "I cannot see that
a woman's refusal to take up arms is a contradiction to
the oath of allegiance." For the fulfillment of the duty
to support and defend the Constitution and laws, she had
in mind other ways and means. She referred to her interest in civic life, to her wide reading and attendance
at lectures and meetings, mentioned her knowledge of
foreign languages and that she occasionally glanced
through Hungarian, French, German, Dutch, Scandinavian, and Italian publications and said that she could
imagine finding in meetings and publications attacks on
the American form of government and she would conceive
it her duty to uphold it against such attacks. She expressed steadfast opposition to any undemocratic form
of government like proletariat, fascist, white terror, or
military dictatorships. "All my past work proves.that I
have always served democratic ideals and fought-though
not with arms-against undemocratic institutions." She
stated that before coming to this country she had defended American ideals and had defended America in
1924 during an international pacifist congress in Washington.
She also testified: "If .
the United States can
compel its women citizens to take up arms in the defense
of the country-something that no other civilized government has ever attempted-I 'Would not be able to comply
with this requirement of American citizenship. In this

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

case I would recognize the right of the Government to
deal with me as it is dealing with its male citizens who for
conscientious reasons refuse to take up arms."
The district director of naturalization by letter called
her attention to a statement made by her in private correspondence: "I am an uncompromising pacifist ...
I have no sense of nationalism, only a cosmic consciousness of belonging to the human family." She answered
that the statement in her petition demonstrated that she
was an uncompromising pacifist. "Highly as I prize the
privilege of American citizenship I could not compromise my way into it by giving an untrue answer to question 22, though for all practical purposes I might have
done so, as even men of my age--I was 49 years old
last September-are not called to take up arms ...
That 'I have no nationalistic feeling' is evident from the
fact that I wish to give up the nationality of my birth
and to adopt a country which is based on principles and
institutions more in harmony with my ideals. My 'cosmic consciousness of belonging to the human family' is
shared by all those who believe that all human beings are
the children of God."
And at the hearing she reiterated her ability and willingness to take the oath of allegiance without reservation
and added: "I am willing to do everything that an American citizen has to do except fighting. If American women
would be compelled to do that, I would not do that. I
am an uncompromising pacifist. . . . I do not care
how many other women fight, because I consider it a question of conscience. I am not willing to bear arms. In
every other single way I am ready to follow the lav and do
everything that the law compels American citizens to do.
That is why I can take the oath of allegiance, because, as
far as I can find out, there is nothing that I could be
compelled to do that I can not do. . . . With reference to spreading propaganda among women throughout

UNITED STATES v. SCHWIMMER.
644

Opinion of the Court.

the country about my being an uncompromising pacifist
and not willing to fight, I am always ready to tell anyone
who wants to hear it that I am an uncompromising pacifist
and will not fight. In my writings and in my lectures I
take up the question of war and pacifism if I am asked for
that."
Except for eligibility to the Presidency, naturalized
citizens stand on the same footing as do native born citizens. All alike owe allegiance to the Government, and
the Government owes to them the duty of protection.
These are reciprocal obligations and each is a consideration for the other. Luria v. United States, 231 U. S. 9, 22.
But aliens can acquire such equality only by naturalization
according to the uniform rules prescribed by the Congress.
They have no natural right to become citizens, but only
that which is by statute conferred upon them. Because
of the great value of the privileges conferred by naturalization, the statutes prescribing qualifications and governing procedure for admission are to be construed with
definite purpose to favor and support the Government.
And, in order to safeguard against admission of those who
are unworthy or who for any reason fail to measure up to
required standards, the law puts the burden upon every
applicant to show by satisfactory evidence that he has the
specified qualifications. Tutun v. United States, 270 U.
S. 568, 578. And see United States v. Ginsberg, 243 U. S.
472, 475.
Every alien claiming citizenship is given the right to
submit his petition and evidence in support of it. And,
if the requisite facts are established, he is entitled as of
right to admission. On applications for naturalization,
the court's function is "to receive the testimony, to compare it with the law, and to judge on both law and fact."
Spratt v. Spratt, 4 Pet. 393, 408. We quite recently declared that: "Citizenship is a high privilege and when
doubts exist concerning a grant of it, generally at least,

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.

650

Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

they should be resolved in favor of the United States and
against the claimant." United States v. Manzi, 276 U. S.
463, 467. And when, upon a fair consideration of the
evidence adduced upon an application for citizenship,
doubt remains in the mind of the court as to any essential
matter of fact, the United States is entitled to the benefit
of such doubt and the application should be denied.
That it is the duty of citizens by force of arms to defend
our government against all enemies whenever necessity
arises is a fundamental principle of the Constitution.
The common defense was one of the purposes for which
the people ordained and established the Constitution. It
empowers Congress to provide for such defense, to declare
war, to raise and support armies, to maintain a, navy, to
make rules for the government and regulation of the land
and naval forces, to provide for organizing, arming and
disciplining the militia, and for calling it forth to execute
the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel
invasions; it makes the President commander in chief of
the army and navy and of the militia of the several States
when called into the service of the United States; it declares that a well regulated militia, being necessary to the
security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and
bear arms, shall not be infringed. We need not refer to
the numerous statutes that contemplate defense of the
United States, its Constitution and laws by armed citizens.
This Court, in the Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S.
366, speaking through Chief Justice White, said (p. 378)
that "the very conception of a just government and
its duty to the citizen includes the reciprocal obligation
of the citizen to render military service in case of
need.

.

."

Whatever tends to lessen the willingness of citizens to
discharge their duty to bear arms in the country's defense
detracts from the strength and safety of the Government.

UNITED STATES v. SCHWIMMER.
644

Opinion of the Court.

And their opinions and beliefs as well as their behavior
indicating a disposition to hinder in the performance of
that duty are subjects of inquiry under the statutory provisions governing naturalization and are of vital importance, for if all or a large number of citizens oppose such
defense the "good order and happiness" of the United
States can not long endure. And it is evident that the
views of applicants for naturalization in respect of such
matters may not be disregarded. The influence of conscientious objectors against the use of military force in
defense of the principles of our Government is apt to be
more detrimental than their mere refusal to bear arms.
The fact that, by reason of sex, age or other cause, they
may be unfit to serve does not lessen their purpose or
power to influence others. It is clear from her own statements that the declared opinions of respondent as to
armed defense by citizens against enemies of the country
were directly pertinent to the investigation of her application.
The record shows that respondent strongly desires to
become a citizen. She is a linguist, lecturer and writer;
she is well educated and accustomed to discuss governments and civic affairs. Her testimony should be considered having regard to her interest and disclosed ability
correctly to express herself. Her claim at the hearing
that she possessed the required qualifications and was
willing to take the oath was much impaired by other
parts of her testimony. Taken as a whole it shows that
her objection to military service rests on reasons other
than mere inability because of her sex and age personally
to bear arms. Her expressed willingness to be treated as
the Government dealt with conscientious objectors who
refused to take up arms in the recent war indicates that
she deemed herself to belong to that class. The fact that
she is an uncompromising pacifist with no sense of nation-

652

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

alism but only a cosmic sense of belonging to the human
family justifies belief that she may be opposed to the use
of military force as contemplated by our Constitution
and laws. And her testimony clearly suggests that she
is disposed to exert her power to influence others to such
opposition.
A pacifist in the general sense of the word is one who
seeks to maintain peace and to abolish war. Such purposes are in harmony with the Constitution and policy
of our Government. But the word is also used and understood to mean one who refuses or is unwilling for any
purpose to bear arms because of conscientious considerations and who is disposed to encourage others in such refusal. And one who is without any sense of nationalism
is not well bound or held by the ties of affection to any
nation or government. Such persons are liable to be incapable of the attachment for and devotion to the principles of our Constitution that is required of aliens seeking naturalization.
It is shown by official records and everywhere well
known that during the recent war there were found among
those who described themselves as pacifists and conscientious objectors many citizens-though happily a minute
part of all-who were unwilling to bear arms in that crisis
and who refused to obey the laws of the United States and
the lawful commands of its officers ahd encouraged such
disobedience in others. Local boards found it necessary
to issue a great number of noncombatant certificates, and
several thousand who were called to camp made claim
because of conscience for exemption from any form of
military service. Several hundred were convicted and
sentenced to imprisonment for offenses involving disobedi-

ence, desertion, propaganda and sedition. It is obvious
that the acts of such offenders evidence a want of that
attachment to the principles of the Constitution of which

UNITED STATES v. SCHWIMMER.
644

HOLMES, J., dissenting.

the applicant is required to give affirmative evidence by
the Naturalization Act.
The language used by respondent to describe her attitude in respect of the principles of the Constitution was
vague and ambiguous; the burden was upon her to show
what she meant and that her pacifism and lack of nationalistic sense did not oppose the principle that it is a
duty of citizenship by force of arms when necessary to
defend the country against all enemies, and that her opinions and beliefs would not prevent or impair the true faith
and allegiance required by the Act. She failed to do so.
The District Court was bound by the law to deny her
application.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed.
The decree of the District Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

The applicant seems to be a woman of superior character and intelligence, obviously more than ordinarily desirable as a citizen of the United States. It is agreed that
she is qualified for citizenship except so far as the views
set forth in a statement of facts "may show that the
applicant is not attached to the principles of the Constitution of the United States and well disposed to the good
order and happiness of the same, and except in so far as
the same may show tnat she cannot take the oath of
allegiance without a mental reservation." The views referred to are an extreme opinion in favor of pacifism and
a statement that she would not bear arms to defend the
Constitution. So far as the adequacy of her oath is concerned I hardly can see how that is affected by the statement, inasmuch as she is a woman over fifty years of
age, and would not be allowed to bear arms if she wanted

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
HOLM S, J., dissenting.

279 U. S.

to. And as to the opinion, the whole examination of
the applicant shows that she holds none of the nowdreaded creeds but thoroughly believes in organized government and prefers that of the United States to any
other in the world. Surely it cannot show lack of attachment to the principles of the Constitution that she thinks
that it can be improved. I suppose that most intelligent
people think that it might be. Her particular improvement looking to the abolition of war seems to me not
materially different in its bearing on this case from a wish
to establish cabinet government as in England, or a single
house, or one term of seveh years for the Pkesident. To
touch a more burning question, only a judge mad with
partisanship would exclude because the applicant thought
that the Eighteenth Amendment should be repealed.
Of course the fear is that if a war came the applicant
would exert activities such as were dealt with in Schenck
v. United States, 249 U. S. 47. But that seems to me unfounded. Her position and motives are wholly different
from those of Schenck. She is an optimist and states in
strong and, I do not doubt, sincere words her belief that
war will disappear and that the impending destiny of mankind is to unite in peaceful leagues. I do not share that
optimism nor do I think that a philosophic view of the
world would regard war as absurd. But most people who
have known it regard it with horror, as a last resort, and
even if not yet ready for cosmopolitan efforts, would
welcome any practicable combinations that would increase the power on the side of peace. The notion that
the applicant's optimistic anticipations would make her
a worse citizen is sufficiently answered by her examination, which seems to me a better argument for her admission than any that I can offer. Some of her answers
might excite popular prejudice, but if there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for
attachment than any other it is the principle of free

THE POCKET VETO CASE.
644

Syllabus.

thought-not free thought for those who agree with us

but freedom for the thought that we hate. I think that
we should adhere to that principle with regard to admission into, as well as to life within this country. And
recurring to the opinion that bars this applicant's way, I
would suggest that the Quakers have done their share
to make the country what it is, that many citizens agree
with the applicant's belief and that I had not supposed
hitherto that we regretted our inability to expel them
because they believe more than some of us do in the
teachings of the Sermon on the Mount.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS concurs in this

MR. JUSTICE

SANFORD,

opinion.

dissenting.

I agree, in substance, with the views expressed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and think its decree should be
affirmed.
THE POCKET VETO CASE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 565.

Argued March 11, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.

1. Under the second clause in ยง 7 of Article I of the Constitution, a
bill which is passed by both Houses of Congress during the first
regular session of a particular Congress and presented to the President less than ten days (Sundays excepted) before the adjournment of that session, but is neither signed by the President nor
returned by him to the House in which it originated, does not
become a law. P. 672.
2. The Constitution in giving the President a qualified negative over
legislation-commonly called a veto-entrusts him with an authority and imposes upon him an obligation that are of the highest
* The docket title of this case is The Okanogan, Methow, San Poelis

(or San Poil), Nespelem, Colville, and Lake Indian Tribes or Bands
of the State of Washington v. United States.

