UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL.
63

Syllabus.

almost two months before he made the order to draw the
grand jurors-he did not direct those names to be restored
to the box-and his attention had been called to the removal of these names before making the order to draw
the petit jurors from the box-it fairly may be inferred
that he had either directed that the names be removed
or approved the removal before making the orders for
drawing the jurors.
And even if it can be regarded as essential, under § 277
of the Judicial Code, that the judge should have given
written direction to draw the jurors from part of the district only, still, as the contrary is not expressly shown,
such a direction may be taken as sufficiently established by
the presumption of regularity. See Steers v. UnitedStates
(C. C. A.), 192 Fed. 1, 4. It is the settled general rule
that all necessary prerequisites to the validity of official
action are presumed to have been complied with, and that
where the contrary is asserted it must be affirmatively
shown. Nofire v. United States, 164 U. S. 657, 660; United
States v. Royer, 268 U. S. 394, 398; and cases cited.
We find that the District Court had jurisdiction of the
case; that the constitution of the grand and petit juries
was not illegal; and that there was no invasion of the
petitioners' rights under the Sixth Amendment. The judgment is
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. NEW YORK CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY, LESSEE.
UNITED STATES v. NEVADA COUNTY NARROW
GAUGE RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 238 and 304. Argued February 21, 25, 1929.-Decided March
11, 1929.
Under the Act of July 28, 1916, the Interstate Commerce Commission, in fixing the compensation to be paid by the United States

74

OCTOBER TERM, l99&.
Argument for the United States.

279 U. S.

to railroads for services in carrying the mails, has authority to
make its order increasing rates operative from the time of the
filing of the carrier's petition for increase. P. 77.
65 Ct. CQs. 115, affirmed.

CtRTIoRAI, 278 U. S. 588, to judgments recovered by

the railroad companies for services in carrying the mails.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Joseph
Stewart, Georpe C. Butte and Robert P. Reeder, Special
Assistants to the Attorney. General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
The question is as to the intention of Congress and is
one of statutory construction. The Commission's authority is limited by the Act. The terms of the statute
show that the orders were to operate prospectively. It is
provided that an order shall continue in force until
changed by the Commission; that the rates fixed are those
"to be received," and that they shall be paid "during the
continuance of the order." The Act further provides that
the Commission shall proceed as if determining rates for
private shippers and, under the Commerce Act, the Commission has no authority to make or allow retrospective
increases.
The Act expressly authorized a retrospective readjustment at the time of the first rate order made by the Commission, of rates fixed by law at the time of the passage of
the Act. The expression of such power to readjust excludes the power to make retrospective orders subsequently.
The intention of Congress is further disclosed by the
legislative practice for many years of providing for periodic readjustments of railway mail pay, always prospective and not retrospective in their operation. The Congressional Record supports the contention that Congress
understood these orders were to operate prospectively.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL.
73

Argument for the United States.

So construed, the statute is not invalid as to all cases,
nor is it shown that confiscation occurred here. Prior to
the Act of July 28, 1916, Congress had not asserted the
power to compel railroads to carry mail or to fix the pay.
It is not important here, whether the power to compel the service results from the fact that the railroads
are common carriers, or is incident to the power to establish post roads, or is an exercise of the power of eminent
domain. The railroads may be required to carry the
mails provided just compensation is paid.
The fair and reasonable rates authorized by this Act,
as in the case of rates applicable to private shippers, may
be more than those necessary to avoid confiscation. It
does not follow from the findings of the Commission that
the respondent was subjected to confiscatory action by
the rates in effect pending the hearing. The Commission's findings relate to groups of carriers, and on them
no one carrier may show confiscation.
A statute that requires a public utility to obtain consent of a public commission to increase rates is not necessarily invalid because some time may elapse between the
application for, and the granting of, relief. The Commerce Act allows suspension of increases for a reasonable
time, with no provision for retrospective increase. Many
state statutes have similar provisions. No system of rate
regulation or adjustment keeps up with the necessity for
increases or decreases. Adjustments lag behind the need
for them. If there be undue delay in granting relief, the
courts will grant it where the utility is operating under
confiscatory rates. These carriers could have refused to
transport the mails at confiscatory rates, and, on proper
showing, resisted the enforcement of the rates, and the
Postmaster General could have kept the mails moving by
exercising his statutory authority to contract for higher
rates than those established in the Commission's orders.

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Argument for Respondents.

279 U. S.

The acceptance by the carriers of the mail offered and the
acceptance of the compensation paid, without "saving the
question of price" other than by filing a petition for relief,
amounted to an agreement to carry the mails at the existing rates subject only to such readjustment as under the
terms of the statute, properly construed, the Commission
could make.
Messrs. FrederickH. Wood and George H. Fernald,Jr.,
with'whom Messrs. Clarence M. Oddie and Ben B. Cain
were on the brief, for respondents.
The power conferred upon and exercised by the Commission was not'the power to regulate the charges of
interstate railroads for the performance of common carrier services, but was the power to determine just compensation for the taking of private property for public use.
The interpretation placed upon the statute by the court
below, should be sustained to avoid giving rise to a serious constitutional question.
As a matter of statutory interpretation, the construction placed upon the Act by the court below was right.
The arguments advanced by the Government to avoid
the constitutional difficulty are so destructive of the purpose of the Act and of its orderly administration, either by
the Postmaster General or by the Commission, as to call
for the adoption of the interpretation placed upon it by
the court below, if at all permissible.
The interpretation placed upon the statute by the court
below is not only a permissible one, but is the only one by
which its general intent may be effected and by which injustice either to the United States or to the carriers may
be avoided.
The words relied on by the Government do not in express terms limit the power of the Commission, as claimed,
and should not be so construed as to limit the general intent of the Act or to be productive of unjust and incongruous results.

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL.
73

Opinion of the Court.

Respondents did not acquiesce in the payment to them
of less than fair and reasonable compensation.
The statute, read as a whole, should be construed as conferring the authority exercised.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
On February 25, 1921, and June 30, 1921, the respondent railroads respectively filed applications with the Interstate Commerce Commission for a readjustment of
the compensation for services in carrying the mails rendered by them, from dates before the applications and
for the future. The Commission at 'first expressed an
opinion that it had "authority to establish rates only for
the future" but made orders establishing rates as fair
and reasonable after the date of the orders. On further
hearings, however, it made new orders establishing the
same rates as fair and reasonable for the times between
the filing of the applications and the orders previously
made. 85 I. C. C. 157. 95 I. C. C. 493. See 144 I. C. C.
675. The railroads applied to the Postmaster General
for payment as ordered by the Commission, but their
applications were refused. Thereupon they sued in the
Court of Claims and got judgments for compensation
computed according to the last orders of the Commission.
65 Ct. Cls. 115. The United States asked and obtained
a writ of certiorari from this Court.
The ground taken by the United States is that the
Interstate Commerce Commission had been given no
authority to change the rates of payment to be received
by the railroads for any time before its orders went into
effect. The question is one of construction which requires consideration not of a few words only but of the
whole Act of Congress concerned. This is the Act of
July 28, 1916, c. 261, § 5; 39 St. 412, 425-431 (C., Tit.
39, ch. 15, where the long § 5 is broken up into smaller

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

sections) which made a great change in the relations between the railroads and the Government. Before that
time the carriage of the mails by the railroads had been
regarded as voluntary, New York, New Haven & Hartford R. R. Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 123, 127, now
the service is required (C., Tit. 39, § 541); refusal is
punished by a fine of $1,000 a day (C., Tit. 39, § 563),
and the nature of the services to be rendered is described
by the statute in great detail. Naturally, to save its constitutionality there is coupled with the requirement to
transport a provision that the railroads shall receive reasonable compensation. The words are "All railway common carriers are hereby required to transport such mail
matter as may be offered for transportation by the United
States in the manner, under the conditions, and with the
service prescribed by the Postmaster General and shall
be entitled to receive fair and reasonable compensation
for such transportation and for the service connected
therewith." The Government admits, as it must, that
reasonable compensation for such required services is a
constitutional right. So far as the Government has
waived its immunity from suit this right may be enforced,
in the absence of other remedies, not only by injunction
against further interference with it but by an action to
recover compensation already due. Accordingly the
statute provides for application from time to time to
the Interstate Commerce Commission to establish by
order a fair, reasonable rate or compensation to be paid
at stated times. C., §§ 542, 551, 554.
We assume that while the railroads perform these services and accept pay without protest they get no ground
for subsequent complaint. American Smelting & Refining Co. v. United States, 259 t. S. 75, 78. But the filing
of an application expresses a prese.nt dissatisfaction and
a demand for more. A further protest would be a super-

UNITED STATES v. N. Y. CENTRAL.
73

Opinion of the Court.

fluous formality. If the claim of the railroads is just
they should be paid from the moment when the application is filed. In the often quoted words of Chief Justice
Shaw, "If a pie-powder court could be called on the instant and on the spot the true rule of justice for the
public would be, to pay the compensation with one hand,
while they apply the axe with the other." Parks v. Bostan, 15 Pick. 198, 208. In fact the necessary investigation takes a long time, in these cases years; but reasonable compensation for the years thus occupied is a constitutional right of the companies no less than it is for the
future. Oklahoma Natural Gas. Co. v. Russell, 261 U. S.
290, 293. This being so, and the Interstate Commerce
Commission being the tribunal to which the railroads are
referred, it is a natural incident of the jurisdiction that it
should be free to treat its decision as made at once. Obviously Congress intended the Commission to settle the
whole business, not to leave a straggling residuum to
look out for itself, with possible danger to the validity
of the Act. No reason can have existed for leaving the
additional annoyance and expense of a suit for compensation during the time of the proceedings before the Commission, when the Commission has had that very question
before it and has answered it, at least from the date of
its orders. We are quite aware that minutiae of expression may be found that show Congress to have been
thinking of the future. We put our decision not on any
specific phrase, but on the reasonable implication of an
authority to change the rates of pay which existed from
the day when the application was filed, the manifest intent to refer all the rights of the railroads to the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the fact that, unless
the Commission has the power assumed, a part of the
railroads' constitutional rights will be left in the air.
Judgments afflrmed.

