OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Counsel for Parties.

279 U. S.

And there is no basis for an assumption like that made
in the Fort Smith Lumber Co. case. The classification,
at least when applied to land, is fanciful and capricious.
Liggett Co. v. Baldridge,278 U. S. 105, 114.
The decree should be reversed.
The CHIEF JusTIcE and MR. JUsTIcE VA
concur in this opinion.

D]zVANTzR

GULF REFINING COMPANY v. ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANGE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPAI.B FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 506. Argued April 17, 1929.-Decided May 27, 1929.
1. In adjusting a general average loss upon cargo insurance under a
valued policy, the insured is co-insurer to the extent that the sound
value of the cargo at the time of contribution exceeds the agreed
value in the policy, and recovers that proportion of his loss which
the agreed value bears to such sound value. P. 709.
2. The co-insurance principle long and consistently applied in the
case of particular average losses under both open and valued policies, gives a reasonable and equitable effect to the stipulation fxing
value, consonant with principles generally applicable to marine insurance. It may be applied to general average contributions 'with
like effect and with added consistency and harmony in the law.
P. 712.
3. The application of the agreed value to the adjustment of the insurance loss does not depend on estoppel. P. 712.
27 F. (2d) 678, affirmed.
CkPTIORARI, 278

U. S. 595, to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals (see 1927 Am. Mar. Cas. 1669), which
reversed a decree of the District Court for the present
petitioner in a suit in admiralty on a policy of-insurance.
Mr. Ira A. Campbell for petitioner.
Mr. J. M. Richardson Lyeth for respondent.

GULF REFINING CO. v. INS. CO.
708

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SToNE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent issued a war risk insurance policy for $27,690 upon a cargo of gasoline, owned by petitioner's predecessor in interest and valued in the policy at $212,000,
on board the tanker" Gulflight," bound from Port Arthur,
Texas, to Rouen. On the voyage the "Gulflight" was
torpedoed and put into a port of refuge where, in consequence of the injury to the ship, damages and expenses of
a general average nature were incurred. A general average contribution of $49,088.04, the correctness of which is
not questioned, was assessed against the cargo on the basis
of the actual value of the cargo at destination, which was
taken to be $417,178. Petitioner made claim on the policy
for indemnity of $6,411.54, the proportion of the general
average contribution which the amount of the policy bore
to the agreed policy value of the cargo. Respondent paid
only $3,258.25, that portion of the indemnity claimed
which the agreed policy value bore to sound value at the
time of the contribution, or that portion of the general
average contribution which the amount of insurance bore
to sound value.
In a suit in admiralty in the District Court for Southern New York to recover the balance claimed, that
court confirmed the report of its Commissioner, 1927 Am.
Mar. Cas. 1669, and gave judgment for petitioner, which
was reversed by the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. 27 F. [2d] 678. This Court granted certiorari,
278 U. S. 595, because of a conflict of opinion between
that and the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
British & Foreign Marine Insurance Co. v. Maldonado &
Co., 182 Fed. 744, certiorari denied, 220 U. S. 622.
The sole question presented here is whether, in adjusting
a general average loss upon cargo insurance urider a valued policy, the insured is co-insurer to the extent that
the sound value of the cargo at the time of contribution
exceeds its agreed value or, stated in somewhat different

710

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

form, whether the effect of a valued policy on cargo, in
limiting the liability of the insurer, is the same in the
case of a general average as of a particular average loss.
It has long been the accepted rule that in the case of
a partial loss of cargo insured under a valued policy, with
the valuation honestly made, the insured, in case of increase or decrease in its value, recovers that proportion
of his loss which the agreed value, or so much of it as
was assumed by the particular insurer, bears to the sound
value. In case of an increase in value his recovery is thus
limited as though he were a co-insurer. Lewis v. Rucker,
3 Burr. 1167; Johnson v. Sheddon, 2 East 581; see Tunno
v. Edwards,12 East 488; Lawrence v. New York Insurance
Co., 3 Johns. Cas. (N. Y.) 217, 218; Forbes v. Manufacturers' Ins. Co., 67 Mass. 371; London Assurance v.
Companhia de Moagens, 167 U. S. 149, 171; British &
ForeignIns. Co. v. Maldonado,supra; InternationalNavigation Co. v. Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co., 100 Fed.
304, 317, 318, affirmed 108 Fed. 987, certiorai denied
181 U. S. 623.
So applied the rule permits the adjustment of the
premium to an assumed certain and unchanging value
of the subject of the insurance "and protects the underwriter against increases in liability because of increase
in value of the cargo, as it protects the insured against
diminution of his right to recover which might otherwise
result from a decrease in value. It recognizes that the
purpose of valuing the cargo-is not to fix the maximum
amount of recovery, which is accomplished by limiting
the amount of the policy, but to eliminate from the risk
which the insurer assumes so much of it as is consequent
upon fluctuations of the market value of the cargo,
whether the loss be total or partial. For under it the
insurer's liability for the loss suffered can never be greater
or less than if the actual value were the agreed value,

GULF REFINING CO. v. INS. CO.
708

Opinion of the Court.

Agreed value thus stands in the place of prime value under
an open marine policy where the insured recovers such
part of his loss as prime value bears to sound value. See
Lewis v. Rucker, supra, at p. 1171; Usher v. Noble, 12
East 639, 646; Clark v. United M. & F. Insurance Co.,
7 Mass. 365.
Petitioner does not question the soundness of the rule
when applied to partial loss of cargo, but argues that it
should not be applied to general average contributions.
It is said that petitioner need not refer to sound value to
compute its loss, which is already fixed- by the general
average adjustment, and the valuation clause estops the
insurer from showing that the sound value of the cargo
was greater than the agreed value and so reducing the
amount of its indemnity; also that the rule to be applied
to the present case should be the same as that applied to
insurance on hulls, where the insured is allowed to recover
in full for a partial loss up to the amount of the insurance.
Finally, it is insisted that this clause of the policy should
be construed as having been adopted by the parties in
contemplation of the rule contended for as one established by the decisions in New York, where the policy
was effected, and as settled in British & Foreign Marine
Insurance Co. v. Maldonado & Co., supra.
Liability for general average contributions is a risk insured against by the marine policy as is loss by particular
average. Its amount, as in the case of a particular average loss, is dependent upon and varies with the sound
value of the goods. There is nothing in the policy to
suggest that the liability of the insurer is to be computed
on a basis different in the one case from the other, and
a clause whose general use and effect is to limit risk from
fluctuation of value of the cargo insured is equally applicable in both classes of risks. Such a limitation is
justified in both cases by the fact that the only assign-

712

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

able purpose of the agreed value is to substitute a definite for an uncertain prime value and to eliminate from
the contract, in the interest of both the insured and the
insurer, the fluctuation of liability which would otherwise
result from a change in sound value. To allow petitioner
to recover for the loss suffered in double the amount
which concededly would have been its recovery had the
same loss resulted from fire, jettison or other partial loss
of cargo, would be an anomalous result for which petitioner
offers no justification in reason or in generally established
principles of marine ihsurance law. The co-insurance
principle long and consistently applied in the case of particular average losses under both open and valued policies,
gives a reasonable and equitable effect to the stipulation
fixing value, consonant with principles generally applicable to marine insurance. It may be applied to general
average contributions with like effect and with added consistency and harmony in the law.
The application of the agreed value to the adjustment
of the insurance loss does not depend on estoppel as was
suggested in British & Foreign Marine Insurance Co. v.
Maldonado & Co., supra. The policy agreement valuing
the cargo at a specified amount is not a representation, or
so regarded. It is no more than a stipulation, in effect,
that for purposes of computation of the insurance liability the cargo shall be taken at an agreed value. Within
this limitation the policy is still a policy of indemnity and
the insured must prove the sound value of the cargo in
order to ascertain his actual loss, by deducting from it
the amount of the proceeds of the damaged cargo. In
every particular average adjustment the insurer may rely
ohn the sound value of the cargo in order to establish the
extent to which the insured is a co-insurer. It is true
that a general average contribution is always determined
and stated in terms of money and so the insured may

GULF REFINING CO. v. INS. CO.
708

Opinion of the Court.

establish his loss merely by proof of its amount, but his
contribution is itself based upon sound value which
entered into its computation, and its amount for all practical purposes, as in the case of particular average, is increased in proportion to the excess of sound value over
agreed value, see S. S. "Balmoral" Company v. Marten,
[1902] App. Cas. 511, 514, 515. We perceive no reason
why his recovery may not likewise be reduced accordingly.
The rule that the insured may recover in full for partial
losses under hull insurance, InternationalNavigation Co.
v. Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co., supra; International
Navigation Co. v. Sea Insurance Co., 129 Fed. 13; Providence & S. S. S. Co. v. Phoenix Insurance Co., 89 N. Y.
559; contra Clark v. United M. & F. Insurance Co., supra;
cf. Brewer v. American Ins. Co., 123 Mass. 78, does not,
we think, militate against the co-insurance rule as applied to cargo insurance, or afford support for that for
which petitioner contends. We need not determine
whether the rule as to hull insurance may be regarded
as that of this Court or of others, or pass upon its merits.
The distinction between insurance on cargo and that on
hulls is an old one and a different result in the case of the
latter may for that reason be accepted without affecting the rule as to the former. Where the distinction has
been regarded as established, the departure from the rule
applied in case of particular average losses of cargo has
been justified on the ground that damage to a hull is not
customarily ascertained by its sale, as is the case with
cargo. The usual practice in cases of partial loss is for
the insured to make repairs. His repair bill represents a
sum of money which is the amount of his damage, ascertained without regard to the ship's value, and so the rule
has been adopted as more convenient in practice than one
requiring determination of the sound value of the ship.
See Lohre v. Aitchison, L. R. 2 Q. B. D. 501, 507. Some

714

OCTOBER TERM, 1928.
Opinion of the Court.

279 U. S.

point is given to this explanation by the ruling in Pitman
v. Universal Marine Insurance Co., L. R. 9 Q. B. D. 192,
that the same rule should be applied as in particular
average loss of cargoes, where the repairs were not in
fact made and the loss was established by a sale of the
ship. And in a case of general average contribution by
the hull, the House of Lords, in S. S. "Balmoral" Company v. Marten, supra, held the insured to be a co-insurer,
thus applying the rule accepted in the case of partial cargo
losses, and implicitly supporting the co-insurance rule
applied below to general average contribution by cargo.
It is said that this rule would result in a recovery by
the insured of more than the amount of his contribution,
in event of a decrease in the value of the cargo below the
agreed value. The court below seems to have thought
that this might be so. But no court has so held. The
insured in the case of partial loss of cargo whose sound
value is less than the agreed, may recover more than his
actual loss,, since in-computing the indemnity the cargo
must be taken at the agreed value. But where there is in
fact no loss of the cargo, it is not entirely clear upon what
theory the insured could increase his recovery beyond his
contribution in general average by any recourse to the
agreed value. Having the cargo intact, no matter what
its value, it may well be that the insured must needs be
content with the discharge of the general average lien
upon it.
While an appellate court may hesitate to set aside a rule
of commercial law long and generally accepted and applied, such is not the case with the suggestion that general
average contributions must stand on a different footing
from particular average losses under a valued policy on
cargo. That has been thought to be the effect of an early
New York case, Strong v. New York Firemen Insurance
Co., 11 Johns. (N. Y.) 323, in which counsel for the in-

GULF REFINING CO. v. INS. CO.
708

Opinion of the Court.

surer argued against any such distinction. But the court
seems to have considered that the only question before it
was whether a general average adjustment made in a foreign port was enforceable against the insurer even though
made under rules different from those in force in the home
port. Diligent efforts at the trial of the present case to
prove a custom failed. The commissioner's finding that
no settled custom or usage was proved is not challenged
here. He found that underwriters, the Strong case notwithstanding, did not usually pay general average contributions in full when sound value exceeded agreed value;
that after the decision in the Maldonado case, refusals
to pay on the basis of full contribution were less frequent,
but some underwriters, including respondent, continued
to settle on that basis and the failure to bring the issue
before a court for adjudication was due to the fact that
the amounts involved were too small to justify litigation.
The Massachusetts courts have followed the rule applied below. Clark v. Universal F. & M. Insurance Co.,
supra, cf. Brewer v. American Ins. Co., supra. The other
American cases have dealt with insurance on hulls and so
are not decisive. The fact that the co-insurance rule has
been applied to general average contributions in England,
both by judicial decision, see S. S. "Balmoral" Company
v. Marten, supra, and by statute, Marine Insurance Act,
1906, ยง 73, and that such is conceded to be the rule by
law or custom in France, Germany, Holland and Japan, is
of weight in making a choice of two conflicting rules applicable to sea-borne commerce. We conclude that the
rule applied below is the more consonant with principle
and the more consistent with other accepted doctrines of
marine insurance, and that the judgment below should
accordingly be
Affirmed.

