420 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

capital case in the District of Columbia without assenting
to or dissenting from the proposition. We think it constituted a ground of objection to the competency of the
jurors when they were called, and should have been
availed of at the trial. It is provided by § 919 of the
District Code that no verdict shall be set aside for any
cause which might be alleged as ground of challenge before
a juror is sworn, except for disqualifying bias not discovered or suspected by the defendant or his counsel
before the juror was sworn.
Judgment affirmed.

GLASGOW v. MOYER, WARDEN OF THE
UNITED STATES PENITENTIARY AT ATLANTA, GEORGIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT, OF GEORGIA.

No. 1123.

Argued May 13, 1912.-Decided June 7,1912.

The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform the office of writ

6f error.
,The rule that on habeas corps the court examines only into the power
and authority of 'the court restraining the petitioner to act, and not

the oorrecthiess of its conclusions, Mdtter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 210,
appiies where the petitioner attacks a9 unconstitutional, or as too
uncertain, the law which is the foundation of the indictment and
trial.
Where the court below has remitted the petitioner to his remedy on
writ of error, it would be a contradiction to permit him to prosecute
habeas corpus.
A defendant in a criminal case cannot reserve defenses which he might.
make on the trial and use them as a basis for habeas proceedings to
attack the judgment after trial and verdict of guilty. It would introduce confusion in the administration of justice.

GLASGOW v. MOYER.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.'

THEI facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Fay, with whom Mr. Chas. Colden Miller
was on the brief, for appellant:
Section 211 of the Penal Code is unconstitutional
Congress exceeded its constitutional power in not confining the depositing matter in some authorized receptacle
of the United States, or for delivery through the United

States mail.
There is no authority for this kind of legislation under
the grant in § 8 of Art. I, "to establish Post Offices and
Post Roads."
This statute, by its broad terms, certainly exceeds the*
powers of Congress to enact, and is, therefore, unconstitutional and void. United States v. Steffens, 100 U. S.
82; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Baldwin v. Franks,
120 U. S. 678; United States v. Harris, 177 U. S. 305;
United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheat. 460; United States v.
Sheldon,
Wheat. 119; James v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127.
Section2 211
is obnoxious to the guarantees contained
in
the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution, in that it fails
by its lack of certainty and the absence of any standard
contained in it to inform the accused of the nature and
cause of the accusation. Cook v. State, 26 Ind. App. 278;
Matthew v. Murphy, 23 Ky. L. 'Rep. 750; Johnston v.
State, 100 Alabama, 32; Louis. & N. R. Co. v..State,. 99
Kentucky, 132; Czarra v. Board of Medical Supervisors,
25 App. D. C. 443; McConville v. Jersey City, 39 N. J. L.
38; United States v. Balt. & Ohio S. W. R. R. Co., 222"
U. S. 8.
The uncertainty of the statute in the use of the word
"obscene" cannot be better illustrated than by referring
to the variety of meaning that has been attached to it
in the various prosecutions had under it 'in the various
District Courts of the United States. Not less than 26

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Xppellant.

225 U. S.

cases 'have been before the District Courts of the United
States ,for the definition of the words of this statute, and
the various definitions have been almost as numerous as
the cases before them. Tot homines quot sententiae..
The uncertainty of the law is as obnoxious to "due
process of law" as it is to the requirement of informing
the accused of the nature of the accusation against him.
Until the legislature has defined a crime in definite words
it has not made a valid law; there can be no due process of
law to enforce it.
That such uncertainty in a statute creating a punishment for an act which is malum prohibitum only, which
in its practical operation and enforcement unavoidably involves judicial legislation in defining the crime after the
commission of the act, whether left to the court or to a
jury, is an ex post facto law, and carries with it all the evils
that the framers of the Constitution sought to avoid by
forbidding such enactment. See Rosen v. United States,
161 U. S.29.
The indictment is insufficient.
'United Stales v. Bennett, Fed. Cas. No. 14, 571; United States v. Britton,"17 Fed. Rep. 733; United States v.'Brazeau, 78 Fed. Rep. 463; United
State v. Coleman, 131 Fed. Rep. 829; United States v. Commerford, 25
Fed. Rep. 903; United States v. Clark, 37 Fed. Rep. 107; United States v.
Cheesman, 19 Fed. Rep. 498; United States v. Clarke, 33 Fed. Rep. 402;
United States v. Clarke, 38 Fed. Rep. 734; United States v. Davis, .38
Fed. Rep. 327; United States v. Debout, 28 Fed. Rep. 523; United States
v. Harman, 45 Fed. Rep. 421; United States v. Lamkin, 73 Fed. Rep.
463; United States v. Moore, 129 Fed. Rep. 160; UnitedStates v. Martin,
50 Fed. Rep' 921; United States v. Males, 51 Fed. Rep. 42; United States
v. Redd, 176 Fed. Rep. 944; United States v. Smith, 45 Fed. Rep. 418;
United States v. Smith, 45 Fed. Rep. 477; United States v. Shepherd,
160 Fed. Rep. 584; United States v. Slenker, 32 Fed. Rep. 695; United
States v. Smith, 11 Fed. Rep. 664; United States v. Timmons, 85 Fed.
Rep. 205; United States v. Wroblensky, 118 Fed. Rep. 496; UnitedStates
v. Williams, 4 Fed. Rep. 485; United States v. Wrightman, 29 Fed. Rep.

636.

GLASGOW v. MOYER.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The facts and record in this case make it distinguishable
from the Rosen Case, 161 U. 5. 29.
The Constitution requiring that the grand jury should
find the indictment, neither the court, the prosecuting
officer, nor any one else, has power to create the necessary
averments to make that an indictment which otherwise
would be no indictment at all. The general rule requires
an indictment to be specific. Stephens v. State,. Wright
(Ohio), 73; Commonwealth v. Gillespie, 7 Serg. & R. 469;
Commonwealth v. Stow, 1 Massachusetts, 54; Commonwealth v. Bailey, 1 Massachusetts, 62; Commonwealth v.
Sweney, 10 Serg. & R. 173; Commonwealth v. Wright, 1
Cush. 46; Commonwealth v. Tarbox, 1 Cush. 66; Commonwealth v. Houghton, 8 Massachusetts, 107; King v. Beere,
12 Mod. 219; State v. Parker, 11 Am. Dec. 735. See also
Commonwealth v. Stevens, 1 Massachusetts, 203, The
Constitution forbids in a certain class of cases prosecution
except by indictment; therefore, to the extent that such
knowledge is essential to constitute a valid instrument, the
accused is entitled, under the Constitution, to know the
secrets of the grand jury room.
The Solicitor Generalfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This appeal is prosecuted' to review the order of the
District Court denying petition of appellant to be discharged in proceedings for habeas cortlus from the custody
of the Warden of the United States Penitentiary at
Atlanta, Georgia.
The petition alleges the following: On the 21st of July,
1911, while appellant was temporarily in, Wilmington,
Delaware, he was arrested and charged with peddling
books without a license and was convicted in the Municipal
Court of the city and fined $5.00. The judgment was

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

almost immediately remitted and he was re-arrested and
charged with having deposited in the United States mails
a copy of an obscene book, and by one William G. Mahaffy,
a United States commissioner, committed to the custody
of the warden of the Newcastle County Workhouse to
await the action of the grand jury. Under the direction
of the United States Attorney his rooms were pillaged
and all of his possessions, clothing, books, etc., were carried
off and deposited in the United States court house. Before
his conviction he was stripped of his clothing, dressed in
prison garb, harsh prison rules were enforced against him
and he was fed on unwholesome food. He was so confined
and treated until a grand jury, selected by the commissioner who had committed him, found an indictment
against him charging him with having deposited an obscene
book in the United States mails, and, without seeing a
copy of the indictment or knowing its contents, he was
arraigned in his prison clothes, notwithstanding the
indictment charged no offense against the laws of the
United States and was couched in vague and uncertain
language- that did not apprise him of the offense, defects
which he brought to the attention of the judge of the
District Court, by pleas to the jurisdiction, demurrers
and motions to quash, all of which were overruled, and he
was placed on trial before a jury selected by the commissioner who had committed him. Although the array
was challenged for that cause and the number of peremptory challenges prdscribed by law were not allowed him,
he was forced to trial, and the jury under instructions from
the court was constrained to find a verdict against him,
papers material to his defense having been withheld by the
United States Attorney, with the acquiescence of the judge,
and process for non-resident witnesses having been refused.
Motions in arrest of judgment and for a new trial were
filed and the hearing thereof fixed for January 6, 1912,
before Edward G. Bradford, District Judge, who, having,

GLASGOW v. MOYER.
225 U. S.

Opinion or the Court.

the petition alleged, exhibited during the trial a deepseated prejudice against appellant and a violent partiality
in his rulings for the United States Attorney, appellant in
good faith, as in law he was entitled to do, filed an affidavit
charging him, the District Judge, with prejudice, and an
application to have the same certified to the senior Circuit Judge, then present in the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit, together with the certificate of
counsel as required by law.
The petition further alleged that by the filing of the
same and by operation of the act of March 3, 1911, 36
Stat. 1087, c. 231, which went into operation January 1,
1912, the District Judge became and was disqualified to
further proceed in said cause, and any further action taken
by him was without jurisdiction and absolutely null and
void; further alleged that the judge forbade the &lerk to
enter of record the affidavit, forbade the clerk to certify
the same to the senior Circuit Judge, proceeded to overrule the motions in arrest of judgment. and for a new trial,
.and, against the protest of appellant, sentenced him to
confinement in the penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia, for,
a term of fifteen months from the sixth of January, 1912,
and to pay a fine of $500.
Appellant, the petition alleged, was placed in the hands
of the United States Marshal and by him imprisoned by
force in his (the Marshal's) office from about 1 P. m.,
January 6, 1912, without being pernitted to return to
the court house to get his personal property there, and
at midnight was spirited away by a circuitous route to
Norfolk, Virginia, where he was imprisoned all night and
all of the next day (Sunday). Thence he was taken,
manacled, without being supplied with food or being allowed to purchase any, and delivered under the unlawful
order of.the District Court to the custody of the aIpellee,
by whom he has ever since been confined in the penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Appellant, the petition alleged, is by the action recited
not only unlawfully imprisoned, but, by the refusal to
certify his application, affidavit and certificate of counsel
to the senior Circuit Judge, "there is now no judge of the
United States District Court of Delaware, and no one
there authorized to pass upon his motions in arrest of
judgment or motion for a new trial, or competent to sit
and certify to the exceptions reserved by him to the many
errors committed by said Judge Bradford during his trial,
or to permit him to have the same reviewed and set aside
by an appellate tribunal."
The allegations of the petition were denied by the District Judge. A writ of habeas corpus was prayed, to the
end that appellant be discharged or cause to the contrary
be shown.
The writ was issued, but upon its return and hearing
appellant was remanded to custody.
The court, as grounds for its decision, said: "The real
question in this case is whether or not under § 21 of
the new Judicial Code, an affidavit such as provided for
therein, can be filed after a case has been tried" and
verdict rendered, and where the attempt is to disqualify
a judge from pronouncing sentence. The court pointed
out that in the case at bar there was also the circumstance that the case had been tried and the verdict
rendered before the Code went into effect, and the court
thought that it could not be conceived that it was the
purpose of Congress to apply the act to such a situation, the section itself providing that the affidavit
should be filed not less than ten days before the beginning of the term of the court or good cause shown
for failure to file within that time. The court said further: "It would require some specific language in this
act to satisfy me that Congress intended such an affidavit to be filed at the stage which had been reached in
this case."

GLASGOW v. MOYER.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court, however, finally concluded that the action
of the District Court of Delaware "was a matter for review by the Circuit Court of Appeals on writ for error"
and was "clearly beyond the proper scope and use of the"
writ of habeas corpus.
The assignments of error attack the action of the District
Court for error (1) in holding that §§ 20 and 21 of the
Judicial Code did not apply to the case at bar; (2) in
holding that Judge Bradford had jurisdiction to impose
the imprisonment complained of; and (3) in refusing the
writ and dismissing the petition. But questions are raised
here which were not presented in the petition in the
court below or passed on by that court. Section 211
of the Criminal Code act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat.
1088 (which makes it a crime to deposit Obscene books
in the mails), 1 under which appellant was indicted, is
attacked as unconstitutional because (a) it is not within
I"SEc. 211. Every obscene, lewd, or lascivious, and every filthy,
book, pamphlet, . . . is hereby declared to be non-mailable matter and shall not be conveyed in the mails or delivered from any postoffice or by any letter carrier. Whoever shall knowingly deposit, or
cause to be deposited for mailing or delivery, 'anything declared by
this section to be non-mailable, . . . shall be fined not more than
five thousand dollars or imprisoned not more than five years, or both."
"Suc. 21. Whenever. a party to any action or proceeding, civil or
criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge before whom
the action or procceding is to be tried or heard has a personal bias or
prejudice either against him or in favor of any opposite party to the
suit, such judge shall proceed no further therein, but another judge shall
be designated in the manner prescribed in'the section last preceding,
or chosen in the manner prescribed in section twenty-three, to hear
such matter. Every such affidavit shall state the facts and the reasons
fer the belief that such bias or prejudice exists, and shall be filed not
less than ten days before the beginning of the term of the court, or good
cause shall be shown for the failure to file it within such time. No party
shall be entitled in any case to file more than one such affidavit; and
no such affidavit shall be filed unless accompanied by a certificate of
counsel of record that such affidavit and application are made in good
faith.
.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the constitutional grant of legislative power to Congress,
in that it does not confine its operation to depositing
matter in the United States post-office or other authorized
depositary for United States mail; (b) it does not inform
appellant of the nature of the accusation against him
nor describe an offense with certainty; (c) it is an ex post
facto law; (d) appellant was deprived of his liberty and
property without due process of law. It is also asserted
that § 211 does not create an offense against the United
States.
Appellant, however, even if, in the absence of all proof
of their truth, the recitals of the petition which we have
previously stated be accepted for the purpose of this proceeding only as true, encounters an obstacle to a consideration of his contentions in the limitation upon the scope
of a writ of habeas corpus, and this limitation was the
ultimate ground of the decision of the District Court.
The writ of habeas corpus cannot be made to perform
the office of a writ of error. This has been decided many
times, and, indeed, was the ground upon which a petition
of appellant for habeas corpus to this court, before his
trial, was decided. It is true, as we have said, that the
case had not then been tried, but the principle is as
applicable and determinative after trial as before trial.
This was decided in one of the cases cited.-In re Lincoln,
202 U. S. 178, which cited other cases to the same effect. Subsequent cases have made the principle especially
pertinent to the case at bar. Harlan v. McGourin, (218
U. S. 442) was an appeal from a judgment discharging
a writ of habeas corpus petitioned for after conviction, and
it was held that the writ could not be used for the purpose
of proceedings in error but was confined to a determination
whether the restraint of liberty was without authority
of law. In other words, as it was said, "Upon habeas
corpus the court examines only the power and authority
of the court to act, not the correctness of i'ts conclusions."

GLASGOW v. MOYER.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Matter of Gregory, 219 U. S. 210, was a writ of habeas corpu

brought after 'bonviction, and we said that we were not
concerned with the question Whether the information
upon which the petitioner was prosecuted and convicted
was sufficient or whether the case set forth inan agreed
statement of facts constituted a crime-that is to say,
whether the court properly applied the law-if it be found
that the court had jurisdiction to try the issues and to
render judgment. And for this many cases were -cited.
The principle is not the less applicable because the
law which was the foundation of the indictment and trial
is asserted to be unconstitutional or uncertain in the
description of the offense. Those questions, like others,
the court is invested with jurisdiction to try if raised,
and its decision can be reviewed, like its decisions upon
other questions, by writ of error. The principle of the
cases is the simple one that if a court has jurisdiction of

the case the writ of habeas corpus cannot be employed to
re-try the issues, whether of law, constitutional or. other,
or of fact.
We have already pointed out that appellant before his,
-trial petitioned this court in habeas corpus, and that his
petition was denied on the gropund that his proper remedy
was by writ of error after .trial. In his petition he charged
mistreatment by the prison authorities, the taking of his
papers and property from his room and from the express
office, and, that although he informed the United States
Attorney, no permission was granted him to examine his

papers for his defense. He also in the petition attacked
the indictment against him on the ground that it described
no offense against the laws of the United States nor an
offense "against any valid law of the United States and
afforded no justification for his imprisonment." The
petition was accompanied by a brief which presented the
same contentions as those now presented, though less
elaborately.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

Having remitted him to a writ of error as a remedy,
it would be a contradiction of the ruling, he not having
availed himself of the remedy, to permit him to prosecute
habeas corpus. The ground of the decision was that there
was an orderly procedure prescribed by law for him to
pursue, in other words, to set up his defenses of fact and
law, whether they attacked the indictment for insufficiency
or the validity of the law under which it was found, and,
if the decision was against him, test its correctness through
the proper appellate tribunals. It certainly cannot be
said that the District Court of Delaware did not have
jurisdiction of the case, including those defenses, or that
its rulings could not have been reviewed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals or by this court by writ of error. It
would introduce confusion in the administration of
justice if the defenses which might have been made in an
action could be reserved as grounds of attack upon the
judgment after the trial and verdict..
Order dischargingwrit affirmed.

CITY OF LOUISVILLE v. CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 761.

Argued March 7, 8, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

Quwre, and not determined, whether an ordinance cutting the earnings
of a telephone company down, to six per cent per annum, would, under the circumstances of this case be confiscatory and unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment.
This court requires clear evidence before it will declare legislation,
otherwise valid, to be void as an unconstitutional taking of property
by reason of establishing rates that are confiscatory.

