U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

tinction, in the light of the well-known conditions of
trade which existed at the time of its enactment, between
coastwise sea-going steam vessels, not sailing under register, and those which did sail under register. Whether or
not it is wise to establish Federal rules as to port pilotage
for the registered vessels exempted. from this regulation is
a question for Congress to determine.
We conclude that each one of the questions certified
should be answered in the negative.
It is so ordered.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY v. BRAY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 111.

Argued December 15, 1911.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Section 7 of the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, as amended April 14,
1906, 34 Stat. 116, e. 2627 provides for an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals from certain interlocutory decrees of the Circuit
Court, and in this respect establishes an exception to the general
rule in Federal courts that an appeal lies only from a final decree.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked not solely on the
ground of diverse citizenship but alsio
because the case is one arising
under an act of Congress, an appeal lies from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to this court, and by § 6 of the Act of 1891 the time within
which to take the appeal is one year; the limitation of thirty days
under § 7 applies only to appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals
from the Circuit Court.
A distinct purpose of the Bankruptcy Act is to subject the administration of estates of bankrupts to the control of tribunals having
authority and charged with the duty of proceeding to final settlement and distribution in a summary way, as are bankruptcy courts.
Under the Bankruptcy Act, the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
in all proceedings in bankruptcy is intended to be exclusive of all
other courts; such proceedings include matters of udinnistration,
such as allowance and rejection of claims, reduction of the estate

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

to money and its distribution, preferences and priorities to be accorded to claims and supervision and control of the trustee.
The Circuit Court cannot entertain a bill in equity which invokes a
reconsideration of the referee's order allowing claims as preferred
and of determinations of the bankruptcy court as to rights of
holders of claims and as to charges that the trustee was speculating
in claims; those matters are for the bankruptcy court and fall
within its exclusive jurisdiction; nor can it surrender its control thereover or confide them to another tribunal.
A bill in equity attempting to seek an adjudication on matters within
the exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court cannot be sustained
as to matters dependent upon the principal matters alleged and
which could not have been made the subject of a separate bill within
the jurisdiction of that Circuit Court.
170 Fed. Rep. 689, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the distribution of funds in
the hands of a trustee in bankruptcy of a government
contractor, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. B. M. Ambler, with whom Mr. W. W. Van Winkle
and Mr. M. G. Ambler were on the brief, for appellant.

Mr. V. B. Archer and Mr. William M. Hall, with whom
Mr. J. A. Dupuy and Mr. L. T. Michener were on the
brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE 'VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This appeal brings up for review a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversing a decree
of the Circuit Court for the Northern District of West
Virginia in a suit in equity which was intended, inter alia,
to affect a fund of $26,000 in the hands of the trustee of a
bankrupt's estate then in the course of administration in
the District Court of that district. The decree reversed
was an interlocutory one granting an injunction, but the
decree of reversal was final, for it directed not only dissolution of the injunction but also the dismissal of the bill.
The complainant, the United States -Fidelity and

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Guaranty Company, is a Maryland corporation; three of
the defendants, the Second National Bank of Parkersburg, the Farmers and Mechanics National Bank of the
same place, arid'the Nicolette Lumber Company, are
citizens of West Virginia, resident in the district in which
the suit was brought; seven of them, Jacob Eichel and
Laura Eichel, his wife, the City National Bank of Evansville, the First National Bank of EVansville, the Citizens
National Bank of Evansville, the First National Bank of
Rockport, and the Farmers Bank of Rockport, are citizens and residents of Indiana; another, the Riter-Conley
Company, is a Pennsylvania corporation; and M. J. Bray,
the trustee of the bankrupt's estate, who was sued in that
capacity and also as an individual, is a citizen and resident
of Indiana. The bankrupt, the Evansville Contract Company, was an Indiana corporation. Of course, the national banks are Federal corporations, but their citizenship
and places of residence are, for jurisdictional purposes, as
just stated. Act August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866, § 4.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked on
the ground of diversity of citizenship, and on the further
ground that the case was one arising under the act of August 13, 1894, 28 Stat. 278, c. 280, amended February 24,
1905, 33 Stat. 811, c. 778; and the right to bring the suit
in that district against the defendants who were not resident therein was rested upon §.8 of the act of March 3,
1875, 18 StAt. 470, 472, c. 137, on the theory that the suit
was one to enforce a lien and claim upon personal property within the district, that is, upon the fund in the hands
of the trustee, which he then had on deposit in the two
Parkersburg banks. Section 23a of the bankruptcy act
was also relied upon as sustaining the jurisdiction.
The case made by the bill and its exhibits wasthis:
About 1902 the Evansville Contract Companyr, which
will be spoken of as the contractor and as the bankrupt,
entered into four several contracts with the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

for the construction of certain river improvements, one
in South Carolina, two in the Western District of Pennsylvania, and another in the Northern District of West
Virginia. Each contract contained, amoitg others, provisions that a designated percentage of the moneys earned
thereunder should be retained by the Government until
the completion of. the contract, and that in case of default by the contractor the Government 'should have the
right to take possession of the work and plant and prosecute the work to completion. The complainant, the
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, which
will be spoken of as the surety company, became the
surety on the bonds given by the contractor for its performance of the contracts. Each bond, conformably to
the act of August 13, 1894, supra, was conditioned that
the contractor should fully perform the contract according to its terms and should promptly make full payment
to all persons supplying it with labor or materials for the
prosecution of the work named in the contract. As an
inducement to the execution of each bond the contractor
agreed with the surety company as follows:
t .
and it does hereby bind itself, its successors and assigns, to indemnify the said The United
States Fidelity and Guaranty Company against all loss,
costs, damages, charges and expenses whatever, resulting
from any of its acts, default or neglect that said The
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company may
sustain or incur by. reason of its having executed said
bond or any continuation thereof. And it does further
agree, in the event of its being unable to complete or
carry on the aforementioned contract, to assign, and does
hereby assign, such plant as it may own, or have upon said
work-o1 the said The United States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company; under the aforesaid obligation, together with
vouchers or other evidence of payment, of all costs and
expense whatever incurred by said The United Stater

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of' the Court.

Fidelity and Guaranty Company in adjusting such loss
or in completing said contract, as conclusive evidence
against it, its successors and assigns, of the fact and
extent of its liability under said obligation to the said
The United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.
And it does further agree in the event of any breach or
default on its part in any of the provisions of the contract
hereinbefore mentioned, that The United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Company as surety upon the aforesaid
bond shall be subrogated to all its rights and properties
as principal in said contract, and that deferred payments
and any and all moneys and properties that may be due
and payable to it at the time of such breach or default or
that may thereafter become due and payable to it on
account of said contract, shall be credited upon any
claim that may be made upon. The United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Company under the bond above mentioned."
The contractor partially performed each contract, but
became embarrassed, and in February, 1904, on the petition of creditors, was adjudged a bankrupt by the District
Court for the Northern District of West Virginia, which
appointed three trustees of its estate, M. J. Bray being
one. The trustees took charge of its property, and, by
an order of the referee having the approval of the creditors, were authorized to complete the contracts, to borrow
$75,000 on trustee's certificates, which were to be a first
lien on the property and moneys of the estate, to pay the
annual premiums accruing to the surety company and to
save it harmless from any liability on the bonds, to collect
from the Government the contract price and all retained
percentages, and to employ Jacob Eichel, who had been
the president of the contractor, to assist in completing
the contracts and looking after the interests of the creditors. At first the surety company was disposed to object
to such an order, but the seven banks before mentioned.
VOL. ccxxv--14

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

which were unsecured creditors having claims aggregating $115,000, overcame its objection .and secured its express consent to the order by executing to it a bond in the
sum of $75,000, whereby they undertook to indemnify
and hold it harmless from all liability accrued or to accrue
by reason of its suretyship. The terms of this bond were
such that the liability of the banks thereunder was to be
several, not joint, and was to be confined to specified
proportions of its penalty.
Thereafter the trustees carried all the contracts to
completion, received from the Government the entire contract price and the retained percentages, sold the bankrupt's property, paid all the certificates issued under the
order before mentioned, and on December 19, 1905, had
on hand a balance of $36,602.96, subject to allowances and
costs of administration yet undetermined. The completion of the contracts was undertaken in the expectation
of all concerned that a profit to the estate would result
therefrom, but the expectation was not realized. In
March, 1906, M. J. Bray became the sole trustee; and on
September 21, 1907, when the bill was filed, the net
amount remaining in the trustee's hands, after deducting
the allowances and costs of administration, was about
$27,600, of which $26,000 was held on deposit in equal
amounts in the two Parkersburg banks.
The total liabilities of the contractor at the time it was
adjudged a bankrupt were about $200,000, and of these
$42,164.89 were allowed by the referee, November 19,
1904, as preferred claims for labor and materials furnished
the bankrupt in the prosecution of the work under the
contracts. Most of the claims allowed as preferred were
purchased, at much less than their face value, from the
.original claimants by Philip W. Frey, who was counsel for
the trustees. His purchases were principally in advance
of the allowance, but in some instances were made thereafter. The allowance, however, was in the names of the

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

original claimants. Later Frey assigned these claims to
Laura Eichel, wife of Jacob Eicliel, the cost to her being
$27,037.39, although the face value was $35,663.82. She
acquired them with money obtained from Bray under an
arrangement whereby both were to share in the profits
realized upon their ultimate payment. These transactions, it is alleged, were in pursuance of a wrongful conspiracy between Bray, Frey and Jacob Eichel, were in
violation of their fiduciary relations to the estate, and
were had with the purpose of making Bray. the real but
secret owner, the name of Laura Eichel being used as a
mere cover; and it is also alleged that some of these claims
are excessive and unjust, that. others are not for labor or
materials, and that Bray, Frey and Jacob Eichel wrongfully procured or acquiesced in their allowance as preferred claims so that Bray and his associates might profit
thereby.
In February, 1906, after it became evident that the net
proceeds of the estate would not be sufficient to pay the
preferred -claims for labor and materials, the surety company filed in the cause in bankruptcy a petition asserting,
inter alia, a lien upon the funds in the hands of the trustees
and a right to have the same applied to the payment of
the claims for labor and materials upon which recourse
could be had against it as the contractor's surety, and
praying that such lien and right be respected and enforced,
that the court would ascertain what claims were for labor
and materials and would direct that the funds remaining
be applied to them. The trustees demurred to this petition and the demurrer was overruled. Bray, on becoming
the sole trustee,' answered, evidence was taken, and the
matter is still pending before the referee.
In March, 1907, separate actions were commenced
against the surety company in the Common Plets Court
of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, in the name of the
United States for the use of Laura Eichel, on the claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

assigned to her as before stated; and in August, 1907, like
actions were commenced on these claims in the Circuit
Court of the Unitcd States for the Western District of
Pennsylvania. Both sets of actions are still pending, and
it is alleged that they were brought at the instance of
Bray and were really for his use and benefit. These actions
were not confined to claims arising under the contracts
which were to be. performed in that district, but included
claims arising under the other contracts which were to be
performed elsewhere.
Substantially all the claims against the bankrupt's
(state, save those of the defendants the Riter-Conley
Company and the Nicolette Lumber Company, each of
which has a preferred claim for labor or materials, have
been acquired and are now held by Bray and the two
Eichels, or one or more of them, and these parties are
endeavoring, as is alleged, to compel the surety company
to pay claims that are unjust, and-to divert the funds in
the hands of the trustee from the payment-of just claims
for labor and materials to the payment of general claims
as to which recourse cannot be had to the bond of the
contractor. The seven banks which gave the indemnity
bond to the surety company are no longer creditors of the
bankrupt's estate, their claims being now held by Bray
or one or both of the Eichels.
By the bill the surety company asserts (1) that under
the indemnity agreements made with it by the contractor,
under the contracts with the Government and the bonds
given pursuant to the act of August 13, 1894, supra, for
their performance, and under the equitable doctrine of
subrogation it has a lien on the fund remaining in. the
hands of the trustee, is entitled to have that fund applied
to the payment of just claims for labor and materials as
to which recourse can be had against it as surety, and is
entitled to every right and remedy which the Government or those who furnished the labor and materials

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would have against such fund; (2) that Bray and the
Eichels are not entitled to be paid on any claim held by
them, or any of them, more than the sum actually paid
therefor; and (3) that the surety company is entitled to
have these matters, as also its liability as a -surety and
the liability of the several indemnitor banks on their bond
to it, litigated and determined in one comprehensive suit.
The prayer of the bill is that an accounting be had to
ascertain the several amounts justly due for labor and
materials furnished the contractor in respect of each of
the contracts with the Government; that the surety company's liability on each of the bonds be fixed and apportioned as to each party in interest; that the fund in the
hands of the trustee be declared subject to a lien for the
payment of all just claims for such labor and materials,
and the net amount of the fund be applied on such claims;
that no claim held by Bray or either of the Eichels be paid
in an amount in excess of the sum actually expended for
it; that each of the indemnitor banks be held liable to the
surety company according to the terms of their bond to
it, and the amount of the liability of each bank be fixed
and payment thereof directed; that Bray and the Eichels
be enjoined from maintaining any of the actions theretofore begun against the surety company and from instituting any other like action against it; and that it be granted
such other relief as may be appropriate to the occasion.
Before the bill was filed, the District Court having
charge of the estate of the bankrupt entered an order
granting leave to the surety company to begin the suit in
the Circuit Court.
In the Circuit Court all the defendants save the RitetConley Company challenged in various ways thd jurisdiction of that court, but an interlocutory decree was
entered overruling the objections to the jurisdiction and
enjoining Bray -and the Eichels, until the further order of
the. court, from prosecuting or maintaining any of the

OICTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

actions against the surety company then pending in the
courts, Federal and state, in Pennsylvania, and from beginning any other like action against it. All the defendants, save the Riter-Conley Company and the Nicolette
Lumber Company, appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which reversed the interlocutory deci'ee and
directed that the injunction be dissolved and the bill dismissed, without prejudice, upon the ground that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to entertain it. 170
Fed. Rep. 689. The case is here on the appeal of the surety
company.
In the Federal courts an appeal, as a general rule, lies
only from a final decree. But § 7 of the act of March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 517, as amended April 14, 1906, 34
Stat. 116, c. 1627, establishes an exception by providing
for' an appeal to the Circuit Court of, Appeals from an
interlocutory decree granting or continuing an injunction
or appointing a receiver. It was under this 'section that
the appeal to that court was taken, and on that appeal the
court was authorized to review the whole of the interlocutory -decree, not merely the part granting the injunction, and also to determine whether there was any insuperable objection, in point of jurisdiction or merits, to
the maintenance of the suit, and:, if there was, to direct a
final decree dismissing the bill. Smith v. Vulcan Iron
Works, 165 U. S.518; In re Tampa Suburban Railroad Co.,
168 U. S.583; Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Manufacturing
Co., 177 U. S. 485; Ex parte National Enameling Co., 201
U. S. 156. In the exercise of this authority the Circuit
Court of Appeals reached the conclusion that the suit
could not be maintained in he Circuit Court, and directed
both that. the injunction be dissolved and that the bill be
dismissed. That "vas a final decree, and as the jdrisdiction
of the Circuit Court had been invoked not solely upon the
ground of diverse vitizenship, but also upon the ground
that the suit was, one arising under the act of Congress

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

whereunder the bonds upon which the complainant was
surety were given, a further appeal to this court was
rightly allowed under § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891,
supra, the amount in controversy being in excess of $1,000,
exclusive of costs. Henningsen v. United States Fidelity
and Guaranty Co., 208'U. S. 404; Howard v. United States,
184 U. S. 676, 680. The time prescribed in that section
for taking such an appeal is one year, and this appeal was
taken within that time. The thirty-day limitation in § 7
applies only to appeals thereunder to the Circuit Court of
Appeals. These views make it necessary to deny a motion
to dismiss by-which the appellees challenge the jurisdiction
of this court.
An examination of the bill discloses that its primary
purpose is to obtain an adjudication of certain claims
presented against the estate oF the bankrupt, now in the
course of administration in the bankruptcy court, and of
the priority to be accorded'to them in the distribution of a
fund belonging to the estate and now in the control of that
court. That this fund arose in the due administration of
the estate, is lawfully in the custody of the bankruptcy
court, and is awaiting distribution among such of the
creditors as are entitled to participate therein, is a necessary conclusion from the allegations of the bill, and is
conceded. The complainant does not assert a title to it,
but at most only an equitable right to have it applied to
just claims for labor and'materials, for which the complainant is liable as the bankrupt's surety under the act of
August 13, 1894, supra. The real controversy is over the
merits of some of those claims, the right of the present
holders to assert them for their full amount, and the
priority to be accorded to them in the distribution. By
an intervening petition in the bankruptcy proceeding the
complainant voluntarily submitted its asserted equitable
right to the court of bankruptcy for determination, and
the matter is now pending before the referee. But by

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the present plenary bill in equity it is sought to take from
the bankruptcy court the adjudication'of the claims in
question and the decision of what priority shall be accorded
to them. The Circuit Court of Appeals holds that this
cannot be done consistently with the Bankruptcy Act, and
the correctness of its holding is the principal question presented by this appeal.
We are not here concerned with a suit by a trustee to
recover property in the possession of another who claims
it adversely, nor with a suit against a trustee to recover
property in his possession claimed by another, and therefore the jurisdictional questions incident to suits of that
character need not be considered. But we are concerned
with a suit against a trustee, the purpose of which is to
control, the distribution of a fund in his possession, admittedly belonging to the bankrupt's estate, and to determine to what extent and in what order the several
creditors shall participate therein.
Section 2 of the Bankruptcy Act invests the. courts of
bankruptcy "with such jurisdiction at law and in equity
as will enable them to exercise original jurisdiction in
bankruptcy proceedings,
to,
(2) "Allow claims, disallow claims, reconsider allowed
or disallowed claims, and allow or disallow them against
bankrupt estates;
*.

*

*.

*

*

*

*

*

(6) "Bring in and substitute additional persons or
parties in proceedings in bankruptcy when necessary for
the complete determination of a matter in controversy;
(7) "Cause the estates of bankrupts to be collected,
reduced to money and distributed, and determine controversies in relation thereto, except as herein otherwise
provided;
(13) "Enforce obedience, by bankrupts, officers, and

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other persons to all lawful orders, by fine or imprisonment
or,fine and imprisonment;
(15) "Make such orders, issue such process, and enter
such judgments in addition to those specifically provided
for as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this act."
And the section concludes by saying: "Nothing in this
section contained shall be construed to deprive a court
of bankruptcy of any power it would possess were certain
specific powers not herein enumerated."
Section 23a provides: "The United States circuit courts
shall have jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in
equity, as distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy,
between trustees as such and adverse claimants concerning
the property acquired or clained by the trustees, in the
same manner and to the same extent only as though bankruptcy proceedings had not been instituted and such
controversies had been between the bankrupts and such
adverse claimants."
And § 57k reads: "Claims which have been allowed may
be reconsidered for cause and reallowed or rejected in
whole or in part, according to the equities of the case, before but not after the estate has been closed."
We think it is a necessary conclusion from these and
other provisions of the act that the jurisdiction of the
bankruptcy courts in all "proceedings in bankruptcy" is
intended to be exclusive of all other courts, and that such
proceedings include, among others, all matters of administration, such as the allowance, rejection and reconsideration of claims, the reduction of the estates to money
and its distribution, the determination of the preferences
and priorities to be accorded to claims presented for
allowance and payment in regular course, and the supervision and control of the trustees and others who are employed to assist them.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the-Court.

225 U. S.

The allegations of the bill, other than those relating to
the actions brought against the complainant in Pennsylvania and to its contingent claim against the indemnitor
banks, are intended to invoke (1) a reconsideration and
modification of the referee's order of November 19, 1904,
allowing certain claims as preferred claims for labor and
materials, (2) a determination of the right of the present
holders of those claims to have them rated and paid at
their face value, (3) an inquiry into the charge that the
trustee and others who were employed to assist him in the
management of the estate have been speculating in claims
against it and procuring or acquiescing in their improper
allowance and classification, and (4) a direction that the
just claims for labor and materials be accorded a preference in the distribution. These matters are rightly
subjects for proceedings in bankruptcy and therefore fall
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court of bankruptcy. A distinct purpose of the Bankruptcy Act is to
subject the administration of the estates of bankrupts to
the control of tribunals clothed with authority and charged
with the duty of proceeding to final settlement and distribution in a summary way, as are the courts of bankruptcy. Creditors are entitled to have this authority
exercised, and justly may complain when, as here, an important part of the administration is sought to be effected
through the slower and less appropriate processes of a
plenary suit in equity in another court, involving collateral
and extraneous matters with which they have no concern,
such as the controversy between the complainant and the
indemnitor banks.
Of the fact that the suit was begun in the Circuit Court
with the express leave of the court of bankruptcy it
suffices to say that the latter was not at liberty to surrender its exclusive control over matters of administration
or to confide them to another tribunal.
The portions of the bill seeking an adjudication of the

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO. 219
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

contingent liability of the indemnitor banks to the complainant, and an injunction against the prosecution of the
actions against it in Pennsylvania, and against the institution of other like actions, must fall with the rest of the bill.
They were brought into it in a secondary and dependent
way, and could not then have been made the subjects. of
a separate bill in that jurisdiction. Further discussion of
them is therefore unnecessary.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. COLORADO ANTHRACITE CO.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 227. Argued April 25, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.
An assign within the meaniig of § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, 21
Stat. 287, c. 244, is one who becomes invested with the entryman's
right in the land through the voluntary act of the latter.
While a mere quitclaim deed does not pass after acquired title, the
equitable title of one who was also trustee to acquire the title for the
grantee will pass by such a deed.
Equity usually looks upon that as done which ought to have been
done. The act of June 16, 1880, proceeds upon equitable, principles
and should be administered accordingly.
A remedial statute, such as § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, should be
interpreted with appropriate regard to the spirit which prompted
It; and that act is therefore construed so as to return money erroneously paid for an entry that cannot be confirmed to the party entitled to receive it.
One for whom an entryman initiates and obtains an allowance for an
entry, and to whom the' entryman gives a quitclaim deed is an
assign within the meaning of § 2 of the act of June 16, 1880, and
entitled to recover the purchase price if the entry cannot be confirmed, provided the arrangement was not forbidden by law.
Under § 2 of the act of June 16, 188), the assign of an entryman can-

