OHIO R. R. COMM. v. WORTHINGTON.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF OHIO v. WORTHINGTON, RECEIVER OF WHEELING & LAKE
ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT AND THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO, EASTERN DIVISION; AND PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 505, 776. Argued April 15, 16, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.
In cases of intervention in foreclosure suits, where jurisdiction depends
upon diverse citizenship, jurisdiction of the intervening petition is
determined by that of the original case, but petitions in original
proceedings to enforce rights and protect the exercise of the jurisdiction of the court take their jurisdiction from that of the original
case. St. Louis, K. C. & C. R. R. Co. v. Wabash R. R. Co., 217 U. S.
247.
Where the petition of the receiver, appointed in a case dependent on
diverse citizenship, invokes the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
not only as ancillary to the receivership but also to protect the estate
on grounds involving alleged infractions of the Federal Constitution
,and rights secured thereby, the case is not one in which the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is made final by the act of 1891, and
an appeal lies to this court where the amount in controversy exceeds
one thousand dollars.
Where the case can be taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the fact
that it involves grounds that warrant a direct appeal to this court
does not deprive the Circuit Court of Appeals of jurisdiction.
Under the Constitution of the United States, the National Govern.ment has exclusive authority to :regulate interstate commerce, and
any attempt by the State to regulate rates for interstate transportation is void. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S. _
27..
An order made by a state commissi6n under assumed authority of
the State, which directly burdens interstate commerce, will be enjoined. McNeill v. Southern Railway Co., 202 U. S. 543.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

A rate fixed on that part of interstate carriage which includes the actual placing of the shipment into vessels ready to be carried beyond
the state destination is, as to merchandise intended for points beyond the State, a burden on interstate. commerce and beyond the
power of the State to impose, even if the merchandise is billed from
a point within the State to the point where the vessel is. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. Texas, 204 U. S. 403, distinguished.
Through billing to the point beyond the State is not always necessary
to determine that a shipment is interstate. Southern Pacific Terminal
Co. v. Young, 219 U. S. 498.
A rate fixed by the Ohio Railroad Commission for coal from state points
to "on board" vessels at the port of Huron, Ohio, and intended
for shipment to some point beyond the State undetermined at time
of shipment, and, for convenience, billed to the shippers' own order
at Huron, held to be a rate Pffecting interstate shipment and void
under the commerce clause of the Constitution as an attempt to
regulate interstate commerce.
Quwre: whether transportation under the circumstances of this case
is such a transportation within the State or to points without the
State, partly by railroad and partly by water, as to be within the
jurisdiction and control of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
187 Fed. Rep. 965, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Railroad Commission of the State of Ohio fixing and establishing a r:ate on "lake-cargo coal" aud whether such
order was void as an attempted regulation of interstate
commerce, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thomas H. Hogsett, with whom Mr. Timothy S.
Hogan, Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr. Frank
Davis, Jr., and Mr. Chas. C. Marshall were on the brief,

for appellant.
Mr. W. M. Duncan and Mr. William B. Sanders for

appellee.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The case originated in a bill filed in thi United States

Circuit Court for the Northern District of Ohio, 'Eastern
Division, against the Railroad Commission of Ohio and

OHIO R. R. COMM. v. WORTHINGTON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other parties to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the
.Commission fixing and establishing a rate of .seventy
cents a ton on what is called "lake-cargo coal," transported from the Number Eight Coal Field' in. eastern
Ohio to the ports of Huron and Cleveland, Ohio, on Lake
Erie, for carriage thence by lake vessels. A permanent
injunction was granted in the Circuit Court against the
enforcement of the rate, on the ground that it was a regulation of interstate commerce. An appeal was taken to
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and
that court affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court. (187
Fed. Rep. 965.) From the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals an appeal was taken to this court. An appeal
was also prayed and allowed from the Circuit Court
directly to this court, being case No. 505 on the docket of
this term, which is submitted with the present case. A
petition for a writ of certiorari to the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals has also been filed and submitted upon
briefs.
The first question to be dealt with is one of jurisdiction.
The question of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was raised and decided in that court, which held
that it had jurisdiction of the case, also intimating that
there were grounds of jurisdiction which might have
warranted a direct appeal to this court, and that court
allowed the present appeal to this court.
The argument that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is final is based upon the. contention that, as
Worthington, the complainant in the present case, was
appointed receiver of The Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad
Company in a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern
Division, wherein jurisdiction depended upon diversity of
citizenship, and'since the jurisdiction to entertain an appeal in-an ancillary proceeding is that of the original
case, therefore, under the Circuit Court of Appeals Act,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the' Court.

225 U. S.

the decree of the Court of Appeals is final. It is undoubtedly true that in cases of intervention in foreclosure suits,
where jurisdiction depends upon diverse citizenship, jurisdiction of the intervening petition is determined by that
of the original case. It is equally true that petitions in
original proceedings to enforce rights and to protect the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the court take their jurisdiction from that of the original case. St. Louis, K. C. &
C. R. R. Co. v. Wabash R. R. Co., 217 U. S. 247, and the
many previous cases in this court therein cited.
An examination of the bill in this case, which was filed
under the authority of the Circuit Court, shows that the
order of the Commission was attacked, not only upon the
ground that its findings were alleged to be unsupported by
the testimony and to have been made upon improper
consideration of the facts, but also because the order
affected and interfered with interstate commerce, in which
the complainant was engaged and over which the Railroad Commission of Ohio had no authority because of
the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. It
further was alleged that the owners of the. property constituting the receivership estate would be deprived thereof
without due process of law; that they would be denied the
equal protection of the laws, and that their property
would be taken. without compensation. It thus appears
that jurisdiction was invoked, not only because the present
case is ancillary to the receivership suit, which depended
upon diverse citizenship, but upon grounds which involve
alleged infractions of the Federal Constitution and rights
secured thereby. The case was therefore one which
might have been taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and the fact that it involved grounds which might have
warranted a direct appeal to this court did not deprive
the Circuit Court of Appeals of jurisdiction. American
Sugar Refining Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277; Macfadden v. United States, 213 U. S. 288.

OHIO R. R. COMM. v'. WORTHINGTON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The question then is: Is this one of the cases made final
in the Circuit Court of Appeals by the act creating that
court? The sixth section of that act provides that the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals "shall be final
in all cases in which the jurisdiction is dependent entirely
upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being
aliens and citizens of the United States or citizens of
different States; also in all cases arising under the patent'
laws, under the revenue laws, and under the - criminal
laws, and in admiralty cases." In all other cases there is
a right of review by this court if the matter in controversy
exceeds one thousand dollars. It is averred-in the bill and
admitted in the answer that the amount in dispute exceeds in value the sum of $5,000. "The case is therefore
one not made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals; and
the appeal to this-court was properly allowed. Spreckels
Sugar Ref. Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; Macfadden v.
United States, 213 U. S. 288, 294; Standard Paint'Co. v.
TrinidadAsphalt Manufacturing Company, 220 U. S.446,
460.
Case No. 505 is dismissed and the petition for writ of
certiorari is denied.
Coming now to the merits of the case, the Circuit Court
found the facts to be as follows:
"It appears that bituminous coal, such as is mined in
the No. 8 District, is classified by the complainant, for
tariff purposes, as (a) railway fuel, being coal sold to railroad companies; (b) lake-cargo coal, that is, coal intended
for shipment by lake to points in the Northwest; and
(c) commercial coal, comprising coal for commercial and
domestic use, not 'included in the first two classes.
"The No. 8 Coal District of Ohio is situated in Jefferson,
Harrison and Belmont Counties, and the members of the
Pittsburg Vein Operators' Association of Ohio are interested in mining coal in that district. The traffic is large,
about 400,000 tons-of lake-ca:rgo coal being shipped over

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the complainant's railroad from that district in 1909, and
transshipped by vessel to points in the Northwest.
"At and prior to the time of the complaint being lodged
with the Railroad Commission by the Operators' Association, the tariff rate in force on the complainant's railroad
on lake-cargo coal from the No. 8 District to Huron and
Cleveland, Ohio, f. o. b. vessel, was ninety cents per ton.
The rate covers, in addition to the rail transportation,
the service of unloading the coal from the cars into vessels
and trimming it in the holds of the vessels, so that they
can safely-proceed.
"The rate on commercial coal to Huron or Cleveland
is $1.00 pet ton.
. "The vessels.for lake-cargo coal are generally furnished
by the operators, but the coal is sometimes sold f. o. b.
vessel, the title to the coal in that case passing to the
purchaser upon being properly loaded into the vessel.
"The coal in question is shipped from the mines to
Huron or Cleveland, principally Huron, where the complainant has large dock facilities and expensive machinery
and appliances for unloading coal into vessels, during the
season of navigation, simply marked 'Lake coal' consigned
to the operator, or to some office employ6 whose name is
used as a mere matter of convenience for the purpose of
designating a particular grade of coal. The operator
notifies the railroad that at a certain time a vessel will be
at Huron to load so many tons of. a particular grade of
coal. The railroad then picks up such cars of the operator's coal as are necessary to fill the cargo and moves
them on to the dock alongside of the vessel, loads the
vessel, trims or distributes the coal properly in her hold,
and furnishes the shipper with a cargo statement showing
the car numbers and weights and total tons of coal in the
vessel, on which information the bill of lading for the
vessel shipment is made out.
"It appears that all the coal shipped at the lake-cargo

0HI0 R. R. COMM. v. WORTHINGTON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rate remains on the cars of the complainant until unloaded
into a vessel, unless it should be diverted en route and
devoted to some other purpose, but in that case the lakecargo rate does not apply. For instance, if it should be
diverted to commercial use at Huron, the rate on commercial coal, which is $1.00 a ton, would govern.
"There is testimony to the effect that when the coal
leaves the mines it is not known in what vessel it will be
loaded nor to what particular ultimate destination it will
go, and that sometimes such coal is sold and vessels arranged for after the coal is at Huron, but it is subject to
demurrage charge if it remains on the cars beyond a
specified time.
"All coal thus loaded in vessels is, and must practically
be, carried to points in other States-or to Canada. The
lake ports in Ohio receive coal by rail from interior points,
but not by boat from other 'Ohio ports. It might be that
a quantity of coal, so small as to be negligible, is unloaded
on one of the Ohio islands in Lake Erie, but no substantial
importance is claimed for this circumstance nor could be
given to it."
This finding of fact was practically approved and
adopted in the Circuit Court. of Appeals, and we have no
occasion to dissent from its correctness.
The question thus presented is: Was the Railroad Commission of Ohio authorized to put in force the rate in
question as to lake-cargo coal? It is not necessary to
review the cases in this court which have settled beyond
peradventure that the National Government has exclusive authority to regulate interstate commerce under the
Constitution of the United States; nor to do more than,
reaffirm the equally well set~tled proposition that over.
interstate commerce transportation rates the State has
no jurisdiction and that an attempt to regulate such rates,
by the State or under its authority is void. Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Company v. Eubank, 184 U. S. 27.

.108

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U.S.

And an order made by a state commission under assumed
authority of the State, which directly burdens or regulates
interstate commerce, will be enjoined. McNeill v. Southern Railway Company, 202 U. S. 543.
The question is, then, one of fact. Does the transportation which the rate prescribed by the Railroad Commission
of Ohio covers constitute interstate commerce?
It is true that the shipper transports the coal ordinarily
upon bills of lading to himself, or to another for himself,
at Huron on. Lake Erie. The so-called "lake-cargo coal"
is necessarily shipped beyond Huron. If it stops there,
another and higher rate applies. Practically all of it is
put on vessels for carriage beyond the State, usually to
upper lake ports, and then and only then the seventy-cent
rate fixed by the Commission applies. This seventy-cent
rate covers the transportation of the coal to Huron, the
placing of it on board vessels and, if necessary, trimming
it for the continuance of its interstate journey. It is true,.
as argued by the learned counsel for the Commission, that
this coal may be accumulated in large quantities at Huron,
and only taken out of the accumulated lots from time to
time, when it is to be put upon vessels and shipped out
of the State, but it must always be remembered that
this seventy-cent rate applies solely to such coal as is' in
fact placed upon vessels for carriage to beyond the state
points, and, as the Circuit Court said, the substance of
things is not changed by the fact that a small part may be
unloaded at one of the Ohio islands in Lake Erie. The
situation then comes to this, that the rate put in force is
applicable only to coal which is to be carried from the
mine in Ohio to the lake, there placed upon vessels and
thence carried to upper lake ports beyond the State. By
every fair test the transportation of this coal from the
mine to the upper lake ports is an interstate carriage, intended by the parties to be such, and the rate fixed by
the Commission which is in controversy here is applicable

OHIO R. R. COMM. v. WORTHINGTON.

225 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

alone to coal which is thus, from the beginning to the end
of its transportation, in interstate carriage, and such rate
is intended to and does cover an integral part of that carriage, the transportation from the mine to the Lake Erie
port, the placing upon the vessel and the trimming or
distributing in the hold, if required, so that the vessel may
complete such interstate carriage.
Much stress is laid in argument for the Commission
upon the fact that the coal is billed only to Huron, and
it is said that in that aspect of the case it is controlled by
Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company v. Texas,
204 U. S. 403. There it was sought to hold a railroad
company upon a shipment of corn from Texarkana to
Goldthwaite, Texas, for a violation of the regulations
of the state railroad commission applicable to intrastate
carriers. The company contended that the shipment
was in fact an interstate carriage from Hudson, South
Dakota, to Goldthwaite, Texas. The facts showed that
the corn was carried upon a bill of lading from Hudson to
Texarkana, and that afterwards, some five. days later,
it was shipped from Texarkana to Goldthwaite, both
points in the State of Texas. This was held to be an intrastate shipment unaffected by the fact that the shipper
intended to reship the corn from Texarkana to Goldthwaite, for, as this court held, the corn had been carried
to Texarkana upon a contract for interstate shipment,
and the reshipment five days later upon a new contract
was an independent intrastate shipment. It is evident
from this statement of facts that the case is quite different
from the one under consideration. There a new and independent contract for intrastate shipment 'was made,
the interstate transportation having been completely
performed; here a rate is fixed on that part of an interstate
carriage which includes the actual placing of the coal
into vessels ready to te carried beyond the state destination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

That the test of through billing is not necessarily determinative is shown in the late case of Southern Pacific
Terminal Company v. Interstate Commerce Commission
and Young, 219 U. S. 498. In that case Young bought
cotton seed cakes at various points in Texas and shipped
them to himself at the port of Galveston, where they were
prepared for export. This court held that such transportation was within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission and that the special privileges given
by the Southern Pacific Terminal Company to Young on
the wharf at Galveston were undue preferences in his
favor. As to the fact that the shipments were not made
on through bills of lading, but were to Galveston from,
other places in Texas, this court said (p. 527):
"It makes no difference, 'therefore, that the shipments
of the products were not made on through bills of lading
or whether their initial point was Galveston or some other
place in Texas. They were all destined for export and
by' their delivery to the Galveston, Harrisburg and San
Antonio Railway they must be considered as having been
delivered to a carrier for transportation to their foreign
destination, the Terminal Company being a part of the
railway for such purpose. The case, therefore, comes
under Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, where it is said that
goods are in interstate, and necessarily as well in foreign,
commerce when they have 'actually started in the course
of transportation to another State, or delivered to a carrier
for transportation."'
It is contended that this transportation of the coal
under the rate fixed by the Railroad Commission is not
within the power and authority of the Interstate Commerce Commission under ยง 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, which'makes the provisions of the act inapplicable
to the transportation of property wholly within one State,
and not shipped to or from a foreign country from or to a
State or Territory; and, furthermore, that a transportation

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER-CO.
225 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

of the character here in question is only within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission when
it is a transportation partly by railroad and partly by
water when both are used under a common control,
management, or arrangement for a continuous carriage
or shipment; and therefore that the subject-matter in
question is left within the state jurisdiction. On the other
hand, it is contended that this transportation iswithin
the jurisdiction of the Comminssion under the Act to Regulate Commerce. It is enough to now hold,. as we do, that
the establishing of the rate in question is an attempt to
regulate interstate commerce and is therefore beyond the
power of the State or a commission assuming to act under
its authority.
We therefore reach the conclusion that under the facts
shown in this case the Railroad Commission, in fixing the
rate of seventy cents for the transportation above described, attempted to directly regulate and- control interstate commerce, and, for that reason, the enforcement of
its order should be enjoined.
Decree affirmed.

BIGELOW v. OLD DOMINION COPPER MINING
AND SMELTING CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDICIAL COURT OF THE STATE
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

Nos. 191, 192.

Argued March 5, 6, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

One of two joint tort-feasors was sued in the Circuit Court of theUnited
States for New York, jurisdiction being based solely on, diversity
of citizenship, and the bill was dismissed; the other joint tort-feasor,
who resided in Massachusetts, and was not, and could no,, be made"
a party defendant in the New York suit, having been sued in the
state court of Massachusetts, set up the New York judgment,

