OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION, CINCINNATI, HAMILTON & DAYTON RAILWAY COMPANY, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.

No. 780. Argued January 11, 12, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.
Subdivision 2 of § 1 of the act creating the Commerce Court, now § 207
of the new'Judicial Code, giving the Commerce Court jurisdiction
of cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul or suspend orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, confers on that court jurisdiction
only to entertain complaints as to affirmative orders of the Commission.
Under the act, the Commerce Court is not given jurisdiction to redress
complaints based exclusively, as in this case, on- the :ground' that
the Commission has refused the relief asked on the ground that it
could not award it.
To construe the act creating the Commerce Court so as to give it jurisdiction to originally interpret the administrative features of the
Interstate Commerce Act and to construe a refusal of the Commission
to grant relief as an atirmative order would frustrate the legislative
policy which led to the adoption of the act and would multiply the
evils which it was designed to prevent.
The act creating the Commerce Court was intended to be a part of the
existing system for regulating interstate commerce. While originally
the duty of determining whether an order of the Commission should
be enforced carried with it the obligation to consider both the facts
and the law, it had come to pass prior to the adoption of the act
creating the Commerce Court that the jurisdiction of courts over orders of the Commission is confined to determining whether they were
in violation of the Constitution or failed to conform to statutory
authority, 'and to ascertaining whether power had been arbitrarily
exercised beyond the power conferred.
Under the express reservation in the last paragraph of § 207, Judicial
Code, a claim that a constitutional right asserted in a petition to the
Interstate Commerce Commission has been denied by that body, if
independent of all questions of rights and remedies under the Inter-

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

283

Argument for the United States.

state Commerce Act, is'beyond ihe jurisdiction of the Commerce
Court.
Where the constitutional question is depcndent upon provisions of the
Interstato Commerce Act, it is subject to the precedent action of
the Commission, as to Which the Commerce Court only has jurisdiction in case of a prior affirmative order of the Commission.
The Commerce Court has no jurisdiction over a claim made by the
owner of private cars to recover oa a money demand based on the
illegality of charges alleged to have been wrongfully exacted by the
railroad companies and which the Commission had refused to allow.
188 Fed. Rep. 221,, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the statute
creating the Commerce Court and the determination of extent of jurisdiction of that court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. George H. Waringlon for appellants.'
Mr. Francis B. James, for appellants in. Nos. 773 and
774, argued simultaneously herewith. See p. 302, post..
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for tLe United States:1
The Commerce Court was given no jurisdiction to set
aside the order of the Commission which merely refused
relief and dismissed the petition. The Commerce Court
given no jurisdiction not heretofore possessed by the
-,is
Circuit7 Courts; and there is no precedent in the common
law for a suit in equity to establish a future, reasonable
rate, or to enjoin the future operation of a rule of a railroad
on the ground that it was unreasonable.
Nor has there been any instance in which, since the
establishment of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
any Federal court has undertaken that power, or has been
asked to undertake it.
•See also abstract of argument of appellant in Nos. 773 and 774,
p. 303, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Even the Interstate Commerce Commission itself had
no authority to establish reasonable rates for the future,
prior to the express grant of that power by the Hepburn
Act.
The legislation of Congress clearly shows that no such
jurisdiction was intended to be given either to the Circuit
Courts by the Hepburn Act, or to the Commerce Court
by the Commerce Court Act.
The Hepburn Act shows in several sections that only
affirmative orders of the Commission, that is to say, orders
which required some change from existing conditions, were
the subject of jurisdiction in the Circuit Courts.
Similarly, the Commerce Court Act in several sections
indicates the same intention.
This particular petition asked as one element of relief
that the Commerce Court should require the railroads to
pay money to the petitioners. The court had no power to
take jurisdiction of such a claim for money, because such
claims are left by the Commerce Court Act to the Circuit
Courts. The Commerce Court would have been given the
aid of a jury system if it had been intended to have this
jurisdiction.
Mr. P: J'. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Comnission,
Mr. Edward Barton for the Cincinnati, Hamilton &
Dayton Railway Company, appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Ha'(ing three manufacturing plants, one at Ivorydale,
Ohio, a second at Port Ivory, New York, and a third at
Kansas City, Kansas, in which they carried on the business
of refining cottonseed and other oils and of manufacturing
soap and other products from grease and oil, the Procter &

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

Gamble Company, to facilitate the transportation to their
factories of-the substances required for their operation
and of shipping out the finished products, became the
owner of about five hundred railroad tank cars. The cars
were exclusively devoted to the business of the company
in the following manner: On the property of the company
in the yards about their factories there were railroad tracks
belonging to the company which served for holding empty
or loaded cars, the cars thus situated being held for storage
6nd for movement from place to place, as business required.
At each of the factories there was also an interchange track
connected with, the tracks in the yards and with the tracks
of the railroad company or companies through whom the
business of shipping in interstate commerce to and from
the factories was' carried on. The movement of cars to
the interchange tracks for outward shipment and from
the interchange tracks when they were left there by railroad companies was at two Of the factories carried on
by the company through its own employ~s and motive
power. At the other one this work was done by a railroad
company, who made an independent and special charge
for the service. The transportation of the private tank
cars of the corporation by the railroad companies was
governed by established rules, and .the price paid to the
railroads for transporting the commodities of the company
in its private cars was the regular price fixed for such
commodities in the, established tariffs. The railroads,
however, paid to the company for the use of its private
cars a fixed sum per mile, this payment being also stated
in the regular established tariffs-in compliance with law.
A portion of the carrier's rule (Rule 29), relating to the
subject of compensation for hauling such private tank
cars is in the margin.
IRule 29. (See. 1.) In providing ratings in this classification for
articles in tank cars, the carriers whowe tariffs are governed by this
classification do not assume any obligation to furnish tank cars in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

In 1910 among others the railroads engaged in transporting tank cars from the plants of the Procter & Gamble
Company adopted a system of rules governing the payment of demurrage by shippers. -The provisions of these
rules pertinent to this case are excerpted in the margin.'
The rules in question were prepared by a committee of
the National Association of Railroad Commissioners cornposed of a representative from each State having a railcases where they do not own or have not made arrangements for supplying such equipment. When tank cars are furnished by shippers or
owners, mileage at the rate of three-quartcr,4 (Y4) of one cent per mile
will be allowed for the use of such tank cars, loaded or empty, provided

the cars are properly equipped. No mileage will be allowed on cars
switched at terminals nor for movement of cars under empty freight
car tariffs.
1 Rule I.
Cars subject to Rules.
Cars held for or by consignors or consignees for loading, unloading,
. forwarding directions, or for any other purpose, are subject to these
demurrage rules, except as follows:
(a) Cars loaded with live stock.
(b) Empty cars placed for loading coal at mines or mine sidings, or

coke at coke ovens.
(c) Empty private caro stored on carrier's or private tracks, provided
such cars have not been placed or tendered for loading on the order of
a shipper.
NoT.-Private cars while in railroad service, whether on carrier's or
private tracks, are subject to these demurrage rules to the same extent
as cars of railroad ownership.
(Empty private cars are in railroad service from the time they are
placed by the carriers for loading or tendered for loading on the orders
of a shipper. Private cars under lading are in railroad service until the
lading is removed and cars are regularly released. 'Cars which belong

to an industry performing its own switching service are in railroad service from the time they are placed by the industry upon designated interchange tracks and thereby tendered to the carrier for movement. If
such cars are subsequently returned empty, they are out of service
when withdrawn by the industry from the interchange; if returned
under load, railroad service is not at an end until the lading is duly re-

moved.)

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

287

Opinion of the Court.

road commission and a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and were adopted in convention by
the National Association and were subsequently approved
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, although putting them in force was not imperatively prescribed by that
body.
The Procter & Gamble Company, dissatisfied with the
regulations concerning demurrage, in so far as they imposed in certain respects charges upon its tank cars, filed
a complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission
charging the rules to be repugnant to the act to regulate
commerce because unjust and oppressive and because to
enforce them would create preferences and discriminations
forbidden by the act. After hearing, the Commission
made a report declaring that the rules complained of were
in no sense in conflict with the act to regulate commerce,
and on the contrary conformed to that act and tended
to prevent and repress unlawful preferences and discriminations. An award of relief was therefore denied.
In February, 1911, the Procter &'Gamble Company filed
a petition in the Commerce Court of the United States
making defendants the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission and the railroads who had been complained of in the proceeding before the Commission. The
petition recited the facts stated above as to the character
of the business of the petitioner, the ownership of tank
cars, etc., the establishment of the rules for demurrage,
their repugnancy to' the act to regulate commerce, the
injury which'had resulted from being compelled to pay
the charges for demurrage in accordance with the rules,
the application made to the Commission and the refusal
of that body to award relief. The conception upon which
the petition was based is shown in the excerpt in the margin,' wherein it was also charged that the order of, the
'Complainant avers that said order of said Interstate Commerce
Commission, in dismissing its complaint as above set forth, is null and

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Commission dismissing the complaint as above set forth
"is null and void and beyond the power of said Interstate
Commerce Commission, in that it sustains the validity
said demurrage rules."
of
The prayer was as follows:
"Wherefore, complainant prays that the aforesaid order
of said Interstate Commerce Commission made in said
cause No. 3208 on November 14, 1910, be set aside and
annulled, and that the defehdant railway companies, and
each of them, be enjoined from collecting or attempting to
collect any demurrage charges upon complainant's loaded
tank cars after said cars have been delivered to complain,ant and placed upon tracks owned or controlled by it;
and further, that said defendant railway companies and
each of them be required to repay to complainant herein
all sums found to have been wrongfully collected by them,
or any of them, under the rule here complained of; and
void and beyond the- power of said Interstate Commerce Commission,
in that it sustains the validity of Rule I of said demurrage; that said

Rule I in so far as it provides that privately owned cars under lading on
.private tracks are in railroad service and subject to the demurrage
charges imposed by said tariffs until the lading is rermoved, is unjust
and unreasonable, in that it deprives complainant of the right to use
its said private cars upon private tracks for its own purposes without
paying the defendant railway companies demurrage charges therefor,
after said private cars have been delivered to complainant and have
actually ceased to be engaged in railroad service; that the charges
exacted by the defendant railway companies of complainant under said
provision of said rule permit said defendants to take complainant's
property without compensation, and deprive it of -its property without
due process of.law, in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
and particularly of Article V in amendment thereof, and that said provision of said rule is in violation of the said Act to Regulate Commerce
and particularly of §§ 1 and 15 thereof as amended June.29, 1906; that
said defendants are now exacting such demurrage charges under the
provisions, of said rule, and will continue to do so, unless the said order
of said Interstate Commerce Commission is setaside and annulled by
this court, and defendant railway companies are enjoined from enforcing the provisions of said rule..

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

289

Opinion of the Court.

that complainant be, granted such other and further relief
as it may be entitled to in the premises."
The railroads answered the bill. The United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission appearing for
the purpose, challenged the jurisdiction of the court to
entertain the cause, and moved to dismiss, upon this general ground: "Because the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission complained of directed no affirmative
relief and the negative order of the Commission dismissing
the complaint affords no ground for an action in this
court;" and upon-the following more detailed specifications filed on behalf of the United States:
"(a) It prays thAt the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission be enjoined, when said order directed
no action against any party and. therefore the same is not
subject either to enforcement or to injunction.
"(b) It prays that the defendant common carriers, who
are not proper parties to this proceeding except on their
own motion, be enjoined from collecting the demurrage
mentioned, when no order inhibiting the same has been
made by the Interstate Commerce Commission, and in
the absence of such an order this court has no power to
grant such relief.
"(c) It prays that the defendant common carriers be
required to repay to complainant all sums- heretofore
wrongfully collected as demurrage, when this court has
no power or jurisdiction to grant such relief, either with or
without an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
directing such repayment."
The court, declining at the threshold to consider the
demurrers and motion to dismiss, postponed their consideration until the hearing on the merits. There was a
consent by all the defendants except the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission that the case
be heard upon the evidence and documents introduced before the, Commission and the report of that body. The
VOL. CCXXV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U.S.

United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission,
however, on the overruling of its demurrer and a refusal to
grant its motion to dismiss, elected to stand thereon and
declined to plead further.
In disposing of the case, the court considered it in a
two-fold aspect-first, as to its jurisdiction; and, second,
as to the merits-of the case.- On the first subject it held,
a, that it had jurisdiction of the cause, and that the refusal
of the Interstate Commerce Commission to afford relief to
the Procter & Gamble Company was, for the purposes of
jurisdiction of the court, the exact equivalent of an order
of the Commission granting affirmative relief, and, b, as a
corollary of this power it was further decided that there
was jurisdiction to award pecuniary relief for demurrage
if any Was illegally exacted. On. the merits, however, it
was decided that the Interstate Commerce Commission
had rightfully refused to grant relief and that there was
no foundation for the contention that the property of
the company in its private tank cars was taken without
due process of law by the demurrage regulations. On this
subject it was declared that as the company had accepted
the provisions of the published tariffs concerning the use
of 'the tank cars, therefore those cars were submitted to
the regulations which the carriers had lawfully established.
In other words, the court concluded that because the company had availed of the proffer of the railroads to use the
cars in transportation and pay for their use a stated sum,
the company had acquired no right to disregard restrictions against preferences and discriminations embodied
in the act to regulate commerce.
The case was then brought here by the appeal of the
Procter & Gamble Company. That company insists that
the court below erred in not awarding the relief which was
asked and in dismissing the petition. On the other hand '
the Interstate Commerce Commission and the railroads
insist that the court was right in refusing relief and dis-

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

291

Opinion of the Court.

missing the bill. Before we can come, if at all, to consider
the merits, however, it is necessary to dispose of the question concerning the jurisdiction of the court below to
entertain the petition, because the United States insists
at bar, as it did in the lower court, that the court erred
in overruling the demurrer to the jurisdiction and refusing
to dismiss the cause for want of jurisdiction.
The provisions of the act to establish the Commerce
Court fixing the jurisdiction of that court are stated in
the first section of the act of June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539,
c. 309, now § 207 of the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1911,
36 Stat. 1087, 1148. And in view of the necessity of having the provisions of the section immediately in mind we
reproduce them. They are as follows:
"SEc. 207. The Commerce Court shall have the jurisdiction possessed by, circuit courts of the United States
and the judges thereof immediately prior to June eighteenth, nineteen hundred and ten, over all cases of the
following kinds:
"First. All cases for the enforcement, otherwise than
by adjudication and collection of a forfeiture or penalty or
by infliction of criminal punishment, of any order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission other than for the payment of money.
"Second. Cases brouglht to enj oin, set aside, annul, or
suspend in whole or in part any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
"Third. Such cases as by section three of the Act entitled 'An Act to further regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the States,' approved February :nineteenth, nineteen hundred and three, are authorized to be
maintained in a circuit coui of the.United States.
"Fourth. All such mandamus proceedings as under!
the provisions of section twenty or section twenty-three of
the Act entitled 'An Act to regulate commerce,' approved
February fourth, eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

amended, are authorized to be maintained in a circuit
court of the United States.
"Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
as enlarging the jurisdiction now possessed by the circuit
courts of the United States or the judges thereof, that is
hereby transferred to andvested in the Commerce Court.
"The jurisdiction of the Commerce Court over cases of
the foregoing classes shall be exclusive; but this chapter
shall not affect the jurisdiction possessed by any circuit
or district court of the United States over cases or proceedings of a kind not within the above-enumerated
classes."
. The question to be decided is this: Does the authority
with which the Commerce Court is clothed in virtue of
these provisions invest that body with jurisdiction to redress complaints based exclusively upon the conception
that the Interstate Commerce Commission, in a matter
submitted to its judgment and within its competency to
consider, has mistakenly refused, upon the ground that no
right to the relief claimed was given by the act to regulate
commerce, to award the relief which was claimed at its
hands? In other words, the important question is, Is the
authority of the Commerce Court confined to enforcing or
restraining' as the case may require, affirmative orders of
the Commission, or has it the power to exert its own judgment by originally interpreting the administrative features
of the act to regulate commerce and upon that assumption
treat a refusal of the Commission to grant relief as an affirmative order and accordingly pass on its correctness?
Turning for the elucidation of the question to the juris-,
dictional provisions, 'it is plain that although all of the '
four numbered subdivisions composing the section may
serve to throw light upon the issue for decision the solution
of the question must intrinsically be found in a correct
interpretation of the second subdivision. We say this
because clearly the first deals alone with cases for the en-

PROCIER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

293

Opinion of the Court.

forcement of orders of the Commission as therein described; the third deals only with cases brought under
the act of February 19, 19032, which is wholly foreign to
the subject here reviewed, since the act referred to relate"
only to proceedings to enjoin either discriminations or
departures by carriers from tiheir published rates, and the
fourth refers exclusively to the right to mandamus conformably to § 20 or 23 of the act to regulate commerce,
which sections are concerned with the performance of
certain duties imposed upon carriers by the act to regulate
commerce. The words of this second subdivision are:
"Second. Cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend in whole or in part any order. of the Interstate Commerce Commission."
Giving to these words their natural significance we
think it follows that they confer jurisdiction only to entertain complaints as to affirmative orders of the Commission; that is, they give the court the right to take cognizance when properly made of complaints concerning the
legality of orders, rendered by the Commission and confer
power to relieve parties in whole or in part from the duty
of obedience to orders which are found to be illegal. No
resort to exposition can add to the cogency with which the
conclusion stated is compelled by the plain meaning of
the words themselves. But if it be conceded for the, sake
of argument that the language of the provision is ambiguous a consideration of the context of the act will at
once clarify the subject. Thus, the first subdivision provides for the enforcement of orders, that is, the compelling
of the doing or abstaining from doing of acts embraced
by a previous affirmative comnmand of the Commission,
and the second (the one with which we are concerned)
dealing with the same subject from a reverse point of
view, provides for the contingency of a complaint made
to the court by one seeking to prevent the enforcement
of orders of the Commission such as are contemplated by

OCTOBER TERM,. 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the first paragraph. In other words, by the :cobperation
of the two paragraphs, authority. is given on the one hand,
to enforce compliance with the orders of the Commission
if lawful, and, on the other hand, power is conferred to
stay the enforcement of an illegal order- The other pro-visionsof the act are equally convincing. Thus, § 3 (208),
.provides that the mere pendency of a suit to enj'oin, set
aside, annul or suspend an order of the Commission "shall
not stay or suspend the operation of such order" but confers upon the court the power, under circumstances statedi
to restrain or suspend in whole or in part the operation
of -an order. The same section, moreover, causes the
meaning of the provision, if possible, to become clearer
by making a finding that irreparable injury will result
from the operation of an order sought to be enforced, essential to the granting of an order or injunction restraining
or suspehding its enforcement.
We might well be content to rest our conclusion upon
the considerations just stated. In view, however, of the
importance of the subject we do not do so, but shall consider the matter in a broader aspect for the purpose of
demonstrating that to give to the statute a meaning contrary to that which we have found results from its text;
and therefore to recognize the existence in the court below
of the power which it deemed it possessed would result in
frustrating the legislative public policy which led to the
adoption of the act to regulate commerce, would render
impossible a resort to the remedies which the statute was
enacted to afford, would multiply the evils which the act
to. regulate commerce was adopted to prevent, and thus
bring about disaster by creating confusion and conflict
where clearness and unity of action was contemplated.
It cannot be disputed that the act creating the Commerce
Court was intended to be but a part of the existing system
for the regulation -of interstate commerce, which was established by virtue of the original adoption in 1887 of the

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

act to regulate commerce, °.and which was expanded by
the repeated,, amendments of that act which followed,
developed in practical execution by the rulings of the body
(Interstate Commerce Commission), upon whom was cast
the administrative -enforcement of the act,, the whole
elucidated and sanctioned by a long line of decisions of
this court. That' in adopting the provisions concerning
the Commerce Court and making it part of the system, it
was not intended to destroy the existing machinery or
method of regulation, but to cause it to be more efficient
by affording a more harmonious means for s~curing the
judicial enforcement of the act to regulate commerce is
certain. The act creating the Commerce Court (June 18,
1910, 36 Stat. 539, c. 309) was entitled "An Act to create
a Commerce Court, and to amend the Act entitled 'An
Act to regulate commerce,' ipproved February fourth,
eighteen hundred and eighty-seven, as heretofore amended,
and for other purposes." The first six sections, which
called into being the Commerce Court and defined its
powers, all demonstrate the purpose as above stated, that
is, to adjust the powers and duties of the newly created
court in such manner as to cause them to accord with the
system of regulation provided by the act to regulate commerce as it then existed.
What was then the existing system and the functions
which the new court was created to perform will be conelusively shown by a brief outline of the scope and purpose
of the system which arose from the enactment of the act
to regulate commerce (Act February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24
Stat. 379) and its-development. By that'act as originally
enacted many regulations and consequent, duties were
imposed upon carriers in the interest of the public and of
shippers which did not theretofore exist, and various administrative safeguards were formulated, all of which, in
their very essence, required,'first, for their compulsory enforcement the exercise of official functions of an adminis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

trative nature, and, second, for their harmonious development an official unity of action which could only be
brought about by a single administrative initiative and
primary control. To that end the act (§ 11) created an
administrative body endowed with what may be in some
respects qualified as quasi-judicial attributes, to whom
was confided the enforcement of those provisions of the act
which essentially exacted unity in order that they might
beneficially operate. And for the purposes stated, to the
body thus created was committed the trust of enforcing
the act in the respect stated, of determining, limited as
to the subject-matters to which we have referred, whether
the provisions of the act had been violated and if so of
primarily enforcing the act by awarding appropriate relief. The statute, therefore, necessarily, while it created
new rights in favor of shippers, in order to make those
rights fruitful as to the subjects with which the statute
dealt coming within the scope of the administrative unity
which we have imentioned primarily made the judgment
of the administrative body to whom the statute confided
the enforcement of the act in the respects stated a prerequisite to a resort to the courts. In other words, as to
the subjects stated the act did not giye to the courts power
to hear the complaint of a party concerning a violation of
the act, but only conferred power to give-effect to such
complaints, when by previous submission to the Commission, they had been sanctioned by a command of that
body.
In the long interval* which intervened between 1887
when the act to regulate commerce was enacted and
June 18, 1910, when the Commerce Court act was passed
we have learned of no instance where it was held or even
seriously asserted, that as to subjects which in their nature
were administrative and within the competency of the
Commission to decide, there was power in a court, by an
exercise of original action, to enforce its conceptions as

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

to the meaning of the act to regulate commerce by dealing
directly with the subject irrespective of any prior affirmative command or action by the Interstate Commerce
Commission. On the contrary, by a long line of decisions,
whereby applications to enforce orders of the Commission
were considered and disposed of or where requests to
restrain the enforcement of such orders were passed upon,
it appears by the reasoning indulged in that it was never
considered that there was power in the courts as an original
question without previous affirmative action by the Commission to deal with what might be termed in a broad
sense the administrative features of the act to regulate
commerce by determining as an original question that
there had been a compliance or non-compliance with the
provisions of the act. The subject is illustrated and made
clear by the rulings in State qf Washington, ex rel. Oregon
Railroad & Navigation Co. v. Fairchild, 224 U. S. 510;
Robinson v. Balto. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S. 506; Southern Railway Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, and Texas & Pacific Ry. v. A bilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426. Thd
latter case especially will serve to point out that where
the power of original action by a court without previous
action of the Commission was insisted upon, it was based
upon the conception that the particular subject-matter
as to which such power was asserted was by the express
terms of the act to regulate commerce not embraced
within the subjects primarily confided by the act exclusively to the administrative authority of'the CommisSion.

Originally the duty of the courts to determine whether an
order of the Commission should or should not be enforced
carried with it the obligation to consider both the facts
and the law. But it had come to pass prior to the passage
Qf the-act creating the Commerce Court that in considering
the subject of orders of the Commission, for the purpose
of enforcing or restraining their enforcement, the courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

were confined by statutory operation to determining
whether there had been violations of the, Constitution, a
want of conformity to statutory authority, or of ascer'taining whether power had been so arbitrarily exercised
as virtually to transcend the authority conferred although
it may be not technically doing so. Int. Com. Com. v.
Union Pacific R. R., 222 U. S. 541, 547; Int. Corn. Comm.
v. Ill. Cent. R. R., 215 U. S. 452. So also at the time the
law creating the Commerce Court was passed, suits to

compel obedience to orders of the Commission or to restrain.an enforcement of such orders were required to be
brought in the Circuit Court'of the United States in the
district where a carrier or one of two or more carriers to
whom the order was directed had its principal operating
office.

In view of the provisions of the act to regulate commerce just referred to as originally enacted, of the legislative evolution of that act, its uniform practical enforcement and the constant judicial interpretation which

we have thus briefly indicated, it is impossible, we think,
in reason, to give to the act creating the Commerce Court
the meaning affixed to it by the court below, since to do
so would be virtually to overthrow the entire system
which had arisen from the adoption and enforcement of
the act to regulate commerce. First, because as the previous ascertainment by the Commission on complaint
made to it as to whether violations of the act had been

committed, with reference to the subjects as to which
previous action was required, was an essential prerequisite
to a right to complain in a court, the interpretation given
below would, by destroying the necessity for the prerequisite, action of the Commission, operate to create a vast
body of rights which had no existence at the time the
Commerce Court act was passed. Second, because the
recognition of a right in a court to assert the power now
claimed would of necessity amount to a substitution of

PROCTER & GAMBLE v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

the court for the Commission or at all events would be to
create a divided authority on a matter where from the
beginning primary singleness of action and unity was.
deemed to be imperative. Third, because the result of
the interpretation would be to bring about the contradiction and the confusion which it had been the inflexible
purpose of the -lawmaker from the beginning to- guard
against, an interpretation which would seemingly create
rights hitherto non-existent and yet at once proceed to
destroy such rights by bringing about a confusion which
would render the rights which the act creates practically
valueless. Indeed, these inevitable results of the interpretation given by the court below to the act would necessarily amount to declaring that Congress in seeking to
unify and perfect the administrative machinery of the act
to regulate commerce and to make more beneficial its
operation had overthrown the whole fabric of the system
as previously existing.
The demonstration of the error of the construction
adopted below is so additionally made manifest by a consideration of the general structure and the text of the act
creating the Commerce Court, that in connection with the
legislative history which we have previously stated, that
we advert to that point of view: A. The first section of the
act wherein is recited the jurisdiction of the Commerce
Court which we havepreviously commented upon makes
clear that the purpose was not to create a court with new
and strange powers dest ructive of the previous wellestablished administrative authority of the Interstate
Commerce Commission and in conflict with the general
jurisdiction vested in the courts of the United States, but
only to give to the new court the special jurisdiction. then
possessed by the courts of the United States for the enforcement of orders made by the Commission, and thus to
unify the exertion of judicial power with reference to
the enforcement of the orders of the Commission. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

opening words of the section which make this result clear
are as follows' It (the Commerce Court) shall "have the
jurisdiction now possessed by circuit courts of the United
States and the judges thereof over all cases of the following kinds: . . " B. Because the enumeration as to
the subject-matters of jurisdiction conferred which follows
the words just quoted, which enumeration we have
previously reproduced and commented upon, conforms to
the existing law and evidently assumes its continued operation. C. Because the sedulous effort of Congress while
creating the new machinery not to destroy the existing
system finds expression in a two-fold way: (1) by the
declaration that nothing in the fact that the existing
power of the Circuit Courts as to the subjects of jurisdiction transferred to the new court should be deemed as
an enlarging of those powers, and (2) by the provision
that nothing in the transfer of the enumerated powers to
the Commerce Court should be considered as limiting or
abridging the existing jurisdiction possessed by the Circuit
Courts as to things and subject-matters not embraced in
the powers transferred. Thus the two provisos again
serving to make clear the legislative intent that the creation of a new body to exercise a portion of the existing
judicial power should not in any way enlarge the power
as existing or be implied as destroying or minimizing the
general scope of the judicial power possessed by the CirGuit Courts where such power was not embraced-within
the authority transferred to the new body. D. Because
the act which created the court contained in its latter
sections provisions amending sections of the act to regulate commerce which when rightly interpreted were manifestly adopted to make that act more consistent with
the new situation resulting from the creation of the
new court and utterly inconsistent with the conception
that that court had power not previously possessed by
any court and the existence of which would serve to set

PROCTER & GAMBLE.v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

301

Opinion of the Court.

at naught the whole system of' interstate commerce regulation.
Some suggestion is made in argument concerning thealleged claim of constitutional right asserted in the petition
filed below and which the court disposed of in the manner
we have stated. But what we have said suffices to point
out the fallacy which the contention involves, for the following reasons: If the claim of constitutional rights concerned a subject which from 'its very nature and effect
dominated the act to regulate commerce and therefore
was wholly independent of all questions of right or remedy
created by or depending upon that statute, then the issue
presented a controversy not cognizable in the Commerce
Court, as it could not so be without violating the express
reservation and restriction as to the general power of the
Circuit Courts which we have just quoted. If,on the other
hand, the constitutional question was involved in or depended upon the provisions of the act to regulate commerce
that question in the nature of things was subject to the
precedent action of the Commission on the subjects committed to it by the act to regulate commerce and as to
which the court had jurisdiction.alone to act in virtue of
a prior affirmative order of the Commission.
The general considerations which we have stated establish the error committed by the court below in holding
that it had jurisdiction over the claim of the Procter &
Gamble Company to recover on a money demand based
on the illegality of the demurrage charges alleged to have
been. wrongfully exacted by the railroad companies.
Through abundance of precaution, we, however, say that
wholly irrespective of the general considerations stated
we think the conclusion of the court as to its possession
of jurisdiction over the subject referred to was clearly
repugnant in other respects to the'express terms of the act.
As it follows from what we have said that the court'
below erred in taking jurisdiction of the petition, it results

OCTOBER- TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

225 U. S.

that our duty is to remand the cause to the court below
with directions to dismiss the petition for want of jurisdiction,
And it, is so ordered.

HOOKER v. KNAPP ET AL., MEMBERS OF THE
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
EAGLE WHITE LEAD COMPANY v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE. COURT.
Nos. 773, 774;

Argued January 11, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912..

Decided on authority of Procter & Gamble v. United States, ante, p. 282.
188 Fed. Rep. 242, 256, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the United
States Commerce Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. FrancisB. James for appellants:
A shipper has equal right with a railroad corporation to
bring a bill in equity to annul an order of the Commission.
This right exists independent of and does not arise from
statute. Peavey v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 176 Fed. Rep.
409; Int. Com. Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49.
United State Circuit Court and. Commerce Court are
both given jurisdiction of such action. Section 16, Act to
Regulate Commerce, amended March 2, 1889, June 29,
1906, and June 18, 1910, and act creating Commerce
Court, June 18, 1910.
"Against" means "in reference to," "concerning" or
"touching" a carrier. Silver v. Ladd (1869), 7 Wall. 219;

