OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

CRESWILL v. GRAND LODGE KNIGHTS OF
PYTHIAS OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 235. Argued May 2, 3,1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.
Where defendant. sets up the claim that it enjoys right or privilege
sought to be enjoined under authority of an act of Congress and
the state court denies the right, the judgment is reviewable here

under § 237 of the new Judicial Code (§ 709, Rev. Stat.).
Whether persons have a right to be incorporated in a State as a state
branch of an orianization incorporated in the District of Columbia
under an act of Congress is a non-Federal question.
Quwre: Whether 'the principles applicable to use of trade-marks and
trade-names are applicable to the use. of names of fraternal organizations having a main organization with branches in the several
States.
The doctrine of laches applies to the use of a name of'a fraternal corporation and equity will not grant relief against the use of the name
by parties who have been using it for many years without objection,
at the instance of the older organization, there not appearing to be
any fraud or intent to deceive the public.
While this court does'not as a general rule review findings of fact of"
the state court on writ of error, where a Federal right has been
denied as a result of a finding of fact and it'is cohtended there, is no
evidence to support, that finding and. the evidence is in the record,
the- rcsultng question is 'open for decision; and where a conclusion
of law as to a Federal right and a finding ,of fact are so intermingled
as to require the facts to be analyzed and dissected so-as to pass on
the Federal question this'court hus power to do s6.
In this case held that:

There was no evidence to support a finding that the 5defendants
below were attempting by their fapplication for incorporation
in a State to use the nair, Knights of Pythias so as to deceive
the. public and work pecuniary damage to the older organization of that name, the-conplainant.
The long-continued acquiescence of the older organization of the
Knights of Pythias in the use of -the niame by the junior organization prior to-the attempt of the latter to lave this par-

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
22.5 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

ticular state branch incorporated amounted to laches and under such conditions equity would not grant relief.
The existence of laches in ti:s ease is incompalible with a fifiding of injury to property and deceit to the public.
133 Georgia, 837, reversed.

THm facts, which involve the right of two associations
to use the name "Knights of Pythias'.' and to be incorporated thereunder in one of the States, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Alton B. Parkerand Mr. C. L. Pettigrew, with whom
Mr. Samuel A. T. Watkins was on the brief, for plaintiffs
in error:

Defendants in error are notd entitled to the relief sought,
on account of their own acquiescence in the use by the
plaintiffs in error of the name under which they were
chartered. They could have made the question in 1880,
when the first lodge was organized, and subsequently
in 1886, when the first subordinate lodge was organized
in Georgia, and in 1889 when the cha rter was granted
under the same law that granted the charter of the defendants in error, all of which were done in the open and with
the knowledge of the defendants in error, who uttered no
word of complaint for over a quarter of a century or until
the application for a charter was made in i906.
No principle in equity, is better 'established than that
the right of action is lost by laches.
In Ancient Order of United Workmen v. Graham, 96
Iowa, 592; S. C., 31 L. R. A. 113, a lapse of ten years was
held to bar a benevolent association from an injunction.
See also, Thompson on Corporations, 8192, 8196; Bacon
on Benefit Societies, 1904, § 48A; Burke v. Bishop, 144
Fed. Rep. 838.
For other cases in which the right to enjoin was lost by
laches, see Grand Hive L. 0. M. v. Suprcme Hive L. 0. M.,
97 N. W. Rep. 779; 9 N. W. Rep. 26; 88 N. W. Rep. 882;
Holt v. Parsons, 118 Georgia, 895; Walker v. Phillips,

OCTOBER TERM, 191i.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

120 Georgia, 728; Reynolds v. Martin, 116 Georgia, 495;
Hollingsheadv. Bank, 104 Georgia, 250; Marshallv. Means,
12 Georgia, 61;'Atkins v. Hill, 7 Georgia, 573; Waterlot Co.
v. Bucks, 5 Georgia, 315; City of Elberton v. PearlMills, 123
Georgia, 1; Whitley v. James, 12i Georgia, 521; McWhorter
v. Cherry, 121 Georgia, 541; Cole v. Burke, 35 Georgia, 280;
Knox v. Yow, 91 Georgia, 367.
As to the doctrine of laches, no arbitrary rule exists,
but the question is decided upon the circumstances of
each case.. 16 Cyc. 152, and cases cited.
Lapse of time alone, and together with circumstances,
especially circumstances injuring the defendant, preclude
relief. Prejudice to defendant precludes relief where the
change in circumstances is due to the voluntary act of
defendant, or the result of delay itself. If plaintiff sleeps
on his rights until the progress of events and change of
circumstances render it impossible to grant relief with
equal justice to defendants, he is guilty bf laches. 16 Cyc.
162, and cases cited; Prince'Metallic Paint Co. v. Prince
Mfg. Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 938; Boston Rubber-Shoe, Co. v.
Boston Rubber Co., 149 Massachusetts, 436; Colonial
Dames v. Colonial Dames,,60 N. Y. Supp. 302; S. C.,
173 N. Y. 586; Richards v. McKall, 124 U. S. 183; Sullivan
v. PortlandR. Co., 94 U. S. 806.
Mr. Hamilton Douglas and Mr. John P. Ross for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTI'CE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
A secret fraternal and benevolent order known as the
Knights of Pythias was organized as a voluntary association in Washington, District of Columbia, in,1864. Pursuant to the authority conferred by an act of Congress
approved May 5, 1870 (16 Stat. 98, c. 80), authorizing
the formation of corporations in the District of Columbia,

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS O)F PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the persons composing ,the Supreme Lodge, the governing
body of the order,. became incorporatpd as the Supreme
Lodge Knights of Pythias by filing in the proper office the
certificate required by the act. Among other things required to be stated in the certificate was the name or
title by which the society was to be known in law. and the
particular business and objects of the society. The statute provided that upon the filing of the certificate the
persons signing and acknowledging the same, and their
associates and successors, "slhall be a body, politic and
corporate, by the namestated insuch certificate;
The life of the corporation thus created, it would seem,
expired by limitation in 1890. On June 29, 1894 (28 Stat.
96, c. 119), however, by a special act of Congress, the
Supreme Lodge was again made a corporation of the District of Columbia by the name of the Supreme Lodge
Knights of Pythias, and still exists as such. Membership
in the order is restricted to white males. In addition to
a Grand Lodge and subordinate lodges in each State to
.which it -has been extended, the order conducts an insurance branch known as the Endowment Rank and a
military branch known as the Uniform Rank. The Grand
Lodge of Georgia was instituted by the Supreme Lodge
on March 20, 1871.
An order of Knights of Pythias of the same general
nature as that above described, consisting of members
of the colored race, was established in Mississippi on
March 26, 1880. It became a corporation of the District
of Columbia on or about October 10, 1889, by virtue of
the general incorporation act of Congress of May 5, 1870,
already referred to, under the name and style of "The
Supreme -Lodge Knights of Pythias, North and South
America, Europe, Asia and Africa." The order was introduced into Georgia in June, 1886, and a Grand Lodge
was instituted in that State by the Supreme Lodge on
December 15, 1890. The corporation of October 10, 1889,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 UI. S.

was reincorporated December 14, 1903, under the same
general law of May 5, 1870, by the name of "Knights of
Pythias of North America, South America, Europe, Asia,
Africa and Australia." After such reincorporation, on
January 15, 1905, the Supreme Lodge issued a new charter
,to the Grand Lodge of Georgia.
The Supreme Lodge of Knights of Pythias which as
heretofore stated was finally incorporated in 1894 by
special act of Congress, the Grand Lodge of Georgia,which was subject to its jurisdiction, and the officers of
such Grand Lodge were parties complainant in an amended
petition in this litigation commenced in the Superior Court
of Fulton County, Georgia. The defendants were the
officers of the Grand Lodge in Georgia of the other body,
who had made application to the court in which this
suit was commenced to be incorporated as a domestic
corporation of Georgia under the name and style of "The
Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of North America, South
America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, jurisdiction
of Georgia." The petition filed in the cause recited the
organization of the order of the plaintiffs substantially
as heretofore stated, and the defendants were alleged to
be wrongfully attempting to incorporate under a name
which infringed that of plaintiffs' order, and to be unlawfully styling themselves Knights of Pythias, and to be
fraudulently using the insignia, emblems, etc., of the
plaintiffs' order. The averments of the petition and the
amended petition as to damage sustained by the alleged
unlawful acts of the defendants and their associates were
stated in general terms to constitute a wrong and injury
to petitioners and to the membership in Georgia and to
be a fraud upon the public. The relief prayed was in
substance a permanent injunction enjoining the prosecution of the application for incorporation, and the use
by the defendants and the members of the subordinate
lodges under their jurisdiction of the name Knights of

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Pythias and of other names, insignia, emblems, etc., which
would be like or a colorable imitation of those in use by
the plaintiffs' order.
By their answer the defendants put the plaintiffs to
proof of the material averments of the petition, set up the
origin, growth and purposes of the order of -which they
were members and especially stated that it was confined
to the "negro race and the Asiatic races." The incorporation of the order under the general incorporation act of
Congress of 1870 was also averred, and the claim was
made of lawful right to"the use of the names, signs, symbols, emblems, insignia and the other paraphernalia
adopted by the corporation, and the good faith of the
corporation and all concerned in the matter was averred..
It was further stated that the membership of the order
in the United States aggregated 80,747 and in the State
of Georgia 11,805, and that there never had been an attempt to confuse the order with that of which the plaintiffs were members and that no such confusion in fact
had ever arisen or could arise, the field of operation of
the orders being absolutely different. Laches of the plaintiff was pleaded in bar of any relief on the ground that
the existence of the order and its operations had been
publicly known and was matter of common knowledge
for many years.
The case came on for hearing on a motion for preliminary injunction, and after hearing the evidence and
argument of counsel the court denied an injunction and
quashed a preliminary restraining order. The plaintiff
took the case by a bill of exceptions to the Supreme Court
of Georgia. That court in disposing of it referred to the
fact that the Supreme Lodge of the order represented by
plaintiffs was a corporation of the District of Columbia
and that by amendment of the petition it had been joined
-asa plaintiff. It further stated:
"That the defendants have been operating and are

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

seeking to be incorporated in this State under a name
which is claimed to be an infringement of the name of
the plaintiff's association, and the question is involved
whether and how far the plaintiff, which is a foreign corporation, might be affected by the State's granting a
charter to the defendants as a domestic corporation in
the name and for the purpose asked, and also whether
there is a fraudulent purpose or design to so infringe."
It was next observed that "the presiding judge should
have enjoined the defendants from obtaining the charter
applied for, so as to preserve the status in respect thereto
until, on final jury trial, all of the questions of law and
fact can be fully adjudicated." The court held that error
had been committed in refusing to grant an injunction as
to the charter applied for," and the "ruling of the Chancellor denying the injunction in other matters" was allowed
"to stand until the final trial or further order of court,
leaving open all the other questions for future determination." 128 Georgia, 775.' There followed a hearing of
the case before the court and a jury, and evidence, both
oral and documentary, was introduced. The evidence
showed, without contradiction, that in addition to being
incorporated as stated in the answer, the defendant order
had also organized on May 24, 1905, as a fraternal beneficial association by its. corporate name under the insurance laws of the District of Columbia; that the laws
enacted by the order were such as were common to a
fraternal body; that the rituals of the order and its emblems, flags, badges, pins and jewelry adornment were
on public sale free to be purchased by anyone; that the
membership of the order throughout the United States
aggregated 300,000; that there had been collected and
disbursed to the members of the order between July 1,
1906, and July 1, 1907, more than $500,000; that the
collections in Georgia during the existence of the order
there aggregated $180,232.21; that there had been paid

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to the widows and orphans of deceased members in Georgia $148,680, and that the collections in Georgia aggregated $51,000 a year, excluding the expense of burying
their dead which was $9,000 more. After instructing the
jury as to the law'deemed to be applicable and observing
that the case was of a character wherein the law provided,
that questions might be propounded to be answered by
the jury, such answers to stand as their verdict, the court
submitted fourteen questions to be answered by the jury.
The questions, with the answers given, are copied in the
margin. 1
(Questions & Verdict.)
Fulton County:
(1) Is the proposed corporate name of the defendants an infringement on the name of the plaintiff's association?
Yes.
(2) If it is such an infringement would it affect or injure plaintiff in
any property right? If so, what?
Yes, in name.
(3) If so, is there any fraudulent, purpose or design to (in?) so infringing?
GEORGIA,

Yes, there is.
(4) Are any of the emblems or insignia of defendants the same as
any of those used by plaintiffs, and if so, does such use injure plaintiff

in any property right?
Yes.
(5) Has the plaintiff acquiesced in the use by defendants of the name
and insignia, &c., and if so, how iolng?
•No.

(6) Is it true that since -the organization of the Order represented,
'by petitioners and its introduction into the State of Georgia, it has
been called the Order of Knights of Pythias, and that its members have
been known as Knights of Pythias or Pythian Knights indifferently?
Yes.
(7). Is it true that "Pythias" is the distinctive word in the name of
the Order represented by petitioners, which ordinarily distinguishes
it from the name and style of other fraternal orders in the State of
Georgia and in the United States?
Yes.
(8) Is it true that the name set forth in defendants' petition for in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Subsequently a final decree was entered granting the
relief prayed by the complainants. A copy of the decree
is excerpted in the margin. 1
corporation is substantially identical with the name. and style of your
petitioners the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia?
-Yes.
(9) Is it true that the name set forth in defendants' said petition
for incorporation, is a colorable imitation of the name and style of your
petitioner, the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia?
Yes.

(10) Is it true that the use by defendants and their associates of the
name which they are seeking incorporation would work-a fraud upon
your petitioners and their associates and the public, in that the name
under which defendants propose to incorporate is a colorable imitation of the name of petitioners?

Yes.
(11) Is it true that defendants can not show any organization of
any kind until 1880, and until long after the Grand Lodge Knights of
Pythias of petitioners was organized in the State of Georgia?
Yes.
(12) Is it true that the use of the word "Pythias" immediately
in conjunction with the words "Knights of" in the name under which
defendants and their associates are seeking incorporation is a colorable imitation of the name of your petitioner, the Grand Lodge Knights
of Pythias of Georgia?
Yes.
(13) Is it true that defendants of the "Supreme Lodge of the Knights
of Pythias of North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa
and Australia" are wearing emblems and insignia identical in color,
design and lettering with the emblems and insignia of petitioners, the
Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia; and is it true that the
wearing and use of such insignia and emblems work a fraud upon either
petitioner or their associates or the public?
Yes.
(14) Have the defendants used the name Knights of Pythias or the
letters K. of P. without any affix or suffix thereto?
Yes.
May 27, 1908.
G. W. FOOTE, Foreman.
1 (Final Decree.)
GEORGIA, Fulton County:
Upon considering the pleadings, evidence and verdict in the above-

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Reciting that they were dissatisfied with the verdict
of the jury upon the questions submitted, the defendants
moved for a new trial upon the grournd that the verdict
stated case, it is thereupon ordered, adjudged and decreed by the
Court as follows:
(1) That the defendants, Chds. D. Creswill, Geo. N. Stoney, Geo.
R. Hutto, N. B. Williamson, Columbus J. Smith, Fred. N. Cohen,
Boss W. Warren,, Geo. W. Brown, Jas. W. Davis, Edwin J. Turner,
Garrett Taylor and Lucius L. Lee, and each of them and their associates, confederates and successors, be and they are hereby perpetually
enjoined as in said petition prayed, and especially as follows:
A. That said defendants and their associates, confederates and
successors are hereby perpetually enjoined from prosecuting their
petition for incorporation, and from further proceeding to become
incorporated in Fulton County, or elsewhere in the State of Georgia,
under the name and style of "The Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias
of North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, Jurisdiction of Georgia," or using any name or title embracing
the word "Pythias" in immediate conjunction with the words "Knights
of," or under any name or title in which the word "Pythias" is the
distinctive and cardinal word, or under any name which is substantially identical with, or a colorable imitation of the name of the petitioners, the' Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias and the Grand Lodge
Knights of Pythias of Georgia.
.B. That said defendants, their associates and successors and each
of them be, and they are hereby perpetually enjoined from further
using in their voluntary organization said name of the Grand Lodge
Knights of Pythias of North America, South America, Europe, Asia,
Africa and Australia, Jurisdiction of Georgia, and in the conduct of
its affairs, using any name embracing the word "Pythias" in immediate conjunction with the words "Knights of," or embracing said
word "Pythias" as the cardinal distinctive word of the name or any
other name which is substantially identical with or in colorable imitation of the name of the petitioners, the Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias and the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia. The
said defendants, their associates and successors and each of them are
further- perpetually enjoined from instituting subordinate lodges under
the name and designation of the Order of Knights of Pythias, and from
further authorizing the continued existence of subordinate lodges
under the jurisdiction of said voluntary organization, of which defendants and their associates are members, using the name and designa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

was contrary to the evidence and without evidence to
support it, that it was strongly and decidedly against the
weight of evidence and was contrary, to law and the principles of equity. Nearly six months afterwards, by leave
of court, defendants amended the motion by adding thirtysix additional grounds, attacking specifically each of the
tion of Knights of Pythias, or any name in which the word "Pythias"
is the cardinal and distinctive word, or any name which is a colorable
imitation of the name of petitioners, the Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias, and the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia, and of
subordinate lodges instituted by said petitioner's authority. And said
defendants, their associates and successors, and each of them, are
further perpetually enjoined from designating and calling themselves,
and from authorizing their associates and members of subordinate
lodges organized and existing by authority of the voluntary organization of which said defendants are members to designate and call
themselves Knights of Pythias or Pythian Knights, or any other name
that is a colorable imitation thereof, and from designating their voluntary organization or its subordinate lodges by the initials K. P. or K.
of P., and from using a seal which is a colorable imitation of the seal
of the petitioners, the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia,
and from using and wearing emblems and insignia, buttons, pins, rings,
and watch charms which in color and design are substantially similar
to or a colorable imitation of the emblems and insignia, buttons, pins,
.rings and watch charms adopted, used and worn by the members of
petitioners, the Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias and the Grand
Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia, and the members of the subordinate lodges organized by authority of said petitioners; and the
said defendants, and each of them, their successors and associates
are perpetually enjoined from authorizing or permitting the further
use and wearing of such emblems and insignia by members of subordinate lodges instituted by and existing under the authority of
said voluntary organization of which the defendants are officers and
members.
C. That said defendants and each of them and their associates and
successors be, and they are perpetually enjoined from using the words
Knights of Pythias in immediate conjunction, or the word "Pythias"
as the cardinal distinctive word in any name, or as a designation of
any insur nce, military or other branch of fhe voluntary organization
of which said defendants-and their associates are officers and members;

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

answers to' the questions, charging each to be not only
contrary to the evidence, but contrary to the charge of
the court, and in addition error was alleged in the charge
as given and to the failure to instruct the jury as pointed
out in some of the specifications of error. The omission
to specifically instruct the jury that the defendants claimed
and from using any name, flags, emblems, and insignia that are substantially identical with or a colora ble imitation of the name, flags,
emblems, or insignia of petitioners, the Supreme Lodge Knights of
Pythias and the Grand Lodge Knights of Pythias of Georgia, in any
insurance and military branches of said petitioners, in connection with
any society or corporation of which defendants are officers or members.
(2) In order that the voluntary organization of which the defendants are officers and members may have a reasonable time in which
to select and adopt some other name and make such changes in the
laws as may be necessary in obedience to this decree, and not hereby
disorganize said organization which defendants are members of, or
stop its said association from the prosecution of the work in which it is
engaged:
It is hereby adjudged and decreed: That the injunction decreed in
subsections B and C, paragraph one hereof, shall be in abeyance and
no penalty shall be visited upon the.- defendants, their associates and
successors, for disobedience thereof until the first day of June, 1909.
And that on and after said first day of June, 1909, this suspension of
said injunction shall cease and determine, and said injunction shall
be of full and final force and effect, perpetually after said date, and the
defendants and each of-them, their associates and successors are and
shall be subject to all the pains and penalties provided for any disobedience of said injunction.
(3) That this decree shall have the force and effect of the State's
writ of injunction, without' issuance of such writ; provided, however,
that the writ of injunction, according to the terms of this decree, shall
issue out of this court, and be further served upon the defendants a.d
their associates and successors, at any time on motion of petitioners.
(4) That the petitioners have and recover of the defendants all of the
costs in this behalf incurred, to wit: dollars, to be taxed by the
clerk of this court.
In open court, this tenth of June, 1908.
,. T. PENDLETON,
Judge C. S. A. C.

VOL. ccxxv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Copurt.
225 U. S.
a right to their-name under a charter from
the ,District
of Columbia by virtue of an act of Congress and the answers of the jury to certain of the questions were alleged
to violate defendants' rights under the charter and to be
repugnant to the due faith and credit clause of the Constitution of the United States, and the decree was alleged
also to constitute a violation of the general incorporation
act under which the order of..which defendants were a
part had been incorporated. The motion for a new trial
was overruled. A bill of exceptions was soon afterwards
allowed, which was certified to contain "all the evidence"
and the material portions of the record. The case was
then taken by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State, where the judgment was affirmed. 133 Georgia,
837. This writ of error was then prosecuted.
In the trial court, in various forms, plaintiffs in error,
defendants below, invoked the right to the use of its corporate name and the incidental right to the designation
Knights of ythias and the use of insignia, emblems, etc.,
appropriate to the order. As this right or privilege was
claimed in virtue of the :authority to incorporate conferred
by the general incorporation act of May 5, 1870, enacted
by Congress, it constituted a right or privilege -claimed
under an authority exercised under the United States
which, being denied by the state court, is reviewable here
by virtue of the provisions of § 237 of the new Judicial
Code, § 709, Rev. Stat. Dupasseurv. Rochereau, 21 Wall.
130; Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3; Ferris v. Frohman,
,223 U. S.424, 431, and cases cited. The fact that corporations created by the general law of 1870 and the special act of Congress of 1894 heretofore ieferred to derived
their rights and powers under a law of the United States
is recognized in the following cases which were removed
from state courts: Supreme Lodge Knights of Pythias v.
Kalinski, 163 U. S.289; Same v. Withers, 177 U. S.260,
and Same-v. Beck, 181 U. S.49.

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225 U. S.

Opinioh of the Court.

Whether or not the defendants below and their successors were entitled to proSecute in the state court the
application to be made a domestic corporation of Georgia
is, in our opinion, plainly a question non-federal in character, and we therefore pass its consideration. The question,
however, whether the right or privilege arising from the
authority exercised under legislation of Congress was invaded by the decree complained of so far as it forbade
the use of the corporate name or a designation containing
the distinctive words Knights of Pythias and .the use of
the emblems'and insignia of such order being within our
competency to review, we come to the consideration of
the question whether the asserted right or privilege was
properly deied.
It is manifest from the record that the existence within
the State of Georgia of two bodies of Knights of Pythias
controlled by corporations of the District of Columbia
and the authority exerted over the membership in that
State by the governing body of each order was not contrary to any state statute and the Supreme Court of
Georgia in determining the right to relief applied what it
6onceived to be the applicable principles of general law.
Speaking in a general sense, it is true to say that the
Supreme Court of Georgia deemed the case before it to
be controlled by the principles of law applicable to trademarks and trade-names, and in substance held, a. That
an association whose primary object was fraternal or
benevolent, first appropriating and using an arbitrary or
fanciful name acquires an exclusive right to the same;
b. That a subsequent unauthorized use by others of such
name or a colorable imitation thereof would be unlawful;
c. That in the absence of laches if as a result of such wrongful use injury was occasioned to the rightful owner by
the unlawful appropriation and use of the name, equity
would afford relief. Coming to apply these principles
the court held, first, that there 'had been a lawful appro.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

priation of the name by the plaintiff corporation, and
an unauthorized and wrongful use thereof by the defendants, indeed, that such use-was made "with a fraudulent purpose and design;" second, that the unlawful appropriation had inflicted injury upon the property rights
of the lawful appropriator. On this subject, the court
said (p. 844):
"The plaintiffs' order, while primarily fraternal and
benevolent, has certain property and business attributes
and activities, including the acquiring and ownership of
large amounts of property and the conducting of a department of insurance protection. ,Under. the evidence,
the element of injury is sufficiently shown."
The conclusion of the court that there had been as a
matter of fact no such laches as should prevent a court
of equity from affording relief was thus stated (p. 850):
"Taking into consideration that the subject of controversy in this case is in the nature of a trade-name, and
that the contest is between two secret societies whose
relations to each other, during the period from the appropriation of the name by one to the institution of the
suit for"injunction by the other, was not the usual relation
that one person ordinarily sustains to another, we cannot
say that the finding of the jury that the plaintiffs had not
acquiesced in the use of their name by the defendants is not
supported by the evidence. The suit was filed promptly'
after the defendants came out into the open and by petition duly •published asked the court to give legal sanction
to their use of the plaintiffs' name."
We do not stop to consider whether the court was right
under principles of general law in applying to organizations
like those her, involved the rules applicable to trademarks and trade-names and unfair competition in trade,
a subject as to which there is conflict in the decisions,
because under the view we take of the case we propose,
for the sake of argument only, to indulge in the hypothesis

CRESWILL v. KNIGHTS ,OF PYTHIAS.
225 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the conception which the court entertained on the
subject was correct. It is indiputable that the court was
clearly right, as a matter of law, in holding that a court of
equity in any event would not afford relief where there
had been such laches as would cause it to be inequitable
to do so. Saxlehner v. Eisner & M. Co., 179 U. S. 19, 35.
The question then is, Can the decree of the court be maintained consistently with the doctrine of laches which the
court expounded and which we have accepted as correct
beyond all controversy? As'tlhe inquiry which we thus
state rests upon the premise that all the propositions of
law applied by the court are to be taken as correct, it follows that there is no possibility of deciding there was
material error unless it is to be found in the application
which the court made of- the principle of law which it
applied to the facts established by the evidence, all of
which is in the record in connection with the findings
made by the jury. While it is true that upon a writ of
error to a state court we do not review findings of fact,
nevertheless two propositions are as well settled as the
rule itself, as follows: (a) that where a Federal right has
been denied as the result of a finding of fact which it is
contended there was'no evidence whatever to support
and the evidence is in the record the resulting question
of law is open for decision; and (b) 'that where a conclusion
of law as to a Federal right and finding of fact are so intermingled as to cause it to be essentially necessary for the
purpose. of passing upon the Federal question to analyze
and dissect the facts, to the extent necessary to do so the
power exists as a necessary incident to a decision upon
the claim of denial of the Federal right. Kansas City So.
Ry. Co. v. Albers Comm. Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591; Cedar
,Rapids Gas Co. v. Cedar Rapids, Ib.655, 668; State of
Washington ex rel. v. Fairchild,224 U. S. 510. The contentions here made bring this case under the first category,
since the insistence here is that there was not any evidence

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion"rf the Court.

225 U. S.

justifying the findings made by the court concerning fraudulent purpose, injury to property, deception of the public,
etc.
On examining the evidence we are compelled tosay we
do not "thinkit has any tendency to prove an intent on the
part of the defendant order by the adoption of the designation given to their body or the use of the emblems, insignia, etc., employed to make it appear that their order
and that of the complainant is one and the same, or that
it tends to show that the use of the corporate name or the
distinctive words Knights of Pythias and the emblems,
etc., of that order operated in any degree to deceive the
public or to work pecuniary damage, to the complainant
order within dr without the State of Georgia. But strong
as are our convictions as to these subjects, we prefer not
to rest our conclusion upon them, but rather to place the
decree of reversal which we shall render, upon the application to the facts of the well-settled doctrine on the subject of laches. As we'have observed, the court below in
considering the facts on that subject made no reference
to the evidence, but assumed that it must be that the
findings of the jury were sustained by evidence and indulged in the assumption that it was natural to suppose
thai the, long-continued existence and development of
the defendant order had not been interfered with by the'
complainant corporation because not known until the
,defendants came into the open by making an application.
to be made a domestic corporation of Georgia. The facts,
however, which we have stated concerning the establishment of the order, its lodgment in Georgia, its vast expansion, its years of duration and its volume of transactions
were not disputed in any particular whatever, and therefore leave no room for any other but the legal conclusion of
laches. This, we think, in the most conclusive way dpmonstrates the violation of the elementary principles of
equity which would result from the enforcement of the in-

CRESWELL v. KNIGHTS OF PYTHIAS.
225U. S.

HOLMES and

LuRTON,

JJ., dissenting.

junction which the court awarded. And the conclusion
just stated renders it unnecessary to point out the incompatibility between the holding on the one hand that there
was injury to the property rights of the plaintiff corporation and a deceit of the public arising from the existence
of the defendant order and its activities, and the holding
on the other hand that laches cannot be imputed to the
plaintiff corporation as a result of its inaction during the
many years in which the defendant corporation existed
and e~ercised its attributes and functions, because the.
wrongs thus being publicly inflicted could not be presumed
to have been known until the defendant order came out
into the open by the application for incorporation under
the law of the State of Georgia.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Georgiais reversed
and the cause is remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE LURTON dissenting:
When a Federal right is held by a state court to have
been lost by subsequent conduct that of itself involves
no Federal question I think we are not at liberty to reexamine the decision unless we can say that the state court
in substance is denying the right. So it has been held or
strongly intimated as to res judicata, Northern Pacific R.
R. Co. v. Ellis, 144 U. S. 458, estoppel, Hale v. Lewis, 181
U. S. 473, the statute of limitations, Rector v. Ashley, 6
Wall. 142. and laches, Moran v. Horsky, 178 U. S. 205,
214, 215, Pierce v. Somerset Ry., 171 U. S. 641, and the
principle was recognized only the other day in Gaar, Scott
& Co. v. Shannon, 223 U. S. 468, 470 471. I do not see the
distinction by which we can review the decision in the
opposite case, where it is held that the right is not lost or
that it cannot be interfered with because of laches on the
other side. In a case where the state court held that there

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

was no defense under the statute of limitations or estoppel,
the writ of error was dismissed. Carothers v. Mayer, 164
U. S. 325. I will content myself with saying that I do not
see how the decision can be reversed on the ground of
laches.
MR. JUSTICE LIJRTON concurs in this

view and is of

opinion that the writ should be dismissed.

NORFOLK & SUBURBAN TURNPIKE COMPANY
v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 962.

Submitted April 8, 1912.-Decided June

10, 1912.

Although a State may not be named as a party in the original proceeding, if it was really begun and prosectited on its behalf and the
State is named in all the papers on appeal and the State's attorney
appears in this court generally, even if inadvertently, a motion to
dismiss on the ground that the State is not a party will not prevail.
Where the highest court of the State refuses a writ of error because,
in its opinion, the judgment below is plainly right, doubt exists as
to whether it is a refusal to take jurisdiction or an exercise of juridiction and affirmance; under the circumstances of this case, however, the Chief Justice of the state court having allowed the writ of
error for review by this court, held that the judgment was on the
merits and the writ of error runs to the highest court. Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364, distinguished.
Where the refusal of the highest court of the State to allow a'writ of
error is also a refusal to take jurisdiction the writ of error from this
court runs to the lower court.
Hereafter this court will regard the refusal of the highest court of the
State to allow a writ of error to review the judgment of a lower court
as a refusal to take jurisdiction and not as an affirmance unless the'
contrary plainly appears on the face of the record.

