OCTOBER- TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellants.

225 U. S.

that our duty is to remand the cause to the court below
with directions to dismiss the petition for want of jurisdiction,
And it, is so ordered.

HOOKER v. KNAPP ET AL., MEMBERS OF THE
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
EAGLE WHITE LEAD COMPANY v. INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION.
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE. COURT.
Nos. 773, 774;

Argued January 11, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912..

Decided on authority of Procter & Gamble v. United States, ante, p. 282.
188 Fed. Rep. 242, 256, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the United
States Commerce Court, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. FrancisB. James for appellants:
A shipper has equal right with a railroad corporation to
bring a bill in equity to annul an order of the Commission.
This right exists independent of and does not arise from
statute. Peavey v. Union Pacific Ry. Co., 176 Fed. Rep.
409; Int. Com. Comm. v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 49.
United State Circuit Court and. Commerce Court are
both given jurisdiction of such action. Section 16, Act to
Regulate Commerce, amended March 2, 1889, June 29,
1906, and June 18, 1910, and act creating Commerce
Court, June 18, 1910.
"Against" means "in reference to," "concerning" or
"touching" a carrier. Silver v. Ladd (1869), 7 Wall. 219;

HOOKER v. KNAPP.
225 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Seabright v. Seabright, 28 W. Va. 412, 465. The statute
defines venue and confirms jurisdiction.
The case at btr is within the express language of statute
and the order assailed is not a negative one.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Jesse C. Adkins and Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States:
No principle of law required the Commission to determine the reasonableness of rates exclusively with reference
to the cost of transportation 'by the shorter route. On the
contrary, this court has held that it is the duty of the
Commission not to exclude other things from its consideration. Texas & Pacific Ry. v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197, 199:
I. C. C. v. C., R. I. & P. Ry., 218 U. S. 103.
In this particular case the Commission had to consider
not only the supposed interests of the individual petitioning shippers, but the interests of Cincinnati, of Chattanooga, of the intervening points, the relation of through
'rates, the rates on other lines in similar conditions, the
growth and -commercial needs of the country served, the
value of the transportation to the shippers (which includes
the possibility of their reaching the market at a profit),
the commercial conditions, the effect on the communications of Cincinnati, Chattanooga, and intervening points
with the West, and with the East, and many other details
of fact'and policy.
The question whether the Commission in determining
the reasonableness of rates, shall. adopt the policy of limiting its cognizance to the bee line, is a legislative and not
a legal question. Prentissv. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S.
224; I. C.:C. v. C., N. 0. & T. R. Ry. Co., 167 U. S. 479,
499, 500, 505; San Diego Land &c. Co. v. JaQper, 189
U. S. 439, 440; Burnham, Hanna, Munger Co. Case, 218
U. S. 88, 103.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

225 U. S.

The long continued practice of the Commission on this
point has been left undisturbed by Congress and should
not now be disturbed by the court. See 3 Interstate
Commerce Commission Reports, 502; 4 Ibid., 130, Food
Products Investigation, 15 I. C. C. 376; Kindel Case, 15
I. C. C. 392; Spokane Case, 16 I. C. C. 595.
It is not a case of an application for leave to create a new,
expensive route and for leave to foster that artificially
by raising the rates on the prior and cheaper line. On
the contrary, the question was whether the Commission
should exclude an old established trade route, now carrying one-half the traffic; and this without any intimation
as to whether the short line had equipment or capacity to,
carry the entire traffic, or had capital within reach to obtain such equipment or capacity.
Neither was it a case in which the longer route was an
unreasonably roundabout line of communication between
the two points.
Under the conditions of this record the conclusion of the
Commission in determining the reasonable maximum
rate is a pure conclusion of fact and is not reviewable; as
has been held by this court again and again..
The Commerce Court had no jurisdiction of the petition, because the Commerce Court act did not include
among the orders of the Commission which the Commerce
Court might set aside, annul or suspend, orders of merely
negative effect. This appears. from the context and history. The context and other provisions of the act show
that only enforceable affirmative orders were intended to
be set aside. This also. appears from the fact that no
process is authorized appropriate to any relief against a.
non-active order. The Commerce Court is a court of
original jurisdiction and not an appellate court which
receives a record from a tribunal below. There is no line
along which a mandate fron the Commerce Court'could
move to the Conmission directing it to reopen a case and

HOOKER v. KNAPP.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

give affirmative relief; nor is there any provision for mandamus in such a situation. It is not probable that Congress, if it had intended to give the Commerce Court this
jurisdiction, would have left that court without any means
of bringing itself to bear and thus made its judgment mere
brutum fulmen.
Mr. P. J. Farrell for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. R. Walton Moore for Cincinnati, New Orleans &
Texas Pacific Railway Company.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The appellants in these cases originally applied to the
Interstate Commerce Commission for reduction of the
maximum rates between Cincinnati and Chattanooga
from the 76 c. schedule to a 60 c. schedule. The Commission refused to make the full extent of this reduction.
Thereupon the respective parties filed bills in the Commerce Court demanding that the Commission's order be
"suspended, set aside, annulled, and declared void and of
no effect" and that the individual defendants and the
Commission be required by mandatory injunction to set
aside and annul the said order, that the case be reopened,
and the complainants given further relief. The two bills
were consolidated. The individual defendants, the Commission, and the Railroad Company all demurred to the
bill on the merits. The United States moved to dismiss
on the ground that the court had no jurisdiction. The
court took jurisdiction, but dismissed on the merits.
These appeals were then prosecuted. The case- are, in
all respects, controlled by the opinion announced arid
ruling made in the Procter & Gamble Case, this day deVOL. ccxxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

cided (ante, p. 282) and for the reasons in that case stated,
these cases must be and are remanded, with directions to
dismiss for want of jurisdiction, and
It is so ordered.

UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, AND FEDERAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY v. THE BALTIMORE AND OHIO
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
No. 722.

Argued January 15, 16, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.

The Commerce Court has jurisdiction of a pctition of a carrier to restrain an affirmative order of the Interstate Commerce Commission
that it desist from paying allowances for lighterage to one shipper unless it pays tile same to other shippers, and als- Jas power to determine whether such order was entitled to be enforced.
The Commerce Court has power to allow a preliminary injunction
against the enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission directing the carrier to desist from paying allowances for
lighterage.
An appeal to this court from an interlocutory order of the Commerce
Court allowing a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of
an affirmative order of the Interstate Commerce Commission lies
under ยง 2 of the act creating the court, now ยง 210 of the new Judicial
Code.
Under ยง 210 of the Judicial Code, injunction orders can be issued by
the Commerce Court restraining the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission in the following 'classes of cases:
First. A temporary restraining order staying in whole or in part
the operation of the order for not more than sixty days to be
allowed by the court or a judge thereof.
Second. A preliminary injunction to restrain or suspend in whole
or in part the operation of the Commission's order pendente lite
to be granted by the court.
Third. A perpetual injunction'upon entry of final decree.

