DARNELL v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R.
Counsci for Parties.

225 U. S.

fully his. Such a statute is not to be deemed an ex 'post
facto law.
The decree under review should be
Affirmed.

R. J. DARNELL (INCORPORATED) v. ILLINOIS
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 887.

1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.
Submitted April .1,

Under ยง 5 of the act of 1891, the jurisdiction of the Federal court as
such must be involved. The direct writ will not lieif the question
is one which might arise in a court of general jurisdiction, such as
insufficiency of the pleadings.
Under the act of June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539, 554, c. 309, the state
courts as well as the appropriate 'Federal courts can take cognizance
of a claim basid on an award of reparation of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Whether plaintiff's declaration in a case for reparation for excessive
rates is sufficient without an averment of previous action by the
Interstate Commerce' Commission is a question which Would arise
in any court, state or Federal, in which the case was brought and
does not go to the jurisdiction of the Federal court as such; a direct
writ of error therefore will not lie from this court under ยง 5 of the
Court of Appeals Act of 1891.
Writ of error from 190 Fed. Rep. 656, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of ยง 5 of the
act of 1891 and direct appeals thereunder to this court,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Charles N. Burch and Mr. Blewett Lee for defendants
in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. W. A. Percy, for plaintiff, in error, in opposition
thereto.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Memorandum opinion by direction of the court.
MR.

By

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

On motion to dismiss: Plaintiff in error, a Tennessee
corporation, was the plaintiff below. One of the defendants is an Illinois and the other a Mississippi corporation.
The action was commencod on June 24, 1911, to recover
the excess over a reasonable rate exacted by the. defendants from the plaintiff for the carriage of hard-wood lumber, such excess being alleged to be two cerits per hundred
pounds on more than thirty-five million pounds. of such
lumber shipped by plaintiff between January 20, 1905,
and August 1, 1908. It was averred that the excess of
the rate exacted over what would have been a reasonable
rate to the extent claimed had been determined by the
Interstate Commerce Commission in a proceeding before
that body by shippers of hard-wood lumber other than
the plaintiff, and that in consequence of the order of the
Commission made in the proceeding referred to a reasonable. rate had been made effective by the defendants on
August 1, 1908. A demurrer of both the defendanis was
sustained, for the reason that the declaration failed to
allege that plaintiff had made application for reparation
to the Interstate Commerce Comnission, and that this
right to reparation had been sustained by that body.
The plaintiff declining to plead further, a judgment of
dismissal was entered. Thereafter the court filed a certificate to the effect that the cause had been dismissed
solely upon 'the ground of want of .jurisdiction. This
direct writ of error was then sued out.
The, motion to dismiss must prevail. As stated in the
certificate of the court below, the'order of dismissalwas
"based solely on the ground that the declaration .
discloses the infraction of no right arising under- or out
of the Federal laws or Constitution, of which this court
now has jurisdiction." It is plain, from the record, that

DARNELL v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. R.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this was but the equivalent of saying that the declaration
did not state a cause of action because of the failure to
allege the existence of a supposed condition precedent
to recovery in a court of law, viz: a finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission that a right to reparation
was possessed by the plaintiff. But the right to take cognizance of a claim based upon an award of reparation made
by the Commission is not confined solely to an appropriate Circuit Court of the United States, but is equally
possessed by state courts having general jurisdiction. See
amendment to ยง 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce resulting from the act of June 18, 1910, chap. 309, 36 Stat.
539, 554. Under these circumstances it is clear that the
question of whether the plaintiff was entitled to the relief prayed in the absence of an averment of previous
action by the Interstate Commerce Commission involved
merely the determination of whether there was a cause
of action stated, and hence that under these circumstances this issue did not call in question the jurisdiction of the court below, as a Federal court, becomes
equally clear when it is considered that exactly the same
question concerning the sufficiency of the averments to
justify affording relief would have arisen for decision had
the suit been pending in a state court of general authority
having jurisdiction over the person. When the controversy comes to be rightly understood, it is obvious that
its determination was within the scope of the jurisdiction
of the court below, and that its decision on the issue presented is' susceptible of being reviewed' in the regular
course of judicial proceeding and does -not come, within
the purview of the authority to directly review in certain
cases conferred upon this court by the act of 1891. Bache
v. Hunt, 193 U. S. 523; Fore "RiverShipbuilding Company
v. Hagg, 219 U. S; 175; United States v. Congress.(onstruction Company, 222 U. S. 199.
Writ of eror dismissed.

