OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

THE JASON. 1
ON CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 220.

Argued April 18, 1912.-Dccidcd May 13, 1912.

A general average agreement inserted in bills of lading, providing that
if the owner of the ship shall have cxcrciscd due diligence to make the
ship in all respects seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and
supplied, the cargo shall contribute in general average with the
shipowner even if the loss resulted from negligence in the navigation
of the ship, is valid under the Harter Act, and entitles the shipowner to collect a general average contribution from the cargoowners in respect to sacrifices made and extraordinary expenditures
incurred by him for the common benefit and safety of ship, cargo
and freight subsequent to a negligent stranding.
Under § 3 of the Harter Act, the cargo-owners under the same circumstances have a right of contribution from the shipowner for
sacrifices of cargo made subsequent to the stranding for the common benefit and safety of ship, cargo and freight.
Under the same circumstances the cargo-owners cannot recover contribution from the shipowner in respect of general average sacrifices
of cargo' without contributing to the general average sacrifices and
expenditures of the shipowners made for the same purpose.
The essence of general average contribution is that extraordinary
sacrifices made and expenses incurred for the common benefit are
to be borne proportionately by all who are interested.
The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. 187, distinguished.
Questions certified in case reported in 162 Fed. Rep. 56, and 178 Fed.
Rep. 414, answered.

CROSS libels were 'filed in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York between the
owner of the steamship Jason and the firm of Arbuckle
Brothers, owners, and the Insurance Company of North
IThe docket title of the case is Actieselskabct "Jason"
Arbuckle et al.

v. John

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

America, insurers, of part of that vessel's cargo, to recover
general average contributions. The District Court dismissed both libels. 162 Fed. Rep. 56. Upon appeal the
Circuit Court of Appeals at first filed an opinion for
affirmance (178 Fed. Rep. 414), but afterwards granted a
rehearing, as a result of which the questions of law at
issue were certified to this court as follows:
"Statement of Facts.
"The facts upon which the questions arise are these:
"On July 30, 1904, the Norwegian Steamship Jason
while bound on a voyage from Cienfuegos, Cuba, to New
York, with general cargo, including 12,000,bags of sugar,
consigned to Arbuckle Brothers, and insured with the
Insurance Company of North America, stranded off the
south coast of Cuba, through the negligence of her navi.gators. The steamship was seaworthy and was properly
manned, equipped and supplied.
"The vessel was relieved from the strand on August 9
as the result of sacrifices by jettison of 2,042 bags of sugar
(1,657 bags being the property of Arbuckle Brothers),
of sacrifices and extraordinary expenditures voluntarily
made or incurred by the shipowner through tl~e master,
and of the services of salvors specially employed. Said
sacrifices and expenditures were necessary to relieve ship,
cargo and freight from common peril. She then completed her voyage, and made delivery of the remainder of
her cargo to the several consignees at New York on their
executing an average bond for the payment of losses and
expenses which should appear to be due from them, provided they were stated and apportioned by the adjusters
'in accordance with established usages and laws in similar
cases.'

"The bills of lading for all of the Jason'scargo contained
the following provision:
"'General average payable according to York-Antwerp
VOL. ccxxv-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

Rules, and as to matters not therein provided for according to usages of port of New York.
" 'Ifthe owner of the ship shall have exercised due
diligence to make said ship in all respects seaworthy and
properly manned, equipped and supplied, it is hereby
agreed that in case of danger, damage or disaster result.ing from fault or negligence of the pilot, master or crew,
in the navigation or management of the ship, or from
latent or other defects, or unseaworthiness of the ship,
whether existing at time of shipment or at beginning of
the voyage, but not discoverable by due diligence, the
consignees or owners of the cargo shall not be exempted
from liability for contribution in General Average, or for
any special charges incurred, but with the shipowner shall
contribute in General Average, and shall pay such special
charges, as if such danger, damage or disaster had not
,resulted from such fault, negligence, latent or other defect
or unseaworthiness.'
"Both parties pleaded the bills of lading as constituting
the contract of carriage.
"A general average adjustment was afterwards made
in New York by Johnson & Higgins, adjusters appointed
in the average bond. Both parties pr~sented their claims
to the adjusters for sacrifices made by them respectively
for the common benefit and safety of the adventure. The
adjusters allowed in the General Average account the
compensation of the salvors, the sacrifices of cargo, and
the sacrifices and extraordinary expenditures of the shipowner, and each of the interests was credited with such
amounts as had been paid by it for the common benefit.
"The adjustment was prepared in accordance with
York-Antwerp Rules, as provided for in the bill of lading,
and otherwise in accordance with established usages and
laws.

"The adjustment and apportionment of General Average, so made, showed a balance due from Arbuckle

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Brothers of $5,060.24, which the latter refused to pay.
The grounds of such refusal were that the stranding resulted from the ship's negligence, and that the general
average clause, above quoted, contained in the bills of
lading is invalid.
"The original libel was filed by the owner of the Jason'
against Arbuckle Brothers and its guarantor, the Insurance Company of North America, to recover this amount.
"Arbuckle Brothers and the Insurance Company of
North America filed a cross libel to recover the sum of
$3,506.50, which they alleged would be due. them on an
adjustment of the general average losses, if the shipowner's losses and sacrifices were excluded from the
General Average account by reason of the fact that the
stranding was caused by negligence of the ship's navigators. They claimed that the shipowner's sacrifices and
extraordinary expenditures, made for the common benefit
and safety of the adventure after the stranding, should
not be allowed in the adjustment. If said sacrifices and
expenditures should be excluded from the adjustment
and the value of the ship should be taken account of as
a contributory interest, the adjustment would show a
balance in favor of Arbuckle Brothers.
"The District Court made a decree dismissing both
libels, from which decree both parties duly appealed to
this Court.
"Questions Certified.
"Upon the facts above set forth the questions of law
concerning which this Court desires the instruction of the
Supreme Court are:
"1. Whether the general average agreement above
quoted from the bills of lading is valid, and entitles the
shipowner to collect a general average contribution from
the cargo owners, under the circumstances abrve stated,
in respect of sacrifices made and extraordinary expendi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for The Jason.

225 U. S.

tures incurred by it subsequent to the stranding for the
common benefit and safety of ship, cargo and freight.
"2. Whether, in view of the provisions of the third
section of the Harter Act the cargo owners, .under the
circumstances above stated, have a right to contribution
from the shipowner for sacrifices of cargo made subsequent to the stranding, for the common benefit and safety
of ship, cargo and freight?
"3. Whether the cargo owners, under the circumstances
above stated, can recover contribution from the shipowner in respect of general average sacrifices of cargo,
without contributing to the general average sacrifices and
expenditures of the shipowner made for the same purpose.
"In accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of the
Act of March 31, 1891, establishing courts of appeals, the
,foregoing questions of law are by the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the United States for the Second Circuit,
hereby certified to the Supreme Court."
Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with whom Mr. Charles C. Burlingham was on the brief, for The Jason:
The facts present a case of general average within the
meaning of the clause in the bill of lading.
All loss which arises in consequence of extraordinary
sacrifices made, or expenses incurred for the preservation
of the ship and cargo, comes within general average, and
must be borne proportionably by all who are interested.
Birkley v. Presgrave, 1 East, 220; Columbian Ins. Co. v.
Ashby, 13 Pet. 331; McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wall. 348;
The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203; Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 25.
The case was one of general average, whether the shipowner's sacrifices should receive contribution or not. It
would have been a.case of general average even if there
had been but one interest to contribute. Montgomery v.
Indemnity Marine Ins. Co. (1901), 1 Q. B. 147; (1902),
1 K. B. 734; Potter v. Ocean Ins. Co., 3 Sumn. 27; Risley v.

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for The Jason.

Ins. Co. of N. A., 189 Fed.. Rep. 529. The owners of the
cargo,in any event, would have been entitled to contribution from one another. Strang v. Scott, 14 App. Cas. 601,
609, 610; The City of Para,69 Fed. Rep. 414; 74 Fed. Rep.
565, 567. The owners of cargo would also be entitled,
notwithstanding the fault of the shipowner, to demand
a contribution from him, subject to the reciprocal right
of the shipowner to receive contribution in respect of
his losses and sacrifices from them. The Strathdon, 94
Fed. Rep. 206; 101 Fed. Rep. 600.
The case being one of general average, the general
average clause in the bills of lading makes the shipowner's
sacrifices and extraordinary expenses proper subjects of
contribution in an affirmative suit against the owners of
cargo. Ralliv. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 393; The Bona (1905),
Probate, 125; McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wall. 348, 366;
The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203; Lowndes, Law of General
Average, 5th ed. (1912), § 37, p. 172.
The only substantial question in dispute is whether the
shipowner, by force of the general average clause in the
contract, can have his sacrifices and extraordinary expenses brought into the adjustment. for contribution.
The answer to the first question is not controlled by
the decision of this court in the case of The Irrawaddy,
171 U. S. 187. In this case the bill of lading contained
a clause closely following the language of § 3 of the Harter
Act of Feb. 13, 1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445. There was no
such clause in "The Irrawaddy."
The question of the right of the parties to contract for
a contribution in general average, in a case of negligent
stranding, was not in issue, doEs not appear from the briefs
to have been argued, and, therefore, cannot properly be
considered to have been decided by anything that tne
court may have said in the course of its opinion.
The court expressly decided that the Harter Act does
modify the public policy as previously declared by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for The Jason.

225 U. S.

courts, which. theretofore had refused to permit a carrier
to exempt himself from the consequences of the negligence
of his servants, in the performance of the essential duties
of his employment.
To that extent, therefore, the public policy of the country and the rights and duties of shipper and carrier were
held to be modified and changed by the Harter Act.
Whether this modification of public policy and of the
shipowners' duty and liability by statute does not pave
the way for a lawful contract that losses arising from'
sacrifices made by the master, in his quality of agent, in
emergency, for all concerned, shall be apportioned in
general average over all the interests benefited by the
sacrifices, was not decided and that question is now, for
the first time, presented for decision.
The first question certified should be answered in the
affirmative.
The general average provisions contained in the bills
of lading constitute a lawful contract mutually binding
on the owners of the cargo and of the ship.
The general average clause does not purport to relieve
the carrier from the performance of any duty that he
owed to the cargo; It deals only with sacrifices voluntarily made, and with extraordinary expenses voluntarily
incurred for the common safety.
As to the history of the York-Antwerp Rules of General
Average, see App. Y 5th ed., Lowndes on General Average, pp. 788-798.
Where these rules are adopted in a contract of carriage,
as in this case, they are held to relate "to the subjects
of contribution in general average." Ralli v. Troop, 157
U. S. 386, 412; Magdala S. S. Co. v. Baars, 101 Fed. Rep.
303; The Santa Ana, 154 Fed. Rep. 800; Greenshields v.
Stephens (1908), 1 K. B. 51; (1908), A. C. 431.
Such contribution shall be payable in accordance with
the rules, as a legal right, unless the person asked to con-

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for The Jason.,

tribute can show that the claimant is debarred from such
right by an actionable wrong on his own part which occasioned the sacrifice. Stewart v. West India S. S. Co.,
L. R., 8 Q. B., 88, 95; affirmed, Id., 362, 363; Harris v.
Scaramanga, L. R., 7 C. P., 481, 488, 489; Greenshields v.
Stephens, supra; De Hartv. Campania&c., 8 Com. Cas. 42,
314; The Santa Ana, 154 Fed. Rep. 800; Anglo-Argentine
Agency v. Temperley (1899), 2 Q. B. 403, 408, 412-413; The
Rossija, 21 R. i. D. M. 215.
It is implied in every contract for the carriage of goods
from or to a port in the United States that the shipment
is to be carried and delivered subject to the terms and
provisions of the Harter Act. The Silvia, 171 U. S. 462.
It is also implied that the parties will rutually contribute
to any general average loss that may arise or happen
during the voyage. Burton v. English, 12 Q. B. D. 218,
223; Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S. 396-397; Anderson v. Ocean
S. S. Co., 10 App. Cas. 107, 112, 115.
The rights, duties and liabilities are not any different
where the stranding is due to nautical faults, from those
which arise when the stranding is due to a sea peril. Ralli.
v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 397; The Gratitudine, 3 C. Rob.
240; Anglo-Argentine Agency v. Tenperley (1899), 2 Q. B.
403; Carver's Carriage by Sea, 5th ed., 1909 (§§ 294295).
The master in an emergency such as was involved in this
case has authority to jettison. McAndrews v.Thatcher, 3
Wall. 347, 366; Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 228.
Damage voluntarily done to the framework or appurtenances of the ship or by extraordinary use of the machinery is also the subject of contribution as a sacrifice.7
Birkley v. Presgrave, 1 East, 220; The Bona (1895), P. D.
125, 129, 131, 138-141; Robinson v. Price, 2 Q. B. D. 91;
Int. Nay. Co. v. Atlantic Mut. Ins. Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 304,
312; Watson v. Ins. Co., 7 Johns. 57, 62; Providence &
Stonington S. S. Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 89 N. Y. 559;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the Jason.

225 U. S.

The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 228. The Yucutan, 139 Fed.
Rep. 894 appears to be unsound in principle.
In The Ettrick, 6 P. D. 127, and Strang v. Scott, 14 App.
Cas. 601, there was no contractual exemption, and no
statute in those cases, that exonerated the shipowners
from the faults of their servants; and see Greenshields v.
Stephens (1908), 1 K. B.-51; The Enrique, 7 Fed. Rep.
490; The Bodo, 56 Fed. Rep. 980; The Santa Ana, 154
Fed. Rep. 800; DeHart v. Campania Anonima Seguros
Aurora, 8 Commercial Cases, 42 and 314; Harrisv. Scaramanga, L. R., 7 C. P., 481.
The general average clause is not contrary to public
policy as defined by this court. RailroadCo. v. Lockwood,
17 Wall. 357; The Montana, 129 U. S. 397, distinguished;
and see The Delaware, 161 U. S. 459; The Irrawaddy, 171
U. S. 187, 193.
Since the Harter Act the general average clause does not
contravene public policy. It does not undertake to exempt
the shipowner from the performance of any of the essential duties of his employment. He has been absolved
from responsibility for the stranding and its consequences
by the Harter Act. Pacific v. Honduras, 69 Fed. Rep.
.414; 74 Fed. Rep. 504.
A clause of which the main intent and purpose is not
to relieve the carrier from negligence in the performance
of his essential duties, may be supported as reasonable
and valid, even though its incidental or contingent effect
may be to relieve him, in some measure, from the consequences of acts of servants for which, in its absence, he
would be- responsible. Hart v. Pennsylvania R. R. Co.,
112 U. S. 331; Hohl v. North German Lloyd, 175 Fed. Rep.
544; The Queen of the Pacific (Pacific Coast S. S. Co. v.
Bancroft-Whitney Co.), 94 Fed. Rep. 180; 180 U. S. 49;
The Persiana, 185 Fed. Rep. 396; Phcenix Ins. Co. v.
Erie Transp. Co., 117 U. S. 312; Express Co. v. Caldwell,
21 Wall. 264, 268.

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for The Jason.

Regulation of general average by agreement is permitted by the laws of a great majority of the leading maritime countries. England-Simonds v. White, 2 B. & C.
805; DeHart v. Campania &c., 8 Com. Cas. 314; Lowndes
on Gen. Average, 5th ed. 34; France-§§398, 405, Code
of Commerce; Crowley, v. Saint Freres, 10 Revue Internationale du Droit Maritime, 147, cited The Irrawaddy,
171 U. S. 199; Le Normand v. La Compagnie &c., 1 Dalloz,
471; Valroger, Vol. 5, p. 11; 4 Desjardins, Droit Maritime,
pp. 121, 122; 2 Lyon-Caen & Renault, Droit Maritime,
pp. 92, 93. Germany-Commercial Code of 1900, § 702;
Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 521; Judgment of the Reichs-Gerichte,
1905, S. S. Rossya; Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 547; 21 Revue
Internationale du Droit Maritime, 215. Belgium-Arts.
145-148, Code of Commerce of 1908; Lowndes, 5th ed.,
p. 463; Navire Llansannor, 22 Revue Internationale du
Droit Maritime, 534; The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. at pp. 200,
201. Italy-Arts. 642, 643, Code of Commerce of 1883;
Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 597; Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 610, noteT;
the Court of Appeal of Italy, Compagnie &c. v. De Giovanni, 21 Revue Internationale du Droit Maritime, 689.
Chili-Arts. 1086, 1090, Code of 1865; Lowndes, 5th ed.,
p. 485. Portugal-Art.634, § 2, Code of 1889; Lowndes,
5th ed., p. 639. Norway-Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 636. As
to other countries, see Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 567.
These conditions are found in the Codes of Greece,
1910, §§ 193, 194, Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 562; The Argentine
Republic, Code, Articles 1313, 1318, Lowndes, 5th ed.,
pp. 422, 427; Brazil, Code, Articles 762, 765, Lowndes,
5th ed., pp. 478, 479.
The decisions of the highest courts of France, Germany,
Belgium and Italy, are identical in principle with those of
the English courts that where nautical faults' are excepted, contribution is allowed to the shipowners' sacrifices as though he were a stranger to the fault. In this
case the clause carries the agreement much further It

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for The Jason.

225 U. S.

makes the claim for contribution to the shipowners' sacrifices, in such a case, the subject of express agreement
instead of leaving it to inference or construction.
See Proceedings of the International Law Association,
21st Rep. Antwerp, 1903, p. 231; Carver's Carriage by
Sea, 5th ed., p. 980.
As to the impolicy of adopting any general rule which
will tend to exempt one class of sacrifices from contribution rather than another, the decisions of this court are
in accord with those of Massachusetts and of England.
The Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 230, citing Emerigon, p. 467;
Marwick v. Rogers, 163 Massachusetts, 50; Johnson v.
Chapman, 19 C. B. N. S. 563, 582; The Strathdon, 94
Fed. Rep. 206; 101 Fed. Rep. 600.
The second question, which asks whether, in view of
the provisions of § 3 of the Harter Act, and of the general
average clause, the cargo-owners have a right to contribution from the shipowner for sacrifices of cargo made
subsequent to a negligent stranding in order to save the
joint interests from common peril, should be answered in
the affirmative. Section 482, Rev. Stat. There is a
similar statute in England. The Roanoke, 46 Fed. Rep.
297; 53 Fed. Rep. 270; affirmed, 59 Fed. Rep. 161; The
Rapid Transit, 52 Fed. Rep. 320; The Santa Ana, 154
Fed. Rep. 800; Schmidt v. Royal Mail S. S. Co., 45 L. J.
Q. B. 646; White Cross Co. v. Savill, 8 Q. B. D. 653; Greenshields v. Stephens (1908), 1 K. B. 51; affirmed (1908),
App. Cas. 431; Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Erie Transportation
Co., 117 U. S. 312..
It seems impossible to make up an adjustment according
to the accepted principles of general average, under the
rule stated in the Court of Appeals' opinion.
The third question, which asks whether in view of the
general average clause, the cargo-owners, in a case Of
stranding arising from faulty navigation, can recover
contribution from the shipowner in respect of general

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for The Jason.

average sacrifices of cargo, without contributing to the
general average sacrifices and expenditures of the shipowner made for the same purpose, should be answered
in the negative. The Strathdon, 94 U. S. 206.
Reciprocity of contribution is a fundamental idea in
the law of general average. Birkley v. Presgrave, 1 East,
220, 228; Svendsen v. Wallace, 13 Q. B. D. 69, at p. 73.
Definitions of general ave:rage identical in substance,
if not in form, are found in other English decisions. Robinson v. Price, 2 Q. B. D. 91; The Bona (1895), Probate, 125,
129, 131, 138-141; and in the Federal and state courts of
this country, Ins. Co. v. Ashby, 13 Pet. 331, 338; McAndrews v. Thatcher, 3 Wall. 347, 366; The Star of Hope, 9
Wall. 203, 22S; Sturges v. Cary, 2 Curtis, 59 and 382;
Potter v. Ocean Ins. Co., 3 Sumn. 27; The Strathdon, 94
Fed. Rep. 206; International Navigation Co. v. Atlantic
Mutual Ins. Co., 100 Fed. Rep. 304, 312; Watson v. Ins.
Co., 7 Johns. (N. Y.) 57, 62; Prouidence & Stonington S. S.
Co. v. Phoenix Ins. Co., 89 N. Y. 559; Lowndes on General
Average, 5th ed., p. 42.
The doctrine of reciprocity is found in nearly all the
continental codes of Europe, substantially in the form
in which: it is found in the " Ordonnance " of Louis XIV,

Tit. 7, Arts. 2 and 3; 4 Pardessus, 380.
The only important exceptions to the doctrine of reciprocity of contribution that have been admitted in practice, in England, or in this country, relate to passengers'
baggage and to deck loads; and these exceptions are not
based on equitable principles.
Contribution to passengers' baggage has been allowed
in this country. Though ordinarily it does not contribute,
yet if sacrificed it does contribute. Heye v. North German
Lloyd, 33 Fed. Rep. 60;36 id. 705. There are no decisions
on the point in England. See Lowndes, 5th ed., p. 375;
Arnould on Insurance, 8th ed., p. 936.
The second important exception relates to deck load.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Arguntent for the cargo-owners.

225 U. S.

This, also, is not based on equitable grounds. The exception, indeed, is by no means universal. Contribution to a
deck load loss is exacted where it is customary, in particular trades, to carry a deck load. Lowndes, 5th ed.,
pp. 59, 71, 745; Brown v. Cornwell, 1 Root (Conn.), 60,
decided in 1773; Johnson v. Chapman, 19 C. B. (N. S.)
563; Strang v. Scott, 14 App. Cas. at p. 609; Wright v.
Marwood, 7 Q. B. D., 62, 67, 68.
The case of deck-load is, therefore, no authority for the
claim that reciprocity of contribution is not an essential
condition of general average, and that the shipowner's
sacrifices could be denied the right of contribution without
violating the fundamental rule of general average. The
Strathdon, 94 Fed. Rep. 210, 211.
Mr. Lawrence Kneeland for the cargo-owners:
The bill of lading clause, to which the first question
relates, in so far as it imposes upon the cargo-owner the
obligation to contribute in general average to the ship's
sacrifices made to save the vessel, freight and cargo from
a situation of peril resulting from the negligence of her
master and crew, is contrary to public policy and invalid.
N. Y. & Cula Mail S. S. Co. v. Ansonia Clock Co., 139
Fed. Rep. 894.
Whether this bill of lading clause is valid or invalid
depends upon whether it is one such as the law can recognize as reasonable and not inconsistent with sound public
policy. Express Company v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264. See
The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. 187.
The limitation of the right to contribution is well settled
and established by the English and American authorities.
Lowndes on General Average; Gourlie on General Average, p. 15; The Ontario, 37 Fed. Rep. 220; Snow v. Perkins,
39 Fed. Rep. 334; Schloss v. Heriot, 14 C. B. (N. S.) 59;
The Nicanor, 44 Fed. Rep. 504, 509; Strang v. Scott, 14
A. C. 601.

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for the cargo-owners.

This court has, therefore, declared that, prior to the
enactment of the Harter Act, sound public policy forbade
the participation by a shipowner in a general average con-,
tribution when the danger which necessitated the general
average sacrifices was occasioned by the negligence of
the shipowner's servants, and that that act has not
changed the law in that respect.
The Harter Act confers no right to contract for such
right, and indeed confers no right to contract for any
exemption. The act itself gives and measures the exemption and no right to contract for any further exemption
or privilege exists.
The master of a vessel in a situation of peril occasioned
by faulty navigation is bound to exert himself and to
exercise his' best judgment in rescuing the property which
has been imperilled by his neglect.
No obligation whatever rests upon the cargo-owner.
The Nicanor, 44 Fed. Rep. 504.
The acceptance of a bill of lading containing a contract
of waiver is not the voluntary act of the shipper, for he
has no real choice. Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phoenix Ins.
Co., 129 U. S. 441; The Portsmouth, 9 Wall. 682, 687.
If the property can be saved only by a sacrifice of some
part thereof, it is the master's duty to make such sacrifice,
irrespective of any question of contribution thereto.
The decisions of the English courts and of the courts of
certain continental countries cited on the brief of counsel
for the Jason are based upon a different view from that
taken by this court. The CarronPark, 15 P. D. 203; Mary
Thomas (1894), Prob. 104; Millburn v. JamaicaCo. (1900,

2 Q._B. 540.
Question nevertheless exists as to what decision will
be reached by the highest English court upon this question. See Greenshields v. Stephens (1908), 1 K. B. 51.
The principal controversy in England, at the present
time, appears to be whether a mere exception in a bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the cargo-owners.

225 U. S.

of lading has any effect whatever upon contribution in
general average. See Mr. Carver's position in Journal
of the Society of Comparative Legislation, 1903, Vol. 5,
p. 227.
The same difference in view as to public policy is involved in the continental decisions.
The French law, like the English, permits the utmost
freedom of contract. La Normand v. Compagnie Gen.
Trans., 1 Dalloz, 479; Rassija, cited on the brief for the
Jason; German Maritime Code, § 702.
As to the decisions of the Belgian and Italian courts,
the codes of both countries declare that sacrifices or expenditures occasioned by unseaworthiness of the ship or
negligence of the captain or crew or by vice propre of
the cargo are particular average. Italian Code, §§ 643646; Belgian Code, § 103.
As to the second question certified, whether the Harter
Act is a defense to the cargo-owners' claim for contribution to their general average sacrifices and losses, neither
exemptions in a bill of lading nor statutory exemptions
from liability relieve a shipowner from contribution to
general average sacrifices of cargo. Schmidt v. Royal
Mail S. S. Co., 45 L. J. Q. B. 646; Crooks v. Allan, L. R.,
5 Q. B. D., 218; Burton v. English, L. R., 12 Q. B. D., 218;
The Roanoke, 59 Fed. Rep. 161.
Neither § 4282 of Rev. Stat. nor clauses in the bill of
lading providing that the carrier should not be liable for
loss or damage arising from fire or wetting, or that the
carrier should have the benefit of any insurance on the
property, release the carrier from liability to contribute
towards general average. The Santa Ana, 154 Fed. Rep.
800; The Win. J. Quillan, 175 Fed. Rep. 207.
. While in none of the cases did the danger result from
negligence., negligence of the carrier's servants cannot
affect his liability to contribute. The Strathdon, 94 Fed.
Rep. 208.

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Argument for' the cargo-owners.

If an innocent shipowner must contribute notwithstanding the statute, a fortiori a negligent shipowner must
do so. Strang v. Scott, 14 A. C. 609.
The contention that because the shipowner is not entitled to claim contribution he is not liable to contribute
appears to be based upon the fact that ordinarily the right
to contributioi and the liability to contribute are reciprocal. But see Heye v. North German Lloyds, 33 Fed.
Rep. 64.
The third question certified is: Assuming that the cargoowner is entitled to recover contribution from the shipowner, is his enforcement of such right conditional upon
his contributing to any extent to the losses of the shipowner?
The master of a vessel, stranded as a result of his negligence, may save the common adventure by sacrificing
some part of the ship's appliances or making extraordinary
use of her engines, or he may jettison cargo, or he may, as
in the present case, do both.
If the general average sacrifice is a sacrifice of the
vessel alone the shipowner cannot recover contribution
thereto from the cargo.
If the property is saved by a jettison of the cargo alone
the vessel is bound to contribute to such jettison. The
Strathdon, 94 Fed. Rep. 210, distinguished, as violating
the fundamental principle of the law of general average,
that all losses shall be borne equally. Lowndes, Gen.
Av., 4th ed., p. 38; Arnould, Mar. Ins., 8th ed., § 974.
The Strathdondecision is in error, as it treats the statute
as blotting out the fault of the shipowner and placing him
in the position of an innocent party. See The Ettrick,
6 P. D. 127; The Hector, 8 P. D. 218.
The Strathdon decision also fails to distinguish between
damages caused directly by the negligent navigation and
the general average sacrifices of the cargo to avert further
loss.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

For the distinction between claims for damages by the
original disaster and claims for contribution to sacrifices
voluntarily made to avoid further loss therefrom, see
The Roanoke, 59 Fed. Rep. 161, 164; Pacific Mail S. S.
Co. v. N. Y. & H. & R. Min. Co., 74 Fed. Rep. 568.
Confusion has arisen on this question owing to the
failure to recognize that it is the law not only that no one
can recover general average contribution if the danger to
avert which a sacrifice was made has arisen from the fault
of the claimant or his servants, but that those who are
innocent can recover contribution from the guilty; that
this latter right exists notwithstanding and irrespective
of the liability in damages of the negligent shipowner,
and that it is only the shipowner's liability in damages
which has been affected by the Harter Act. See Lowndes
on General Average, 34; Strang v. Scott, 14 App. Cases,
601; Carver on Carriage by Sea, 5th ed., § 373a; The
Irrawaddy (Crystal v. Flint), 82 Fed. Rep. 472, 475.
There is no element of unfairness to the shipowner in
the contention of the cargo-owners in this case, for the
principle we contend for is applicable to every party or
interest, whether shipowner or cargo-owner, whose negligence or fault has occasioned the danger which the sacrifice has averted. 2 Parsons' Mar. Ins. 217.
In the absence of an established usage in the particular
trade to carry on deck, contribution to the jettison of
deck cargo is not allowed, yet if the deck cargo be saved
it contributes to the sacrifices of other interests. 3 Kent's
Com., 3d ed., p. 240; Phillips on Insurance, § 1396; Maclachlan, Law of Merchant Shipping, 5th ed., p. 766.
after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

'JUSTICE -PITNEY,

That the facts present a case of general average within
the meaning of the clause embodied in the bills of lading
is entirely clear. There was a common, imminent peril

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Opinion'of the Court.

involving ship and cargo, followed by a voluntary and
extraordinary sacrifice of property (including extraordinary expenses), necessarily m.ade to avert the peril, and a
resulting common benefit to the adventure. McAndrews
v. Thatcher, 3 Wall. 347, 365; Star of Hope, 9 Wall. 203,
228; Ralli v. Troop, 157 U. S. 386, 394.
The principal controversy is upon the question of the
validity of the agreement that if the shipowner "shall
have exercised due diligence to make said ship in all
respects seaworthy, and properly manned, equipped and
supplied," then, in case of danger, damage, or disaster
resulting from (inter alia) negligent navigation, the cargoowners shall not be exempted from liability for contribution in general average, but with the shipowner shall contribute as if such danger, damage, or disastel' had not
resulted from negligent navigation. The facts show that
the shipowner had fulfilled the condition imposed upon
him by this clause; that is, he had "exercised due diligence to make said ship in all respects seaworthy and
properly manned, equipped and supplied." The question
presented for solution turns upon the effect of the third
section of the act of Congress approved February 13,
1893, c. 105, 27 Stat. 445 (U., S. Comp. Stat., 1901,
p. 2946), known as the Harter Act, and of the decision of
this court in the case of The Irrawaddy, 171.U. S. 187.
Prior to the Harter Act it was established that a common carrier by sea could not by any agreement in the bill
of lading exempt himself from responding to the owner
of cargo for damages arising from the negligence of the
master or crew of the vessel. Liverpool & G. W. Steam
Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 438; following
New York C. Railroad Co. v., Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357.
But of course the responsibilities of the carrier were
subject to modification by law, and with respect to vessels
transporting merchandise from or between ports of the
United States and foreign ports they were substantially
VOL. ccxxv-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

modified by the Harter Act. The first -three sections of
this enactment are pertinent to the present discussion
and are set forth in full in the margin.'
Section 1 deals with .the shipowner's responsibility for
the proper loading, stowage, custody care and delivery
of the cargo, prohibits the insertion in any bill of lading
of an agreement relieving him from responsibility for
negligence in respect to these duties, and declares such
agreements null and void. Section 2 prohibits the insertion in any bill of lading of an agreement lessening or
avoiding the obligation of the shipowner to "exercise
due diligence (to) properly equip, man, provision and
outfit said vessel and to make said vessel seaworthy,"
etc. Section 3 proceeds to limit the responsibility of a
shipowner who shall have exercised due diligence to make
his vessel seaworthy and properly manned, equipped and
supplied. Instead of merely sanctioning covenants and
agreements limiting his liability, Congress went further
'The title and first three sections of the Harter Act are as follows:

"An act relating to navigation of vessels, bills of lading, and to
certain obligations, duties, and rights in connection with the carriage
of property.
"Be it enacted, etc., That it shall not be lawful for the manager,
agent, master, or owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or
property from or betweeri ports of the United States and foreign ports
to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any clause, covenant, or agreement whereby it, he, or they shall be relieved from liability for loss ordamage arising from negligence, fault, or failure in
proper loading, stowage, custody, care, or proper delivery of any and
all lawful merchandise or property committed to its or their charge.
Any and all.words or clauses of such import inserted in bills of lading
or shipping receipts shall be null and void and of no effect.
"SEc. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any vessel transporting
merchandise or property from or between ports of the United States
of America and foreign ports, her owner, master, agent, or manager,
to insert in any bill of lading or shipping document any covenant or
agreement whereby the obligations of the owner or owners of said vessel to exercise due diligence properly equip, man, provision, and outfit

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Opinion'of the Court.

and rendered such agreements unnecessary by repealing
the liability itself, declaring that if the shipowner should
exercise due diligence to make the vessel in all respects
seaworthy, and properly manned, equipped and supplied,
neither the vessel, her owner or owners, etc., should be
responsible for damage or loss resulting from faults or
errors in navigation or in the management of the vessel,
etc., etc. The antithesis is worth noting. Congress says
to the shipowner-"In certain respects you shall not be
relieved from the responsibilities incident to your public
occupation as a common carrier, although the cargo
owners agree that you shall be relieved; in certain other
respects (provided you fulfill conditions specified) you
shall be relieved from responsibility, even without a
stipulation from the owners of cargo."
In the case now before us it is argued in behalf of- the
shipowner that since by the third section of the Harter
Act he is absolved from responsibility for the negligence
said 'vessel, and to make said vessel seaworthy and capable of performing her intended voyage, or whereby the obligations of the master,
officers, agents, or servants to carefully handle and stow'her cargo and
to care for and properly deliver same, shall in any wise be lessened,
weakened, or avoided.
"SEc. 3. That if the owner of any vessel transporting merchandise or
property to or from any port of the United States of America shall
exercise due diligence to make the said vessel in-all respects seaworthy
and properly manned, equipped, and supplied, neither the vessel,
her owner or owners, agent, or charterers shall become or be held
responsible for damage or loss resulting from failts or errors in navigation or in the management of saidvessel nor shall the vessel, her
owner or owners, charterers, agent, or master be held liable for losses
arising from dangers of the sea or obher navigable waters, acts of God,
or public enemies, or the inherent defect, quality, or vice of the thing
carried, or from insufficiency of package, or seizure under legal process,
or for loss resulting from any act or omission of the shipper or owner
of the goods, his agent or representative, or from saving or ittempting
to save life or property at sea, or from any deviation in rendering such
service."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

of his master and crew under the circumstances existing,
there is nothing in the policy of the law to debar him,
from bargaining with the owners of cargo for a participation in the general average contribution. In behalf of
the cargo-owners it is insisted that the construction placed
upon the legislation in question by this court in The Irrawaddy, 171 U. S. 187, leaves the shipowner still disabled
from making an agreement with the cargo-owners for a
participation with them in general average contributions
resulting from negligent navigation or management of
the ship by its master and crew.
The latter view was adopted by the District Court in
New York & Cuba Mail S. S. Co. v. Ansonia Clock Co.,
139 Fed. Rep. 894, where a clause identical with the one
now under consideration was held invalid. This decision
was apparently followed, although not cited, by the same
court (162 Fed. Rep. 56), and by the Circuit Court of
Appeals (178 Fed. Rep. 414, 416), in the case now under
review. In reaching this result the courts below have, as
we think, misconceived the effect of the language used by
Mr. Justice Shiras, speaking for this court, in The Irrawaddy, and have given to that decision an import quite
beyond its legitimate scope. In that case there was no
agreement between shipowner and cargo-owner respecting
general average, nor respecting the consequences of a
stranding or other peril that might result from the negli. gence of the master or crew of the vessel. On familiar
grounds, all of the expressions employed in the opinion
are to be construed inthe light of the facts of the case and
the question actually presented for decision. This was,
*whether
§ 3 of the Harter Act, proprio vigore, gave to the
shipowner, under the circumstances, a right to general
average contribution for sacrifices made by him subsequent to the stranding of the vessel in successful efforts
to save her and her freight and cargo. It was pointed out
in the opinion that previous to that enactment, in the

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case of a loss arising from the ship's fault, the shipowner
was excluded from contribution by way of general average, and was also legally responsible to the owner of the
cargo for los and damage so occasioned; and that it was
against the policy of the law to allow stipulations that
would relieve a carrier from such liability. It was, however, recognized that it was "competent for Congress to
make a change in the standard of duty." It was remarked that by-the first and second sections of the Harter
Act shipowners were prohibited from inserting in their
bills of lading agreements limiting their liability in certain
respects, and that the third section by its own terms
limited their liability in other respects. The opinion, after
stating that as the law stood before the passage of the act
the shipowner could not contract against his liability and
that of. his vessel for loss occasioned by negligence or
fault in officers and crew, and that in this particular the
owners of American vessels were at a disadvantage as
compared with the owners of foreign vessels, who might
so contract, proceeded to say (p. 193) that "Congress
thought fit to remove the disadvantage, not by declaring
that it should be competent for the owners of vessels to
exempt themselves from liability for the faults of the
master and crew by stipulations to that effect contained
in bills of lading, but by enacting that, if the owners
exercised due diligence in making their ships seaworthy
and in duly manning and equipping them, there should be
no liability for the navigation and management of the
ships, however faulty."
This language is laid hold. of as indicating that the decision proceeded upon the ground that Congress thought
it improper to permit owners of vessels to contract for
exemption from liability. What it really means, as will
be observed, is, that Congress went further, and by its
own enactment exempted them from liability, under given
conditions, for the consequences of faulty navigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court..

225 U.S.

The point of the decision in The Irrawaddy (and as an
authority the case goes no further), is, that while the
Harter Act relieved the shipowner from liability for his
servant's negligence, it did not of its own force entitle
him to share in a general average rendered necessary by
such
negligence.
It is,
however, further insisted in behalf of the
cargoowners that the agreement in question is contrary to
public policy in another respect, namely, in that it attempts to relieve the shipowner from one of the essential
duties arising out of the relation of carrier and shipper,
and from which the Harter Act has not relieved him.
The argument is that although that act exempts him
from the consequences of the negligent stranding, it leaves
him still under the duty and obligation of caring for and
preserving the cargo, after the stranding; that whenever
the safety of the property entrusted to the shipowner is
menaced, whether the peril be occasioned by vis major or
by fault, and whether such fault be or be not of such
character as to fall within the third section of the Harter
Act, "the master is nevertheless bound to exert every
effort to save the property, and if he fail in this duty his
owners are liable to the cargo for the resulting loss." If
by "every effort" is meant every reasonable effort, we
see no occasion to question the soundness of the reasoning. But it is further insisted that the duty of the master
to save the imperiled property extends so far as to call
for a sacrifice of a part of the owner's property if necessary to save the cargo. In our opinion the master's
duty as agent of the owner is not; so extensive. If it
were, there would be an end at once" of all contribution
in general average for ship's sacrifices, for such sacrifices
could not be deemed voluntary and extraordinary, if
made in performance of the owner's general duty to his
cargo.
. The cases cited do not support the contention of coun-

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sel for the cargo-owners in this behalf. PropellerNiagara
v. Cordes, 21 How. 7, 28, holds that although the vessel
be stranded "the master is bound to the utmost exertions
in his power to save the goods from the impending peril,
as it is no more than a prudent man would do under like
circumstances." The Maggie Hammond, 9 Wall. 435, 458,
holds that when the vessel is wrecked or otherwise disabled in the course of the voyage and cannot be repaired
without too great delay and expense, it is the duty of the
master to transship the goods and send them forward, if
another vessel can be had in the same or a contiguous port
or within a reasonable distance, and that upon so doing
he is entitled to charge the goods with the increasedfreight
arising from the hire of the vessel so procured. In Star
of Hope, 9 Wall. 203, 230, it is pointed out that the duty
imposed upon the master, in case of a peril arising to the
common adventure, is "to judge and determine at the
time whether the circumstances of danger in such a case
are or are not so great and pressing as to render a sacrifice
of a portion of the associated interests indispensable for
the common safety of the remainder." The duty to make
a sacrifice of such portion of the associated interests as
in the judgment of the master will save the common
adventure is obviously inconsistent with the suggested
duty to first sacrifice the owner's property for the safety
of the cargo. The other cases cited upon this point require no mention.
In our opinion, so far as the Harter Act has relieved the
shipowner from responsibility for the negligence of his
master and crew, it is no longer against the policy of the
law for him to contract with the cargo-owners for a participation ii general average contribution growing'out of
such negligence; and since the clause contained in the bills
of lading of the Jason's cargo admits the shipowner to
share in the. general average only under circumstances
where by the act he is relieyed from responsibility, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

provision in question is valid, and entitles him to contribution under the circumstances stated.
The second question is whether, under the like circumstances, the cargo-owners can recover contribution
from the shipowner for sacrifices of cargo made subsequent to the stranding, for the common benefit and safety
of ship, cargo and freight.
This question was dealt with in The Strathdon, 94 Fed.
Rep. 206; 101 Fed. Rep. 600; 41 C. C. A. 515; where,
however, there seems to have been no general average
clause such as we have in the case before us; and by the
same courts in this case, 162 Fed. Rep. 56; 178 Fed. Rep.
414; where the general average clause was dealt with as
invalid, and therefore, of course, was given no influence
in the determination of the present point. The Circuit
Court of Appeals expressed the view that if the cargo-.
owner were allowed to obtain indirectly through a general average adjustment, compensation for losses attributable to the faulty navigation of the ship, and which
therefore he could not recover directly because of § 3 of
the Harter Act, the result would be a judicial repeal of
that section, and that therefore the cargo-owner could not
bring the shipowner as a contributing interest into a
general average adjustment that might result in a claim
which the Harter Act disallows. With this view we have
no present concern, because it seems to us that the response we are to make to the second question certified
must depend upon the construction of the agreement
between the parties. Having already held that the general average clause contained in the bill of lading is valid
as against the cargo-owner, it follows ex necessitate that it
is valid in his favor; indeed, no ground is suggested for
disabling the shipowner from voluntarily subjecting himself or his ship to liability to respond to the cargo in an
action or in a general average adjustment, for the consequences of the negligence of his master or crew, even

THE JASON.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

though by the Harter Act he is relieved from responsibility for such negligence. Therefore we have only to
determine whether by the language of the general average
clause the cargo-owners are entitled to contribution from
the ship for sacrifices of cargo made subsequent to the
stranding for the common 'benefit and safety. The
language is that in the circumstances presented "the
consignees or owners of the cargo shall not be exempted
from liability for contribution in general average, or for
any special charges incurred, but with the shipowner shall
contribute in .gcneral average, and shall pay such special
charges, as if such danger, damage or disaster had not
resulted from such default, negligence," etc. This language clearly imports an agreement. that the shipowner
shall contribute in general average. The opposite view
would render the clause inconsistent with the principles
of equity and reciprocity upon which the entire law of
general average is founded.
The foregoing considerations compel a negative answer
'to the third question. In view of the valid stipulations
contained in the bill of lading, it would be a contradiction of terms to permit the cargo-owners to recover contribution from the ship in respect of general average
sacrifices of cargo, -without on. their part contributing to
the general average sacrifices and expenditures of-the shipowner made for the same purpose. This would not be
general average contribution, the essence of which is that
extraordinary sacrifices made and expenses incurred for
the common benefit and safety are to be borne proportionately by all who are intercsted.
Our conclusion, accordingli, is that of the questions
certified to us by the Circuit Court of Appeals, the first
question should be answered in the affirmative, the second
question should be answered in the affirmative, and the
third question should be answered in the negative, and
So ordered.
it is

