OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellant.

225 U. S.

NATIONAL BANK OF NEWPORT, NEW YORK, v.
NATIONAL HERKIMER COUNTY BANK OF
LITTLE FALLS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 172.

Argued February 28, 29, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

To constitute a preference under the Bankruptcy Act it is not necessary that the transfer be made directly to the creditor; it may be
made to another for his benefit, and if preferential circuity of arrangement will not avail to save it.
Unless, however, the creditor takes by virtue of a disposition by the
insolvent debtor of his property for the benefit of the creditor so
that the estate is diminished the creditor cannot be charged with
receiving a preference.
Where the endorser of the bankrupt's note, which is under discount
at a bank and secured 'by the endorser's own collateral, pays the
note, thereby recovering his collateral and charges the payment to
the bankrupt to whom he is indebted in a larger sum on open account, there is no preferential payment to the bank which the
trustee can recover from it as such, it not appearing that the bank
was concerned with, or .had any knowledge of, the relations between the endorser and the maker of the note. 172 Fed. Rep. 529, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the question of whether a
payment was an illegal preference under the Bankruptcy
Act of 1898, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry J. Cookinham for appellant:
Payment of the note was preferential.
The .uncontradicted evidence shows that the debtor
was insolvent at the time of the payment. There was a
payment or transfer of property to defendant or for its
benefit. The payment or transfer of property was' a preference and the recipient received more, upon its debt,
than the other creditors of the bankrupt. The creditor
knew or had reasonable cause to believe, that a preference

NEWPORT BANK v. HERKIMER BANK.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

was intended. The transfer was made within four months
of filing the petition in bankruptcy.
The fact -that the note was paid before due raises th,
presumption that the payment was preferential. No evidence was given to overcome the presumption.
Any payment, out of the ordinary course of business, is
presumptive evidence of the intent of the insolvent to give
a preference. Graham v. Stork, Fed. Cas. No. 5678; Walbrun v. Babbitt, 16 Wall. 577; Hardy v. Gray, 144 Fed., Rep.
922; Dokkin, v. Page, 147 Fed. Rep. 438; in re Gesas, 146
Fed. Rep. 734.
The bank took what was virtually a general assignment
from the Sheard Company.
The statute has reaffirmed the common law in regard to
the knowledge of an agent being imputed to the principal.
It is not necessary that the transfer or payment should
be direct to the defendant. ]f the effect of any transfer or
payment is to prefer one creditor to his knowledge over
the others, the transfer or payment will be set"aside, for
the benefit of the general creditors, no matter by what
subterfuge it was effected. In re Sanderson, 149 Fed.
Rep. 273; In re Hockney v. Raymond, 10 A. B. Rep. 213;
In re Beerman, 112 Fed. Rep. 663; Western Tie,& Lumber
Co. v. Brown, 129 Fed. Rep. 728;' Benjamin v. Chandler,
142 Fed. Rep. 217.
It is not necessary to show that a creditor has actual
knowledge that the debtor is insolvent. The circumstances
which would lead an ordinary prudent man to believe
that a preference was intended is sufficient. Sundheim v.
Ridge Ave. Bank, T38 Fed. Rep. 951; In re Himes, 144 Fed.
Rep. 543; In re Virginia Hard Wood Mfg. Co., 139 Fed.
Rep. 209; Parker v. Black, 143 Fed. Rep. 560; Webb
v. Sachs, Fed. Cas. No. 11,325; Coder v. McPherson, 152
Fed. Rep. 951.
The facts bring this case under the rule as to what will
be considered knowledge or reasonable cause to believe

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the debtor insolvent and that a preference is intended.
Thomas v. Adelman, 136 Fed. Rep. 973; West Philadelphia
Bank v. Dixon, 95 U. S. 180; Merchants' NationalBank v.
Cook, 95 U. S. 342; Rogers v. Palmer, 102 U. S. 263; Sage v.
Wynkoop, 104 U. S. 319; In re Eggert, 102 Fed. Rep. 735.
The rule is that it is not necessary to show that a creditor
has actual knowledge that the debtor is insolvent. The
circumstances which would lead an ordinary prudent
man to believe that a preference was intended is sufficient.
In this case, however, the creditor had actual knowledge
that the Newport Knitting Company was insolvent at
the time of the payment. Sundheim v. Ridge Ave. Bank,
138 Fed. Rep. 951; In re Himes, 144 Fed. Rep. 543; In re
Virginia Hard Wood Mfg. Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 209; Parker
v. Black, 143 Fed. Rep. 560; Webb v. Sachs, Fed. Cas.
No. .11,325; Coder v. McPherson, 152 Fed. Rep. 951.
Mr. Myron G. Bronner for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought in the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York by Charles
B. Mason, as trustee in: bankruptcy of the Newport
Knitting Company, to recover the amount of an alleged
preference. Decree for the complainant was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, Which remanded the cause
with instructions to dismiss the bill. Mason v. National
Herkimer County Bank, 172 Fed. Rep. 529. Subsequently,
the trustee assigned the claim in suit to the National Bank
of Newport, New York, which was substituted as complainant and brought this appeal.
The bankrupt, the Newport Knitting Company., was
organized in 1900, by Titus. Sheard and his associates, and
was engaged in the manufacture of knit goods it Newport,
New York. Proceedings for its voluntary dissolution were'
begun in October, 1903, and on December 30, 1903, a

NEWPORT BANK v. HERKIMER BANK.
225'G. S.

Opinion of the Court.

petition in bankruptcy was filed against it. It was adjudged a bankrupt on January 23, 1904.
Several of the officers and directors of this company were
also officers and directors of a corporation known as the
Titus Sheard Company, which manufactured knit goods
at Little Falls. Titus Sheard was the leading spirit in
both corporations; in each his son-in-law was the secretary and his nephew the general manager. The books of
the Newport Knitting Company were kept at the office
of the Titus Sheard Company. It does not appear that
either company held stock in the other, nor is it shown to
what extent the same persons had a stock interest in both.
And upon the record the conclusion must be that, while
the management of the two concerns was largely in the
same hands, they were distinct organizations conducting
separate businesses.
The Titus Sheard Company had a deposit account and
discounted its paper with the defendant, the National
Herkimer County Bank of Little Falls, of which She'ard
was a director. The Newport Knitting Company was not
a customer of the defendant bank, but kept. its account
with the National Bank of Newport.
The transaction which is alleged to constitute a preference was as follows: On January 7, 1901; the Newport
Knitting Company gave its note for $5,773.05, at four
months, to the Titus Sheard Company to pay for machinery and supplies. The Titus Sheard Company endorsed
the note and had it discounted by the defendant bank,
receiving the avails for its own use. The note was reduced by part payment to '$5,000, and for this sum it was
renewed every four months with like endorsement, the
last renewal of this sort being on May 11,, 1903.
In August, 1903, the defendant bank held a large amount
of paper made or endorsed by the Titus Sheard Company
and insisted upon security. Thereupon the Titus Sheard
Company submitted to the bank a statement of its af-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

fairs and on August 11, 1903, executed an instrument, also
signed by Mr. Sheard and certain other officers individually, by which, after reciting the determination to liquidate its business, they purported to pledge its "mill property, all the machinery in the same, and the warehouse,
together with all our assets of our Company, and also the
individual properties; as per list hereto attached, to secure
the National Herkimer County Bank for all notes of ours
which they now hold, or may hereafter, hold, and for all
paper endorsed by us now held by the Bank, or that may
be held by it in the future." This agreement evidently
contemplated that the Titus Sheard Company should
continue in possession of its property and should have
charge of the winding up of its affairs on the understanding expressed, which was, in substance, that the property
should be speedily converted into money, that bills payable held by creditors other than the bank should be renewed so far as possible, and that "all surplus moneys as
fast as collected, not required to pay the outstanding notes
held by other creditors," should be applied in payment of
the indebtedness to the bank. It was declared to be the
intention to dispose of the property so that all the indebtedness should be paid befoi'e January 1, 1904.
On August 22, 1903, there was substituted for the abovementioned note of the Newport Knitting Company, endorsed 'by the Titus Sheard Company and held by the
bank, a new three months' note of the Newport Knitting
Company for the same amount, similarly endorsed; and
the Titus Sheard Company secured this note by the delivery to the bank of specific assignments of its bills receivable, amounting to $6,300. On September 26, 1903,
before maturity, the Titus Sheard Company paid to the
bank the amount of this note, less accrued interest,
$4,953.33, and took up the note and collateral. This payment was made by the Titus Sheard Company acting
in its own behalf by a check drawn against the funds to

NEWPORT BANK v. HERKIMER BANK.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

its credit in the bank. The amount so paid was then
charged by that company to the Newport Knitting Company to which it was indebted on open account in a larger
sum; and on the books of the 'Newport Knitting Company
a corresponding credit was given to the Titus Sheard Company. So far as appears, this charge of the sum paid on the
note against the amount owing to the Newport Knitting
Company was not known to the bank.
It is insisted that this transaction amounted to a preference of the bank by the Newport Knitting Company.
It is said that "the bankrupt parted with property to the
amount of the note and the bank received it and was
benefited to that amount," to the detriment of the other
creditors of the Newport Knitting Company, then insolvent; .or, as the District Court put it, that "a short cut
was taken by common consent and the check was passed
to the bank and the. amount charged to the Knitting
Company so that it in fact paid the note."
The perfinent provisions of the Bankruptcy Act as they
stood at the time the transaction occurred, were as follows:
. "Sec. 60. Preferred Creditors.-a. A person shall be
deemed to have given a preference if, being insolvent,, he,
has, within four months before the filing of the petition,
or after the filing of the petition and before the adjudication, procured or suffered a -judgment to be entered
against himself in favor of any person, or madd A transfer
of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement
of such judgment or transfer will be to enable any one of
his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt
than any other of such creditors of the same class. .
"b. If a bankrupt shall have given a preference, and the
person receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or his
agent acting therein, shall have had reasonable cause to
believe that it was intended thereby to give a preference,'
it shall be voidable by the trustee, and he may recover,
the property or, its value from such person."

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

To constitute a preference, it is not necessary that the
transfer be made directly to the creditor. It may be
made to another for his benefit. If the bankrupt has made
a transfer of his property, the effect of which is to enable
one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his
debt than another creditor of the same class, circuity of
arrangement will not avail to save it. A "transfer" includes "the sale and every other and different mode of
disposing of or parting with property, or the possession of
property, absolutely or conditionally, as a payment,'
pledge, mortgage, gift, or security." Sec. 1 (25). It is not
the mere form or method of the transaction that the act
condemns, but the appropriation by the insolvent debtor
of a portion of his property to the payment of a creditor's
claim, so that thereby the estate is depleted and the
creditor obtains an advantage over other creditors. The
"accounts receivable" of the debtor, that is, the amounts
owing to him on open account, are of course, as susceptible
of preferential disposition as other property; and if an
insolvent debtor arranges to pay a favored creditor
through the disposition of such an account, tothe depletion of his estate, it must be regarded as equally a preference whether he procures the payment to be made on his
behalf by the debtor in the account-the same to constitute a payment in Whole or part of the latter's debt--or
he collects the amount and pays it over to his creditor
directly. This implies that, in the former case, the debtor
in the account, for the purpose of the preferential payment, is acting as the representative of the insolvent and
is simply complying with the directions of the latter in
paying the money to his creditor..
But, unless the creditor takes by virtue of a disposition
by the insolvent debtor of his property for the creditor's
benefit, so that the estate of the debtor is thereby dim-.
inished, the creditor cannot be charged with receiving a
preference by transfer. Western Tie & Timber Company

NEWPORT BANK v. HERKIM9R BANK.

225 U. S.

Opinion. of the Court.

v. Brown, 196 U. S. 502, 509; Rector v. City Deposit Bank,
200 U. S. 405, 419. "These transfers ofproperty, amounting to preferences, contemplate the parting with the
bankrupt's property for the benefit of the creditor and the
consequent diminution of the bankrupt's estate." N. Y.
County Bank v. Massey, 192 U. S. 138, 147.
Here, the payment to the bank did not proceed from
the bankrupt, the Newport Knitting Company. The
Titus Sheard Company had a standing quite apart from
its relation to the Newport Knitting Company as a
debtor in the account. In the transaction with the bank,
the Titus Sheard Company acted on its own behalf. As
the holder of the original note, that company had endorsed it to the bank, taking for its own benefit the proceeds of the discount. Its obligation as endorser was continued by the renewals, and to secure the bank. on the last
ienewal it had deposited its own collateral. It took up the
note with its own funds and received back the security.
Neither directly nor indirectly was this payment to the
bank made by the Newport Knitting Company, and the
property of that company was not thereby depleted.
-The fact then is not, as it is contended, that "the
bankrupt parted with property to the amount of the note
and the bank received it," but rather that .the bankrupt
parted with nothing, and the bank received the money of
the endorser and redelivered to the endorser the paper
and collateral. When the Titus Sheard Company took
up the note, it was credited with the amount of the payment in its account with the Newport Knitting Company.
But the question, in the circumstances disclosed, of the
right of the Titus Sheard Company to a set-off against its
indebtedness on the account is distinct from the question
whether the bank received a preference. Western Tie &
Timber Company v. Brown, supra. It'would be only by
the allowance of such a set-off that the bankrupt estate
would be diminished. And, as was said by the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

Court of Appeals, "if the Sheard Company, knowing the
Newport Company t6 be insolvent, acquired the note with
a view to using it as a set-off or counterclaim against
its debt, it could not legally do so (Bankruptcy Law,
sec. 68b)." The amount of the indebtedness of the Titus
Sheard Company could still be collected by the trustee.
It is urged that by virtue of the instrument already
mentioned, which was executed by the Titus Sheard Company on August 11, 1903, all the assets of that company
had been assigned to the bank, and hence that the security placed with the bank on the last renewal of the note
was already held under this instrument and continued to
be so held after the note was taken up, despite the surrender of the specific assignments. It is said further that
as a result of the execution of this instrument, the bank
"stepped into the place of the Sheard Company," and
knew the Condition of the account with the Newport
Knitting Company and the charge that was made to it.
The argument attributes to the instrument undue importance and an effect which it did not accomplish. It
was far from being an adequate legal security. Apparently, the Titus Sheard Company was left in the possession of the property, and its officers continued its management with freedom to sell, to collect accounts, to pay
outstanding notes held by others than the bank (so far as
they could not be renewed), and generally to liquidate
the business in accordance with the expressed intention to
convert the assets into money as speedily as possible and
thus to meet all the obligations to the bank. To this end,
the company and its officers were to "work faithfully"
and the surplus moneys as fast as realized were to be devoted to the payment of the indebtedness. It was natural
that the bank should require security for the note of a
more' definite and satisfactory 'character, that is, proper
collateral. And when the bank received the specific
collateral deposited by the Titus Sheard Company on the

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

renewal, the bank obtained a control over it which otherwise it did not possess, and this control it surrendered on
the redelivery. In vieiv of the effort that was being made
to reduce the obligations of the company held by the bank,
it cannot be thought surprising that the note with the
collateral was taken up before maturity. It was not
shown that the bank had anything to do with the credit
to the Titus Sheard Company in its account with the
Newport Knitting Company. Nor does it appear that the
bank knew of the condition oiFthis account or had any
reason to, believe that it was proposed to set off the payment against an indebtedness to the bankrupt.
The bank dealt with the Titus Sheard Company as the
endorser of the paper; and the trustee failed to establish
any right to recover the moneys it received.
Decree affirmed.

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST STEAMSHIP
COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMSHIP
"QUEEN."
JORDAN v. PACIFIC COAST COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMSHIP "UMATILLA," ETC.'
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH

Nos. 641,642.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 21, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

When the Federal Constitution was adopted each State had its own
pilotage regulations.
State pilotage laws are regulations of commerce, but they fall within

that class of powers which may be exercised by the States until
Congress shall see fit to act.
The provisions of former Federal statutes relating to pilotage were
incorporated in §§ 4401 and 4444, lav. Stat., which are still in force.
In adopting the Revised Statutes change of arrangement from earlier

