EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

EX PARTE CHARLEY WEBB, PETITIONER.
ON APPLICATION FOR HABEAS CORPUS AND CERTIORARI.
No. 11.

Original.

Argued May 13, 1912.-Decided June 10, 1912.

The Oklahoma Enabling. Act of June 16, 1906, 34 Stat. 267, c. 3335,
followed by the adoption of the constitution therein described, and
the admission of the new State, had the effect of remitting to the
state government the enforcement of the laws relating to the manufacture and sale of liquor within the State; and, so far as it covered
the same field as the prior law of 1895 prohibiting introduction and
sale of liquor in Indian country, the latter was by implication repealed.
While the Oklahoma Enabling Act may have by implication repealed
the act of 1895 in part, it was not "theintention of Congress to repeal
that act in respect to the introduction of liquor from other States or
Territories.
Congress has fdr many years consistently pursued the policy of forbidding sales of liquor to Indians and of excluding liquor from territory occupied by them, and the Oklahoma Enabling Act was framed
with a clear intent that while the State should control the liquor.
traffic within its own borders the United States should exercise its
appropriat powers to prevent such .traffic within the Indian Territory originating beyond the borders of the State.,
It is unreasonable to suppose that Congress would wipe out all its laws
and regulations regarding the liquor traffic with Indians including
those established by treaties, and impose upon future Congresses the
labor and difficulty of establishing new legislation, upon that subject.
The proviso to § 1 of the Oklahoma Enabling Act expressly reserving to..the Government of the United States the power to make laws and
regulations in the future respecting Indians, negatives any purpose to
repeal by implication the existing laws and regulations on the subject.
An act of Congress may repeal a prior treaty as well as it imay repeal
a prior statute; but it is a settled rule of statutory construction that
repeals by- implication are not favored, and will not be held to exist
if there be any other reasonable construction.
Under § 8 of Article I, of the Federal Constitution, conferring upon
Congress the right to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes,
Congress may regulate traffic with Indians although within the
limits of a single State.
Under § 8 of Article I of the Federal Constitution, Congress has the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

same power to maintain an existing law in regard to Indian traffic
so as to keep it in force in a new State as it has to enact new laws
in the future on the same subject.
Although the Five Civilized Tribes have long been treated more
liberally than other Indians, they remain none the less the wards
of the Nation and in all respects subject to its control.
Reviewing the treaties and agreements with the several tribes occupying the Indian Territory within that State, it appears that the provisions of the Oklahoma Enabling Act in regard to liquor traffic with
Indians originating beyond the State were enacted with the purpose
of fulfilling the spirit and letter of those treaties and agreements.
The argument that the act of 1895 must have been repealed by the
Oklahoma Enabling Act to the extent that the latter permitted the
introduction of liquor into the State for the needs of the. state
agencies for distribution of liquor, is an argument ab inconvenienti
and is without force so far as the introduction of liquor by an individual is concerned.
A law creating a crime ought to be explicit, and if ambiguous or upcertain it should be interpreted in favor of the liberty of the citizen;
but in this case as there is no ambiguity in the act of 1895 a repeal
pro tanto does not leave anything doubtful or ambiguous in that part
of the act which remains in force.
The rule that the admission of a new State into the Union on an equal
footing with the original States imports an equality of power over
internal affairs, does not prevent the United States from reserving
the right to regulate matters therein within the sphere of the plain
power of Congress.
Where Congress embraces in an enabling act for the admission of a
new State, legislation intended as a regulation of matters within the
sphere of its powers, the legislation derives no force from any agreement or compact with the new State as an acceptance of statehood,
but derives its force solely from the power of Congress to regulate
the subject-matter of the legislation. Coyle v. Smith, :221 U. S. 574.
The Oklahoma Enabling Act did not repeal the act of 1895, so far as it
pertains to the carrying of liquor from without the new State into
that part of it which was Indian Territory (except that brought in
by the State for use of state agencies), and the United States District Court for the District of Oklahoma has jurisdiction to punish
an offender against the act of 1895 in that respect.,

Statement of the Case.
THIS is an original applieGtion for a Writ of

habeas corus

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Statcment of thc Case.

to inquire into the arrest and detention of the petitioner,
who is held in custody by the United States Marshal
for the Eastern District of Oklahoma, under a capias or
bench warrant issued out of the United States District
Court, upon an indictment of which the following is a
copy:
"UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

EasternDistrictof Oklahoma, ss:
"In the District Court of the United States in and for
the Eastern District aforesaid, at the March Term
thereof, A. D. 1912, at Vinita, Oklahoma.
"The grand jurors of the United States, impaneled,
sworn, and charged at the term aforesaid of the court
aforesaid, on their oath present, that Otis Tittle and
'Charley Webb, and each of them, on the 23rd day of January, in the year 1912, in the siid division of said district
and within the jurisdiction of said court in Craig County in
the State of Oklahoma, the same then and there being
and constituting a portion of the Indian country of the
said United States, did at the time and place aforesaid
unlawfully,' knowingly, wilfully and feloniously introduce,
and attempt to so introduce and carry into the said Indian
country from without the said Indian country, seventeen
gallons of spirituous, ardent and intoxicating liquor,
to wit: alcohol, which said alcohol was by the said Otis
Tittle and Charley Webb and each of them so introduced
and carried into that portion of said Eastern District
of Oklahoma so being then and there Indian country as
above set .forth and described, contrary to the form of
the statute in such cage made and provided, and against
the peace and dignity of the United States."
Petitioner also applies for a writ of certiorari to review
the action of the District Court in refusing, on habeas
corpus, to discharge him from- custody under the bench
warrant.
For present purposes it is admitted that petitioner is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

white man, not of Indian blood; that the intoxicating
liquors described in the indictment were shipped on his
order from the dity of Joplin, in the State of Missouri,
by way of a railway that is a comnmon carrier of interstate
shipments, consigned to petitioner at the city of Vinita, in the State of Oklahoma; that the same reached the
latter city over said railway line in the course of ordinary
transportation at the time of the alleged offense set forth
in the indictment, to wit, January 23, 1912; that said
intoxicating liquors were delivered by the transportation
company to the petitioner within the city of Vinita, and
he received them upon a public street and highway and
not upon restricted land, for the purpose and with the
intent of carrying and transporting the liquors along the
streets and highways to another point Within the same
city, and that while he was in the act of so receiving the
same he was arrested. That the city of Vinita is situate
in Craig County, Oklahoma, which county constitutes
a part of what was formerly the Cherokee Nation; that
all' the lands of the Cherokee Nation have been either allotted to individual citizens of the Cherokee Tribe under
the terms of the Cherokee Agreement and the several acts
of Congress providing for the allotment of said lands, or
sold by the United States for the benefit of the citizens
of the Cherokee Nation, either as town sites or otherwise,
under the authority of the several acts of Congress providing therefor; that the city "of Vinita, including the
place where the intoxicating liquor was delivered to and
received by the petitioner, is a part of the original town
site of Vinita, Indian Territory; and that the status of
the lands and of the eprolled members of the Cherokee
Tribe of Indians are such as are fixed by law.
The petitioner contends that the District Court is
without jurisdiction, because there is no 6xisting law under
which the offense alleged against him is punishable -in
the. Federal courts. He claims that he is obliged to resort

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Argument for Petitioher.

to this court for relief because the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit has decided the
questions involved; adversely to his contention, in the
case of United States'Express Co. v. Friedman, 191 Fed.
Rep. 673.
Mr. Joseph C. Stone and Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with
whom Mr. James S. Davenport, Mr. Thomas H. Owen
and Mr. Joseph S. Graydon were on the brief, for petitioner:
The police provisions of the act of January 30, 1897,
do not apply to Oklahoma since its admission into the
Union. Their continued existence is inconsistent with
the Oklahoma Enabling Act and the state constitution and
laws expressly authorized thereby. Cherokee Tobacco, 11
Wall. 616; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488, 505..
There, is, therefore, a statute of the' United States
punishing the specific offense of selling liquor to an Indian,
fixing a certain penalty to be enforced in. the courts of
the United States, followed by an enabling act creating
a new sovereign state, prohibiting the salo of liquors to
anybody, fixing a lesser penalty for the offense of selling,
and placing the jurisdiction in the state courts. The two
acts reyeal an essential inconsistency which makes it
impossible for both to remain in force, unless there can be
a divided sovereignty, Every sale which would constitute a violation of the act of 1897. in this territory would
also constitute a violation of the Enabling Act, punishable -by the express provision of that act in the state
courts.
is correct, the
If the contention of the Government
law is so framed that neither court nor layman can ascertain by reading it by whom and under what circumstances
introduction of liquor isinnocent or criminal. Laws which
create crimes ought to be so explicit that all men subject
to their penalties may know what act it is their duty to
avoid. United -States v. Sharp, Pet. C. C. 118; United

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for the United States.

225 U. S.

States v. Brewer, 139 U. S. 278, 288; The Enterprise,
8 Fed. Cases, No. 4449; Bishop 'on Statutory Crimes,
§ 41; Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v. Dey, 35 Fed. Rep.
866; Sutherland on Stat. Const., 1st ed., 438; Lord Aukland's Principles of Penal Law, 312.
The question whether the act of January 30,
1897,
remained in force in that part of Oklahoma which was
formerly Indian Territory after the admission of the
States is one of statutory construction, the presumption
being that it did not, because its continued existence implies inequality of statehood. United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621; Draper v. United States, 164 U. S.
240; Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488; United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278; United States v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291.
The place where the alleged offense was committed
was not "Indian country" within the meaning of the
act of January 30, 1897. Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S.
556;'United States v. LeBris, 121 U. S. 278; United States
v. Four Bottles Sour Mash Whiskey, 90 Fed. Rep. 720;
United States v. Knowlton, 3 Dakota, 58, 13 N. W. Rep.
573; Forty-three Cases Cognac Brandy &c., 14 Fed. Rep.
539; United States v. Martin, 14 Fed. Rep. 817.
Petitioner is entitled to habeas corpus, and the writ
should issue. Matter of Heff, 197 U. S. 488; Ex parte
Nielson, 131 U. S. 176; In re Mayfield, 141 U. S. 107;
In re John Bonner, 151 U. S. 242; Ex parte Albert Siebold,
100 U. S. 371; In the Matter of Schneider, 148 U. S. 162;
May's U. S. Sup. Ct. Practice, 440.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Louis G. Bissell was on the brief, for the United
States:
The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
has ruled the point in controversy adversely to the petitioner (United States Express Co. v. Friedman, 191 Fed.
Rep. 673, reversing 80 Fed. Rep. 1006).

EX PARTE WEBB.
'225 U. S.

669

Argument for the United States.

The extinguishment of the :Indian'title to the particular
lot in question did not remove it from the sphere of the
Federal liquor laws, because the very treaties and statutes which authorized the extinguishment reserved the
operation of those laws, 32 Stat. 716; 30 Stat. 495, 509;
32 Stat. 641, 656; 30 Stat. 567-8; 31 Stat. 861, 872; 32
Stat. 500, 504; and the case thus falls within the exception stated in Bates v. Clark, 95 U. S. 204, 208, 209, and
Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 358.; and within the principle of United States v. 3 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S.
188, 193, 195, 197; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 561;
United States v. Thomas, 151 U. S. 577.
Notwithstanding the progress of piecemeal extinguishment of Indian land titles, Congress, in 1895, prohibited
the manufacture and sale of liquors within all parts of the
Indian Territory, and the 'introduction of liquors into
said Territory (28 Stat. 697). And in 1907, Congress.
expressly continued the tribal existence of the Five Civilized Tribes (34 Stat. 822).
The case also differs from Bates v. Clark, supra (reported
below in 46 N. W. Rep. 510), in that it does not involve the
blanket extinguishment of Indian title, accompanied by a
withdrawal of the Indians and opening up of the lands to

white settlement. United States v. Payne, 8 Fed. Rep. 888,
895; 22 Ops. A. G. 232, See also Buster v.. Wright, 135 Fed.
Rep. 947.
The mere creation of the State of Oklahoma did not in
and of itself oust existing Federal laws in regard to the
liquor traffic with Indians. United States v. 43 Gallons of
Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188; Dick v. United States, 208 U. S.
340; United States v. Hollidqy, 70 U. S. 407; Hallowel v.
United States, 221 U. S. 317; Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U. S.
556, 561; United States v. Thomas, 151 U. 5. 577.
The imposition upon the State by the Enabling Act

of the purely intrastate duties to protect the Indians
against the liquor traffic for the twenty-one years during

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

which such special protection was considered by Congress
necessary, was within the power of the Federal Government as a part of its constitutional power over the intercourse with the Indians. Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S.
559. The imposition of these obligations upon the State
was not repugnant to or in substitution for the existing
law against interstate introduction of liquors into the
Indian Territory, as the State would not have had the
power to regulate interstate commerce (Leisy v. Hardin,
135 U. S. 100; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70),
and as the continuance of that prohibition was essential
for the protection of the Indians, there is no ground for
implying an intention on the part of Congress to repeal
the existing 'prhibition against the introduction of liquor
from other States. Frost v. Wenie, 157 U. S.46; United
States v. Celestine, 215 U. S.278.
The Enabling Act expressly reserved the authority of
the government of the United States to make laws or
regulations respecting such Indians, just as if the Enabling
Act had never been passed (Tiger v. Western Co., 221
U. S.309), and also it expressly continued the laws in force
at the time of the admission of the State into the Union,
except as modified or changed, and also all laws of the
United States not locally inapplicable.
If the Federal laws no longer prevent the introduction
of liquor into the Indian Territory from States other
than Oklahoma, then the equality of Oklahoma with.
its sister States has been impaired, for its inhabitants
alone, among all the States, are prevented from conducting
that traffic with the old Indian Territory.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The draftsman of the indictment evidently intended to
charge the offense known as "introducing liquor into

EX PARTE WEBB,
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Indian country," made punishable by § 2139, Rev.
Stat., as amended by act of July 23, 1892, 27 Stat. 260, c.
234, and by the "Act to prohibit the sale of intoxicating
drinks to Indians," etc., approved January 30, 1897,
29 Stat. 506, c. 109.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in United States Express
Company v. Friedman, 191 Fed. Rep. 673, dealt with
the question whether that portion of Oklahoma formerly
known as the Indian Territory ceased to be "Indian
country" upon the admission of Oklahoma as a State,
so that these acts were no longer applicable, and with
the question whether the admission -of Oklahoma as a
State had the effect of repealing them so far as pertained
to the introduction of liquors into the Territory. Petitioner's application to this court for a habeas corpus was
intended to bring that decision under review, and the
agreed statement of facts was designedly so framed as to
show the grounds of his contention that the locus in quo
is no longer" Indian country."
The Government, however, in resisting the application,
relied for support of the jurisdiction of the District Court
not only upon the acts just referred to, but also upon
§8 of "An Act to provide for the appointment of additional
judges of the United States court in the Indian Territory,
and for other purposes," approved March 1, 1895, 28
Stat. 693, c. 145.
The three enactments in question are set forth in
chronological order in the margin.'
ACT oF JULy 23, 1892 (27 Stat. 260).
"Chap. 234.-An act to amend sections twenty-one hundred and
thirty-nine, twenty-one hundred and forty, and twenty-one hundred
and forty-one of the Revised Statutes touching the sale of intoxicants
in the Indian country, and for other purposes.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and Houwe of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That section twenty-one hun;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

At the time of the passage of the act of 1895 the Territory known as the Indian Territory was that which was
dred and thirty-nine of the Revised Statutes be amended and re-enacted
so as to read as follows:
"'SEc. 2139. No ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquor
or liquors of whatever' kind shall be introduced, under any pretense,
into the Indian country. Every person who sells, exchanges, gives,
barters, or disposes of any ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating
liquors of any kind to any Indian undefcharge of any Indian'superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to introduce any -ardent
spirits, ale, wine, beer, or intoxicating liquor of any kind into the Indian
country shall be punished by imprisonment for not more than two
years, and by fine of not more than three hundred dollars for each offense. But it shall be a sufficient defense to any charge of introducing
or attempting to introduce ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating liquors into the Indian country that the acts charged were done
under authority in writing from the War Department, or any officer
duly authorized thereunto by the War Department. All complaints
for the arrest of any person or persons made for violation of any of the
provisibns of this act shall be made in the county where the offense
shall have been committed, or if committed upon or within any reservation not included in any county, then in any county adjoining such
reservation, and, if in the Indian Territory, before the United States
court commissioner, or commissioner of the circuit court of the United
States residing nearest the place where the offense was committed,
who is not for any reason disqualified; but in all cases such arrests shall
be made before any United States court commissioner residing in such
adjoining county, or before any magistrate or judicial officer authorized by the laws of the State in which such reservation is located to
issue warrants for the arrest and examination of offenders by section
ten hundred and fourteen of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
And all persons so arrested shall, unless discharged upon examination,
be held to answer and stand trial before the court of the United States
having jurisdiction of the offense.'"
ACT OF MARCH 1, 1895 (28 Stat. 693).
"Chap. 145.-An Act to provide for the appointment of additional
judges of the United States court in the Indian Territory, and for other
purposes.
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"'Ssc. 8. That any person, whether an Indian or otherwise, who
shall, in said Territory,manufacture, sell, give away, or in,
any manner,

. EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

described by metes and bounds in the act of May 2, 1890,
20 Stat. 81, 93, c. 182, § 29.. It included the lands of
or by any means furnish to anyone, either for himself or another, any
vinous, malt, or fermented liquors, or any other intoxicating drinks of
any kind whatsoever, whether medicated or not, or who shall carry, or
in any manner have carried, into said Territory any such liquors or
drinks, or who shall be interested in such manufacture, sale, giving
away, furnishing to anyone, or carrying into said Territory any of
such liquors or drinks, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by
fine not exceeding five hundred dollars and by imprisonment for not
less than one month nor more than five years."
ACT OF JANUARY

30, 1897 (29 Stat. 506).

"Chap. 109.-An Act to prohibit the sale of intoxicating drinks to
Indians, providing penalties therefor, and for other purposes.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and Houwe of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled, That any person who shall
sell, give away, dispose of, exchange, or. barter any malt, spirituous, or
vinous liquor, including beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or other
intoxicating liquor of any kind whatsoever, or any essence, extract,
bitters, preparation, compound, composition, or any article whatsoever,
under any name, label, or brand, which produces intoxication, to anfy
Indian 'to whom allotment of land has been made while the title to the
same shall be held in trust by the Government, or to any Indian a ward
of the Government under charge of any Indian superintendent or agent,
or any Indian, including mixed bloods, over whom the Government,
through its departments, exercises guardianship, and any person who
shall introduce or attempt to introduce any malt, spirituous, or vinous
liquor, including beer, ale, and wine, or any ardent or intoxicating
liquor of any kinid whatsoever into the Indian country, which term
shall include any Indian allotment while the title to the same shall be
held in trust by the Government, or while the same shall remain inalienable by the allottee without the consent of the United St~tes, shall
be punished by imprisonment for not less than sixty days, and by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars for the first offense and not less
than two hundred dollars for each offense thereafter: Provided however,
That the person convicted shall be committed until fine and costs are
paid. But it shall be a sufficient defense to any charge of introducing
or attempting to introduce ardent spirits, ale, beer, wine, or intoxicating
liquors into the Indian country that the acts charged were done under

VOL. ccxxv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the Cherokee Nation, and the city of Vinita, where the
petitioner's alleged offense was committed. It is now,
of course, apart of the State 'of Oklahoma.
It is not open to serious dispute that if the prohibition
of the act of 1895 against " carrying into said Territory
any such liquors or drinks" remains operative so far as
pertains to the carrying of intoxicating liquors from another State into that part of Oklahoma which was the
Indian Territory, the acts admittedly done-by the petitioner constitute an offense thereunder, of which the
United States District Court has jurisdiction. Whether
the offense is sufficiently alleged in the indictment is
another question, which, on familiar grounds, is not a
proper subject-matter for -inquiry on habeas corpus. Ex
parte Parks, 93 U. S. 18; Ex pane Virginia, 100 U. S. 313,
339; Ex parte Carll, 106 U. S. 521; Ex pare Belt, 159 U. S.
95; Ornelas v. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502. Recognizing this, couinsel for the petitioner, upon the oral argument and in a
supplemental brief, modified his original contentions, so as
to deal with the act of 1895. As thus modified, the grounds
upon which he relies are the following:
First, that the act of 1895, being, a special act applicable
to the Indian Territory, had the effect of superseding as to
that Territory the existing, general statute against the
introduiction and sale of intoxicating liquors in the Indian
country.
Secondly, that the act of 1897, being amendatory of
the general statute against the introduction and sale

of intoxicating liquors in the Indian country, did not'
apply to the Iidian Territory, because that Territory
was covered by the special act of 1895.
authority, in writing, from the War Department or any officer duly

authorized thereunto-by the War Department.
SEc. 2. That so much of the Act of the twenty-third day (f July,
eighteen hundred and ninety-two, as is inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act is-hereby repealed."

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Thirdly, that the jurisdiction cannot be rested upon the
act of 1897, because the place where the alleged offense
was committed was not Indian country within the meaning
of that act, since there was-no Indian title remaining in
the town site of Vinita; the insistence being that where
there is no Indian title, no inalienable land, and no alloted
land held in trust, there can be no "Indian country."
Fourthly, that, whether the act of 1895 or the act of
1897 would otherwise be applicable, these acts were both
repealed, as to that 'part of Oklahoma which was formerly
:the Indian Territory, by the force of the Oklahoma Enabling Act of June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, under'
the authority of which the constitution of Oklahoma was
adopted and a state government established, covering the
territory previously known as Oklahoma and the Indian
Territory; and pursuant to which certain statutes were
afterwards enacted by the state legislature, viz., an act of
March 24, 1908 (Laws of 1907-8i p. 594), known as the
Billups Law, being §§ 4156-4209 of the Compiled Laws of
Oklahoma of 1909, and an act passed March 11,1911, Session Laws of Oklahoma, 1910-1911, c. 70, pp. 154-156.
The contentions of the Government, on the other hand,
are:
First, that the act of 1895 prohibits the liquor traffic in
the Indian Territory, regardless of any question concerning the term "Indian country," or concerning the title to
particular lands, or the race or color of the persons affected.
Secondly, that the extinguishment of the Indian land
title to the-particular locus in quo did not remove it from
the operation of § 2139, Rev. Stat., as amended by the acts
of 1892 and 1897, because (among other reasons,) a contrary intent is manifested in the treaties and statutes
under which that title was extinguished.
. Thirdly, That neither by admitting Oklahoma to statehood, nor by anything in the Enabling Act, did Congress.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.

Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

renounce its control over the interstate liquor traffic in
what had been the Indian Territory.
The question whether the act of 1895 was superseded
by the -act of 1897 was not much discussed in the argument. It is a. question of nicety, having an importance
extending beyond the exigencies of the present case. In
the view we take of the other questions, however, we may
simplify the discussion by assuming (without conceding)
that petitioner's first two points are well taken, and that
the act of 1897 did not apply to the Indian Territory because that Territory was covered by the special act of
1895. This at the same time renders it unnecessary for
us to consider his third contention, viz., that the locus in
quo was not Indian country within the meaning of the
act of 1897, because of the extinguishment of the Indian
title.
We may thus proceed at once to the question of the
effect upon the, act of 1895 of the Oklahoma Enabling Act
of June 16, 1906 (34 Stat. 267, c. 3335), and the admission
of the State of Oklahoma into the Union pursuant thereto.
Since the Government concedes that the act of 1895 has
been thereby repealed saving so far as it prohibited the
carrying of intoxicating liquors, etc., from another State

into the Territory, the matter to be discussed is still
further narrowed.
IBefore passing, however, it should be noted that §
2139,
Rev. Stat., and the act of 1897 contain prohibitions respecting the sale of intoxicating liquor to Indians, and in
this, and perhaps in other important respects, cover
ground not covered by the act of 1895. We must not be
understood as deciding that these prohibitions are no
longer in force within what was the Indian Territory,
either because of the assumed effect of the act of 1895 in
superseding the previous general statute of which the act
of 1897 was amendatory, or because of the Oklahoma
Enabling Act and the admission of the. State thereunder.

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The assumption we make in favor of the petitioner is for
the purposes of the present argument only.
The title and pertinent sections of the Enabling Act are
set forth in the margin.1
1

OKLAHoMA ENABLING ACT

(34 Stat. 267).

"An Act to enable the people of Oklahoma and of the Indian Territory to form a constitution and state government and be admitted into
the Union on an equal footing with the original states," etc.
"SEcTIoN 1. That the inhabitants of all that part of the area of the
United States now constituting the Territory of Oklahoma and Indian
Territory, as at present described, may adopt a constitution .and become the State of Oklahoma, as hereinafter provided: Provided, That
nothing contained in the said constitution shall be construed to limit
or impair the rights of person or property pertaining to the Indians
of said Territories (so long as such rights Shall remain unextinguished) or
to limit or affect the authority of the Government of the United States
to make any law or regulation respecting such Indians, their lands,
property, or other rights by treaties, agreement, law, or otherwise,
which it would have been competent to make if this Act had never been
passed.
"SEc. 2. That all male persons over the age of twentyone years,
who are citizens of the United States, or who are members of any Indian
nation or tribe in said Indian Territory and Oklahoma, and who have
resided within the limits of said proposed State for at least six months
next preceding the election, are hereby. authorized to vote for and
choose delegates to form a constitutional convention for-said proposed
State; and all persons qualified to vote
for said delegates shall be eligible
* * * *
to serve as delegates;
:., SEC. 3. * * * Said convention shall, and is hereby authorized
to, form a constitution and State government for said proposed
State. * * * And said convention shall provide in said constitution:
*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Second. That the manufacture, sale, barter, giving away, or otherwise furnishing, except as hereinafter provided, of intoxicating liquors
within those parts of said State now known as the Indian Territory and
the Osage Indian Reservation and within any other parts of said State
which existed as Indian reservations on the first day of January, nineteen hundred and six, is prohibited for a period of twenty-one years
from the date of the admission of said State into the Union, and there-

OCTOBER.TER M, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

It will be observed that its first section provides that
nothing in the constitution of .the new State shall be conafter until the people of said State shall otherwise provide by amendment of said constitution and proper State legislation. Any person,
individual or corporate, who shall manufacture, sell, barter, give away,
or otherwise furnish any intoxicating liquor of any kind, including
beer, ale, and wine, contrary to the provisions of this sectlen, or who
shall, within the above described portions of said State, advertise for
sale or solicit the purchase of any such liquors, or who shall ship or in
any way convey such liquors from other parts of said State into the
portions hereinbefore described, shall be punished, on conviction
thereof, by fine not less than fifty dollars and by imprisonment not
less than thirty days for each offense: Prvided, That the legislature
may provide by law for one agency under the supervision of said State
in each incorporated town of not less than two thousand population
in the portions of said State hereinbefore described; and if there be no
incorporated town of two thousand population in any county in said
portions of said State, such county shall be entitled to have one such
agency, for the sale of such liquors for'medicinal purposes; and for the
sale, for industrial purposes, of alcohol which shall have been denaturr
ized by some process approved by the United States Commissioner of
Internal .Revenue; and for the sale of alcohol, for scientific purposes to
such scientific institutions, universities, and colleges as are authorized
to procure the same free of tax under the' laws of the United States;
and for the sale of such liquors to any apothecary who shall have executed an approved bond, in a sum not less than one thousand dollars,
conditioned that none of such liquors shall be used or disposed of for
- any purpose other than in the compounding of prescriptions or other
medicines, the sale of which would not subject him to the payment of
* the special tax required of liquor'dealers by the United States, and the
payment of such special tax by any person within the parts of said
State hereinabove defined shall constitute prima facie evidence of his
intention to violate the provisions of this ,ction.
No sale shall be
made except upon the sworn statement of the applicant in writing
setting forth the purpose for which the liquor is to be used, and no sale
shall be made for medicinal purposes except sales to apothecaries as
hereinabove provided unless such statement shall be accompanied by
a bona fide prescription signed, by a regular practicing physician, which
prescription shall not be filled more than once. Each sale shall be duly
registered, and the register thereof, together with the affidavits and
-prescriptions pertaining thereto, shall be open to inspection by any.

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

strued 'to limit or affect the authority of the Government
of the United States to make any law or regulation reofficer or citizen of said State at all times durihg business hours. - Any
person who shall knowingly make a false affidavit for the purpose aforesaid shall be deemed guilty of perjury. Any physician who shall prescribe any such liquor, except for treatment of disease which after his
own personal diagnosis he shall deem to require such treatment, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished for each offense by fine of not less
than two hundred dollars or by imprisonment for not less than thirty
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment; and any person connected with any such agency who shall be convicted of making .any
sale or other disposition of liquor contrary to these provisions shall be
punished by imprisonment for not less than one year and one day.
Upon the admission of said State into the Union these provisions shall
be immediately enforceable in the courts of said State.
"Third. That the people inhabiting said proposed State do agree
and declare that they forever disclaim all right and title in or to any
.unappropriated public lands lying within the boundaries thereof, and
to.all lands lying within said limits owned or held by any Indian, tribe,
or.nation; and that until the title to any such public land shall have
been extinguished by the United States, the same shall be and remain
subject to the jurisdiction, disposal, and control of the United States."
*

*

*

,

*

$"

*

*

SEC. 4 provides for the submission. to the people of the constitution
to be adopted by the constitutional convention, and the admission of
the State (on ratification of the, cornstitution by the people) "on an
equal footing with the original States."
*.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"SEC. 13. That said State when admitted as aforesaid shall constitute two judicial districts, to be known as the eastern district of
Oklahoma and the western district of Oklahoma; the said Indian Territory, shall constitute said eastern district, and the said Oklahoma
Territory shall constitute said western district. * * * The circuit
and district courts for each of said districts, and the judges thereof,
respectively, shall possess the'same powers'and jurisdiction and perform
the same duties required to be performed by the other circuit and
district courts and judges of the United States, and shall be g6verned
by "S.Ec.
the same
* * *
21. laws
* *and* regulations."
All laws in force in the Territory of Oklahoma
at the time of the admission of said State into the Union shall be in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

spectingsuch Indians, their lands, property or other rights
by treaties, agreement, law, or otherwise, which it would
have been competent to make if this act had never been
passed." Also that §3 requires that the constitution shall
prohibit the manufacture and sale of intoxicating .liquors
within those parts of the proposed State known as the
Indian- Territory and the Osage Indian Reservation, and
within any other parts of said State which existed as
Indian reservations on January 1, 1906, and shall prohibit the shipment or conveyance of such liquors from
other parts of the State into the portions just described;
the prohibition to continue fora period of 21 years, and
thereafter until the people shall otherwise provide by
constitutional amendment and proper state legislation;
with a proviso for the establishment of state agencies for
the sale of liquors for medicinal purposes and to bonded
apothecaries, of denaturized alcohol for industrial purposes and of alcohol for scientific purposes; and with
elaborate provisions for carrying the prohibition into effect and preventing any abuse of the limited privileges
conferred; it being declared, at the same time, that "Upon
the admission of said State into the Union these provisions
shall be immediately enforceable in the courts of said
State."
Pursuant to this act, a constitutional convention prepared and submitted to the people for adoption a constitution containing the clauses thus prescribed by Congress.
At the same time a separate constitutional provision was
submitted, for establishing state-wide liquor prohibition,
substantially in the same terms and subject to the same
provisions that were prescribed, with respect to the Indian
Territory and the Indian reservations, by the Enabling
force throughout said State, except as modified or changed by this
Act or by the constitution of the State, and the laws of the United
States not locally inapplicable shall have the 'same force and effect
within said State as elsewhere within the United States."

EX 13ARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act. The constitution and the separate constitutional
provision were duly adopted by the people, and on Novem-.
ber 16, 1907, by proclamation of the President, Oklahoma
was admitted as a State of the. Union.
No doubt the Enabling Act, followed by the adoption
of the constitution therein prescribed and the admission
of the new. State, had the effect of 'remitting to the state
government the enforcement of the prohibition respecting
the manufacture, sale, barter, etc:, of intoxicating liquors
within the State, and respecting commerce, in such liquors
conducted- wholly within the State; and, to the extent
that the scheme of prohibition established by the Enabling
Act covered the same field that had been covered by .the
act of 1895, the latter act must be considered as impliedly
repealed. But the act of 18115 included offenses that are
not covered by the prohibition scheme of the Enabling
Act; it prohibited the carrying of intoxicating liquors
from other Stafes into territory that was included in the
State of Oklahoma. And the question for present solution
is whether the act of 1895, having been partially repealed.
as just indicated, 'remains in force as a prohibition against
such interstate traffic. In deciding it we shall do well to
bear in mind that the offensE, of importing or "introducing" or "carrying in" such liquors into a protected' distript is different in its natfire and readily distinguishable
from the offenses of manufacturing, selling, etc., within
the district; that from the 'earliest times they have been
treated 'in Federal legislation as different offenses; that
Congress for many years has consistently pursued the
p6licy of forbidding sales of liquor to Indians and excludingit from country occupied by them; that the prohibition
-of importatioris has been deemed necessary to effectuate
the purpose of preventing the use of it in protected districts; that the 'act of 1895 was passed for the evident purpose of enforcing the 'two-fold prohibition in the Indian,
Territory; and that by agreenaents with the Indian tribes

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

inhabiting the Territory (as will appear below) the Ujnited
States was, to some extent at least, pledged to maintain
the prohibition. Besides these considerations, it is to be
noted that the Enabling Act, while containing most
stringent clauses for preventing (at least for twenty-one
years) the manufacture of and traffic in liquors within the
Indian Territory, and their transportation from other
parts of the new State into the Territory, imposes no
duty upon the new State with respect to preventing
liquors from being brought into the Territory from other
States.
In view of these considerations, and others to be mentioned, it seems to us that Congress, so far from intending
by the Enabling Act to repeal so much of the act of 1895
as prohibits the carrying of intoxicating liquors into the
Indian Territory from points without the State, framed
the Enabling Act with a clear view of the distinction between the powers appropriate to be exercised by the new
State over matters within her borders, and the powers appropriate to be exercised by the United States -over traffic
originating beyond the borders of the new State and extending within the Indian Territory.
In addition, there is the proviso contained in section
one of the act, that nothing contained in the state constitution shall be construed "to limit or affect the right .or
authority of the Government of the United States to make
any law or regulation respecting such Indians, their lands,
property, or other rights by treaties, agreement, law or
otherwise, which it would have been competent to make
if this act had never been passed." It is contended that
this does not preserve the existing laws and regulations
respecting the Indians, but rather excludes the.inference
of their continued force and existence by indicating a
purpose on the part of Congress to thereafter enact regulations for the protection of the Indians in Oklahoma if
necessity requires. This, we think, is an inadmissible

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

construction. We deem it unreasonable to suppose that'
Congress, possessing the constitutional -power and recognizing the moral duty to make laws and regulations respecting the Indians, and having already established laws
and regulations of this character applicable in the Territory, including some that were established, by treaties and
agreements, should resolve to wipe them out, and thereby.
impose upon future Congresses the labor and difficultyof
establishing other proper laws and regulations in their
stead. In our opinion, the purpose expressed'in the proviso to reserve to the Government of the United States
the 'authority to 'make laws and regulations in the, future
respecting the Indians is, under the circumstances,, evidence tending to negative a purpose to repeal by implication the existing laws and regulations on the subject.
Of course an act of Congress may repeal a prior treaty
as well as it may'repeal a prior act. The Cherokee Tobacco,
11 Wall. 616; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149'U. S.
698, 720; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504, 511; Draper'
v.- United States, 164 U. S. 240, 243.
But it is a settled rule of statutory construction that
repeals by implication are not favored, and will not be
held to exist if there be any other reasonable construction.
Cope v. 'Cope, 137 U. S. 682, 686, and cases cited;, Ward v.
Race Horse, supra.
The reservation of the authority of Congress to legislate
in the future respecting the Indians residing within the
new State is clearly supportable under the Federal Constitutin, Art. I, § 8, which confers upon Congress the
power "to regulate commerce with foreign' nations, and
among the several states, and with the Indian tribes." It
has been repeatedly held by this court that under this
clause traffic or intercourse with an Indian tribe or with
a member of such a tribe is subject to the regulation of
Congress, although it be within the limits of a State.
United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407, 418 Unitedo-States

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

v. 43 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 195, 197; Dick v.
United States, 208 U. S. 340, and cases cited
And it is as clearly consistent with the Constitution to
maintain in force an existing act of Congress relating to
such traffic and intercourse, so that it shall continue effective within the limits of the new State, as it is to reserve
the right to enact new laws in the future upon the same
subject-matter.
We must read the proviso contained in § 1 of the Enabling Act, and also the declaration in § 21 that "The laws
of the United States not locally inapplicable shall have the
same force and effect within the said state as elsewhere
within the United States," in the. light of the existing
relations, then recently established by treaties and by
acts of Congress, between the Government of the United
States and the Five Civilized Tribes that occupied- the
area known as the Indian Territory. Although those
tribes had long been treated more liberally than other
Indians, they remained none the less wards of the Government, and in all respects subject to its control. Cherokee
Nation v. Southern Kansas R. R. Co., 135 U. S. 641, 653,
and cases cited. And after Congress, in the year 1893,
had inaugurated the policy of terminating their tribal
existence and government and allotting their lands in
severalty (act of March 3, 1893, c. 209, § 16; 27 Stat.
645), agreements were negotiated by the Dawes Commission with each of the tribes designed to carry out the objects indicated; and in each of those agreements there was
some recognition of the importance of preserving restrictiofis upon the introduction of intoxicating liquors from
without and the traffic in them within the Indian Territory.
The agreement with the Seminoles was made in 1897
(30 Stat. 567), with the Creeks in 1901 and 1902 (31 Stat.
861, 32 Stat. 500), with the Choctaws and Chickasaws in
1898 (30 Stat. 507) and in 1902 (32 Stat. 641), and with
the Cherokees in the latter year (32, Stat. 716).

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Section 73 of the agreement with the Cherokees (32
Stat. 727) continued in force in that Nation the fourteenth
section of an act of June 28, 1398, entitled "An act for the
protection of the people of the Indian Territory and for
other purposes," (30 Stat. 500), which contained a proviso
against the sale of liquor in the Territory, and against the
introduction thereof into the Territory.
In the first Choctaw and Chickasaw agreement there
was a provision (30 Stat. 509) that no law or ordinance
should be passed by any town interfering with the enforcement of or conflicting with the laws of the United States
in force in said Territory, "and the United States agrees
to maintain strict laws in the territory of the Choctaw
and Chickasaw tribes against the introduction, sale, barter, or giving away of liquors and intoxicants of any kind
or quality."
In the Choctaw-Chickasaw agreement of 1902, § 64,
which provided for the cession to the United States 'of
lands at the Sulphur Springs, contained a provision (32
Stat. 656) that "Until otherwise provided by Congress,
the laws of the United States relating to the introduction,
possession, sale, and giving away of liquors or intoxicants
of any kind in the Indian country or Indian Reservations
shall be applicable to the lands so ceded, and said lands
shall remain. within the jurisdiction of the United States
court for the Southern District of Indian Territory."
The Seminole agreement likewise provided that "the
United States agrees to maintain strict laws in the Seminole country against the introduction, sale, barter, or
giving away of intoxicatits of any kind or quality." (30
Stat. 568.)
The first Creek agreement provided that "The United
States agrees to maintain strict laws in said Nation against
the introduction, sale, barter, or giving away of liquors or
intoxicants of any kind whatsoever." (Act of March 1,
1901, c. 676, § 43, 31 Stat. 872.) And this was not modi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

fled by the supplemental agreement. (Act of June 30,
1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500.)
it seems to us that the provisions of the Enabling Act
show that Congress recognized that, because of these
agreements or otherwise, the Government of the United
States was under a duty to the inhabitants of the Indian
Territory different from its duty to the inhabitants of the
other territory that went to form the new State. We
are unable otherwise to explain the insertion in the proposed constitution of the clause establishing liquor prohibition within the Indian Territory, and the exclusion of
the other territory from the operation of this clause. This
action is indicative of a purpose on the part of Congress
to fulfill the spirit as well as the letter of the agreemeiits
with the Five Tribes. There were differences in those
treaties, so far as the liquor traffic is concerned. But
in the Enabling Act all the tribes were treated alike,
and in a manner to fulfill, the amplest promise given to
any tribe, so far-but only so far-as the establishment
of general prohibition within the new State was concerned.
But if the Federal law that had prevented the bringing
in of intoxicating liquors from without the State was at
the same time repealed, the pledges of the Government
were thereby in a material part broken. For manifestly
it would be of comparatively little use to prohibit the
manufacture of intoxicating liquors within the, Territory
and their shipment from other parts of the State into the
Territory, if at the same time all laws prohibiting the
introduction of such liquors from other States into the
Territory were to be repealed.
And it is clear thst in framing the Enabling Act, Congress was mindful not only of its jurisdiction over commerce with the Indian tribes,, but was mindful that traffic
in liquors between one State and another is subject only
to. the control of Congress. Bowman v. Chicago & N. W.

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Railway Co., 125 U. S. 465; Leisy v. Hardii, 135 U. S.
100; Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321.
It is argued that the result of engrafting the provisions
of the Enabling Act upon that part of the act ofi-1895
which remains unrepealed is a statutory system "so
incongruous and indefinite ia purpose and effect that it
would be impossible to enforce it."
This contention is based largely upon the fact that the
prohibition of the manufacture, sale, barter, etc., of
intoxicating liquors within those parts of the State that
were known as the Indian Territory and Osage Indian
Reservation, and the other parts of the State which were
Indian reservations on January 1, 1906, and the pro"
hibition of the shipment or conveyance of such liquors
from other parts of the State into the portions just mentioned, is subject to a proviso that the legislature may
provide by law for state agencies for the sale of such
liquor for medicinal purposes, for the sale of denaturized
alcohol for industrial purposes, for the 'sale of alcohol
for scientific purposes, and for the sale of liquors to
bonded apothecaries.
It is argued that 'in the interim between the admission
of the State and the enactment of-legislation for establishing state liquor agencies, there would necessarily be
a period of considerable duration (as the event happened,
it was over four months,) during which, in what was
formerly the Indian Territory, it would be doubtful
whether sales of liquor would be punishable in the Federal
or in the state courts, and whether according to the act
of 1895 or under the different penalties of the Enabling Act.
It may be conceded that until the State took action,
in accordance with the constitution, for the establishment
of agencies for the sale of liquors for the limited purposes
mentioned, such sales could not be made at all, and that
all saleswhich otherwisewere in violation of the prohibition
of the constitution were punishable'in the courts; to what

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

extent punishable in the Federal courts, and to what
extent in the state courts, it is not worth while-to spend
time in considering. Sonie temporary confusion and uncertainty may be unavoidable upon the establishment of a
state government under such conditions; but this has
little bearing upon the question before us.
A more serious argument is that which is based upon
the effect of the constitutional provision respecting the
establishment and maintenance of state agencies for the
disposition of liquor, after the state legislature shall have
provided by law for such agencies; for when such a law
has been enacted we are brought to the permanent condi-tion of things that was in the contemplation of Congress.
And here it is urged that as to the offense of carrying
intoxicating liquor into the Territory, it must be that the
introduction thereof for supplying the needs of the state
agencies was permitted by the Enabling Act, and that
the provisions of the act of 1895 must be taken to be
repealed to that extent, leaving ,the act in force against
the introduction of liquor for other purposes. But it
is said (to quote from the brief): "If that was the purpose
of the Enabling Act it entirely fails to express it, because
it does not provide who may so introduce liquors into the
Territory, and who may not, for the purpose of supplying
local agencies,,and the law would be so framed that neither
court nor layman could ascertain by reading it by whom
and under what circumstances such introduction was
innocent or criminal."
No doubt, inorder to give effect to the constitutional
provision that .permits the legislature to provide by law
for agencies under the supervision of the State for the
sale of liquors for the limited purposes specified, it is
necessary that the state agencies shall procure these
liquors from some source.
The authorization is in the form of a proviso. Whether,,
by fair construction, it qualifies merely the force of the

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opiuion of the Court.

clause to which it is subjbined-that is, qualifies merely
the prohibition against the manufacture, sale, etc., of
intoxicating liquors within the Indian Territory and the
Indian reservations, and the prohibition against the
shipment of such liquors from other parts of the State into
the portions mentioned-or whether, on the other hand,
it has the effect of permitting liquors to be introduced
from without the State, is a question that need not detain
us. Upon the former, construction, the State would presumably be obliged to canse the liquors to be manufactured within its own borders for the supply of its
distributing agencies. Upon the latter construction, the
State would be at liberty to import the necessary liquors
from beyond its borders. In the one case, as in the other,
the operation would be lawful and innocent when conducted
under the authority of the State; otherwise unlawful. It is
not to be presumed that the State would conceal or cloak
its operations, or leave its agents without evidence of
their authority. We can see no more-practical difficulty
here than there is in determining in any -other matter
that is subject to public regulation-for instance, the
killing or transportation of game, the manufacture or
sale of liquor-whether a given act is done with or without
a license from the State. The argument ab inconvenienti
is without force.
We are reminded that "laws Which create crime.,ought
to be so explicit that all men Subject to their penalties may
know what acts it is their duty to avoid," (United States v.
Brewer, 139 U. &, 278, 288) and that ambiguity and uncertainty about the meaning of a criminal statute ought
to be resolved by a strict interpretation in favor Of the
liberty of the citizen,
But there is no uncertainty or ambiguity about the
prohibition of the act of 1895 against carrying intoxicating liquors into the Indian Territory. It is not suggested
that there is any express repeal of that prohibition. And
voL. ccxxv-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

we are unable to see that a pro tanto repeal by implication
leaves anything doubtful or ambiguous in the meaning of.
that which remains.
It is nQt our purpose to qualify the doctrine established
by repeated decisions of this court that the admission of a
new State into the' Union on an equal footing with the
original States imports an equality of power over internal
affairs. The cases cited by counsel for the petitioner
under this head are cases that dealt with matters wholly
internal. United States v. McBratney, 104 U. S. 621;
Draper v. United States, 164 U. S. 240; Matter of Heff, 197
U. S, 488, 505. And see Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504;
United States v. Celestine, 215 U. S. 278, 288; United States
v. Sutton, 215 U. S. 291, 294; Hallowell v. United.States,
221 U. S. 317, 323; Dick v. United States, 208 U. S. 340.
The most recent decision of this court upon the subject
of the proper construction of acts of Congress passed for
the; admission of new States into the Union is Coyle v.
Smith, 221 U. S."559! where it was held thatthe Oklahoma
Enabling Act (34.Stat., c. 3335, pt 267), in providing
that the capital of the State should temporarily be at the
City of Guthrie, and should not be changed therefrom
previous to the year 1913, ceased to be a limitation upon
the power of the State after its admission. The court,,
however, was careful to state (221 U.. S. 574): "It may,
well happen that Congress should embrace in an enactment introducing a new State into the Union legislation
intended as a regulation of commerce among the States, or.
with Indian ttibes situated within the limits of 'such new
state, or regulations touching the sole care and disposition
of the 'public lands or reservations therein, which might
be upheld as legislation within the sphere of the plain
power of Congress. But in'everysuch case such legislation would derive its force not from any agreement or
compact with the proposed new State, nor by reason of its'
.acceptance of such enactment as a term of admission, but

EX PARTE WEBB.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

solely because the power of Congress extended to the subject, and therefore would not operate to restrict the State's
legislative power in respect of any matter which was not
plainly within the regulating power of Congress."
We are here dealing with one of those matters such as are
referred to in this citation. The power of Congress to
regulate commerce between the States, and with Indian
tribes situate within the limits of a State, justifies Congress when creating a new State out of territory inhabited
by Indian tribes, and into which territory the introduction
of intoxicating liquors is by eisting laws and treaties prohibited, in so legislating as to preserve those laws and
treaties in force to the extent of excluding interstate traffic
in intoxicating liquors that would be inconsistent with
the prohibition. Dick v. United States, 208 U. -5. 340, 353.
This being so, and since we find in the Oklahoma Enabling Act no repeal, express or implied,, of the act of 1895
so far as pertains to the carrying of liquor from without
the new State into that part of it which was the Indian
Territory (saving as to liquor brought in by the'State for
the use of state agencies established under the provisions
of the Enabling Act), it follows, upon the admitted facts,
that the United States District Court has jurisdiction to
punish the petitioner for the offense that he has committed.
The petition for a writ of habeas corpus and the accompanying application for certiorariwill be
Denied.'

