OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

-25 U. S.

and the consequent change of its form of government, in
no respect affected the essential character of the corporations or their powers or rights. They must after that
change be considered as corporations of the State, as
much so as if they had derived their existence from its
legislation. As its corporations they are to be treated, so
far as may be necessary to enforce contracts or rights of
property by or against them, as citizens within the clause
of the Constitution declaring the extent of the judicial
power of the United States."
Adhering to the principle of that ruling, we hold that
the corporate defendant here is an Oklahoma, and not a
Federal, corporation, and therefore must be regarded as a
citizen of that State for jurisdictional purposes.
It follows from what has been said that the case is one
in which the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depended
entirely on diverse citizenship, and so the decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals are final.
Appeals dismissed.

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 234.

Argued April 30, May 1, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

In rendering a judgment for the Cherokee Nation in its suit against
the Unite' States, on the item claimed by, and over the objection of,
the Eastern Cherokees, the Court of Claims recognized the Nation
as the titular claimant authorized to prosecute the item to recovery,
although for the ultimate benefit of the Eastern Cherokees, and this
court having affirmed the judgment, 202 U. S. 1, the question has
been adjudicated.
Under the decree of the Court of Claims as affirmed by this court the
attorneys for the Cherokee Nation are entitled to be paid their fees

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

573

Opinion of the Court.

on the amount of the recovery including the items recovered in the
name of the Nation for the Eastern Cherokees.
After this court has reviewed the judgment of the Court of Claims
and affirmed it, the Court of Claims, like any other court whose
judgment has been reviewed by this court, must give effect to it and
carry it into effect according to the mandate without variation or
other further relief. In re Sanford Fork & Tool Co., 160 U. S. 247.
45 Ct. Cl. 104, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve certain phases of the claims
of the Cherokee Indians against the United States and
the relative interests therein of the Cherokee Nation and
the Eastern Cherokees, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles Poe and Mr. Samuel A. Putman for appellants.
Mr. Assistant -Attorney General Thompson for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTE-R delivered the opinion of
the court.
The controversy here to be considered arises in this
way: In recent years, there was litigated in the Court of
Claims and this court a claim against the United States
arising under treaties with the Cherokee Indians and consisting of four items, one of which, designated as item 2,
was for $1,111,284.70, with iaterest at 5 per cent from
June 12, 1838, to the date of payment. The litigation
was conducted under § 68 of the act of July 1, 1902, 32
Stat. 725, 726, c. 1375, as construed and amplified by the
'act of March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 982, 996, c. 994, and the
parties were the Cherokee Nation, the Eastern Cherokees,
and the United States. Mosi; of the Eastern Cherokees
were members of the Cherokee Nation, but some were not,
as was the case with those who remained in North Caro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

lina and other adjacent States; and most of the members
of the Nation were Eastern Cherokees, but some wei e not,
as was the case with those who were known as Old Settlers.
The principal questions in controversy in the litigation, so
far as they are now material, were (a) whether there could
be a recovery against the United States on item 2, (b)
whether the recovery should be in the name of the Cherokee Nation or in that of the Eastern Cherokees, and
(c) whether, if the recovery were in the name of the
Cherokee Nation, it should be for the benefit of the members of the Nation, whether Eastern Cherokees or otherwise, or for the benefit of the Eastern Cherokees, whether
members of the Nation or otherwise. These questions
were all stoutly contested in both courts. As to the first
the Cherokee Nation and Eastern Cherokees made common cause against the United States, and as to the other
two they advanced opposing contentions. The jurisdictional acts, before mentioned, required that "both the
Cherokee Nation and said Eastern Cherokees", be made
parties to the suit, and provided that if the claim were
sustained the judgment should be "in favor of the rightful
claimant" and should determine, "as between the different claimants, to whom the judgment so rendered
equitably belongs, either wholly or in part." The acts
also provided that the Cherokee Nation should be represented by attorneys to be employed and compensated in
the manner prescribed in Rev. Stat., §§ 2103-2106, and
that the Eastern Cherokees should be represented by attorneys employed by them, whose compensation should
be fixed by the Court of Claims upon the termination of the
suit.
The litigation was started by the Cherokee Nation,
which, on January 16, 1903, had entered into a contract,
conformably to Rev. Stat., §§ 2103-2106, with the late
Gustavus A. Finkelnburg and others, whereby the latter
were to represent the Nation as its attorneys in the prose-

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES. 575
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cution of the claim and were to receive, as compensation
for their services, 5 per cent of the first $1,000,000, or
part thereof, collected, and 2V per cent of the amount
collected over and above the first $1,000,000, such compensation to be, by the proper officers of the United States,
deducted from the amount recovered and paid directly
to such attorneys.
The Court of Claims held, and its decree was to the
effect, that there should be ,a recovery against the United
States on all the items of the claim; that the recovery on
all should be in the name of the Cherokee Nation; and that
the recovery on items 1, 3 and 4 should be for the benefit
of the Nation, and on item 2 for the benefit of the Eastern
Cherokees, whether members of the Nation or otherwise;
that the proceeds of -items 1, 3 and 4 should be paid or
credited to the Nation, less the percentage thereof contracted by the Nation to be paid as counsel fees, and that
the proceeds of item 2, "less such counsel fees as may be
chargeable against the same under the provisions of the
contract with the Cherokee Nation of January 16, 1903,
and such other counsel fees and expenses as may be hereafter allowed by this court under the provisions of the
act of March 3, 1903," should be paid to the Secretary of
the Interior, to be by him distributed directly to the
Eastern Cherokees, inclusive of a class spoken of as Western Cherokees. The concluding portion of the decree declared: "So much of any of the above-mentioned items or
amounts as the Cherokee Nation shall have contracted
to pay as counsel fees under and in accordance with the
provisions of §§ 2103 and 2106, both inclusive, of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and so much of the
amount shown in item numbered two (2) as this court
hereafter by appropriate order or decree shall allow for
counsel fees and expenses under the provisions of the act
of March 3, 1903, above referred to, shall be paid by the
.Secretary of the Treasury to the persons entitled to re-

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

ceive the same upon the making of an appropriation by
Congress to pay this judgment. The allowance of fees
and expenses by this' court under said act of March 3,
1903, is reserved until the coming in of the mandate of the
Supreme Court of the United States." 40 Ct. Cl. 252, 363.
From that decree the parties severally appealed
to this
court, the United States complaining of the recovery
against it on item 2, the Cherokee Nation claiming that
the recovery on that item ought not to have been declared
to be for the benefit of the Eastern Cherokees, and the
latter insisting (a) that the-recovery on that item should
have been in their name, and not in that of the Nation,
(b) that the Western Cherokees, so called, ought not to
have been included among those who were to participate
in the per capita distribution, and (c) that "the court
erred in charging the said fund of $1,111,284.70 and in-"
terest, to be realized from its said judgment or decree,
with the fees of the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation."
This court overruled all objections to the decree, save the
one relating-to the inclusion of the Western Cherokees,
and, after directing that the provision for the per capita
distribution be so modified as to confine it to the Eastern
Cherokees, whether east or west of the Mississippi, exclusive of the Old Settlers, affirmed the decree, with that
,modification. 202 U. S. 101.
In passing upon the question, whether the recovery on
item 2 was in the name of the rightful claimant, this court
:said (p> 130): "The. Cherokee Nation, as such, had no
'interest in the claim, but officially represented the Eastern
Cherokees." And again (p. 130): "We concur with the
Court of Claims in the wisdom of rendering judgment in
favor of the Cherokee Nation, subject to the limitation
that the amount thereof should be paid to the Secretary of
the Interior to be distributed directly to the parties entitled to'it."
In disposing of the insistence that the proceeds arising

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES. 577
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from that item ought not to have been charged with any
fee for the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation, this court
said (p. 131): "In view of the language of the jurisdictional
acts of 1902 and 1903 in respect of the Cherokee Nation,
we are not disposed to interfere with the Court of Claims
in the allowance of fees and costs." And then, after noticing the arguments advanced by counsel for the Eastern
Cherokees in support of a contrary conclusion, which were
based upon the fact, among others, that the Nation had
asserted a right to collect that item, not for the benefit of
the Eastern Cherokees, but for the benefit of its members, whether Eastern Cherokees or otherwise, the court
concluded the consideration of' that insistence by saying
(p. 131): "Nevertheless, taking the entire record together,
the various treaties, and acts of Congress, and of the
Cherokee Council, and the language of the jurisdictional
acts of 1902 and 1903, we leave the decree as it is in respect to counsel fees and costs."
On receipt of the mandate the Court of Claims modified
its original decree so as to conform to the direction in
respect of the persons who should, participate in the per
capita distribution, and, in pursuance of the reservation
made before, entered a supplemental decree fixing the
compensation of the attorneysfor the Eastern Cherokees
at 15 per cent of the amount of item 2, including interest.
Thereafter Congress made an appropriation to pay the
original decree as modified, 34 Stat. 634, 664, c. 3912, and
the accounting officers of the Treasury computed the
interest due on each item, thereby ascertaining that item 2
amounted to almost $5,000,000. Finkelnburg and his
,associates, the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation, then
presented to the Acting Commissioner of Indian Affairs
a sworn statement of their services under the contract of
January 16, 1903, conformablr to the requirements of
Rev. Stat. § 2104, upon which statement that officer and
the Acting Secretary of the Interior determined and certiVOL. ccxxv--37

OCTOBE R TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

fled that such attorneys had fully complied with the contract and were entitled to the compensation therein provided, including the stipulated percentage of the amount
recovered on item 2; and, upon the presentation of that
certificate, the officers of the Treasury Department paid to
such attorneys, out of the' moneys applicable to the several
items, the percentage named in the contract and deducted
the same from the proceeds of the several items, the
amount so deducted from item 2 being $147,527.01. The
certification and payment, in so far as they affected that
item, were made over the objection and protest of the
Eastern Cherokees, who insisted at the time that no fees
or compensation for the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation lawfully could be paid out of,-or charged against, the
moneys arising therefrom.
Shortly thereafter the Eastern Cherokees filed in the
Court of Claims, in the original cause, a supplemental
petition wherein they challenged (a) the right of the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation to receive any fees or
compensation out of the moneys recovered on item 2, and
(b) the authority of the officers of the Treasury Department to make. any payment or deduction therefrom by
reason of the contract between the Nation and its attorneys, and alleged, in substance, that the decree furnished
no warrant for any such payment or deduction; that the
jurisdictional acts had not conferred upon the court of
claims any power to hear or determine any question pertaining to the fees of the attorneys for the Nation; and
that throughout the litigation the Nation's attorneys had
contended that the amount due on item 2 should be
awarded and paid to the Nation for its own benefit, to
the exclusion of the Eagtern Cherokees, save as most of
them might as members of it be benefited indirect!3. The
prayer of the petition was that the court would pass a
further decree "construing and enforcing its former decrees" in such manner that the entire proceeds-of item 2,

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES. 579
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

less the fees and expenses theretofore or thereafter allowed by the court to the attorneys for the Eastern Cherokees, would be distributed as before directed, but without
any payment therefrom to the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation or any deduction by reason of any such payment. After a hearing on the petition, the Court of Claims
entered a decree dismissing it; for the reasons assigned in
the following excerpts from the opinion of that court,
delivered by Chief Justice Peelle (45 Ct. Cl. 104, 130, 131):
"The litigation was over a fund arising from treaty
stipulations supposed to be in the Treasury in trust for
the parties entitled thereto. Surely the fund which was
the stake in controversy should bear the expense, and
such was the conclusion of this court. . . . The decree
clearly recognized the distinction between the fees authorized by the separate acts. That is to say, the fees to be
paid to the attorneys for the Cherokee Nation under, the
first act were to be governed by the contract made in

accordance therewith, while under the second act the court
was authorized to fix the fees of the attorneys for the
Eastern Cherokees. . . . It was not until after the
payment of the money under said contract that the
Eastern Cherokees filed their supplemental petition herein

praying the court to so construe its decree as to provide
that the sum of $1,111,284.70 [with interest] should not
be chargeable with the fees of the attorneys of the Cherokee Nation. But independently of their delay, such construction would not only be contrary to the language of
the decree, but would, in effect, be changing the decree
after its affirmance by the Supreme Court, and, too, after
the contention here was presented there and denied. .
The Cherokee Nation was the proper party to the suit
under both jurisdictional acts, and it had contracted to
pay its attorneys, with the apiroval of the Secretary of
the Interior, in strict accordance with the law, all of which
was recognized by the court and sanctioned and provided

580

I OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinioa of the Court.

225 U. S.

for in its decree; and the decree, in respect to the payment
of said fees, having been affirmed and executed, the court
is not at liberty to modify the decree or to construe it contrary to the clear import of the language used."
It was from this last decree that the present appeal was
taken.
We pass other questions discussed in the opinion of the
Court of Claims and elaborately argued by counsel, and
come directly to consider whether further controversy
over the matter presented by the supplemental petition
was foreclosed by the original decree and the proceedings
had in this court on the prior appeal, because, if it was,
that alone requires that the action of the Court of Claims
in dismissing the petition be affirmed.
By rendering a decree on item 2 in favor of the Cherokee
Nation, over the objection of the Eastern Cherokees, the
Court of Claims necessarily recognized the Nation as the
titular claimant and as authorized to prosecute the item
to a recovery, even although the recovery was for the ultimate benefit of the Eastern Cherokees. The latter so
understood the decree and accordingly repeated their
objection on the prior appeal, but this court sustained the
action of the Court of Claims, saying, as we have seen:
"The Cherokee Nation, as such, had no interest in the
claim, but officially represented the Eastern Cherokees."
Of course, that was an adjudication of the controverted
question whether, in view of the treaties and congressional enactments bearing on the subject and of the attitude of the Cherokee Nation, the recovery should be in
its name or in that of the Eastern Cherokees.
When .the Court of Claims determined that question in
favor of the Cherokee Nation, and also that the recovery
should be for the benefit of the Eastern Cherokees, the
question naturally arose, whether the attorneys for the
Nation should be paid out of the proceeds. That matter
was dealt with in two paragraphs of the decree. In one

EASTERN CHEROKEES v. UNITED STATES.
225 U. S.

581

Opinion of the Court.

it was directed, in respect of' the moneys recovered on
item 2, "that such counsel fees as may be chargeable
against the same under the provisions of the contract"
between the Cherokee Nation and its attorneys should be
deducted in advance of the distribution among the Eastern Cherokees, and in the other that "so much of any"
item on which recovery was had "as the Cherokee Nation
shall have contracted to pay as counsel fees" under Rev.
Stat. §§ 2103-2106 should be paid by the Secretary of the
Treasury to the attorneys entitled thereto, upon the making of an appropriation by Congress to pay the decree.
In this there was a plain recognition of the services rendered by the Nation's attorneys in prosecuting item 2 and
of their right to be compensated out of the moneys recovered, the amount of the compensation to be as provided in their contract. The Eastern Cherokees so
understood the decree at the time, and on the prior appeal
challenged it as unwarrantably charging a-fund recovered
for their benefit with fees for the Nation's attorneys. This
court, as is manifest from its opinion, construed the decree
as did the Eastern Cherokees, and affirmed it with that
construction. And, while nothing was said about the
power of the Court of Claims to provide for the payment
of the Nation's attorneys out of the moneys recovered, the
implication of the opinion was that the power existed;
and, of course, the, affirmance of the decree wherein the
power was exercised was an affirmance of the power.
Thus it is apparent that the decree of the Court of Claims
as affirmed by this court, determined every question bearing upon the right of the attorneys for the Cherokee
Nation to have their fees for 'the prosecution of*item 2
paid out of the proceeds thereof, save the single question
of the amount of the fees. That was left to be determined
by the terms of the contract and the certification contemplated by Rev. Stat. § 2104. It is not charged that
the amount-actually paid was riot the true amount under

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

the terms of the dontract or that it was not duly certified
under § 2104, and so it does not appear that the payment
was not in accordance with the decree as construed oil the
prior appeal.
What really was sought by the supplemental petition
was a modification of the decree in a particular wherein
it had been affirmed by this court. But the Court of
Claims was without power to grant any such relief, for it,
like any other court whose judgment or decree has been
reviewed by this court, was bound to give effect to the
rule stated in In re Sanford Fork and Tool Co., 160 U. S.
247, 255:
"When a case has been once decided by this court on

appeal, and remanded to the Circuit Court, whatever was
before this court, and disposed of by its decree, is considered as finally settled. The Circuit Court is bound by
the decree as the law of the case; and must carry it into
execution, according to the mandate. That court cannot
vary it, or examine it for any other purpose than execution;
or give any other or further relief; or review it, even for
apparent error, upon any matter decided on appeal; or
intermeddle with it, further than to settle so much as has
been remanded."

Decree affirmed.

KINDRED v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD.
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. t1. Argued November 9, 1911.-Decided June 10, 1912.

Under § 2 of the act of July 1, 1862, 12 Stat. 489, c.120,-and other

.provisions of that act, the predecessor in title of the Union Pacific
Railroad Company acquired a right of way four hundred feet in

