OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA,

INCORPORATED.
CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA v. VALDES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR PORTO RICO.

Nos. 193, 196.

Submitted March 6, 1912.-Decided May 13, 1912.

The record in this case shows that the court below did not err in bringing this case to a speedy conclusion and avoiding the loss occasioned
by the litigation to all concerned.
A litigant cannot, after all parties have acquiesced in the order setting
the case for trial and the court has denied his request for continuance,
refuse to proceed with the trial on the ground that the time to plead
has not expired, and when such refusal to proceed is inconsistent
with his prior attitude in the case.
The granting of a continuance is within the sound discretion of the
trial court, and not subject to be reviewed on appeal except in cases
of clear error and abuse; in this case the record shows that the refusal
to continue on account of absence of witness was not an abuse, but
a just exercise, of discretion.
Under the circumstances of this case, and in view of the existence of
an equity of redemption under prior transfers, held, that a transfer
of all the property of a corporation to one advancing money to enable it to continue its business was not a conditional sale of the
property but a contract creating security for the money advanced,
and on liquidation of the assets the transferee stood merely as a
secured creditor.
The mere form of an instrument transferring property of a debtor
cannot exclude the power of creditors to inquire into the reality
and substance of a contract unrecorded although required by law
to be recorded in order to be effective against third parties.
Under the general law of Porto Rico, machinery placed on property
by a tenant does not become immobilized; when, however, a tenant
places it there pursuant to contract that it shall belong to the owner,
it becomes immobilized as to that tenant and his assigns with
notice, although it does not become so as to creditors not having
legal notice of the lease.
In this case, held that the lien of the attachment of a creditor of the
tenant on machinery placed by the tenant on a .sugar Central in
Porto Ricoissuperior to the claim of the transferee of an unrecorded

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lease, even though the lease required the tenant to place the machinery on the property.
5 Porto Rico Fed. Rep. 155, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. F. Kingsbury Curtis, Mr. Hugo Kohlmann and
Mr. Martin Travieso, Jr., for Valdes, appellant in No. 193
and appellee in No. 196.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill and Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell,
for Central Altagracia, appellee in No. 193 and appellant
in No. 196.
Mr. Francis H. Dexter for Nevers & Callaghan.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These cases were consolidated below, tried together, a
like statement of facts was made applicable to both and
the court disposed of them in one opinion. We shall do
likewise. Stating only things deemed to be essential. as
shown by the pleadings and documents annexed to them
and the finding of facts made below, the case is this: Joaquin Sanchez owned in Porto Rico a tract of land of about
twenty-two acres (cuerdas) on which was a sugar house
containing a mill for crushing: cane and an evaporating
apparatus for manufacturing the juice of the cane into
sugar. All of the machinery was antiquated and of a
limited capacity. The establishment was known as the
Central Altagracia, and Sanchez, while not a cane grower,
carried on the business of a Central-that is, of acquiring
cane grown by others and manul'acthring it into sugar at his
factory. On the eighteenth day of January, 1905, Sanchez
leased his land and plant to Salvador Castello for a period
of ten years.' The lease gave to the tenant (Castello),
the right to install in the plant "such machinery as he
may deem convenient, which said machinery, at the end

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

of the years mentioned (the term of the lease) shall 'become the exclusive property" of the lessor, Sanchez.
The tenant was given one year in which to begin the work
of repairing and improving the plant, and it was provided
that "upon the expiration of this term, if the necessary
improvements shall not have been begun by him (Castello),
then this contract shall be null and void, and no cause
of action shall accrue to any of the contracting parties
by reason thereof." Further agreeing on the subject of
the improved machinery which was to be placed in the
plant, the contract provided: "Upon the expiration of
the term agreed on under this contract, any improvement
or machinery installed in the said Central shall remain
for the benefit of Don Joaquin Sanchez and Don Salvador
Castello shall have no right to claim anything for the
improvements made." The rental was thus provided for:
"After each crop such profits as may be produced by the
Central Altagracia shall be distributed and twenty-five
per cent. (25%) thereof shall be immediately paid to Don
Joaquin Sanchez as equivalent for the rental of said Central and of the twenty-two (22) cuerdas of land surrounding the same. The remaining seventy-five per cent. (75%)
shall belong to Don Salvador Castello, who may interest
therein whomsoever he may wish, either for the whole
or part thereof." It was stipulated, however, that in fixing the profits no charge should be made for repairs of
the existing machinery or for new machinery put in, as
the entire cost of these matters was to be borne by the
lessee, Castello. The lease provided, moreover, that in
case of the death of Sanchez the obligations of the contract should be binding on his heirs, and in the case of
the death of Castello, his brother, Gerardo Castello,
should take his place "and be a contracting party if he so
desired.. Otherwise the plantation, in such a condition
as it may be at his death, shall immediately pass into the
possession of its owner, Don Joaquin Sanchez." In June,

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1905, by a supplementary contract, the lease was extended without change of its terms and conditions for an
additional period of ten years, making the total term
twenty years. Although executed under private signature, this lease, conformably to the laws of Porto Rico,
was produced before a notary and made authentic and
in such form was duly registered on the public records,
as required by the Porto Rican laws.
On the first day of July, 1905, Salvador and Gerardo
Castello transferred all their rights acquired under the
lease, as above stated, to Frederick L. Cornwell for "the
corporation to be organized under the name of Central
Altagracia, of which he is the trustee." This transfer
bound the corporation to all the obligations in favor of
the original lessor, Sanchez, provided that the corporation
should issue to Castello a certain number of paid up shares
of its capital stock and a further number of shares as the
output of sugar from the-plant increased as the result of
its enlarged capacity consequent upon the improvement
of the machinery by the corporation. The lease further
provided for the employment of Castello as superintendent
at a salary, for a substitution of Gerardo Castello, in the
event of the absence or death of his brother Salvador, and,
for this reason, it is to be assumed, Gerardo made himself
a party to the transfer of the lease. This transfer of the
lease to the corporation was never put upon the public
records. The corporation was organized under the laws
of the State of Maine and under the transfer took charge
of the plant. The season for grinding cane and the manufacture of sugar in Porto Rico usually commences "about
the month of December of each year and terminates in the
mfonths of May, June or July of the year following, aceording to the amount of cane to be ground." Central
factories in Porto Rico usually "make contracts with
the people (colonos) growing cane so that growers of cane
will deliver the same to be ground, and such contracts

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

are usually made and entered into in the months of June,
July and August." In other words, on fhe termination
of one grinding season, in the months of June or July, it is
usual in the ensuing August to make new contracts for
the cane to be delivered in the following grinding season,
which, as we have said, commences in December. The
contract transferring the lease to the Central Altagracia,
incorporated, was made in July, 1905, at the end, therefore, of the grinding season of that year. To what extent
the corporation contracted for cane to be delivered to it
for grinding during the season of 1905-6, which began
in December, 1905, does not appear. It is inferable,
however, that the corporation began the work of installing
new machinery to give the plant a larger capacity within
the year stipulated in the lease from Sanchez to Castello.
We say this because it is certain that in the fall of 1906
(October) the corporation borrowed from the commercial
firm of Nevers & Callaghan in New York city the sum of
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) to enable the corporation to pay for new and enlarged machinery which
it had ordered and which was placed in the factory in
time to be used in the grinding season of 1906-7,. which
began in December, 1906. While such grinding season
was progressing, on April 11, 1907, the corporation,
through its president, under the authority of its board of
directors, sold to one Ramon Valdes all its rights acquired
under the lease transferred by Castello. This transfer
expressly included all the machinery previously placed by
the corporation in the sugar house, as well as machinery
which might be thereafter installed during the term of
redemption hereafter to be referred to and which, it was
declared, conformably to the original lease "shall be a
part of said factory for the manufacture of sugar." The
consideration for the sale was stated in the contract to
be "thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) received by
the corporation, twenty-five thousand four hundred dol-

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lars ($25,400) whereof had been paid prior to this act (of
sale) and to its entire satisfaction, and the balance of nine
thousand six hundred dollars ($9,600) shall be turned over
to the vendor corporation by Senor Valdes immediately
upon being required to do so by the former." This sale
was made subject to a right to redeem the property within
a year on paying Valdes the entire amount of his debt.
There was a stipulation that Valdes assumed all the obligations of the lease transferred by Castello to the company.
The undoubted purpose was not to interfere with the
operation of the plant by the corporation, since there
was a provision in the contract binding Valdes to lease
the property to the corporation pending the period of
redemption. This sale was passed in Porto Rico before
a notary public, but was never put upon the public records.
At the time it was made there was a very considerable
sum unpaid on the debt of Nevers & Callaghan. This
fact, joined with the period when the sale with the right
to redeem was made, that is, the approaching end of the
sugar-making season of 1906 and 1907, coupled with other
facts to which we shall hereafter make reference, hll tend
to establish that at that time, either because insufficient
capital had been put into the venture or because the business had been carried on at a loss, the affairs of the corporation were embarrassed, if it was not insolvent. A
short while before the commencement of the grinding
season of 1907-1908, in October, 1907, in the city of New
York, the corporation, through its president, declaring
himself to be authorized by the board of directors, sanctioned by a vote of the stockholders, apparently made
an absolute sale of all the rights of the corporation under
the lease and all its title to the machinery which the corporation had put into the plant. This sale was declared
to be for a consideration of sixty-five thousand ($65,000)
dollars which .the company acknowledged to have received from Valdes, first, by the payment of the thirty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court

225 U. S.

five thousand dollars cash, as stated in the previous sale
made, subject to the equity of redemption, and thiriy
thousand ($30,000) dollars' which "the company has
received afterwards in cash from Valdes." There was a
provision in the contract to the effect that as the purpose
of the previous: contract of sale, which had been made
subject to the equity of redemption, was accomplished
by the new sale, the previous sale was declared to be no
longer operative.
A few days afterwards, likewise in the city of New York
(on November 2, 1907), Valdes sold to the company all
the rights which he' had acquired from it by the previous
sale, the price being sixty-five thousand (865,000) dollars,
payable in installments falling due in the years 1908,
1909, 1910 and 1911 respectively. This transfer *as put
in the form of a conditional sale which reserved the title
in Valdes until the payment of the deferred price and
upon the stipulation that any default by the corporation
entitled Valdes ipso facto to take possession of the property. Neither this act of sale from Valdes to the corporation nor the one made by the corporation to Valdes were
ever put upon the public records.
Prior to the making of the sales just stated, or about that
time, the corporation defaulted in the payment of a note
held by Nevers & Callaghan for a portion of the money
which they had loaned the corporation under the circumstances which we have previously stated, and that firm
sued in the court below the corporation. to recover the debt.
The grinding season of 1907-1908 commenced in December, 1907, and was obviously not a successful one, for
the debt of Nevers & Callaghan was not paid, and in
May, 1908, a judgment was recovered by them against
the corporation for about seventeen thousand dollars
with interest, and in the same month execution was issued
and levied upon the machinery in the sugar house. Previous to or not long subsequent to the time Nevers & Cal-

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

laghan commenced their suit, the precise date not being
stated in the record, the heirs of Sanchez, the original
lessor, brought a suit in the court below against the corporation. The nature of the suit and the relief sought is
not disclosed, but it is inferabl]e from the facts stated that
the suit either sought to recover the property on the
ground that there was no power in Castello to transfer
the lease, or upon the ground of default in the conditions
as to payment of profits as. rental which the lease stipulated. It would seem also at about the same timie either
one or both of the Castellos brought a suit against the
company, presumably upon the theory that there had
been a default in the obligations assumed in their favor
by the corporation at the time it took the transfer of the
lease. In the meanwhile also, probably as the result of
the want of success of the corporation, discord arose between its stockholders and a suit growing out of that
state of things was brought in the lower court.
This litigation was commenced in June, 1908, by the
bringing by Valdes of an action at law ih the court below
to recover .the plant on the ground that by the default
in paying one of the installments of the price stated in the
conditional sale, the right to the relief prayed had arisen.
On the same day Valdes commenced a suit in equity
against the corporation in.aid of the suit at law. The bill
alleged the default of the corporation, the bringing of the
suit at law, the confusion in the affairs of the corporation,
the judgment and levy of the execution by Nevers &
Callaghan, and the threat to sell the machinery under
such execution; the refusal of the corporation to deliver
possession of the property, the waste and destruction. of
the value of the property which would result if there was
no one representing the corpo:ration having power to contract for cane to be delivered during the next grinding
season, etc., etc. The prayer was for the appointment
of a receiver to take charge of the property with auVOL. ccxxv-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

thority to carry on the same, make the necessary contracts
for cane for the future, it being prayed that the receiver
should be empowered to issue receiver's certificates to the
extent necessary to the accomplishment of the purposes
which the bill had in view.
On the same day a bill was filed on behalf of the corporation against Valdes. This bill attacked the sale made to
Valdes and by him to the corporation. It was charged
that the price stated to have been paid by Valdes as a
consideration of the conditional sale was fictitious, and
that the only sum he had advanced at that time was
the thirty-five thousand dollars which it was the purpose
to secure by means of the sale with'the equity of redemption. That at that time Valdes exacted as a consideration for his loan that he be made a director and vicepresident of the company. The bill then stated that it
having become evident in the following autumn that the
corporation would require more money to increase its
plant, to pay off. the sum due Nevers & Callaghan, and
for the operation of the plant, Valdes agreed to advance
the money if he were made president of the company at a
stipulated salary, given a bonus in the stock of the company and upon the condition that the papers be executed
embodying the so-called sale of the company to Valdes
and the practically simultaneous conditional sale by
Valdes to the company. The bill then alleged that Valdes,
having thus become the president of the company, failed
to carry out his agreement to advance the money, failed to
provide for the debt of Nevers & Callaghan, mismanaged
the affairs of the property in many alleged particulars,
and did various acts to the prejudice of the company and
to his own wrongful enrichment, which it is unnecessary
to recapitulate. The necessity of contracting for cane
during the contract season, in order that the plant. might
continue during the next operating season to be a going
concern and the waste. and loss which would otherwise

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of -the Court.

be occasioned, were fully alleged. Valdes and the firm
of Nevers & Callaghan and the individual members of
that firm. were made defendants. The prayer was for the
appointment of a receiver and with power to carry on
the business of the Central, with power for that purpose
to contract for cane for the coming season, with authority
to issue receiver's certificates for the purpose of borrowing the money which might be required.
The judge being about to leave Porto Rico for a brief
period, declined to appoint a permanent receiver, but
named a temporary one to keep the property together
until a further hearing could be had, interference in the
meanwhile with the custodian being enjoined. Shortly
thereafter creditors of the corporation intervened and
joined in the prayer made by both of the complainants
for the appointment of a receiver. In July the two suits
were by order consolidated and after a hearing a receiver
was appointed and authority given him to continue the
property as'a going concern and to borrow a limited
amount of money on receiver's certificates if necessary to
secure contracts for cane for the coming crop season. The
execution of the Nevers & Callaghan judgment was
stayed pending an appeal which had been taken to this
court. The only difference which seems to have arisen
concerning the appointment of the receiver grew out of
the fact that a prayer of the Central Altagracia, asking
the court to appoint as receiver Mr. Pettingill, a member
of the bar and one of the counsel of the corporation, and
who was also its treasurer, was denied. Despite this,
the fair inference is that the ultimate action of the court
was not objected to by anyone, because of the hope that
the result of a successful operation of the plant during the
coming crop season might ameliorate the affairs of the'
corporation and thus prevent further controversies. We
say this, not only because of the conduct of the parties
prior to the order appointing the receiver, but because

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

.225 U. S.

after that'order the solicitors of the Altagracia Company
and Valdes put a stipulation of record that until the following October no steps whatever should be taken in the
proceedings, and not even then unless the attorneys for
both parties should be in Porto Rico.
The hope of a beneficial result from the operation of
the plant by the receiver proved delusive. As a result of
such operation there was a considerable loss represented
by outstanding receiver's certificates, with no means of
paying except onut of the property. Obviously, for this
reason, the record contains a statement that on July 12,
1909, a conference was had between the court and all
parties concerned to determine what steps should be taken
to meet the situation. It appears that at that conference
the counsel representing the heirs of Sanchez and of Nevers
& Callaghan stated their opposition to a continuance of
the receivership.
On July 17, 1909, the court placed a memorandum on
the files indicating its purpose to bring the litigation,
receivership, etc., to an end and to cause "immediate
issue to be raised on the pleadings for that purpose."
This memorandum was entitled in all the pending causes
concerning the property. It directed that demurrers
which had been filed in the consolidated cause of Valdes
against the corporation and of the corporation against
Valdes be overruled, and the defendants were required
to answer on or before Monday, July 26, in order that
upon the following day, the twenty-seventh of July, the issues raised might be tried before the court without the intervention of a master. It was provided in the order, however, that nothing in this direction should prevent the
-parties from filing. such additional pleadings as it is deemed
necessary for the protection of their rights by way of cross
bill or amendment, etc. To make the order efficacious it
was declared that nothing would be 'done in the suit of
the heirs of Sanchez against Castello and the Altagracia

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which was pending on appeal, and that a demurrer filed
to the suit of Castello against the Central would be overruled; that the demurrer in the suit at law of Valdes would
remain in abeyance to await the final action of the court
on the trial of all the issues in the equity causes and that
a stay of the Nevers & Callaghan execution would be also
disposed of when the equity cases came to be decided.
This order was followed by a memorandum opinion filed
on July the 21st stating very fully the position of the
respective suits, the necessity for action in order to preserve the property from waste and reiterating the view
that whatever might be the rights of the Central Altagracia or of Valdes under the lease, those rights would
be subordinate to the ultimate determination of the suit
brought by the heirs of Sanchez. To the action of the
court, as above stated, no objection appears to have been
made. On the contrary, between the time of that order
and the period fixed for the commencement of a hearing
the Central Altagracia, Valdes and Nevers & Callaghan
modified their pleadings to the extent deemed by them
necessary to present for trial the issues upon which they
relied. In the case of the Central Altagracia this was
done by filing on July 22 an amended bill of complaint
in its suit against Valdes and on July 26 its answer in the
suit of Valdes. The acceptance by Valdes of the terms of
the order was shown by an answer filed to the bill in the
suit of the company and the cross bill in the same cause;
and Nevers & Callaghan manifested their acquiescence
by obtaining leave to make themselves parties and asserting their rights by cross bill and answers, which it is unnecessary to detail.
When the consolidated cause was called for trial on the
morning of July 27, the counsel for the Central Altagracia
moved a continuance in order to take the testimony of
certain witnesses in Philadelphia and New York for the
purpose of proving some of the allegations of the complaint

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
.Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

as to the wrongdoing of Valdes in administering the affairs of the corporation. This application was supported
by the affidavit of Mr. Pettingill, the counsel of the corporation. The record states that the request for continuance was opposed by all the other counsel, and the application was denied. In doing so the court stated "that the
matter has been pending for more than a year and that
counsel had full notice of the court's intention to press
the matter to issue and trial and that it is not disposed to
delay- matters at this time when the admissions of the
pleadings are so broad that the proofs available here in
Porto Rico are probably sufficient and the amended complaint already on file in suit No. 565-Valdes v. The Altagracia Company-and the answer thereto and the answer
recently filed in suit No. 564-Altagracia Company v.
Yaldes-as well as the cross bill also recently filed in suit
No. 465 makes so many allegations and admissions as
that the real issue between the parties can be plainly seen
and that, in the opinion of the court, enough proof is
available here in Porto Rico." The court thereupon declared that the Altagracia Company might by the next
day, if it so desired, file exceptions to the answer in suit 565
and an answer to the cross complaint, indeed--that the
corporation might, if it wished, treat them as filed and
proceed with the cause and file them at any convenient
time thereafter. Thereupon the record states: "Said
counsel for the Central Altagracia stated that he desired
time to file exceptions to the answer and an answer to the
cross bill in suit No. 565; and the court granted until
the morning of July 28 for such purpose. Later in the
dayoof July 27, one of the counsel for Valdes having requested the court to postpone the hearing of the cause
until the morning of the 29th, because of an unexpected
professional engagement elsewhere, the request was communicated by the court to the other counsel in the cause.
Thereupon the record again recites, "Messrs. Pettingill &

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cornwell, attorneys for the Central Altagracia, stated
that they withdrew any statement they have hitherto
made in the cause in that regard and desired to be understood that they would not except to the answer in suit
No. 565 or plead or answer to the cross bill therein save
and except within the time which they contended the
rules governing this court of equity gave them and would
stand upon what they considered their rights in that
regard." When the court assembled the next day, on
the morning of the 28th, a statement concerning the occurrence of the previous day as to the continuance, etc.,
just reviewed, was read by the court in the presence of
all the counsel, whereupon the record recites, "N. B.
Pettingill, counsel for the Central Altagracia, in response
to the same stated that he objected to proceeding to take
any evidence in any of the causes at that time or the testimony of any witnesses because the same was not at issue
or in condition for the taking of evidence and objected to
the taking of such evidence until the issues of said causes
are made up in accordance with the rules of practice applicable to equity causes." The record further recites,
"which objection was overruled by the court on the ground
that the action called for thereby is not necessary. That
the bill was amended within three days; an answer was immediately filed to it and a cross bill also filed, the said cross
bill making only the same claims as were 'made in suit
No. 563 at law, and that any way the issue could be tried
on the bill and answer in both suits.

.

.

."

This ruling

of the court having been excepted to the trial proceeded
from day to day, the counsel for the Central Altagracia
taking no part in the same and virtually treating the proceedings as though they did not concern that corporation.
In substance, the court decided: First, that as the
result of the contracts between Valdes and the Central
Altagracia, he was not the owner of the rights of that
corporation under the lease, or of the machinery which

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

had been placed in the sugar house by the Altagracia
Company or of the other assets of the corporation, but
that he was merely a secured creditor. The sum of the
secured debt was fixed after making allowances for some
not very material credits which the corporation was held
to be entitled to. Second, that the judgment in favor of
Nevers & Callaghan was valid and that that firm by virtue
of its execution and levy upon the machinery had a prior
right to Valdes. Third, the sums due to various creditors
of the corporation were fixed and the equities or priorities
were classified as follows: a. Taxes due by the corporation
and the sum of the receiver's certificates and certain
costs; b. The judgment of Nevers & Callaghan, and c. The
debt of Valdes; d. Debts due the other creditors. Without
going into details it suffices to say that for the purpose
of enforcing these conclusions the decree directed a sale
of all the rights of the Central Altagracia in and to the
lease, machinery, contract, etc., and imposed the duty
upon Valdes, if he became the purchaser, to pay enough
cash to discharge the costs, taxes, receiver's certificates
and the claim of Nevers & Callaghan.
These appeals were then prosecuted, the one by the
Central Altagracia and the other by Valdes. We shall
endeavor as briefly as may be to dispose of the contentions' relied upon to secure a reversal.
I. The Central Altagracia Appeal.--The alleged errors
insisted on in behalf of that company relate to the asserted
arbitrary action of the court in forcing the cause to trial
without affording the time which it is insisted the corporation was entitled to under the equity rules applicable to
the subject, and, second, the refusal of the court to grant
a continuance upon the affidavit as to the absence of
material witnesses.
We think all the contentions on this subject are demonstrated to be devoid of merit by the statement of the
case which we have made. In the first place, it is mani-

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fest from that statement that the proceeding leading up
to the appointment of a receiver and the power given to
administer the property was largely the result of the assent
of the corporation. In the second place, when the unsuccessful financial issue of the receivership had become
manifest we think the statement makes it perfectly clear
that the steps taken by the court for the purpose of bringing the case to a speedy conclusion, and thus avoiding
the further loss which would result to all interests concerned, were also acquiesced in by all the parties in interest who complied with the terms of that order and
took advantage of the rights which it conferred. We
think also the statement makes it apparent that the refusal on the part of the corporation to proceed with the
trial, upon the theory that the time to plead allowed by
the equity rules had not elapsed, was the result of a change
of view because of the actiorL of the court in refusing the
continuance on account of the absent witnesses-a change
of front which was inconsistent with the rights which
the corporation had exercised in accord with the order
setting the cause for trial and with the rights of all the
other 'parties to the cause which had arisen from that
order and from the virtual approval of it, or at least
acquiescence in it, by all concerned.
-.
Considering the assignments of error in so far as they
relate alone to overruling of the application for continuance based upon the absence of witnesses, it suffices
to say that the elementary rule is that the granting of a
continuance of the cause was peculiarly within the sound
discretion of the court below, a discretion not subject to
be reviewed on appeal except in case of such clear error
as to amount to a plain abuse springing from an arbitrary
exercise of power. Instead of coming within this latter
category, we think the facts as to the refusal to continue
and the conduct of the parties make it clear that there
was not only no abuse but a just exercise of discretion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

II. As to the Appeal of Valdes.-Two propositions are relied upon, first that error was committed in treating Valdes
merely as a secured creditor, and in not holding him to
be the absolute owner of the rights and property alleged
to have been transferred by the so-called conditional
sale. Second. That in any event error was committed
in awarding to Nevers & Callaghan priority over Valdes.
The first proposition is supported by a reference to the
Porto Rican Code and decisions of the Supreme Court of
Spain and the opinions of Spanish law writers. But the
contention is not relevant, and the authorities cited to
sustain it are inapposite to the case to be here decided,
because the argument rests upon an imaginary premise,
that is, that the ruling of the court below denied the right
under the Spanish law to make a conditional sale or held
that such a sale if made would not have the effect which the
argument insists it was entitled to. This is true because
the action of the court was solely based upon a premise of
fact, viz., that under the circumstances of the case and in
view of the prior sale with the equity of redemption, the
cancellation of that sale and the transfer made by the corporation to Valdes and the immediate transfer of the
same rights by him to the corporation in the form of a
conditional sale, the failure to register any of the contracts,
and the relation of Valdes to the corporation at the time
the contracts were made it resulted that whatever might
be the mere form, in substance and effect no conditional
sale was made but a mere contract was entered into which
the parties intended to be a mere security to Valdes for
money advanced and to be advanced by him. This being
the case it is manifest that it is wholly irrelevant to argue
that error was committed in not applying the assumed
principles of the Porto Rican and Spanish law governing
in the case of a conditional sale, when the ruling which
the court made proceeded upon the conclusion that there
was no conditional sale.

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The contention that under the Porto Rican law the
form was controlling because proof of the substance was
not admissible seems not to have been raised below, but
if it had been is obviously without merit, as the case as
presented involved not a controversy alone between the
parties to the contract, but the effect and operation of
the contract upon third parties, the creditors of the corporation. The contention is additionally without merit,
since it assumes that the mere form of the contract excluded the power of creditors to inquire into its reality
and substance even although the contract was never
inscribed upon the public records so as to bind third
parties. That its character was such as to require inscription we shall in a few moments demonstrate in coming to consider the second proposition, that is, upon the
hypothesis that Valdes was but a secured creditor, was
error committed in subordinating his claim to the prior
claim of Nevers & Callaghan under their judgment and
execution.
To determine this question involves fixing the nature
and character of the property from the point of view of
the rights of Valdes and its nature and character from
the point of view of Nevers & Callaghan as a judgment
creditor of the Altagracia Company and the rights derived by them from the execution levied on the machinery
placed by the corporation in the plant. Following the
Code Napoleon, the Porto R',ican Code treats as immovable (real) property, not only land and buildings,
but also attributes immovability in some cases to property of a movable nature, that is, personal property, because of the destination to which it is applied. "Things,"
says § 334 of the Porto Rican Code, "may be immovable
either by their own nature or by their destination or the
object to which they are applicable." Numerous illustrations are given in the fifth ;subdivision of section 335,
which is as follows: "Machinery, vessels, instruments or

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

implements' intended by the owner of the tenements for
the industry or works that they may carry on in any
building or upon any land and which tend directly to
meet the needs of the said industry or works." See also
Code Nap.. articles 516, 518 et seq. to and inclusive of article 534, recapitulating the things which, though in themselves movable, maybe immobilized. So far as the subjectmatter with which we are dealing-machinery placed in
the plant-it is plain, both under the provisions of the
Porto Rican law and of the Code Napoleon, that machinery which is movable in its nature only becomes
immobilized when placed in a plant by the owner of the
property or plant. Such result would not be accomplished,
therefore, by the placing of machinery in a plant by a
tenant or a usufructuary or any person having only a
temporary right. Demolombe, Tit. 9, No. 203; Aubry et
Rau, Tit. 2, p. 12, § 164; Laurent, Tit. 5, No. 447; and
decisions quoted in Fuzier-Hermarf ed. Code Napoleon
under articles 522 et seq. The distinction rests, as pointed
out by Demolombe, upon the fact that one only having
a temporary right to the possession or enjoyment of property is not presumed by the law to have applied movable
property belonging to him so as to deprive him of it by
causing it by an act of immobilization to become the
property of another. It follows that abstractly speaking
the machinery put by the Altagracia Company in the
plant belonging to Sanchez did not lose its character of
movable property and become immovable by destination.
But in the concrete immobilization took place because of
the express provisions of the lease under which the Altagracia held, since the lease in substance required the
putting in of improved machinery, deprived the tenant
of any right to charge against the lessor the cost of such
machinery, and it was expressly stipulated that the machinery so put in should become a part of the plant belonging to the owner without compensation to the lessee.

VALDES v. CENTRAL ALTAGRACIA.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Under such conditions the tenant in putting in the machinery was acting but as the agent of the owner in compliance with the obligations resting upon him, and the
immobilization of the machinery which resulted arose in
legal effect from the act of the owner in giving by contract
a permanent destination to the machinery. It is true,
says Aubry' and Rau, vol. 2, § 164, par. 2, p. 12, that
"The immobilization with which the article is concerned
can only arise from an act of the owner himself or his
representative. Hence the objects which are dedicated
to the use of a piece of land or a building by a lessee cannot be considered as having become immovable by destination except in the case where they have been applied
for account of the proprietor or in execution of an obligation imposed by the lease." It follows that the machinery
placed by the corporation in the 1flant, by the fact of its
being so placed lost its character as a movable and became united with and a part of the plant as an immovable
by destination. It also follows that as to Valdes, who
claimed under the lease, and who had expressly assumed
the obligations of the lease, the machinery for all the purposes of the exercise of his rights, was but a part of the
real estate, a conclusion which cannot be avoided without
saying that Valdes could at one and the same time assert
the existence in himself of rights and yet repudiate the
obligations resulting from the rights thus asserted.
Nevers and Callaghan were creditors of the corporation.
They were not parties to nor had they legal notice of
the lease and its conditions from which alone it arose that
machinery put in the premises by the Altagracia became
immovable property. The want of notice arose from the
failure to record the transfer from Castello to the Altagracia or from the Altagracia to Valdes, and from Valdes
apparently conditionally back to the corporation, a clear
result of § 613 of the Civil Code of Porto Rico, providing,
"The titles of ownership or of other real rights relating

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

to immovables which are not properly inscribed or annotated in the registry of property, shall not be prejudicial
to third persons." It is not disputable that the duty to
inscribe the lease by necessary implication resulted from
the general provisions of article 2 of the mortgage law of
Porto Rico, as stated in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 thereof, and
explicitly also arose from the express requirement of paragraph 6 relating to the registry of "contracts for the lease
of real property for a period exceeding six years
It is true that in a strict sense the contracts between Castello and the Altagracia Company and with Valdes were
not contracts of lease but for the transfer of a contract
of that character. But such a transfer was clearly a contract concerning real rights to immovable property within
the purview of art. 613 of the Civil Code just previously
quoted. Especially is this the case in view of the stipulations of the lease as to the immobilization of movable
property placed in the plant and the other obligations
imposed upon the lessee. "The sale which a lessee makes
to a third person to whom he transfers his right of lease
is the sale of an immovable right and not simply a sale
of a movable one." See numerous decisions of the courts
of France, beginning with the decision on February 2,
1842, of the Court of Cassation [Journal du Palais (1842),
vol. 1, 171]. See also numerous authorities collected under the heading above stated in paragraph 21, under articles 516, 517 and 518 of the Code Napoleon. FuzierHerman ed. of that Code, p. 643.
The machinery levied upon by Nevers & Callaghan,
that is, that which was placed in the plant by the Altagracia Company, being, as regards Nevers & Callaghan,
movable property, it follows that they had the right to
levy on it under the execution upon the judgment intheir
favor, and the exercise of that right did not in a legal
sense conflict with the claim of Valdes, since as to him
the property was a part of the realty which, as the result

CHASE v. WETZLAR.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

of his obligations under the lease, he could not, for the
purpose of collecting his debt, proceed separately against.
As a matter of precaution we say that nothing we have
said affects the rights whatever they may be of the heirs
of Sanchez, the original lessor.
Affirmed.

CHASE v. WETZLAR, EXECUTOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN

No. 1045.

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Submitted April 22;, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is dependent, under § 8 of
the act of 1875, upon property affected being within the jurisdiction,
the defendants not being therein, the fact that the bill was dismissed
because complainants failed to prove the existence of any property
within the jurisdiction does not affect the right of a direct appeal
to this court under § 5 of the act, of 1891.
The burden of proof as to the existence of property to be affected by
the decree within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in order to give
it jurisdiction under § 8 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat.
472, is on the complainant.
While averments of some jurisdictional facts may primafacic be taken
as true where the questions do not address themselves to want of
all foundation of jurisdiction, and in such cases the burden is on the
one assailing sufficiency or verity, the burden of proving an aver--lent of a fact absolutely necessary to the exertion of the power of
the court to render a binding decree is on the party pleading.
The jurisdiction conferred by § 8 of the act of 1875 rests upon a real
and not al imaginary or constructive basis.
The Circuit Court does not havet jurisdiction of a suit against an abseht executor in the State where the will was probated, unless the
property to be affected by the decree is actually within the jurisdiction of the court.
The fact that .the state court might by virtue of its authority in a
-particular contingency exert jurisdiction over an absent executor

