OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI v. LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 903.

Submitted May 13, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

A mere conflict between courts concerning the right to adjudicate
upon a particular matter growing out of a priority of jurisdiction
in another forum involves a question of comity, which there is no
right to consider on a diiect appeal to this court under ยง 5 of the
act of 1891. Courtney v. Pradt, 196 U. S. 89.
In this case held, that the Circuit Court in taking jurisdiction and
deciding the cause on the merits, notwithstanding there was a parti1l
demurrer to the jurisdiction, maintained its power and jurisdiction
as a Circuit Court, and also necessarily decided questions arising
under the Constitution expressly alleged in the bill.
Where in rendering a decree on the merits the court necessarily decided
the constitutional question expressly alleged in the bill, the issue on
that subject is open in this court, whether the jurisdictional question
be certified or not.

THE facts are stated'in the opinion.
Mr. Henry L. Stone, Mr. G. L. Smith, Mr. Marcellus
Green and Mr. Garner Wynn Green, for appellee, in support of motion.
Mr. Hannis Taylor, Mr. Claude Clayton and Mr, W. D.
Anderson for appellants, in opposition thereto.
MR. CHIEF, JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of

the cuurt.,
This case is before us on a motion to dismiss or affirm.
The confused state of the: record requires,, 'in order to
make clear the considerationswhich control , us in dispos-

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. v. L. & N. R. R.
225 U. S.

273

Opinion of the Court.

ing of the motion, a fuller statement than otherwise would
be necessary.
On August 5, 1908, a suit in equity was commenced in
the Chancery Court of Hancock County, Mississippi,
against the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company to
compel obedience to an order of the State Railroad Commission of Mississippi requiring the stoppage of certain
interstate trains at a particular place. Upon the ground
of diversity of citizenship, the railroad company removed
the cause into the appropriate Circuit Court of the United
States. Thereupon proceedings were commenced in the
Chancery Court of Harrison County, Mississippi, against
the railroad company to enforce an act of the legislature
of Mississippi approved March 20, 1908, known as the
anti-removal statute, by perpetually enjoining the company from engaging in intrastate commerce within the
State of Mississippi and by subjecting it to large pecuniary
penalties. It was specifically averred in the bill that the
railroad company was a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Kentucky, and that it
had never been incorporated urlder the laws of Mississippi.
This case was then commenced on behalf of the railroad
company in the court below against the Railroad Commission and various officials of the State of Mississippi to
enjoin the commencement of any other proceeding than
that pending in Harrison County, having for its object
the enforcement of the forfeiture and penalty provisions
of the act of 1908, which act was assailed as repugnant to
the commerce clause, the contract clause and to specified
provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Chancery
Court of tarrison County was also averred to be without
jurisdiction of the suit pending before it. The complainant
railroad company was alleged to be a corporation created
and organized under the laws of Kentucky and %citizen
of said State, having its principal place of business at
Louisville, Kentucky. The defendants were alleged to
voL. ccxxv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

be citizens of the State of Mississippi. It was further alleged that the complainant, as a corporation as aforesaid,
owned and operated as a common carrier a railroad between Cincinnati and New Orleans passing through various counties in the State of Mississippi, and that it had
been for more than twenty-five years engaged in the
operation of a portion of its road so sit uated in Mississippi.
Evidently for the purpose of laying the basis for a claim
of contract right the facts concerning the construction of
the road operated by the complainant in the State of
Mississippi were stated in substance as follows: In 1866
the legislature of Alabama incorporated what was known
as the New Orleans, Mobile and Chattanooga Railroad
Company, and authorized it to build a railroad from Mobile to New Orleans; an act of the legislature of Mississippi, passed in 1867, which was attached as ah exhibit to
the bill, authorized and empowered the Alabama corporation "to exercise and enjoy its corporate power and franchise in the State of Mississippi." An act of the legislature
of Louisiana authorized the same corporation to construct
its road from the Mississippi state line to New Orleans;
and an act of Congress approved in March, 1868 (March 2,
1868, 15 Stat. 38, c. 15), empowered the corporation in the
construction of its road to build bridges over navigable
waters in the State of Mississippi. There were also avermen6ts of the placing by the Alabama corporation of a
mortgage upon its property and the subsequent construction of the road from Mobile to New Orleans; a change of
the name of the railroad by the legislature of Alabama
to the name of the New Orleans, Mobile and Texas Railroad; default in the payment of bonds; a foreclosure sale;
the incorporation of the purchasers by the name of the
New Orleans, Mobile and Texas Railroad Company, as
reorganized. It was then specifically alleged that said
company "thereafter, on October'5, 1881, sold and conveyed all of its property and franchises of every kind and

MISSISSIPPI R.'R. COMM. v. L. & N. R. R. 275
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

description except the franchise to be and exist as a corporation, to complainant, who has ever since owned said
railroad and operated it as a common carrier of interstate
and intrastate freight and passengers as aforesaid."
Proceedings contained, in the transcript, to which we
shall hereafter have occasion to refer, as well as the index
to the transcript as filed, contained in the printed transcript, establish that a demurrer was filed to the bill of complaint, which is not in the printed record, and we do not
therefore referto the same. Nearly three years after the
filing of the bill what was styled "Partial Demurrer to
Original Bill" was filed in the cause. This demurrer
charged, first, that the court was without jurisdiction because on the face of the bill it was shown "that the complainant, the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company,
is a Mississippi corporation, and that the defendants are
also citizens of Mississippi, and that therefore there is no
diversity of citizenship between the parties to give the
court jurisdiction of the cause." This* claim was solely
attempted to be supported by argumentative statements
in the demurrer as to the effect of the averments in the bill
concerning the history of the' portion of the road in Mississippi, its construction by an Alabama corporation, the
legal effect of the Mississippi act of 1867 authorizing the
Alabama corporation 'to build a road in Mississippi and
the supposed operation of ar act ,of the legislature of
Mississippi of 1882 upon the purchase of the road built in
that State following the forecloshire, which, it was averred,
took place in 1883 after the passage of the act of 1882, instead -of in October, 1881, as averred in the bill. As an
additional and independent ground of demurrer, it was
claimed that the suit should be dismissed because "at the
time the suit in the case of State. Louisville-& Nashville
RailroadCompany was filed in the Chancery Court of Hancock County, Mississippi, there was no Federal question
on the face of the bill which authorized its removal under

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the Constitution and Laws of the United States, and said
suit is made an exhibit to this demurrer for the purpose of
considering the same."
On the day the "Partial Demurrer" was filed an answer
was filed, which was divided into numbered paragraphs
corresponding to the numbered paragraphs of the bill.
The citizenship of the plaintiff was neither admitted nor
denied, and we think it suffices from the view we take of
Lhe case to say that the answer in one mode or another
dealt mainly with the averments of the bill respecting the
history of the organization of the New Orleans, Mobile
& Chattanooga Railroad Company, the construction of
the road in Mississippi, the sale under foreclosure, the
purchase, etc. A few days afterwards a general replication was filed, and on the same day a stipulation was
entered into between counsel in the first paragraph of
which it was provided as follows:
"That this cause may be submitted and heard at the
May term, 1911, of said court at Jackson, and that the
time for taking proof under the rules is waived, and that
said cause may be heard on the original bill, partial demurrer, and partial demurrer and replication by the Court,
and that setting the cituse for hearing inder this agreement
shall not operate to admit the allegations of the answer."
The foregoing was followed, in the next paragraph of
the stipulation, by a provision for a hearing of the cause
"upon the bill and answer and replication upon the
testimony theretofore taken by affidavits

.

.

and

any other evidence that may be offered orally by either
side on the hearing," and various specified printed charters and st'atutes which were enumerated and which
concerned facts alleged in the bill and answer were stipulated to be admitted in evidence.
While it is certain that on or before October 24, 1911,
the court entered a final decrpe in favor of the complainant, perpetually enjoining the enforcement of the Missis-

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. v. L. & N. R. R.
225 U. S.

277

-Opinion of the Court.

sippi statute complained of, the exact form of that decree
is not disclosed, for although there is a paper in the record
which in one aspect apparently states the terms of the
decree, in another aspect it is uncertain whether the paper
referred to is anything but a motion made by the defendants for the modification'of the decree. Be thisas it may,
the record leaves no doubt that on October 28, on the
motion of the defendants, a new and changed form of
final decree was'entered, which was-deemed to conform to
the stipulation for submission. In this new decree it was
first recited that the case had been submitted to and considered by the court primarily upon the partial demurrer,
and that on such demurrer being overruled the defendant
had elected to stand thereon, 'and had not excepted to the
final decree on the merits. There was a recital in the concluding paragraph of the decree that a direct appeal to
this court was allowed, notwithstanding the objection of
the complainant.
In the printed transcript there is a paper styled Specifications of Error, which is undated and uncertified, but
which we will assume was filed at the time the appeal was
allowed. This paper is confined to a reiteration of the
contentions as to want of jurisdiction of the court below
as stated in the Partial Demurrer, adding the following:
"And, because, the bill shows on its face that the Federal Court is without jurisdiction, and could -not hear and
determine the issues raised by the said bill of complaint
because the Louisville and Nashville, Railroad is a Mississippi Corporation, and.the Act of '1908, which prevents the
removal of causes of foreign corporations to the Federal
Court, had .noreference and application to the said Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, which is a domestic
corporation; and because the Act of 1908, referred to in
said Bill of complaint, enacted by the Mississip i Legislature is unconstitutional and void, and in contravention
of the Federal Constitution."

.OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

The appellee moves to dismiss or affirm and in the brief
of counsel the ground for the motion to dismiss is thus
stated:
"The appeal in this case should .be dismissed because
the jurisdiction .of the Circuit Court is the sole question
raised, and such question has not been certified by the
Circuit Court to this Court."
The appellants, while concurring that jurisdiction is
the sole question involved, insist that that question is
adequately presented by the action of the court or sufficiently appears upon the face of the record to give power
to review, and, meeting the motion to affirm, it is insisted
that the court below erred in holding that there was a
sufficient averment of diversity of citizenship in the bill
to give jurisdiction as a Federal court and that 6ven if this
were not the case the court'erred in taking jurisdiction because the subject-matter of the controversy prior to the
institution of ,he suit below, as shown by the bill, was involved in and pending before a state court as the result of
the action brought against, the railroad company to enforce the Mississippi statute. The appellee, replying to
these contentions and reiterating that the jurisdictional
question was the sole question presented, yet proceeds
to.urge that even if the view be taken that the court below
was wrong in deciding that adequate diversity of citizenship was alleged, nevertheless the judgment should be
affirmed because of the existence of the constitutional
question concerning the repugnancy of the Mississippistatute to the Constitutl ion of the United States as to which
the decision of the court was clearly right and not objected
to. It becomes at once apparent 'when the contentions
of the parties are thus summed up that the propositions
urged on both sides are conflicting and irreconcilable one
wit. the other, since both in effect insist that the sole
question on which the direct appeal may rest is one of
jurisdiction and yet at the same tim6 urge that the juris-

MISSISSIPPI R. R. COMM. v. L. & N. R. R. 279
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dictional question is not the sole question because of the
existence of one involving the construction of the Constitution of the United States. This is so obviously true
as to the position taken by the appellee as to need only
statement. That it is also true as to the position of the
appellants is demonstrated by observing that it has long
since been settled that a mere conflict between courts con-cerning the right to adjudicate upon a particular subject-.
matter growing out of a priority of jurisdiction in another
forum involves a question of comity, which there would be

no right to consider if the direct appeal involved solely a
question of jurisdiction. Courtney v. Pradt, 196 U. S. 89,
91, and cases cited.
The confusion in the contentions of the parties which
thus appeafs, in our opinion will be dispelled and the questions for decision be made apparent-by a consideration of
the statement heretofore made. From that statement we
think there is no real room for controversy: First. That
the court below in taking jurisdiction of the cause anddeciding it notwithstanding the partial demurrer maintained its power and jurisdiction as a Federal court;
Second. That in rendering a decree on the merits the
court necessarily decided the question or questions under
the Conatitution expressly alleged in the bill. This conclusion dispenses with the necessity of considering the
question of certificate a's to jurisdiction, since the issue
on that subject,,whether certified or not, is open, in view
of the constitutional questions raised in the bill. Chappell
v. United States, 160 U. S. 499, 509.
While logically this view would adversely dispose of the
motion to. dismiss, it would undoubtedly, as a general
proposition, requiire the granting of the motion to affirm
without passing upon the question of diversity of citizenship, since, from the statement we have made of the case,
it appears that the correctness of the decision below as to
the constitutional question was in effect conceded. We

280.

OCTOBER TERM, 101i,
Opinion of the Court.

225 U.S.

think, however, there is room for concluding that the
argument on behalf of the appellants, upon the theory that
it is justified by the record, proceeds upon the hypothesis
that if there was no diversity of citizenship, the statute
assailed in the bill was on its face so plainly inapplicable
to the situation as to cause the assertion of its,repugnancy
to the Constitution to be unsubstantial and frivolous and
therefore insufficient to afford a basis either for jurisdiction
in the court below or to warrant an affirmance by this
court of the decree which was made below. As even although the premise upon which this proposition rests be
not conceded, the demonstration of its unsoundness would
require a consideration of the subject of diversity of citizenship and the relation of that subject to the assault
made by the bill upon the statute, to avoid unnecessary
analysis we come at once to consider the sufficiency of the
averments of the bill as to the diverse citizenship of the
complainant.
The whole argument as to the citizenship of the complainant turns not upon an express denial by the appellants in any form of the Kentucky citizenship of complainant directly alleged in the bill, but upon an insistence that
the express averment upon that subject is so qualified by
the subsequent allegations recoumting the history of the
road in Mississippi as at least to engender doubt sufficient
to destroy the effect of such positive averment. No statement in the bill directly and expressly giving rise to such
result is relied upon, but the whole contention is that by
inference or subtle analysis of various paragraphs of the
bill it must follow that the result above stated arises.
Without, however, undertaking to restate the passages
in the bill relied upon or to follow the forms of -statement
by whichthe result claimed to arise from the bill is sought
to be demonstrated, we content outselves with saying
that we think the conclusion deduced from them is unwarranted, for the following reasons: a. Because the passages

MISSISSIPPI R. ,R. COMM. v. L. & N. R. R.
225 U. S.

281

Opinion of the Court.

in the bill relied upon to create the doubt or inconsistency'
when-construed in connection with the context had reference to the alleged impairment of the obligation of a coitract and were not addressed to the.subject of citizenship;
b. Because it would do violence to the very purpose of the
bill to attribute to it the self-destructive effect which would
result from .uDholding the contention insisted upon, especially in view of the nature and character of the ,litigation and the relation of the parties to the subject-matter
in controversy. We say this because the very object of
the bill was to prevent the State from enforcing against
the company, as a foreign corporation owning and operating the road in. Mississippi, a forfeiture and penalties
which it is admitted would not have been applicable to
the corporation if it was a domestic corporation of Mississippi. Nothing could make the conditions stated clearer
than t0 recall the argument, heretofore adversely disposed
of, which was pressed upon our -attention by counsel for'
appellants to demonstrate that the court erred in exertin.g
jurisdiction because of the pendency of the suit in the
state court brought by the State of Mississippi wherein
it was -expressly averred that the railroad company was a
corporation of the State of Kentucky and that it had
never been incorporated in the State of Mississippi.
From these' considerations it results that the judgment
below must be and it is
Affirmed.

