OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Syllabus.

225 U. S.

there may be an opportunity to dispose of it on the merits
in the forum selected by Congress for that purpose. Of
course, in saying this, we must not be understood as deciding or in any way implying that the duty would not
exist to examine the merits of a preliminary order of the
general character of the one before us in a case where
it plainly in our judgment appeared that the granting of
the preliminary order was in effect a uecision by the court
of the whole controversy on the merits or where it was
demonstrable that grave detriment to the public interest
would result from not considering and finally disposing of
the controversy without remanding to enable the court
below to do so.
Affirmed.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION -AND
THE UNITED STATES v. BALTIMORE AND
OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY, PENNSYLVANIA
RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE 'COURT.
No. 719.

Argued January 12, 15, 1912.-Decided June 7, 1912.

An interstate carrier may not charge a different rate for the transportation of raiload-fuel coal to a given point than for the transportation
of commercial coal to the same point. It would be an illegal preference or discrimination under § 3 of Act to Regulate Commerce.
Tariffs are but forms of words, and the Interstate Commerce Commission, in the exercise of its powers to administer the Act to Regulate Commerce, can look beyond the forms to what caused them and
what they aie intended to, and do, cause.

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

327

Statement of!the Case.

A railroad company cannot be made a favored shipper and given a
lower rate on the same commodity to the same point than' other
persons.

A railroad company is not to be put on the same basis as a locality and
entitled to preferential rates to accommodate competitive conditions. The Import Rate Case, 162 U. S. 197, distinguished.

THE question in the case is whether railroad companies
may charge a different rate for the transportation of
coal to a given point to railroads than to other shippers, the coal being intended for the use of the railroads
as fuel.
The Interstate Commerce Commission held that a
charge of a different rate was an unlawful discrimination
against other shippers and made an order requiring a cessation of such charge. The execution of the order was enjoined by the Commerce Court.
A number of railroads are petitioners and we shall refer
to them as the companies.
The companies attack in th'eir petition the order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission on several grounds,
which may be summarized as follows: The movement
of coal traffic from the point of origin to the point or
points of junction to receiving carriers is different from
the movement of coal to be delivered locally at such
junction points.
The traffic is not governed by the rates published under
the Act to Regulate Commerce which apply to the traffic in
coal not intended for use by consuming railroads, because
the charges go to the carrier itself. If the coal be shipped
under a through rate applicable to other coal the actual
rate upon which it moves to the rails of the consuming road
is the division of the through rate going to the roads over
which the traffic moves to the junction point with the rails
of the consuming road. The division of the rate beyond
that point goes to the consuming road itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

All but an inconsiderable part of such coal is necessary
and intended for use as fuel in locomotives. The fueling
stations are often many, and are located at convenient
points along the line at varying distances from the junction points, and it is not possible at the time of shipment
to tell at what point a carload of coal will be needed. If
made on a through rate they must be billed and transported to a point to which the through rate is published.
Even if a centrally located distributing yard for fuel be
established, and all shipments billed on a through rate to
that yard, there must be a reverse movement of the coal
between that point and the point of junction.
The fact that fuel coal on the line of a consuming carrier
is not governed by the published rates makes the commercial competitive conditions different between such coal and
other coal. The value to the shipper is not the same or
measured by the same conditions. There is no competition
between the ful coal and other coal.
Because of the circumstances and conditions differentiating the traffic in fuel coal the companies have for a
number of years past published and filed, as required by
law, separate tariffs of the rates to be charged and received by them for the transportation of such coal from
points of origin to the junction point of delivery to the
consuming carrier. The tariffs vary in their definitions
or descriptions of the traffic to which the rates apply, but
in each case the traffic is such that it would move in reality,
not under the published through rates, but would move
under the'special conditions which have been stated.
Some of the tariffs apply only to coal intended for use and
used for locomotive fuel. The rates named in the tariffs are open and available to all producers and shippers,
if the shipments be made under the special conditions
stated.
On January 4, 1910, the Interstate Commerce Commission, of its own motion, instituted an inquiry under an

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

order of that date entitled, "]:n thematter of Restrictive
Rates," Docket No. 3053, making the Baltimore & Ohio
and the Pennsylvania Railroad companies parties to the
proceeding. The other companies from time to time were
admitted as intervenors. Testimony was taken, argument
heard, and the Comnssion entered the order complained
of in which the Commission required the companies to
cease and desist, on or before May 15, 1911, and for a period of two years to abstain from using the tariffs on fuel
coal stated.
The Commission erred in its construction of the Act to
Regulate Commerce in that it held the facts and circumstances found by it did not distinguish fuel coal from other
coal, and that the different conditions of their transportation were not in law circumstances and conditions necessary or proper to be considered in applying the provisions
of § 2 of the act.
The Commission erred in holding that. the rates on fuel
coal under § 2 should be,no more nor less than rates for
the shipment of other coal from the same point of origin
for local delivery at the junction point, the circumstances
and conditions showing conclusively that the services
done in the transportation of them, respectively, are not
alike nor substantially similar, within the meaniiig of the
Act to Regulate Commerce.
The Commission erred in holding that fuel coal should
be transpdrted under through rates, as other coal, and that
it was unlawful for carriers to publish or charge any rates
other than the through rates agreed upon going to the
line of the terminal carrier to be used by it in its business
as a common carrier. And that, as the charges on such
terminal carrier's line must be borne by it, the Commission erred in holding that such circumstance did not differentiate the traffic in such coal from the traffic in other
coal, and did not constitute a substantial difference
under
§ 2 in the conditions of transportation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

The Commission erred in holding, further, that any difference in the tariff for fuel coal and not applicable to
all other coal was unjustly discriminatory, in violation
of § 3.
It appears on the face of the report of the Commission,
it is alleged, that it proceeded in rjaking the order upon
its view of §§ 2 and 3; that it did not find it necessary to
consider any specific. tariff or tariffs or the rates named
thereby; that the difference in conditions affecting the respective tariffs could not be considered as distinguishing
them. And it is alleged that the 'findings of the Commis,sion are findings of law, as well in regard to the violation
of the third section of the act as in regard to violation of
the second section. Irreparable damage is alleged, and
the alternatives presented of desisting from the carriage
of fuel coal at the expense of the loss of large and valuable
revenues or accepting divisions of through rates, on both
fuel coal and other coal, which will give the companies,
as originating or intermediate carriers, a much lower compensation for both classes of traffic than they are now receiving and would continue to receive but for the order
of the Commission.
In either case the loss will amount to many thousand
dollars. There will be loss, it is alleged, to the producers
of fuel coal who have sold coal under contracts for future
delivery at junction points, and loss also to producers and
shippers who depend on the railroad-fuel business to enable them to operate their mines at all.
A final decree is prayed for the annulment of the order
and a temporary injunction enjoining and suspending it
pending final hearing and determination.
The petition was supported by affidavits made by a
number of coal producers and shippers.
The answer of the Interstate Commerce Commission is
directed principally at the third paragraph of the petition,
and charges against it as follows: Its allegations relate to

INT. COM. OOMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225.U.S.

331

Statement of the Case.

comparisons between coal, on the one hand, consigned to
a railroad company, and coal, on the other hand, consigned
to some other party. The former is called railroad-fuel
coal, the latter is known as commercial coal. In each instance, however, regardless of' the consignee, the point of
origin and the point of destination of the shipments is the
same, but the rate charged for transporting fuel coal is
much less than the rate exacted for the transportation of
commercial coal over the same line, in the same direction
and between the same points. Schedules or tariffs providing for such differences in rates have been heretofore es,tablished and put 'in force and are now maintained and enforced by the companies.
Where the destination is a junction which is a point of
connection between the lines of two or more of the companies, the movement of coal, fuel and commercial, is the
same, except that at such destination the cars containing
fuel coal are ordinarily placed upon what is called an exchange track, which is ,used in common by the connecting
carriers, while the cars containing commercial coal are
usually placed upon the side track of the delivering carrier.
The cost of delivering both kinds of coal is practically the
same, depending upon the nature of the delivery facilities
furnished by the companies. Therefore, the cost of delivering fuel coal may be and is less than the cost of delivering the commercial coal, but the reverse is sometimes
the case.. It is alleged, however, that such differences are
similar to differences pertaining to some shipments of commercial coal compared with other shipments.
Generally what is called "free time" is allowed by the
companies, that is to say, a certain period of time for unloading the coal is allowed. If the coal is unloaded within
that time, no charge is made for the use of the car. If
that time be exceeded a charge of $1.00 for each day or
fraction of a day in excess of the "free time," known as a
demurrage charge, is exacted by the companies, while the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

compensation paid by one carrier to another carrier for
the use of a car owned by the latter is twenty-five cents a
day. Where the coal transported is fuel coal no "free
time" is allowed, nor is such demurrage charge exacted or
collected. These differences, however, are offset, and'much
more than offset, by the differences in the rates of transportation between the different coals.
Where the destination of the shipment of coal is not a
point of connection between the lines of two or more of the
companies the circumstances and conditions pertaining
to the transportation and delivery of coal are the same as
above described, except that at such destination there are
no exchange tracks used incommon by two or more of the
companies. Where the shipment passes over more than
one line of railway to such destination, delivery by one of
the companies to another is made in the same way and
under similar circumstances and conditions regardless oi
whether the coal be fuel or commercial.
The lower rates established by the companies and applied by them to the transportation of fuel coal are not
open alike to all shippers but are, by reason of the schedules
and tariffs above mentioned and by reason of the practices
of the companies, confined to shippers of fuel coal and
denied to shippers of all other coal, including commercial
coal.
The Commission denies the errors attributed to it, and
alleges that its report shows as follows: "We have never
held that the local rate to the junction point must be paid
on shipments that are going beyond that point. What we
have said is-that the local rate to the junction point shall
be the same for all shippers to that point, and that the
through charges on shipments going beyond the junction
point shall be alike for all shippers to the same destination."
The Commissioi alleges (somewhat singularly, on information and helief) that it.considered all facts, circum-

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

333

Argument for the Interstate Commerce. Commission.

stances and conditions pertinent to the subject-matter of
the order, including degrees of difference and distinction,
and each and all of the tariffs and rates of the companies
which are affected by the order, and did not entertain the
opinion attributed to it, that-the facts, circumstances and
conditions affecting the particular traffic could not be
lawfully considered by it as distinguishing the traffic in
railroad-fuel coal from the traffic in other coal.
It is alleged that the traffic is interstate, and that fuel
coal as compared with other coal, including commercial
coal, is a like kind of traffic; that the services performed
by the companies in connection with the transportation of
fuel coal as compared to the services performed by them
in connection with the transportation of other coal, including commercial coal, 're alike and contemporaneous, and
are performed under substantially similar circumstances
and conditions. It is hence alleged that the companies
are violating §§ 2 and 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The final allegation of the Commission is that the matters are within its jurisdiction, and that therefore the correctness of its findings is not open to review in the Commerce Court or any other court.
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission:
In failing to dismiss the bill for want of equity, and in
granting the temporary injunction, the Commerce Court
committed errors which should be corrected by a reversal
of the decree.
Circumstances and conditions arising before traffic is
delivered by the consignor to the carrier for transportation at point of origin, and those arising after the traffic is
delivered by the carrier to the consignee at point of destination, cannot be used to justify disparities in rates,
where, as here, the transportation is over the same line,
in the same direction, and between the same points.

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for. the Interstate Commerce Commission.

225 U. S.

Wight v. United States, 167 U. S. 512, 518; Int. Com. Comm.
v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168 U. S. 144, 166, 167;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S.
235, 252-254. If circumstances and conditions arising
after the traffic is delivered by the consignor to the carrier
at point of origin and before it is delivered by the carrier
to the consignee at point of destination, but which are
wholly artificial and entirely created by the carriers, may
be used to justify such disparities, a carrier cannot be
prevented from indulging in such discriminations as it
may wish to make, to the extent at least of charging one
party a rate greater than the rate it contemporaneously
accords to another party, for the transportation of a like
kind of traffic, over the same line, in the same direction,
and between the same points.
While a carrier may transport its own property at will
from one point to another upon its own line, regardless of
the rates named in its published schedules, provided the
title to that property does not change while it is in transit;
and the division of a through rate for the transportation
of property from a point of origin on the line of one carrier
to a point of destination on the line of another carrier are
a matter of agreement by and between the carriers who
perform the transportation service; a carrier who uses the
property may not, for the purpose of obtaining, for the
transportation of the property from such point of origin
to a point of intersection between its own line and the
line. of such other carrier, a rate which is less than the
rate contemporaneously exacted from other shippers for
the transportation of a like kind of property from said
point of origin to said point of intersection, ship the property from such point of origin to a point of destination on
its own line, under a through rate published and filed and
made applicable to such transportation, and, when the
property reaches its own line, either use the property at
such point of intersection or transport it to a point on its

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

335

Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

own line other than the point to which such through rate
applies, and then pay for the transportation from such
point of origin to said point of intersection, not the rate
applicable to the transportation between those points, but
the division of the through rate which goes to such other
carrier, as aforesaid. And if it does so it thereby subjects
itself to the penalties provided for in the act and made applicable to cases of false billing and misrepresentation.
Wight v. United States, supra; Capital City Gas Co. v.
Central Vermont Ry. Co., 11' . C. C. Rep. 104. See, also,
Matter of Contracts of Express Companies, 16 I. C. C. Rep.
246; HitchmanCoal& Coke Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., 16 I. C. C. Rep. 512.
The Commerce Court erred in substituting its own judgment for that of the Commission concerning the character
of the traffic, transportation services, discrimination and
preference And prejudice involved. Int. Com. Comm. v.
Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co.,, supra. See, also, Balto. &
0. R. Co. v. Pitcairn,215 U. S.. 481; Southern Pacific Co. v.
Int. Com. Comm., 219 U. S. 4:33.
The court erred in entering the interlocutory decree and
granting the temporary injunction, without complying
with the requirements of § 3 of the Commerce Court Act
of June 18, 1910.
If the Commerce Court may, simply as a matter of discretion, for its own convenience, the convenience of carriers, or some other similar reason, enjoin temporarily enforcement of an order of the Commission, it may destroy,
for all practical purposes, the power of the Commission
and render impossible its regulations.
Under present conditions, there appears to be nothing
for this court to do except to examine the entire record and
determine whether the matters included therein justify
the action taken by the, Commerce Court.
A construction of the law which makes necessary such
a method of procedure is not reasonable, because it in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argumcnt for Appellcus.

225 U. S.

dicates that the Congress attempted to do something which
is in excess of its power under the Constitution; that is,
confer upon this court original jurisdiction in the premises.
Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 215 U.S.
216; Suthcrn Pacific Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 215 U. S.
226.
Congress neither intended to, nor could, confer upon the
Commerce Court, or any other court, legislative discretion. Int. Com. Comm. v. Illinois Cent. R. R. Co., 215 U. S.
452.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Denison, with whom
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States:
In its terms the order enjoined was directed'exclusively
against the restriction of rates to coal of certain consignors
or consignees or for designated uses; and is directly within
the principle laid down in Int. Com. Comm. v. Delaware,
L. & W. R. R., 220 U. S. 235;New York, N. H. & H. R. R.
Co. v. 'Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 361, 391-395.
The illegality of a discrimination based exclusively on
identity of the shipper or consignee, or on the intention
-with which the goods are shipped or received, or use to
which they are put, is no longer open to argument.
The finality of the cbnclusion of the Commission under
the circumstances of this case has been repeatedly announced by this court. 206 U. S. 466; 218 U. S. 110.
Mr. W. Irvine Cross and Mr. Hugh L. Bond, Jr., for
appellees:
The filing of tariffs in which the traffic in railroad fuel
coal is treated as a separate traffic from the traffic in
commercial coal between the same points is not a violation
of § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
When Congress, in the commodities clause, wished to
describe the only commodities that..could be transported

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

by a railroad without any tariff at all, it described them,
identified them, by the very language that the railroads
have employed to identify the commodity carried in this
traffic.
A special rate cannot be given to a particular consignee
based simply on his personality, but a consignee may receive a special rate on a special kind of traffic. Neither
can a special rate be given because of the use to which a
commodity is to be put; but it would be a strange principle
that a rate could not be influenced by the place where the
commodity was to be used, or the transportation it must
still undergo in reaching the point of use. A railroad, as
distinguished from a, railroad company, is not a person.
It is rather in the nature of a geographical division, and
extends through long distances. A railroad's use of coal
for fuel is not different from the use of it by any other
consumer of fuel. The service in delivering it at the junction point differs in the fact that the coal still has to
be transported through long distances to secure its use
at all.
The railroad fuel rates are open and available alike for
all shippers, that is, for all shippers wishing to engage in
the special traffic on which the rates are made. They are
not restricted to certain shippers., They are not conditioned upon the commodities being put to a certain use.
They are limited to a service where the commodity is
subject to further transportation under the commodities
clause, before reaching the point of use. The analogy in
principle of the railroad-fuel traffic to the import traffic
and the export traffic is complete.
The Commission's method of filing fuel coal rates is illegal under § 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act and Elkins
Act. Congress never intended that the tariffs prescribed
in § 6 should cover the transportation of the carrier's own
property.
The Commerce Court had power to review on appeal
VOL. ccxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Argument for Appellees.

225 U. S.

the construction put by the Commission on the Act to
Regulate Commerce even though the subject-matter of
the order was within the jurisdiction of the Commission
and the order did not violate any constitutional right.
As to whether or not import traffic constitutes a like
kind of traffic with domestic traffic between the same
points, see Import Rate Case, 162 U. S. 197.
As to the right of the Commission to ignore circumstances and conditions infixing rates, see Louisville &c.
R. R. Co. v. Behlmer, 175 U. S. 648; East Tennessee &c. Ry.
Co. v. Int. Coin. Comm., 181 U. S. 1; Southern Ry. Co. v.
St. Louis Hay Co., 214 U. S. 297; Int. Corn. Comm. v.
Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 216 U. S. 538; Int. Corn. Comm. v.
Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co., 216 U. S. 531: 220 U. S.
235.
The question whether or not the Commission can refuse to consider the features of the fuel traffic, as making
it an unlike traffic with the traffic in commercial coal,
is a pure question of law, difficult to distinguish in principle from that which was decided in the Import Rate Case,
supra.
Traffic in railroad fuel coal is different from the traffic
in commercial coal within the meaning of the term "traffic" in § 2 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, and the service performed in transporting coal destined for the railroad fuel market is not a like service to that performed in
transporting coal destined for the commercial market.
The values of the services are commercially different and
determined by different factors.
In the Import Rate Case, 162 U. S. 197, circumstances
and conditions arising before the traffic was delivered by
the consignor to the carrier for transportation at point of
origin were recognized as creating an unlike kind of traffic.
See, also, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. v. 0. C. C. & St. L.
Co., 131. C. C. Rep. 100; Kimble v. Boston & A. R. R. Co.,
8 I. C. C. Rep. 110.

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO P R.
225 U. S.

339

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The case involves the consideration of §§ 2 and 3 of the
Interstate Commerce Act. Section 2 provides that if any
common carrier shall directly or indirectly charge or receive from any person or persons a greater or less compensation than it charges or receives from any other person
or persons "for doing for him or them a like and contemporaneous service in the transportation of a like kind of
traffic, under substantially similar circumstances and conditions, such common carrier shall be deemed guilty of
discrimination.
Section 3 is directed agaipst giving preferences or advantages to persons, localities or descriptions of traffic in
any respect whatsoever and subjecting any person, locality or traffic "to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage in any respect whatsoever."
The companies contend that the Commission applied
these sections to the facts found by the Commission, none
of them being disputed, and that, therefore, the findings
of the Commission are conclusions of law. On the other
hand, the Commission charges that its findings are those of
fact and exclusively within its jurisdiction, and not open
to review by the Commerce Court or any court. Many of
its assignments of error are expressions of this view. The
other assignments assert in vaiious ways and with many
shades of particularity that the Commerce Court erred in
disagreeing with the Commission in regard to the traffics
in the different coals, not only in its decision, as indicated
in its injunction, in the matters affecting such traffic, but
in substituting its judgment for that of the Commission.
The facts are certainly undisputed, or, to put it differently, the circumstances, and conditions whiph determined the order are certainly not; in controversy; and while
certain general inferences are disputed which may be

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

called inferences of fact, yet we think "power to make the
order, and not the mere expediency of having made it, is
the question" presented. Int. Com. Comm. v. Illinois Cent.
R. R. Co., 215 U. S. 452, 470. In other words, that the
question presented by the petition is that the order of the
Commission was not merely administrative, but proceeded
from a construction of §§,2 and 3 as applicable to the conditions which affected the traffic-in the different kinds of
coal and that the different charges for transportation constituted violations of those sections. The Commerce
Court, therefore, had jurisdiction of the petition and jurisdiction to enjoin the order of the Commission if the court
considered that the order would cause irreparable injury.
Section 3 of the act creating the Commerce Court gives
that court the power to "enjoin, set aside, annul or suspend any order of. the Interstate Commerce Commission,
in a suit brought in the court against the United States."
Whether the court erred in its judgment is now to be inquired into.
In its most abstract form the simple statement of the
controversy is whether the companies may charge a different rate for the transportation of fuel coal to a.given
point than for the transportation of commercial coal to the
same point. But when we depart from the abstract, complexities appear and attention is carried beyond the consideration of points equally distant, shippers equally circumstanced and traffic affected by similar circumstances
and conditions. It is asserted that there are disparities
between the traffics and qualifying circumstances which
the Commission disregarded and, in error, held that traffic in fuel coal could not be distinguished from the traffic
in commercial coal.
The Commission insists upon the simplicity of the problem and contends that there is nothing in the conditions of
the traffic which dispenses with the clear legal duty of
the companies under the Interstate Commerce Act to

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

341

Opinion of the Court.

carry for all shippers alike. The Commission says: "We
have never held that the loesil rate to the junction point
must be paid on shipments that are going beyond that
point. What we have said isthat the local rate to the
junction point shall be the same for all shippers to that
point, and that the through clharges on shipments going
beyond the junction point shall be alike for all shippers
to the same destination." Its position thus expressed the
Commission has supplemented, we are told by the companies, by its Conference Ruling No. 324, published
June 19, 1911, as follows: "Division on Company Coal.Upon Inquiry, Held, That it is unlawful for carriers to
make special and discriminatory divisions of joint rates
upon locomotive fuel as between an originating or participating carrier and a purchasing carrier. In the division of joint rates a railroad must be treated precisely as
any other shipper is treated, and the Commission will
regard any special division as a device to defeat the published rate. All divisions upon fuel coal must be made in
good faith without respect to the fact that one of the carriers is the purchaser of such coal."'
The issue of principle between the Commission and the
companies is very accurately presented, and we come to
consider whether there are differences in the traffic of fuel
coal which distinguish it from traffic in commercial coal,
and which, as contended by the companies, make the traffic
dissimilar in circumstances and'. conditions, or whether the
opposite is true, as decided by the Commission.
The circumstances and conditions which may so far be
considered as distinguishing traffics so as to take from
different transportation charges the vice of preference
have been described by this court. In Wight v. United
States, 167 U. S. 512, 518, it is said: "It was the purpose of
the section [21 to enforce equality between shippers, and
it prohibits any rebate or other device'by which two shippers, shipping over the same line, the same distance, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

the same circumstances of carriage, are compelled to pay
different prices therefor." These words are given more
precision by the declaration "that the phrase, 'under substantially similar circumstances and conditions,' as found
in section 2, refers to matters of carriage, and does not
include competition." And this was repeated in Interstate

Commerce Commission v. Alabama Midland Ry. Co., 168
U. S. 144, 161, 166.' The facts in both cases give significance to the rulings. In the first case the charges to the
shippers were the same, but one was given extra facilities;

in the second case the extraneous effect of competition
was excluded as an element in the application of the sec-

tion. There is also example in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Delaware, L. & W. R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 235. It
was there held that a carrier could not look beyond goods
tendered to it for transportation in carload lots "to the
ownership of the shipment" as the basis for determining
the application of its established rates. Do the circumstances and conditions in this case give a greater power
of discrimination and justify the lower charge to railroadfuel coal? It is admitted that the fact that a railroad is
the shipper or consumer is not a circumstance or condition

that affects the carriage, nor can the different uses to which
the coal may be put, and it would seem necessarily that
any other extraneous condition or circumstance could
have no greater potency. Once depart from the clear
directness of what relates to the carriage only and we may
let in considerations which may become a cover for preferences. May a carrier look beyond the service it is called
upon to render to the attitude and interest of the shippers
before, or their attitude and interest after, transportation?
It must be kept in mind that it is not the relation of one
railroad to another with which we have any concern, but

the relation of a railroad to its patrons, who are entitled to
equality of charges. See Pennsylvania R. R. Co. V. InternationalMining Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 1.

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & 0HIO R. R.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

But what are the differences in the traffics which are
asserted by the companies? We have already condensed
them from the pleadings, but we may use the expression
of their ultimate elements by the companies, omitting, for
the time being, the physical differences in facilities. They
say: "When the railroad-fuel coal is consigned to the
junctioh point, as provided in the present system of tariffs,
the circumstances and conditions that differentiate this
traffic from the traffic in commercial coal consigned to the
same.point are:
"1. The fuel coal so shipped is not in competition with
the commercial coal consigned to the same point.
"2. It is in cohnpetition with other coals coming upon
the line of the consuming road at other points, with which
the commercial coal is not in competition.
"3. The transportation service is different, in that
commercial coal at the junction point has reached the
point of use, while railroad-fuel coal reaching the consuming railroad at the junction point is still subject to a transportation service before reaching the point of use,-a transportation under the 'Commodities Clause' and not under
tariff."
These elements the Commission disregarded, it is contended, and that while it found a similarity in the traffics
it did not consider or discuss the two most important
features of difference-" the two features" which make
the traffics unlike, that is, that railroad-fuel coal "does
not come into competition with the commercial coal, and
is in competition with coals coming on the railroad's line
at other points." But such features do not affect the carriage, qualify or alter the essential service, which is to get
an article from one place to another. The greater or less
inducement to seek the service is not the service. Such
competition, therefore, is as extraneous to the transportation as the instances in the cases cited. And equally so is
the other "feature" that the fuel coal may be destined for

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

consumption beyond the junction point. The circumstances do not alter the fact that it and commercial coal
go to the same point, and are delivered at the same point.
There is, it is true, a difference in the manner of delivery,
depending upon the difference in the facilities possessed
by the railroads and other consignees.
The Commission, as we have seen, especially disclaimed
holding that the rate to the junction point must be paid
on shipments going beyond that point, and insisted that
it only held that the charges to that point should be the
same to all shippers, and rates through that point should
also be the same to all shippers. And the Commission
said that the testimony established that the service as to
the coals was alike when they go beyond the junction point.
The Commission, therefore, considered alone the service,
disregarding circumstances and conditions which were
mere incidents of it and had relation only to the respective
shippers.
But the companies say, in criticism of the reasoning and
order of the Commission, they are permitted to do indirectly what they want to do directly, that an easy way
of evasion of the prohibiting order is to make a joint rate
from the point of origin of the fuel coal to its points of
consumption, and thereby be enabled "to charge a lower
rate for the fuel coal than for the commercial coal between
the same 'points." And further, in display of the easiness
with which this can be accomplished and "how readily the
Commission's order lends itself to manipulation of rates,"
they say that they have only to publish a nominal delivery
point beyond the real delivery point, publish a rate to that
point which they do not intend to charge and call their
actual-rate to the junction point, based on the special circumstances and conditions, a "division." They then ask
if "the Commission can so easily juggle a rate for a good
purpose, will not ingenious traffic agents and coal operators
do the same for their own perverse ends." If such a situa-

INT. COM. COMM. v. BALT. & OHIO R. R.
225 U. S.

345

Opinion of the Court.

tion artfully produced be used. as a device for giving preferences the Commission might be able to find some means
to defeat it. At present we must regard its possibility as
relevant as exhibitifg a misconception of the Commis-sion's purpose. The Commission has not said what the
rate should be, nor has it said, as we have seen, that the
local rate to the junction point should be the same as the
rate beyond that point. The Commission has ordered
equality and struck down what it deemed to be preferential charges, even though they were made under formal
tariffs. If there may be legal or illegal evasion of the order,
we may wonder at the controversy. If the difference between the effect of the order and what the companies can
do or want to do be, as is contended, a "question of
words"-a "question of the nomenclature to be used in
tatiffs "-the order of the Commission may still be valid.
Tariffs are but forms of words, and certainly the Commission, in the exercise of its powers to administer the Interstate Commerce Act, can look, beyond the forms to
what caused them and what they are intended to cause
and do cause.
There are other contentions or rather phases of those
that we have considered and which seek to further emphasize the strength of competition as a circumstance or
condition. differentiating the traffic. For instance, it is
urged that the shipment of the fuel coal to a particular
railroad "for the use of that railroad" 'makes special the
traffic. And, further, that "a railroad isnot a person"
but is "rather in the nature of a geographical division and
'extends through long distances." Pushing the argument
or illustrations farther, it is urged that a railroad company
may be distinguished from the physical thing, the railroad
itself, and may be- a locality where. a commodity is used,
like "a river, a county or a city,"' and be entitled to
preferential rates to accommodate competitive conditions.
The Import Rate Case, 162 U. S. 197, is invoked as anal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

ogous. We cannot accept the likeness nor the distinctions
which are said to establish it. The railroad company cannot be put out of view as a favored shipper, and we see
many differences between such a shipper receiving coal for
use in its locomotives and a nation as the destination of
goods from other nations for distribution throughout its
expanse on through rates from points of origin.
The point is made that "the Commission's method of
filing fuel coal rates is illegal under section 6 of the Interstate Commerce Act and under the Elkins Act," and the
latter act and § 6 are quoted in illustration. The rather
vague argument which is urged to support the point lands
in the proposition that the right to violate the law as to
preference in rates is justified by the law in its requirement of the filing of schedules of rates. However, counsel
say that "it all goes back to the same principle" "dealt
with under point 1." We have sufficiently discussed
point 1.
The decree of the Commerce Court is reversed and the case
remanded with direction to dismiss the petition.

