ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

renewal, the bank obtained a control over it which otherwise it did not possess, and this control it surrendered on
the redelivery. In vieiv of the effort that was being made
to reduce the obligations of the company held by the bank,
it cannot be thought surprising that the note with the
collateral was taken up before maturity. It was not
shown that the bank had anything to do with the credit
to the Titus Sheard Company in its account with the
Newport Knitting Company. Nor does it appear that the
bank knew of the condition oiFthis account or had any
reason to, believe that it was proposed to set off the payment against an indebtedness to the bankrupt.
The bank dealt with the Titus Sheard Company as the
endorser of the paper; and the trustee failed to establish
any right to recover the moneys it received.
Decree affirmed.

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST STEAMSHIP
COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMSHIP
"QUEEN."
JORDAN v. PACIFIC COAST COMPANY, CLAIMANT OF THE STEAMSHIP "UMATILLA," ETC.'
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH

Nos. 641,642.

CIRCUIT.

Argued February 21, 1912.-Decided May 27, 1912.

When the Federal Constitution was adopted each State had its own
pilotage regulations.
State pilotage laws are regulations of commerce, but they fall within

that class of powers which may be exercised by the States until
Congress shall see fit to act.
The provisions of former Federal statutes relating to pilotage were
incorporated in §§ 4401 and 4444, lav. Stat., which are still in force.
In adopting the Revised Statutes change of arrangement from earlier

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

statutes will not be regarded as altering their scope and purpose;
an intent of Congress to change the effect of prior law will not be
presumed unless clearly expressed.
Distinctions between registered and enrolled vessels and history of
statutes relating to state pilotage of registered and coastwise vessels
reviewed and held that:
Coastwise sea-going vessels sailing under register and having
officers with Federal pilot's licenses are not free from liability
for pilotage fees under state laws, by virtue of § 51 of the act
of February 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 440, c. 100, as reenacted in
§§ 4401 and 4444, Rev. Stat.
There are no provisions in Title 52 of the Revised Statutes which
may be construed as exempting coastwise sea-going vessels
sailing under register, whose officers have Federal pilot's
licenses, from liability for pilotage fees under state laws, under
the rule of construction laid down in the last sentence of § 51
of the act of February 28, 1871.
Congress did not intend to classify with the coastwise vessels
referred to in the last proviso of § 51 of the act of February 28,
1781, as renacted in § 4444, Rev. Stat., registered steam vessels engaged in commerce with both foreign and domestic ports
on the same voyage.
The wisdom of establishing Federal rules as to port pilotage for
such registered vessels now exempted is a question for Congress
to determine.
In this case held that American registered steam vessels sailing from
San Francisco clearing for final destination to American ports and
return, but stopping at foreign ports en route for less than ten per
cent of the traffic, are subject on entering and leaving the port of
San Francisco to the state pilotage laws of California as contained
in §§ 2468, 2466 and 2432 of the Political Code of that State.

THE certificate in these cases is as follows:
"The libels in the'above cases involve the question of
power of a State to make pilotage regulations for certain
classes of registered sea going 'steam vessels when entering
and leaving harbors within the confines of the State.
"The steamers 'Queen' and 'Umatilla' were regularly
sailing under register and were either on a voyage from
the port of San Francisco in the State of California to a
United States port on Puget Sound or from a United

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

States port on Puget Sound to said port of San Francisco, but in either such case said vessels did while en route
between said ports of the United States stop at the port of
Victoria, B. C., to and from which port of Victoria she
did then carry and did then and there deliver and receive
both passengers, mail and freight. Both vessels sailed direct to Victoria from San Francisco and direct to San
Francisco from Victoria. At least ninety (90) per cent of
passengers and cargo was carried between the United
States ports and the parties stipulated that the voyage for
which the vessels cleared was beween Puget Sound ports
of the United States and San Francisco, with the right to
stop and trade en route at Victoria. The stop at Victoria
on each occasion was for about an hour. The officers of
each vessel had federal pilot's licenses and each vessel
was in fact piloted in entering and leaving the port of
San Francisco by such an officer. Each of the vessels was
tendered pilotage services-the 'Umatilla' on leaving
port and, the 'Queen' on entering-by a resident bar pilot
of the port of San Francisco, duly commissioned, and acting under the law of the State of California. In each case
the tender was declined. The ships refused to pay the
pilotage fees imposed by the following sections of the
Political Code of the State of California:
"'2468. Pilotage and half pilotage. All vessels sailing
under an enrollment, and licensed and engaged in the
coasting trade between the port of San Francisco and any
other 'port of the United States shall be exempt from all
pilotage unless a pilot be actually employed. All foreigni
vessels and all vessels from a foreign port or bound thereto,
and all vessels sailing under a-register between the port
of San Francisco and any other port of the United States
shall be liable for pilotage as provided in section twentyfour hundred and sixty-six (2466) of this code.
" '2466. Rates of pilotage at San Francisco. The following shall be the rates of pilotage into and out of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

harbor of San Francisco: All vessels under five hundred
(500) tons three ($3.00) dollars per foot draught; all vessels over five hundred (500) tons three ($3.00) dollars per
foot draught and three (3c.) cents per ton for each and
every ton registered measurement; and every vessel
spoken inward or outward bound except as hereinafter
provided shall pay the said rates. A vessel is spoken by
day by a pilot boat displaying a union jack or by night
displaying a torch or flare up within a distance of three (3)
miles of the vessel. In all cases where inward bound vessels are not spoken until inside of the bar the rates of
pilotage herein provided shall be reduced fifty (50) per
cent. Vessels engaged in the whaling or fishing trade shall
be exempt from all pilotage except where a pilot is actually
employed.
'2432. Vessel, owner, etc., liable for pilotage.' All
vessels, their tackle, apparel and furniture, and the master
and owners thereof, are jointly and severally liable for
pilotage fees, to be recovered in any court of competent
jurisdiction.'
"On February 28, 1871, Congress enacted an act 'for
the better protection of persons on vessels propelled in
whole or in part by steam, etc.,' section 51 of which is
pertinent to these cases. This section was in 1873 reenacted in sections 4401 and 4444 of the rexised statutes.
The portions of the section and its subsequent codification
on which the court's questions are based are printed in
parallel columns as follows:
"'Anact to Provide for the "Revised Statutes Title
LII.
'Regulation
of
Better Security of Life on
Steam Vessels.'
Board of Vessels Propelled in Whole or in
Part by Steam.'
"'SECTION 51. And be it

further enacted that

.

.

.

and
"R. S. 4401.'...
every coastwise sea going

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

every coastwise sea-going
steam vessel subject to the
navigation laws of the United States, and to the rules
and -regulations aforesaid,
not sailing under register,
shall, when under way, except on the high seas, be
under the control and direction of pilots licensed by
the inspectors of steamboats.

.

.

.

Nor

shall

any pilot charges be levied
by any such (State) authority upon any steamer
piloted as herein provided
* * * Provided,
how-

ever, that nothing in this
act shall be construed to
annul or affect any regulation established by the laws
of any State requiring vessels entering or leaving a
port in any such State,
other than coastwise steam
vessels, to take a pilot duly

licensed, or authorized by
the laws of such State, or of
a State situate upon the

s team vessel subject to the
navigation laws of the
United States, and to the
rales and regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall, when under
way, except on the high
seas, be under the control
and direction of pilots licensed by the inspectors of
steamboats.'
"R. S. 4444.'
.
nor
shall any pilot charges be
levied by any such (State)
authority upon any steamer piloted as provided by
this title . . . Nothing in this title shall be construed to annul or affect
any regulation established
by the laws of any State 'requiring vessels entering or
leaving port in any such
Statei other than coastwise
steam vessels, to take a pilot
duly licensed or authorized
by the laws of such State, or
of a State situate upon the
waters of such State.'

waters of such State.'
"(The above in a single
paragraph.)
"The pilots, appellants here, libelled the vessels in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of
California. The two cases were consolidated for trial in

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Statement of the Case.

225 U. S.

the District Court. It was contended that there was a
conflict between the Federal and the state law as to the
control of the vessels for purposes of bar pilotage. The
libelants relied upon the state law giving the resident state
.bar pilotage control of the vessels in question when entering or leaving port. The District Court held that the
Federal law excluded these vessels from state control and
the libels were dismissed.
"On appeal to this court it has become apparent that
the decision of the two cases involves a question of conflict of jurisdiction between the State and the Federal
Government as to the pilotage of all steam vessels touching at both foreign and domestic ports on the one voyage
and also as to the pilotage of the large number of registered steam vessels now engaged in traffic between ports
of the Atlantic and the Pacific coasts of the United States,
both by way of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec and the
Isthmus of Panama and around South America. The decision will also affect the very large number of steam vessels which may reasonably be expected ,to sail between
American ports on the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans,
via the Panama Canal.
"In determining the intent of Congress in passing the
Act of February 28, 1871, thecourt had under consideration the following statutes: the Act of August 7, 1789,
codified in section 4235 of the Revised Statutes, recognizing and adopting the pilotage regulations of the various
States so far as bar and entrance pilotage is concerned;
section nine, paragraph nine and ten of the Steamship
Act of August 30, 1852, creating a certain class of Federal
pilots, (10 Statutes at Large, 67, reEnacted in chapter 100,
sections 18 and 14 of Act of February 28, 1871, (codified
in Revised Statutes 4442 and 4438); Act of May 27, 1848,
(codified in Revised Statutes 3126), permitting registered
vessels sailing between ports of the United States to trade
with foreign ports; section twenty of the Act of Febru-

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

Statement of the Case,

ary 18, 1793 (1 Stats. 313, codified in Revised Statutes,
4361), providing for the regulation and duties of officers
on registered vessels as to the carriage of foreign goods
and distilled liquors and the making of manifests.
"The members of the court are unable to agree as to
the interpretation of the cited portions of section 51 of
the Act of February 28, 1871, codified in Revised Statutes,
sections 4401 and 4444, and for this reason, and because
of the importance of the interests affected, both governmental and commercial, the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit certify the following questions to the
United States Supreme Court, and request its instructions
upon them.
"1. Are coastwise sea going steam vessels, sailing under
register, and having officers with federal pilot's licenses,
free from any liability for pilotage fees created by sections 2468, 2466 and 2432 of the Political Code of the
State of California, upon the proper tender -of services of
resident bar pilots of the State pilotage establishment,
when entering or leaving the port of San Francisco, by
virtue of section 51 of the Act of February 28, 1871, entitled 'An Act to provide for the Better Security of Life on
Board of Vessels Propelled in Whole or in Part by Steam,'
as reenacted of date December 1, 1873, in sections 4401
and 4444 of the Revised Statutes?
"2. Are there any provisions of title 52 of the Revised
Statutes which may be construed as exempting coastwise
sea going steam vessels sailing under register, whose offi7
cers have federal pilot's licenses from any liability for
pilotage fees created by sections 2468, 2466 and 2432 of
the Political Code of the State of California, upon the
proper tender of services of resident bar pilots of the State
pilotage establishment, when -entering or leaving the port
of San Francisco, State of California, under the rule of
construction laid down in the last sentence of section 51 of
the Act of February 28, 1871, entitled 'An Act to Provide
VOL. ccxxv-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Counsel for Parties.

225 U. ,.

for the Better Security of Life on Board of Vessels Propelled in Whole or in Part by Steam,' and as reenacted in
section 4444 of the Revised Statutes?
"3. Did Congress intend to classify with the 'coastwise
vessels' referred to in the last proviso of section 51 of the
Act of February 28, 1871, entitled'An Act for the Better
Security of Life on Vessels Propelled in Whole or in Part
by Steam,' and reenacted in section 4444 of the Revised
Statutes, registered steam vessels engaged in commerce
with both foreign and domestic ports on the same voyage?
"4. Did Congress, in enacting the last proviso of section 51 of the Act of February 28, 1871, reenacted in section 4444 of the Revised Statutes, intend to exempt registered steam vessels whose officers have federal pilot's
licenses, from any liability for pilotage fees created by
sections 2468, 2466 and 2432 of the Political Code of the
State of California, upon proper tender of services of
.resident bar pilots of the State pilotage establishment,
on entering or leaving the port of San Franciscoon regular
voyages, on which they steamed to Victoria, British
Columbia, and carried cargo, mail and passengers direct
thereto and direct therefrom; when, after leaving Victoria,
British Columbia, on the outward voyage, they steamed
to Puget Sound ports of the State of Washington, for
which they had originally cleared, and returned therefrom
to Victoria, British Columbia; when the stop at Victoria,
British Columbia, is for about an hour on each occasion;
when at least ninety (90) per cent of the passenger and
cargo traffic for the outward and inward voyages is between the port of San Francisco and the ports of Washington; and when the traffic with the foreign port may be
deemed en route between the domestic ports?"
Mr. William Denman for Anderson and Jordan.
Mr. Graham Sumner, with whom Mr. George W. Towle,

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U.S.

195

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Thomas Thacher, Mr. Thomas D. Thacher and Mr. Leland B. Duer were on the brief, for Steamship Companies.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES,

after making the above state-

ment, delivered the opinion cf the court.
When the Constitution of the United States was
adopted, each State had its own regulations of pilotage.
While this subject. was embraced within the grant of the
power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, 'and
among the several States" (Art. I, § 8), Congress did not
supersede the state legislation, but by the act of August 7,
1789, c. 9, § 4 (1 Stat. 53, 54; R. S., § 4235), it was enacted
that "all pilots in the bays, inlets, rivers, harbors, and
ports of the United States, shall continue to be regulated
in conformity with the existing laws of the States respectively wherein such pilots may be, or with such laws as the
States may respectively hereafter enact for the purpose,
until further legislative provision shall be made by Congress." This was "a clear and authoritative declaration
by the first Congress, that the nature of this subject is
such, that until Congress should find it necessary to exer,
cise its power, it should be left to the legislation of the
States;" and it has long been established by the decisions of
this court that, although state laws concerning pilotage are
regulations of commerce, they fall within that class of
powers which may be exercised by the States until Congress shall see fit to act. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12
How. 299, 319, 321; Steamship Company v. Joliffe, 2 Wall.
450, 459; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236, 240; Wilson v.
McNamee, 102 U. S. 572; Olsen v. Smith, 195 U. S.332,
341. In 1837 (5 Stat. 153), it was provided that a master
of a vessel entering or leaving a port situate upon waters
which are the boundary between two States, might employ a pilot licensed by either State. There was no other
Federal legislation upon the subject of pilots until 1852;

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

and thus "for more than sixty years" it was "acted on
by the States, and the systems of some of them created
and of others essentially modified during that period."
Cooley v. Board of Wardens, supra, p. 321.
The act of August 30, 1852, c. 106 (10 Stat. 61), contained provisions for the licensing of pilots of steam vessels
(§9, Ninth, id. 67). In Steamship Company v. Joliffe,
supra; it was contended that the statute of the State of
California of May 20, 1861, providing for port pilots at
San Francisco, was in conflict with this act; but the court
took the contrary view, holding that the Federal law did
not relate to port pilots. The court said (pp. 460, 461):
"The act of 1852 was intended, as its title indicates, to
provide greater security than then existed for the lives of
passengers on board of vessels propelled in whole or part
by steam.

.

.

.

The act contains few provisions re-

iating to pilots; indeed, it was not directed to the remedy
of any evils of the local pilot system. There were no
complaints against the port pilots; on the contrary, they
were the subjects of just praise for their skill, energy, and,
efficiency. The clauses respecting pilots in the act relate,
irour judgment, to pilots having charge of steamers on the
voyage, and not to port pilots; and the provision that no
person shall be employed or serve as a pilot who is not
licensed by the inspectors has reference to employment
and service on the voyage generally, and not to employment and service in connection with ports and harbors."
In 1866, Congress passed a more comprehensive statutd
embracing port pilotage (act of July 25, 1866, c. 234, 14
Stat. 227). After defining the vessels subject to the navi-.
gation laws of the United States, it enacted (§ 9) that
l"every sea-going steam vessel," so subject, should -"when
under way, except upon the high seas, be under the control and direction of pilots licensed by the inspectors of
steam vessels; vessels of other countries and public vessels
of the United States only excepted." In the following

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

year, however, this section was amended by the addition
of a proviso that the act should not be construed to "annul
or affect any regulation established by the existing law
of any State requiring vessels entering or leaving a port
in such State" to take a state pilot (act of February 25,
1867, c. 83, 14 Stat. 411). The existing state laws respecting port pilotage again became operative. Sturgis v.
Spofford, 45 N. Y. 446, 451; Henderson v. Spofford, 59
N. Y. 131, 133.
The acts of 1852 and 1866 were repealed by the act of
February 28, 1871, c. 100 (16 Stat. 440), the provisions of
which were reenacted in Title 52 of the Revised Statutes.
This act prescribed general regulations with respect to the
licensing of pilots of steam vessels (§§ 14, 18; R. S.4438,
4442) similar to those of the sct of 1852. The requirement
as to the port pilotage of coarstwise sea-going steam vessels
were set forth in §51, to which reference is made in the
questions propounded in the -certificate. This section was
as follows:
"SEC. 51. And be it further enacted, That all coastwise
sea-going vessels, and vessel [,,] navigating the great lakes,
shall be subject to the navigation laws of the United States,
when navigating within the jurisdiction thereof; and all
vessels, propelled in whole or in part by steam, and navigating as aforesaid, shall be subject to all the rules and
regulations established in pursuance of law for the government of steam-vessels in passing, as provided by this act;
and every coastwise sea-going steam-vessel subject to
the navigation laws of the United States, and to the rules
and regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall,
when under way, except on tle high seas, be under the
control and direction of pilots licensed by the inspectors
of steamboats. And no State or municipal government
shall impose upon pilots of steam-vessels herein provided
for any obligation to procure a State or other license in
addition to that issued by the United States, nor other

'198

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

regulation which will impede such pilots in the performance of their duties, as required by this act; nor shall any
pilot charges be levied by any such authority uponany
steamer piloted as herein provided, and in no case shall the
fees charges for the pilotage of any steam-vessel exceed
the customary. or legally established rates in the State
-where the same is performed: Provided, however, That
nothing in this act shall be construed to annul or affect
any regulation established by the laws of any State re*quiring vessels entering, or leaving a port in any such
State, other than coastwise steam-vessels, to take a pilot
duly licensed, or authorized by the laws of such State, or
of a State situate upon the waters of such State."
These provisions were incorporated in §§ 4401 and 4444
of the Revised Statutes, which are still in force.' The
1 SEC. 4401. All coastwise sea-going vessels, and vessels navigating
the great lakes, shall be subject to the navigation laws of the, United
States, when navigating within the jurisdiction thereof; and all vessels,
propelled in whole or in part by steam, and navigating as aforesaid,
shall be subject to all the rules and regulations established in pursuance
of law for the government of steam-vessels in passing, as provided by
this Title; and every coastwise sea-going steam-vessel subject to the
navigation laws of the United States, and to the rules and regulations
aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall, when under way, except on
the high seas, be under the control and direction of pilots licensed by
the inspectors of steamboats.
SEC. 4444. No State or municipal government shall impose upon
pilots of steam-vessels any obligation to procure a State or other license
in addition to that issued by the United States, or any other regulation.
which will impede such pilots in the performance of the duties required
by this Title; nor shall any pilot-charges be levied by Any such authority upon any steamer piloted as provided by this Title; and in
no case shall the fees.charged for the-pilotage of any steam-vessel exceed the customary or legally established rates in the State where the
same is performed. Nothing in this Title shall be construed to annul
or affect any regulation established by the laws of any State, requiring
vessels entering or leaving a port in any such'State, other than coastwise steam-vessels, to take a pilot duly licensed or authorized by the
laws of such State, or of a State situate upon the waters of such. State.

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. ,CO.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

change of arrangement, which -placed portions of what
was originally a single section in two separated sections
cannot be regarded as altering the scope and purpose of the
enactment. For it will not be inferred that Congress, in
revising and consolidating the laws, intended to change
their effect unless such intention is clearly expressed.
United States v. Ryder, 110 U. S. 729, 740; United States
v.LeBris, 121 U. S. 278, 280; Logan v. United States, 144
U. S. 263, 302; United States v. Mason, 218 U. S. 517, 525.
It will be observed that the requifement of § 51 of the
act of 1871 (R. S. § 4401), as to the. piloting of coastwise
sea-going steam vessels, is limited and explicit. It is that
"every coastwise sea-going' steam-vessel subject, to the
navigation laws of the United. States and to the rules and.
.regulations aforesaid, not sailing under register, shall,
when under way, except on the high seas, be under the
control and direction of pilots licensed by the inspectors('
of steamboats." This covers port pilotage, for it relates
to such vessels "when under way, except on the high seas;"
and it applies only to those "not sailing under register."
American vessels are of two classes, those registered,
and those enrolled and licensed. "The purpose of a register is to declare the nationality of a vessel engaged in
trade with foreign nations, -and to enable her to assert
that nationality wherever found. The purpose of an enrolment is to evidence the national character of a vessel
engaged in the coasting trade or home traffic, and to
enable such vessel to procure a coasting license. The
distinction between these two classes of vessels is kept up
throughout the legislation of Congress on the subject, and
the word register is invariably used in reference t6 the
one class and enrolment, in reference to the other." The
Mohawk, 3 Wall. 566, 571. See Huus v. New York, &
Porto RIco Steamship Co., 182 U. S. 392, 395. The act of
December 31, 1792 (1 Stat. 287, c.. 1), applicable exclusively to vessels engaged in foreign commerce and to their

OCTOBER ,TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

registry, and the act of February 18, 1793 (1 Stat. 305,
c. 8), relating to vessels engaged in the coasting trade
and fisheries, and to their enrollment, constituted the basis
for the regulations of the two classes. The latter act contained a provision (§ 20, id. 313; R. S. § 4361) that any
registered vessel when employed in going from one district in the United States to any other district should "be
subject (except as to the payment of fees) to the same regulations, provisions, penalties, and forfeitures" as those
prescribed in the case of vessels licensed for carrying on the
coasting trade. This, however, had no reference to pilotage, for Congress had not made regulations upon that
subject. In 1848 (act of May 27, 1848, 9 Stat. 232, c. 48;
R. S. § 3126) it was provided that any vessel, "on being
duly registered," might engage in trade between ports of
the United States "with the privilege of touching at one or
more foreign ports during the voyage, and land and take
in thereat merchandise, passengers and their baggage, and
letters, and mails."
Thus, at the time of the passage of the act of 1871, there
were coastwise sea-going steam vessels sailing under register and having this privilege of touching at foreign ports,
and also coastwise sea-going steam vessels, which were enrolled and licensed, not sailing under register. It was with
respect to the vessels of the latter sort that Congress imposed the requirement of § 51 to use Federal pilots. The
reason for the distinction may be found in the fact that
the registered vessels, under the conditions of trade then
existing, would presumably be engaged in the longer voyages, touching at foreign ports where Federal pilots would
not avail and at domestic ports for all of which the ship's
pilot might not hold a Federal license; and, as Congress did
not create local Federal establishments for port pilotage,
it was evidently deemed unwise to compel registered vessels in entering and leaving ports to be under the control
of Federal pilots. Certainly the distinction was made; and

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S. S. CO.
225 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

the necessary effect of the limitation of the requirement
was to exempt the coastwise sea-going steam vessels, which
:did sail under register, from its terms.
As these registered vessels were free from this Federal
regulation, they would be under no compulsion whatever
as to port pilotage save by virtue of the operation of state
laws. And it is an inevitable, conclusion, on considering
the prior history of pilotage regulations in this country
and the poliey which has been maintained with respect to
the exercise of state authority, that, 'as Congresi did not
see fit to require Federal pilots, it left the regulation of
port pilotage as to such vessels to the States.
It is contended, however, that although the employment of Federal pilots was not made compulsory for coastwise sea-going steam vessels sailing under register in entering and leaving ports, still they had an option to use such
pilots, and, if in fact such a vessel was piloted by a Federal
pilot, she could not be required to take a state pilot. The
argument is based on the-following provisions of § 51 (now
found in R. S. § 4444):
"And no State or municipal government shall impose
upon pilots of steam-vessels herein provided for any
obligation to procure a State or other license in addition
to that issued by the United States, nor other regulation
which will impede such pilots in the performance of their
duties, as required by this act; nor shall any pilot charges
be levied by any such authority upon any steamer piloted
as herein provided,

.

.

This language gives no support to the contention.
Wherever the regulations of the statute applied, they
were absolute. The "pilots of steam-vessels herein provided for" were those whom, under the provisions of the
statute, the vessels described were bound to use. It was
upon the pilots, whose use was made compulsory by the
Federal law, that "no State or municipal government"
was to impose any obligation to procure a state or other

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

license, or any regulation which would impede them "in
the performance of their duties, as required by this act."
The "steamer piloted as herein provided" was the steamer
required to be so piloted, and it was upon such steamer
that no pilot charges were to be levied by state authority.
The same construction must be given to these provisions
as reinacted in § 4444 of the Revised Statutes, where the
words "piloted as provided by this Title" take the place
of the words "piloted as herein provided." The Federal
requirement as to port pilotage of coastwise sea-going
steam vessels was applicable only to those "not sailing
under register;" as to those which sailed under register,
there were no port pilots provided for, and the regulation
of pilotage in the case of such vessels entering and leaving
the state ports was left to the States. The fact that a
vessel of this sort had on board a pilot holding aFederal
license when the services of such a pilot were not required
by the Federal law, did not oust the State of the power to
compel the use of a state pilot.
Nor was the proviso in § 51 of the act of 1871 (now the
last sentence of R. S. §4444) a restriction of this state authority. This proviso was as follows:
"Provided, however, That nothing in this act shall be
construed to annul or affect any regulation established by
the laws of any State requiring vessels entering or leaving
a port in any such State, other than coastwise steamvessels, to take a pilot duly licensed, or authorized by the
laws of such State, or of a State situate upon the waters
of such State."
Manifestly, this did not enlarge the scope of the requirement as to Federal pilotage contained in the preceding
portion of the section. The words "other than coastwise
steam-vessels" did n6t mean that the State could not require port pilots for coastwise sea-going steam vessels sailing under register. For this would be to impute to Congress the intent to withdraw from the State the power to

ANDERSON v. PACIFIC COAST S.- S. CO.
225 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

act in the cases omitted from the Federal regulation. Even
on the construction of the statute for which the appellees,
contend, it is conceded that "a coastwise steam vessel
sailing under register which is not piloted by a federal
pilot may be compelled by the State to take a State pilot.
when entering or leaving port." And, if in any case the
vessel might be forced to take a pilot under the state law,
it would necessarily follow that it is not excluded by the
proviso from the operation of that law. The natural
interpretation of the proviso is that it was intended to
prevent misapprehension as to interference with local
rules-to declare the continued efficacy of those rules
when not in conflict with the Federal authority--7and not
to introduce an independent limitation of state power over
port pilotage with respect to registered steam vessels,
where the Federal control had not been asserted. The
enacting clause and the proviso are to be read together
"with a view to carry into effect the whole purpose of the
law." While v. United States, 191 U. S. 545,_ 551. So
read, the words "other than coastwise steam-vessels"
must be deemed to refer to those "not sailing under
register," to which the requirement of Federal pilots applied. The same meaning must be ascribed to this clause.
as it now appears in § 4444 of the Revised Statutes, taken
as it must be in connection with § 4401.
The statute was thus cons trued in Murray v. Clark
(1874), 4 Daly,. 468, affirmed, 58 N. Y. 684, where a
steamer sailing under register between New York and
New Orleans, and touching at a foreign port 'as was her
privilege, was held to be subject to the law of the State
of New York as to pilotage in entering the port of New
York, although at the time she was under the control of
her master who was a pilot licensed by the Federal inspectors. In Joslyn v. Nickerson (1880), 1 Fed. Rep. 133,
while it was held that a libel for pilotage could not be
sustained, for the reason that the law of Massachusetts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1911.
Opinion of the Court.

225 U. S.

in question, was not by its terms applicable, Judge Lowell
said (page 135): "This statute" (referring to the Federal
act of 1866) "has been modified, and the employment of
such a pilot is now compulsory only upon coasting steam
vessels not sailing under a register. Rev. St., § 4401;
Murray v. Clark, 4 Daly, 468, affirmed, 58 N. Y. 684.
This vessel, therefore, was not bound to carry such a
pilot, and was bound by any law of Massachusetts which
might require her to take a local pilot. Rev. St., § 4444."
In Spraigue v. Thompson, 118 U. S. 90, 96, where a claim
for pilotage under the law of Georgia was disallowed, the
steamer "was a coastwise sea-going steam vessel," and
"was not sailing under register." In Huus v. New York
& Porto Rico Steamship Co., 182 U. S. 392, 394, after
quoting from §§ 4401 and 4444 of the Revised Statutes,
the court said: "The general object of these provisions
seems to be to license pilots upon steam vessels engaged
in the coastwise or interior commerce of the country, and
at the same time, to leave to the States the regulation of
pilots upon all vessels engaged in foreign commerce."
There, the steamer was enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade under the laws of the United-States and
was engaged in trade between Porto Rico and New York
after the treaty of cession. It was held that she was not
within the pilotage laws of New York.
The provisions of the Political Code of the State of
California, set forth in the certificate, do not apply to
coastwise sea-going steam vessels "not sailing under
register" and are not in conflict with the statutes of the
United States. Their enforcement is simply a recognition
of the limits which Congress has thus far set to the exercise
of the unquestioned Federal power. The criterion is not
whether the stops of registered vessels at foreign ports
may be deemed en route between domestic ports, and is
not to be found in the length of such stops or in the relative amount of foreign trade. The statute made the dis-

U. S. FIDELITY CO. v. BRAY.
225 U. S.

Syllabus.

tinction, in the light of the well-known conditions of
trade which existed at the time of its enactment, between
coastwise sea-going steam vessels, not sailing under register, and those which did sail under register. Whether or
not it is wise to establish Federal rules as to port pilotage
for the registered vessels exempted. from this regulation is
a question for Congress to determine.
We conclude that each one of the questions certified
should be answered in the negative.
It is so ordered.

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND GUARANTY
COMPANY v. BRAY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 111.

Argued December 15, 1911.-Decided May 27, 1912.

Section 7 of the Court of Appeals Act of 1891, as amended April 14,
1906, 34 Stat. 116, e. 2627 provides for an appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals from certain interlocutory decrees of the Circuit
Court, and in this respect establishes an exception to the general
rule in Federal courts that an appeal lies only from a final decree.
Where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked not solely on the
ground of diverse citizenship but alsio
because the case is one arising
under an act of Congress, an appeal lies from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to this court, and by § 6 of the Act of 1891 the time within
which to take the appeal is one year; the limitation of thirty days
under § 7 applies only to appeals to the Circuit Court of Appeals
from the Circuit Court.
A distinct purpose of the Bankruptcy Act is to subject the administration of estates of bankrupts to the control of tribunals having
authority and charged with the duty of proceeding to final settlement and distribution in a summary way, as are bankruptcy courts.
Under the Bankruptcy Act, the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
in all proceedings in bankruptcy is intended to be exclusive of all
other courts; such proceedings include matters of udinnistration,
such as allowance and rejection of claims, reduction of the estate

