OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

serve the renewal privilege for the personal benefit of
authors and their families. They believe the judgment
below should be reversed.
DE ZON v. AMERICAN PRESIDENT LINES, LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 436.

Argued February 4, 1943.-Decided April 5, 1943.

1. A seaman who, in the course of his employment, suffers physical
injury due to the neglect or incompetence of the ship's doctor in
treating his illness has a right of action against the shipowner under
the Jones Act. P. 668.
2. To such an action it is no defense that the shipowner used due care
in selecting the ship's doctor. P. 664.
3. In this case, involving the right of a seaman to recover for injury
to and for the loss of an eye, alleged to have resulted from negligence
of the ship's doctor in his diagnosis, or in his failure to send the seaman to a hospital at a port of call, there was not sufficient evidence of negligence to require submission to the jury. P. 671.
129 F. 2d 404, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 617, to review a judgment affirming a judgment on a directed verdict in an action for damages for personal injuries brought by a seaman against
his employer, the above-named steamship company.

Mr. HerbertResner for petitioner.
Mr. Edward F. Treadwell, with whom Mr. Reginald S.
Laughlin was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner, a seaman, brought an action at law under
the Jones Act ' against the respondent shipowner. He
'41 Stat. 1007,46 U. S. C. § 688.

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

661

Opinion of the Court.

alleged that while in the service of its ship he suffered
injuries which resulted in the loss of his right eye, because
of the negligence of the ship's doctor in treating him and
in failing to have him hospitalized ashore. The trial
court directed a verdict against him. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed for the reason, among others, that the
shipowner's duty to the seaman was only to use due care
in selecting a competent physician and, that being done,
was not responsible for his incompetence or negligence.
129 F. 2d' 404. This holding raised an important question of federal law under the Jones Act not passed on heretofore by this Court. Accordingly we granted certiorari.
317 U. S.617.
The petitioner signed articles as a marine fireman for a
voyage, from San Francisco to the Orient and return, on
the respondent's passenger ship President Taft. The
voyage was of about sixty days' duration, ending at the
home port on June 10, 1940. On June 3, while petitioner was painting the outside of a boiler, a chip of dry
aluminum paint lodged in his right eye, followed probably
by getting some of the liquid paint in as well. He went
to his quarters and washed the eye with a wash in an eye
cup. At this time he did not believe that anything was
seriously amiss with his eye, and he returned to work.
When he arose the next morning he was suffering considerably from his eye. He told the ship's doctor of this
history, and the doctor examined his eye without the aid
of any special equipment, washed it out with a boric solution, irrigated it with argyrol, and bandaged it. He told
petitioner not to work, and the petitioner repaired to his
quarters and stayed there until the ship came into Honolulu, about 4:00 in the afternoon. Then the ship's doctor gave him authority from the master to go ashore for
examination at the outpatient department of the Marine
Hospital in Honolulu. Petitioner found this closed, and
went to Queens Hospital. There he was examined by

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Doctor Yap, a physician of unspecified qualifications, who
diagnosed the injury as "acute traumatic conjunctivitis"
(injury to outer coating of eye resulting from a blow),
washed out the eye with a boric acid wash, and applied
yellow oxide and an eye pad. Doctor Yap told the petitioner that he could not do much for him, but advised
petitioner to get off the ship and be hospitalized ashore.
The petitioner returned to the ship, arriving at about
6:00 in the evening. The ship's doctor was ashore, and,
since the petitioner did not feel well, the ship's medical
orderly put him to bed. Forty minutes before sailing
time, the ship's doctor returned. He saw petitioner at
11:30 and was informed of Doctor Yap's recommendation, then told the petitioner that: "Well, if you want to
take a chance or a gamble on it you can go on to the States.
It don't look so bad. It can be all right." The petitioner
answered: "You are the boss; if you want to go, let's go."
The ship sailed at 12:00 midnight on June 4, with
petitioner hospitalized aboard. The petitioner's injured
right eye got steadily worse, and, in the ship's doctor's
term, was in an "alarming" condition two or three days
later. The ship's doctor sought the advice of another
doctor, a passenger, who had resided in the Orient and
was familiar with eye infections common there. He
thought that none of these was present, but suggested that
petitioner be given sulfapyridine, a drug used to combat
eye infections; and this advice was followed. On arrival
at San Francisco on June 10, the petitioner was taken to
the Marine Hospital by ambulance.
On the evening of June 11, a consulting eye specialist
was called in. In the belief that there was a foreign body
in the eye he recommended an X-ray, which was made on
the next day. Thereafter he reported that the anterior
chamber of the eye was filled with dark hemorrhage material, and that in that chamber there was "fibrin . . . or
scar of previous operation, most likely the former," with

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

663

Opinion of the Court.

the comment that "This is a peculiar looking eye which
is difficult to fit in with the history of impact with paint
scale or possible steel fragment. The hemorrhage suggests perforation with injury to iris or ciliary body.
There is small likelihood of a contusion causing it." Petitioner's injury was finally diagnosed on June 15 as
"Hemorrhage, anterior chamber, right eye, traumatic."
The eye was removed on July 5. In the course of aftertreatment there was entered in the hospital records, on
September 10, the statement that: "At this time patient
changes history of injury and also states he had a muscle
operation on right eye in 1937. Injury now alleged to
cause the disability was a scale of paint in the eye and it
is the opinion of the surgeon in charge that this would
give an intraocular hemorrhage such as was present in the
right eye. Diagnosis changed September 10, 1940."
Doctor Faed, connected with the Marine Hospital in
San Francisco, who had removed the eye, was called as
petitioner's witness. He testified that whether an eye
injury can be diagnosed as conjunctivitis, as the ship's
doctor had diagnosed it, or as a hemorrhage, as was finally
the diagnosis at the Marine Hospital, depends upon the
doctor and the facilities at his command. He was asked
on direct examination whether "if such treatment as was
given in the Marine Hospital on June 10th and following
had been afforded Mr. De Zon on June 3rd, 4th and following,

. . .

that might have saved his eye,"

and

answered that "I am unable to give an opinion about
that." Then, in response to a question whether, on the
basis of the whole history of the case, including that developed at the Marine Hospital at San Francisco, it was
his opinion that petitioner "should have been hospitalized
on June 3rd and 4th, when this trouble to the eye first occurred," he answered that: "I believe he should have been
hospitalized; it might have helped some." He did not
wish, however, to "go on record" as saying that it would
513236-43-vol. 318-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

have aided, and testified further on direct examination
that, not being sure whether to hospitalize petitioner
at the earlier date, he "would have given the advantage to the patient." Another and apparently equally
well qualified eye specialist, offered as respondent's
witness, testified, as did the ship's doctor, that the ship's
doctor had given the standard treatment for conjunctivitis, and that additional treatment such as was given
the petitioner at San Francisco would have had no
beneficial effect, and might have had harmful effects, if
given before the period of time which elapsed on the voyage to San Francisco. This specialist also testified, and
without contradiction, that it was too much to expect of
the ordinary general practitioner, such as the ship's doctor
was, to be able to diagnose petitioner's case as a dangerous
one.
The testimony of respondent is uncontradicted that the
ship's doctor was a duly licensed physician in California,
a general practitioner with some surgical experience, and
was selected only after careful inquiry had satisfied the
Chief Surgeon of the respondent that he was a competent man for the post. It is conceded that proper investigation was made, and it was learned that he was a man of
good reputation and character.
Respondent's Chief Surgeon also testified that authority to decide whether a seaman should be treated, and the
manner of treatment, was vested in the master, who had
authority to disregard any recommendation in this regard that the ship's doctor might make. See also, R. S.
§ 4596,46 U. S. C. § 701; R. S. § 4612,46'U. S. C. § 713.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in considering this case
held that the shipowner's duty ended with the exercise
of reasonable care to secure a competent general practitioner, and since there could be no question that such care
had been exercised, the shipowner could not be held liable
in damages for harm that could have followed the negli-

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

665

Opinion of the Court.

gence of the ship's doctor. In our opinion this was
error.
The Jones Act reads in pertinent part as follows: "Any
seaman who shall suffer personal injury in the course of
his employment may, at his election, maintain an action
for damages at law, with the right of trial by jury, and in
such action all statutes of the United States modifying
or extending the common-law right or remedy in cases of
personal injury to railway employees shall apply; . . ."
Thus it makes applicable to seamen injured in the course
of their employment the provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C. §§ 51-60, which gives
to railroad employees a right of recovery for injuries resulting from the negligence of their employer, its agents
or employees. Panama R. Co. v. Johnson,264 U. S. 375;
The Arizona v. Anelich, 298 U. S. 110; O'Donnell v. Great
Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., ante, p. 36.
Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, 287 U. S. 367, 377378, explained the effect of the Jones Act as follows:
"Congress did not mean that the standards of legal duty
must be the same by land and sea. Congress meant no
more than this, that the duty must be legal, i. e., imposed
by law; that it shall have been imposed for the benefit of
the seaman, and for the promotion of his health or safety;
and that the negligent omission to fulfill it shall have resulted in damage to his person. When this concurrence
of duty, of negligence and of personal injury is made out,
the seaman's remedy is to be the same as if a like duty
had been imposed by law upon carriers by rail." Recovery was accordingly allowed under the Jones Act for the
negligence of the master in the discharge of the ancient
duty to provide maintenance and cure for a seaman
wounded in the service of the ship.
We are of opinion that the reasoning of the Cortes case
is controlling, and that there is nothing in this case to
shield the shipowner from liability for any negligence of
the ship's doctor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Immunity cannot be rested upon the ground that the
medical service was the seaman's and the doctor's business, and the treatment not in pursuance of the doctor's
duty to the ship or the ship's duty to the seaman.'
2

Liability to a passenger injured by the negligence of a ship's doc-

tor has been denied on this ground. One of the leading cases on
liability to passengers is Laubheim v. DeK. N. S. Co., 107 N. Y. 228,
13 N. E. 781. It arose before, but was decided after, the enactment
of the Act of Congress of August 2, 1882, 22 Stat. 186, 188, 46 U. S. C.
§ 155, imposing upon ships carrying certain types of passengers the
obligation of providing a "competent" doctor for the benefit of the
passengers. The plaintiff, a passenger, sued the shipowner for personal injuries resulting from alleged negligence of the ship's surgeon.
Judge Francis M. Finch disposed of the case in a short opinion, in
the apparent belief that the rule applied was not sufficiently in question to warrant discussion. He said: "If, by law or by choice, the
defendant was bound to provide a surgeon for its ships, its duty to
the passengers was to select a reasonably competent man for that
office, and it is liable only for a neglect of that duty. (Chapman v.
Erie R. Co., 55 N. Y. 579; McDonald v. Hospital, 120 Mass. 432;
Secord v. St. Paul R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 221.) It is responsible
solely for its own negligence and not for that of the surgeon employed."
The Chapnman case tested liability of a railroad by the "fellow servant" doctrine, which has been abolished by the Federal Employers'
Liability Act and can therefore have no application in this case.
Jamison v. Encarnacion, 281 U. S.635. The Secord case gives only
a charge to a jury in a case where the issue was liability of a railroad
to a passenger for negligent treatment by a physician in its employ.
The McDonald case held a hospital immune from liability for negligence of its house surgeon, on the ground that it was a charitable
institution.
O'Brien v. Cunard Steamship Co., 154 Mass. 272, 28 N. E. 266,
arose under the Act of August 2, 1882, and was decided after the
Laubheim case, upon which it relied. Judge Knowlton of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court said: "Under this statute it is the
duty of ship-owners to provide a competent surgeon, whom the passengers may employ if they choose, in the business of healing their
wounds and curing their diseases. The law does not put the business
of treating sick passengers into the charge of common carriers, and
make them responsible for the proper management of it. The work

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.

667

Opinion of the Court.

660

"The duty to provide proper medical treatment and attendance for seamen falling ill or suffering injury in the
service of the ship has been imposed upon the shipowners
by all maritime nations." The Iroquois, 194 U. S. 240,
241-242. When the seaman becomes committed to the
service of the ship, the maritime law annexes a duty that
no private agreement is competent to abrogate, and the
ship is committed to the maintenance and cure of the seaman for illness or injury during the period of the voyage, and in some cases for a period thereafter.8 This duty
does not depend upon fault. It is no merely formal obligation and it admits of no merely perfunctory discharge.
Its measure depends upon the circumstances of each
which the physician or surgeon does in such cases is under the control
of the passengers themselves. It is their business, not the business of
the carrier ....

The master or owners of the ship cannot interfere

in the treatment of the medical officer when he attends a passenger.
He is not their servant, engaged in their business and subject to their
control as to his mode of treatment. They do their whole duty if
they employ a duly qualified and competent surgeon and medical
practitioner, and supply him with all necessary and proper instruments, medicines, and medical comforts, and have him in readiness
for such passengers as choose to employ him. This is the whole requirement of the statute of the United States applicable to such
cases. . .

."

Id. at 275-276.

These statements of judges of great learning, for courts of last resort
of states having much to do with maritime pursuits, had their influence upon the federal courts dealing with the same problem. The
Great Northern,251 F. 826; The Korea Maru,254 F. 397, 399; Branch
v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 11 F. Supp. 832; cf. The
NapolitanPrince,134 F. 159.
3The duty is not to "cure" in a literal sense, but to provide care,
including nursing and medical attention. Calmar S. S. Corp. v. Taylor, 303 U. S. 525, 528. It has not been restricted by the Shipowners'
Liability Convention of 1936, 54 Stat. 1693, which provides in Article
12 that "Nothing in this Convention shall affect any law, award, custom or agreement between shipowners and seamen which ensures more
favourable conditions than those provided by this Convention."

668

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

case-the seriousness of the injury or illness and the availability of aid. Although there may be no duty to the seaman to carry a physician, the circumstances may be such
as to require reasonable measures to get him to one, as
by turning back, putting in to the nearest port although
not one of call, hailing a passing ship, or taking other
measures of considerable cost in time and money. Failure to furnish such care, even at the cost of a week's delay,
has been held by this Court to be a basis for damages.
The Iroquois, supra.
To provide a ship's physician was therefore no mere
act of charity.' The doctor in treating the seaman was
engaged in the shipowner's business; it was the ship's
duty that he was discharging in treating the injured eye.
While, no doubt, the physician recognized at least an
ethical obligation between himself and the patient, he was
performing the service because the ship employed him to
do so, not because the petitioner did. He was not an independent practitioner, called to treat one whose expenses
the ship agreed to make good. We express no view as to
the liability for malpractice by one not in the employ of
the ship. But in this case the physician was not in his
own or the seaman's control; he was an employee and, as
such, subject to the ship discipline and the master's
orders.
Whatever, in the absence of the Jones Act, might have
been the effect upon respondent's liability of the fact that
petitioner and the ship doctor were both in its employ,
that Act prevents this fact from conferring an immunity
4 We express no opinion upon whether charitable or gratuitous
nature of medical attention should have exculpatory effect. Cf.
President and Directors of Georgetown College v. Hughes, 130 F. 2d
810.
5 Cf. The Sarnia, 147 F. 106; The C. S. Holmes, 209 F. 970; Bonam
v. Southern Menhaden Corp., 284 F. 360 (involving physicians other
than ship's doctors).

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

669

Opinion of the Court.

upon the respondent. Jamison v. Encarnacion,281 U. S.
635; Cortes v. Baltimore Insular Line, supra.
We hold, therefore, that the shipowner was liable in
damages for harm suffered as the result of any negligence
on the part of the ship's doctor.'
We come, then, to the question as to whether there was
sufficient proof of negligence to require sending this case
to the jury.
The short of the case is that the petitioner failed to disclose the past history of the eye to the ship's doctor, and
the ship's doctor diagnosed the case as one of conjunctivitis and gave the petitioner what undisputed medical
testimony says to be the standard treatment for that condition. Going ashore, the case was diagnosed similarly
by a physician of unstated qualifications, who treated the
eye in the same manner as the ship's doctor. Returning
to the ship, the petitioner told the ship's doctor of the
shore doctor's recommendation that he leave the ship and
be hospitalized ashore. The ship's doctor acknowledges
that he would have heeded such a recommendation had
it been made, but asserts that it was not made. For purposes of testing the correctness of the direction of the
verdict, we must assume that the ship's doctor was told
of it. The concession of the ship's doctor that he would
have heeded such a recommendation is not of itself evidence of negligence. There is not a word of evidence that
6Johnson v. American Mail Line, 1937 A. M. C. 1267 (Superior
Court for King County, Washington), reached the opposite conclusion,
relying upon cases cited in footnotes 2 and 5, supra,which we think are
inapposite, for the reasons already stated. Geistlinger v. International Mercantile Marine Co., 295 F. 176, also denied liability for the
ship's doctor's negligent treatment of a seaman, but it did not find
the Jones Act applicable, and did not consider what its effect might be
if it should be found applicable. Leone v. Booth S. S. Co., 232 N. Y.
183, 133 N. E. 439, also denied liability, but it was decided on, facts
antedating the Jones Act, and it too did not consider the effect of
the Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the shore doctor was any better qualified to diagnose the
eye than was the ship's doctor, and as a matter of fact his
diagnosis of the case was the same as the ship's doctor's.
That their prognoses were different does not establish
either that the one was overly cautious or that the other
was negligent in failing to take the same attitude as to
the necessity of hospitalization ashore. Our own experience vividly demonstrates that careful and competent men frequently reach different conclusions despite
the fullest and most careful examination of all available
data, including the difference of opinion on the part of
their associates. In the present case, neither doctor had
the benefit of all the facts of the eye's history. The
character of the petitioner's affliction was not ascertained
until days after the petitioner reached San Francisco,
and then only after an outside consultant was called in to
advise the eye specialists in the Marine, Hospital. True
it is that one doctor said, partly on the basis of the facts
disclosed long after petitioner's eye had been removed,
that he would have recommended hospitalization at
Honolulu, and that additional treatment at the time petitioner was en route to San Francisco might have had a
beneficial effect; but even on the basis of the knowledge
available at the trial he would not venture an opinion that
treatment such as was given at San Francisco would have
saved petitioner's eye if given before or at the time he
reached Honolulu. Another, and apparently equally
well qualified, eye specialist testified that nothing in addition to the standard course of treatment for conjunctivitis, which the ship's doctor gave, could have been done
with safety until after the petitioner's arrival in San Francisco, and that any attempt to do more probably would
have actually impaired petitioner's chances of saving his
eye. He testified, and without contradiction, that it was
too much to expect of the ordinary general practitioner,
such as the ship's doctor was, to be able to diagnose petitioner's case as a dangerous one.

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

671

Opinion of the Court.

In these circumstances, it is said that the ship's doctor
should have sent the petitioner ashore, despite the petitioner's desire to retutn to San Francisco with the boat;
and although there is no evidence what the facilities were
at Honolulu. Had he put petitioner ashore only to have
him lose his eye, it is conceivable that he would have been
charged with neglect in doing that.
If there was malpractice in this case, no evidence of it
has been put into this record. The surgeon who removed
the eye was called as a witness. He testified that the
cause of the trouble was a hemorrhage. But no professional opinion was offered as to when the hemorrhage took
place. We do not know whether the ship's surgeon is accused of malpractice for failure to cure a hemorrhage
which had already occurred when he was first consulted
or because of failure to anticipate it and prevent it.
Moreover, there is no proof whatever that, if a hemorrhage within the eye once occurred to an extent not absorbed by the ordinary natural processes, it is curable at
all. If this petitioner was destined to lose his eye at all
odds, he hardly establishes a cause of action by saying it
should have occurred at Honolulu instead of San Francisco. Hospitalization either on ship or on land is not in
itself a cure. At San Francisco, specialists had no cure
for the eye but to remove it, and we are not told that anything different could have been done at any earlier stage
with any probability that it would bring about a different
result.
The doctor apparently made a wrong diagnosis, but
that does not prove that it was a negligent one. It seemed
to .be the obvious diagnosis from the history which the
patient gave him, and that appears to have been incomplete and not unlikely to mislead.
The loss of the petitioner's eye is a serious handicap.
But damages may be recovered under the Jones Act only
for negligence. Jamison v, Encarnacion, supra, at 639.

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

Whether the legislative policy of compensating only on
the basis of pr6ven fault is wise is not for us to say, nor is
it our function to circumvent it by reading into the law
a theory, however disguised, that a physician who undertakes care guarantees cure, and that each unsuccessful
effort of the physician may be visited with a successful
malpractice suit.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

did not participate in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, dissenting:

The issue in this case is: shall a jury or a court decide whether petitioner lost his eye through the respondent's negligence? I agree with the Court that the shipowner was liable for the negligence of its doctor, and I
agree further that the Jones Act is not a workmen's compensation act and does not impose liability without fault;
but I do not agree that a court may substitute its judgment on the facts for the decision of a jury when, as here,
there is room for reasonable difference of opinion on the
critical issue of the case. I think there was sufficient evidence to permit a jury to find negligence in the doctor's
failure to leave the petitioner at Honolulu for hospital
treatment.
The evidence showed that this seaman sustained an injury so serious that it resulted in the eventual removal of
his eye. When a seaman is injured, the shipowner has an
imperative obligation to come to his aid; ' and the shipowner's responsibility is so heavy that he may be found
negligent for failure to take his ship to the nearest port in
order to provide adequate treatment.2 There is a similar obligation to leave a seriously injured seaman in a
Harden v. Gordon, 2 Mason 541; Reed v. Canfield, 1 Sumner 195.
U. S. 240, 242.

2The Iroquois, 194

DE ZON v. AMER. PRESIDENT LINES.
660

673

BLACK, J., dissenting.

port at which a vessel has arrived.' This duty of course
exists where no adequate treatment can be given on the
ship. Here the ship's doctor was not an eye specialist;
the ship did not have aboard the medicines which competent physicians in San Francisco applied; and there
was no X-ray although one was later found essential for
diagnosing the ailment. It is not surprising that the ship
should lack these facilities, for every merchant vessel cannot be a floating hospital; but it is for this very reason
that a ship is required to furnish shore treatment for
seriously injured seamen.
The United States Marine Hospital in Honolulu had
all the facilities which the ship lacked. These hospitals
are recognized government institutions and a seaman has
no burden to prove that the equipment and treatment in
the hospital would have been better than the equipment
and treatment on the ship. Here, as in Leone v. Booth
Steamship Co., 232 N. Y. 183, 185, 133 N. E. 439, "It is
to prefer shadow to substance to make the result of this
action depend on affirmative proof of this matter."
What was the evidence on which the jury could have
found that the seaman should have been left for treatment in this hospital? The petitioner's eye began to pain
him as a result of an accident on June 3, 1940. By 7
o'clock the next morning, the eye was in such condition
that he required medical treatment from the ship's doctor and was released from duty. At 5 o'clock that afternoon the vessel docked at Honolulu. The ship's doctor
sent him to the Marine Hospital, which was closed at that
hour, and he went to Queens Hospital which, according
to the evidence, is an emergency institution connected
with the Marine Hospital and which takes care of patients
8The United States guarantees the cost of maintenance and return to the United States of injured seamen discharged in foreign
ports. 46 U. S. C. § 683.

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

temporarily. The doctor at Queens Hospital advised the
petitioner that he should be released from his vessel and
enter the hospital at once. This physician advised the
seaman that he might lose his eye if he returned to the
ship.
The petitioner returned to his vessel at 6 P. M. but was
unable to see the ship's doctor until 11:30, approximately
30 minutes before the vessel sailed. He repeated to the
ship's doctor the advice given him ashore. The seaman
testified that the doctor told him that no danger would
result from returning to San Francisco, and, since the doctor was his superior officer and an "accredited physician,"
he relied upon the doctor's advice although he was suffering intensely.
The petitioner's eye grew worse, treatment in the San
Francisco Hospital failed to cure it, and it was removed.
Two San Francisco specialists familiar with his case testified that they would have advised that he be left in Honolulu for hospital treatment. True, we have no testimony
that the eye would have been saved by hospitalization at
Honolulu, and whether it could have been will never be
known; but it is clear that the petitioner would have received excellent treatment at an earlier date than he did..
Adequate treatment, of course, is usually aimed at curing
or alleviating the serious consequences of injuries and
diseases, and timely treatment can prevent progressive
physical deterioration. Someone must decide whether
such happy results would have followed earlier hospitalization in the instant case.
Directing a verdict against the petitioner in this case
is substituting judicial for jury judgment on factual questions which can as readily be decided by the layman as
by the lawyer. When we consider the weight of the evidence and resolve doubtful questions such as these, we
invade the historic jury function. "The right of jury
trial in civil cases at common law is a basic and fundamen-

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
660

Counsel for Parties.

tal feature of our system of federal jurisprudence which
is protected by the Seventh Amendment." Jacob v. New
York City, 315 U. S. 752. This constitutional command
should not be circumvented.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join

in this dissent.

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.

V.

THOMSON, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 178.

Argued January 12, 1943.-Decided April 12, 1943.

1. The order of January 21, 1942, in a proceeding known as Ex parte
No. 148, by which the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized
the railroads, including the Chicago & North Western, to increase
passenger fares by 10%, was not intended to apply to intrastate
commutation fares on that railway in Illinois. P. 684.
2. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing an
increase of railroad fares should not be held to apply to intrastate
fares in the presence of a serious doubt that it was so intended.
P. 685.
3. In the absence of circumstances of peculiar urgency, a railroad, asserting that passenger fares fixed by state authority are confiscatory,
should exhaust the administrative remedy afforded by the state law
before seeking an injunction in a federal court. P. 686.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, awarding to the Trustee in reorganization of the
Chicago & North Western Railway an injunction permanently restraining the Illinois Commerce Commission and
APPEAL

state enforcement officials from taking any steps to prevent a 10% increase of intrastate commutation passenger
fares on that railway.

Mr. William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, with whom Messrs. George F. Barrett, Attorney

