WELLS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

WELLS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 11, Original.

Argued February 10, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. Even though, in the light of all the circumstances, the Circuit Court
of Appeals in this case could have allowed an appeal in forma
pauperis to review the adequacy of the District Court's certificate
(pursuant to the Act of June 25, 1910, as amended) that the appeal
was not taken in good faith, it does not appear that an appeal was
sought on that ground or that there is anything of record to support
such an appeal, and the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals denying leave to appeal in forma pauperis is therefore affirmed. P. 260.
2. What effect should be given to a certificate of bad faith in a case
where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals attaches
upon the mere filing of a notice of appeal, independently of any
application for leave to appeal in forma pauperis, is not here
decided. P. 260.
Affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 616, to review an order of the

Circuit Court of Appeals denying leave to appeal in forma
pauperis.
Mr. Henry J. Friendly for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Berge, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Oscar A. Provost and Robert
S. Erdahl,and Miss Melva M. Graney were on the brief,
for the United States.
PER CURIAM.

In 1938 petitioner, in the Western District of Texas,
pleaded guilty to an indictment in four counts charging
him with violation of the Bank Robbery Act, 12 U. S. C.
ยง 588b, and was sentenced to consecutive terms of imprisonment aggregating 90 years. On May 6, 1942, the
trial court, after petitioner's successful appeal to the Cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

cuit Court of Appeals, 124 F. 2d 334, granted his motion
for resentence and sentenced him on two of the counts
on which he had been convicted, for consecutive terms
aggregating 45 years. On the same day he began the
present proceeding by a petition in the trial court to set
aside his conviction on the ground that his plea of guilty
had been induced by threats and false statements on the
part of government officers having him in custody, and
that on entering his plea of guilty he had been denied
the benefit of counsel.
The district court denied the petition on May 7, without
calling for a response from the Government, without making findings or writing an opinion, and apparently without
holding a hearing. Its order recited that the court "is of
the opinion that said petition is wholly insufficient as
a matter of law; that the matters and things therein contained have heretofore been adjudicated and that said
petition should in all things be denied."
On May 28 petitioner moved in the district court that
he be allowed to appeal in forma pauperis. The court
denied the motion, and certified that "in the opinion of
the court such an appeal is not taken in good faith."
Petitioner later presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit an application for allowance
of an appeal in forma pauperis, which was likewise denied. That order does not set forth the ground on which
the denial was rested, but an earlier opinion, In re Wragg,
95 F. 2d 252, 253, states the court's view that it is without
power to allow an appeal in forma pauperis when the trial
court has certified that the appeal is not taken in good
faith. We granted certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals upon a timely petition which asked that the writ
be issued to that court and to the district court. 317
U. S. 616.
The Government admits that the allegations in the
petition to set aside the conviction raise an issue as to

WELLS v. UNITED STATES.
257

Opinion of the Court.

the constitutional validity of the judgment of conviction
which could be tried on habeas corpus (see Waley v. Johnston, 316 U. S. 101). But it denies that the Court of
Appeals had jurisdiction to pass upon the point in this
proceeding for the reason, among others, that consideration of the merits of the appeal by any appellate court
was foreclosed by the district court's certification that the
appeal was not in good faith.
The Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 866, as amended, 28
U. S. C. ยง 832, provides that any citizen, upon filing an
affidavit of poverty, "may, upon the order of the court,
commence and prosecute or defend to conclusion any suit
or action, or an appeal to the circuit court of appeals, or
to the Supreme Court in such suit or action, including
all appellate proceedings, unless the trial court shall certify
in writing that in the opinion of the court such appeal is
not taken in good faith, without being required to prepay
fees or costs . . ." The Government argues that, under
the Act of 1910, when the trial court certifies that the appeal is not taken in good faith, the action of the judge
in issuing the certificate is final, and not reviewable on
appeal.
For purposes of this case, we shall assume, as petitioner
contends, that the Act of 1910 does not foreclose all appellate review in forma pauperis when the trial court has
certified its opinion that the appeal is not taken in good
faith. But we think that where, as in this case, leave is
necessary to perfect the appeal, the certification must be
given effect at least to the extent of being accepted by
appellate courts as controlling in the absence of some
showing that the certificate is made without warrant or
not in good faith.
Neither from the record nor from petitioner's application to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which he has filed in
this Court, does it appear that he attacked the sufficiency
of the district court's certificate upon these or any other

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

grounds. Nor can we say that there is want of support
for the district court's recital in its order that "the matters
and things" contained in the application to set aside the
conviction "have heretofore been adjudicated." For the
Government's brief points out that petitioner, before his
application to the district court in this proceeding, had
unsuccessfully sought release from custody in two habeas
corpus proceedings, of which the federal courts may take
judicial notice, both brought in the Northern District of
California. In the second, there was a hearing in which
he testified in his own behalf; other evidence was taken
both oral and documentary, and the court made findings
of fact contrary to the allegations of fact on which petitioner now relies. We cannot say that the district court
in this case was unfamiliar with those proceedings, merely
because they do not appear in the record before us.
Even though the Circuit Court of Appeals could allow
an appeal in forma pauperis to review, in the light of all
the circumstances, the adequacy of the district court's certificate, it does not appear that appeal was sought on that
ground or that there is anything of record to support such
an appeal. The Circuit Court of Appeals' order denying
leave to appeal in forma pauperis must therefore be
affirmed.
Apart from the in forma pauperis statute, petitioner's
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from the order
denying his application to vacate the conviction was
governed not by Rule III of the Rules in Criminal Cases,
but by ยง 8 (c) of the Act of February 13, 1925, 28 U. S. C.
, 230, which requires that proper application be made for
the allowance of an appeal. United States ex rel. Coy v.
United States, 316 U. S. 342, 344; Nye v. United States,
313 U. S. 33, 44. We have no occasion to decide now what
effect should be given to a certificate of bad faith in a
case where the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals
attaches upon the mere filing of a notice of appeal, inde-

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 261
257

Syllabus.

pendently of any application for leave to appeal in forma
pauperis. Cf. Walleck v. Hudspeth, 128 F. 2d 343.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PENN DAIRIES, INC., Er AL. v. MILK CONTROL
COMMISSION OF PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 399. Argued January 13, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. Pursuant to the Pennsylvania Milk Control Law, a renewal of
the license of a milk dealer was refused by the Milk Control Commission because the dealer, in violation of the state law, had sold
milk to the United States at prices below the minima fixed by the
Commission. The sales and deliveries were made within the State,
under a contract awarded the dealer, as the lowest bidder, for supplying milk for consumption by troops at an Army camp established
by the United States, on land belonging to the State, under a permit
which involved no surrender of the State's jurisdiction or authority
over the area. Held that such application of the state law to the
dealer in these circumstances was not precluded by the Constitution
or laws of the United States. Pp. 271, 278.
Congressional legislation, either as read in the light of its history or
as construed by the executive officers charged with the exercise of
the contracting power, does not disclose a purpose to immunize
government contractors from local price-fixing regulations; nor, in
the circumstances of this case, does the Constitution, unaided by
Congressional enactment, confer such immunity.
2. Those who contract to furnish supplies or render services to the
Government are not federal agencies and do not perform governmental functions; and the mere fact that non-discriminatory taxation or regulation of the contractor imposes an increased economic
burden on the Government is no longer regarded as bringing the
contractor within any implied immunity of the Government from
state taxation or regulation. P. 269.
3. Since the Constitution has left Congress free to set aside local
taxation and regulation of government contractors, there is no basis

