PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 261
257

Syllabus.

pendently of any application for leave to appeal in forma
pauperis. Cf. Walleck v. Hudspeth, 128 F. 2d 343.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
PENN DAIRIES, INC., Er AL. v. MILK CONTROL
COMMISSION OF PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 399. Argued January 13, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. Pursuant to the Pennsylvania Milk Control Law, a renewal of
the license of a milk dealer was refused by the Milk Control Commission because the dealer, in violation of the state law, had sold
milk to the United States at prices below the minima fixed by the
Commission. The sales and deliveries were made within the State,
under a contract awarded the dealer, as the lowest bidder, for supplying milk for consumption by troops at an Army camp established
by the United States, on land belonging to the State, under a permit
which involved no surrender of the State's jurisdiction or authority
over the area. Held that such application of the state law to the
dealer in these circumstances was not precluded by the Constitution
or laws of the United States. Pp. 271, 278.
Congressional legislation, either as read in the light of its history or
as construed by the executive officers charged with the exercise of
the contracting power, does not disclose a purpose to immunize
government contractors from local price-fixing regulations; nor, in
the circumstances of this case, does the Constitution, unaided by
Congressional enactment, confer such immunity.
2. Those who contract to furnish supplies or render services to the
Government are not federal agencies and do not perform governmental functions; and the mere fact that non-discriminatory taxation or regulation of the contractor imposes an increased economic
burden on the Government is no longer regarded as bringing the
contractor within any implied immunity of the Government from
state taxation or regulation. P. 269.
3. Since the Constitution has left Congress free to set aside local
taxation and regulation of government contractors, there is no basis

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for Appellants.

318 U. S.

for implying from the Constitution alone a restriction upon such
regulations which Congress has not seen fit to impose, unless the
regulations are shown to be inconsistent with Congressional policy.
P. 271.
4. The language and legislative history of the Acts of Congress requiring competitive bidding in the purchase of supplies for the Army,
and of related statutes regulating government contracts, do not
evidence a purpose to set aside local price regulations or to prohibit
the States from taking punitive measures against violators of such
regulations. P. 272.
5. An unexpressed purpose of Congress to set aside statutes of the
States regulating their internal affairs is not lightly to be inferred
and ought not to be implied where the legislative command, read
in the light of its history, remains ambiguous. P. 275.
6. The same considerations which sustain the rule against statutory
repeals by implication apply as well when the question is one of
nullification of state power by congressional legislation. P. 275.
7. Assuming that the Secretary of War could by regulation set aside
the state's price legislation which it has made applicable to government contractors, it appears plainly from a consideration of pertinent
regulations that he has not done so. P. 278.
344 Pa. 635, 26 A. 2d 431, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment, 148 Pa.
Super. 261, 24 A. 2d 717, sustaining an order of the Milk
Control Commission denying an application for renewal
of a license.
Solicitor GeneralFahy argued the cause for the United
States; Mr. HarrisC. Arnold for Penn Dairies, Inc. Assistant Attorney GeneralShea and Messrs. Archibald Cox,
Morton Li! tin, and Gerald A. Gleeson were with them on
the brief, for appellants.
The United States is immune from state regulation of
the price term of its purchase contracts. When the dual
system of government results in conflict between state
regulation and federal activities, the former must yield
under the supremacy clause of Article VI. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 427.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 263
261

Argument for Appellants.

The statute and order are equivalent to a direction to
the United States not to purchase milk in Pennsylvania
at prices below those specified by state authorities.
Though the enforcement provisions of the statute are
aimed exclusively at the seller, the impact of the regulation
is upon the purchaser. Cf. FederalLand Bank v. Bismarck
Co., 314 U. S. 95; Alabamav. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1.
So vital a federal function as the purchase of supplies
for the armed forces is within the constitutional immunity.
Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51, 56.
Whatever may be the propriety of the test of discrimination in determining the validity of state tax laws
applied to persons dealing with the United States, the
test has no application to sustain the validity of a direct
regulation of the activities of the United States itself.
The Constitution reflects the determination of the
Founders that the procurement of supplies for the Army
is a matter of national concern, to be regulated by the
elected or appointed representatives of all the people and
not controlled by single States in their local interests. It
vests the power "To raise and support Armies" in Congress and not in the States. Const., Art. I, § 8, cl. 11.
Where the legal incidence of the state regulation is on
the United States because the state law itself fixes for
local economic reasons the terms on which the United
States may come into the State and purchase Army supplies from its citizens, then the state law passes beyond
the line of local affairs and becomes a direct regulation of
the United States and of the support of the Army.
The decisions of this court concerning intergovernmental tax immunity also show that the price regulation
is invalid because its incidence is on the United States.
The price regulation here involved does not rest exclusively upon the contractor, as did the sales tax which
was upheld in Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1.
The regulation impinges upon the federal government as
513236-43-vol. 318-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Argument for Appellants.

318 U. S.

fully and directly as did the sales tax invalidated in
Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Co., 314 U. S. 95, which
was required by law to be passed on to the purchasing
land bank.
Congress has regulated federal purchases in a way
essentially inconsistent with the Pennsylvania price regulation. The policy of the federal competitive bidding
statutes, and the purchasing procedure adopted under
the authorization of Title II of the First War Powers
Act, 1941, 55 Stat. 838, cannot be harmonized with the
application of the Pennsylvania law to federal purchases.
Since Congress undoubtedly has power to regulate the
subject, the inconsistent state regulation must yield.
Const., Art. VI; Northern Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U. S. 197; Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12. Cf.
Cloverleaf Butter Co. v. Patterson,315 U. S. 148.
If minimum prices established under state authority
bind bidders for government contracts, there will be no
"lowest responsible bidder," for where the minimum fixed
by state law is above the economic minimum, several bidders will quote the fixed price. Thus, the United States
will be denied the full benefit of price competition.
While the necessities of war have compelled some relaxation of the competitive bidding requirements for public
procurement, the Pennsylvania price regulation also conflicts with the emergency methods of purchase. Title II
of the First War Powers Act, 1941, 55 Stat. 838, empowers
the President to authorize government agencies exercising functions related to the war effort "to enter into
contracts . . . without regard to the provisions of law
relating to the making . . . of contracts." By Executive
Order No. 9001 of December 27, 1941 (6 F. R. 6787), the
President authorized the War and Navy Departments and
the United States Maritime Commission to exercise such
powers, and provided that, in the absence of any other
limitation fixed by law, "the fixed fee to be paid the Contractor as a result of any cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 265
261

Argument for Appellee.

entered into under the authority of this Order shall not
exceed seven per centum of the estimated cost of the contract . . ." Tit. II, § 7. A minimum price to be charged
uniformly by all distributors, regardless of their individual
costs, may of course be more than the "cost plus a fixed
fee" envisaged by the Executive Order.
Mr. Frank E. Coho, Deputy Attorney General of Pennsylvania, with whom Messrs. Claude T. Reno, Attorney
General, and E. Russell Shockley were on the brief, for
appellee.
When the Government enters into a contract, it generally has the same rights and obligations as individuals.
Cooke v. United States, 91 U. S. 389; Christie v. United
States, 237 U. S. 234; United States v. Spearin, 248 U. S.
132; United States v. Atlantic Dredging Co., 253'U. S. 1;
United States v. Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S. 289;
E. E. Naylor, Liability of the United States Government
in Contract, 14 Tulane Law Review 580, 584 (1940).
Kemp v. United States, 38 F. Supp. 568, 570.
The immunity of the United States and its agents does
not extend to those with whom it contracts to furnish material or to render services. James Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula, 309 U. S. 94, 105; James v. Dravo Contracting Co.,
302 U. S. 134, 152.
If the result of such contracts is to induce cut-throat
competition among milk dealers competing for the federal
business, the final result may well be that all but a few
dealers will be driven out of business.
That the Government may have to pay more than it
would under the contract is not such a burden upon the
Government that the contractor is excused from obeying
the order. James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S.
134.
Indiantown Gap Military Reservation, although now
being used by the United States Government, is subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

to the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania. No law, sale or lease
from Pennsylvania has conveyed exclusive jurisdiction
to the United States. No Act of Congress has taken
away from Pennsylvania the right to enforce the Milk
Control Law. See James Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula,
309 U. S. 94.
Enforcement of the Commission's minimum price order does not conflict with federal statutes requiring competitive bidding.
The United States is required to let contracts to the
lowest responsible bidders. A contractor who does not
comply with state laws to which he is subject should not
be considered a "responsible bidder."
The United States has not exercised any war or emergency power that would oust the state Commission of
authority to regulate the appellant. Congress has not
attempted to make regulations concerning the production, processing, bottling and distribution of milk in and
about its reservations, and the power to make such regulations remains with the States. See United States v.
Bethlehem Steel Corp., 315 U. S. 289.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Decision of this case turns on the question whether the
minimum price regulations of the Pennsylvania Milk Control Law of April 28, 1937, P. L. 417, Purdon's Pa. Stat.
Ann., Tit. 31, § 700j, may constitutionally be applied to
the sale of milk by a dealer to the United States, the sale
being consummated within the territorial limits of the
state in a place subject to its jurisdiction.
The Pennsylvania Milk Control Law establishes a milk
control commission, § 201, with authority to fix prices for
milk sold within the state wherever produced, §§ 801-803,
including minimum wholesale and retail prices for milk
sold by milk dealers to consumers, § 802, and to issue rules,
regulations and orders to effectuate this authority, § 307.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 267
261

Opinion of the Court.

In the fall of 1940 the United States established, under
a permit from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a
military encampment on lands belonging to the Commonwealth. As is conceded, the permit involved no surrender
of state jurisdiction or authority over the area occupied
by the camp. On February 1, 1941, the purchasing and
contracting officer at the encampment, an officer of the
Quartermaster Corps of the United States Army, invited
bids for a supply of milk for the period from March 1 to
June 30, 1941, for consumption by troops stationed at the
camp. On February 4, the Milk Control Commission sent
a notice to interested parties, including appellant, Penn
Dairies, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, addressed to
"all milk dealers interested in submitting bids to furnish
milk to the United States Government" at the encampment. The notice was accompanied by the Commission's
Official General Order No. A-14, § 4-B of which prescribed the "minimum wholesale prices to be charged by or
paid to milk dealers." The notice announced that the
unit prices specified for sales to institutions by that section
of the order- should be considered in the preparation of
bids and that sales of milk at prices below the prescribed
minima would be construed as violations of the milk control law. The dairy submitted a bid offering to sell milk
in wholesale quantities at prices substantially below those
prescribed by the Commission. Its bid was accepted by a
War Department Purchase Order of March 1, 1941, the
contract was awarded to it as the lowest bidder, and it
performed the contract by deliveries of the milk at the
contract price-all within the state.
On March 5, 1941, the Commission, pursuant to §§ 404
and 405 of the Milk Control Act, issued a citation to the
dairy to show cause why its application for a milk dealer's
license for the year beginning May 1, 1941, should not be
denied because of its sale and delivery of the milk at
prices below the minima fixed by the Commission's order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Section 404 makes the grant of a license mandatory save
in circumstances not now material, but provides that the
Commission may deny or cancel a license where the. applicant or licensee "has violated any of the provisions of
this Act or any of the rules, regulations or orders of the
Commission . . ."
The dairy's answer to the citation challenged the constitutional authority of the state to regulate prices charged
to the United States. After a hearing the Commission
denied the dairy's license application because of its sale
of milk to the United States at prices below those fixed
by the Commission. The Commission's order was sustained on review by the Court of Common Pleas of Lancaster County. The Superior Court affirmed this judgment, 148 Pa. Super. 261, 24 A. 2d 717, in an opinion which
was adopted by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 344
Pa. 635, 26 A. 2d 431, both courts holding that the Commission's price-fixing order was applicable to sales of milk
made to the United States, and that as thus applied the
statute did not impose an unconstitutional burden on the
United States or otherwise infringe the Constitution or
laws of the United States. The case comes here on appeal
under § 237 of the Judicial Code. The government was
granted leave to intervene in the Court of Common Pleas,
and has paxticipated in all subsequent stages of the
litigation.
Appellants urge that the Pennsylvania Milk Control
Act, as applied to a dealer selling to the United States,
violates a constitutional immunity of the United States,
and also conflicts with federal legislation regulating purchases by the United States and therefore cannot constitutionally apply to such purchases.
Appellants' first proposition proceeds on the assumption that local price regulations normally controlling milk
dealers who carry on their business within the state, when
applied to sales made to the government, so burden it

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 269
261

Opinion of the Court.

or so conflict with the Constitution as to render the reguWe may assume that Congress, in
lations unlawful.
aid of its granted power to raise and support armies, Article I, § 8, cl. 12, and with the support of the supremacy
clause, Article VI, § 2, could declare state regulations like
the present inapplicable to sales to the government. Cf.
Pittman v. Home Owners' Loan Corp., 308 U. S. 21, 33;
Federal Land Bank v. Bismarck Co., 314 U. S. 95, 101-04;
Parkerv. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, 350-351, and cases cited.
But there is no clause of the Constitution which purports,
unaided by Congressional enactment, to prohibit such
regulations, and the question with which we are now
concerned is whether such a prohibition is to be implied
from the relationship of the two governments established
by the Constitution.
We may assume also that, in the absence of Congressional consent, there is an implied constitutional immunity of the national government from state taxation and
from state regulation of the performance, by federal officers and agencies, of governmental functions. Ohio v.
Thomas, 173 U. S. 276; Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S.
51; Hunt v. United States, 278 U. S. 96; Arizona v. California, 283 U. S. 423. But those who contract to furnish
supplies or render services to the government are not such
agencies and do not perform governmental functions,
Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 524-5; James
v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302 U. S. 134, 149; Buckstaff
Co. v. McKinley, 308 U. S. 358, 362-63 and cases cited; cf.
Susquehanna Co. v. Tax Comm'n, 283 U. S. 291, 294; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303 U. S. 376, 38586, and the mere fact that non-discriminatory taxation
or regulation of the contractor imposes an increased economic burden on the government is no longer regarded
as bringing the contractor within any implied immunity
of the government from state taxation or regulation.
Alabama v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1, 9, and cases cited;

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Baltimore & Annapolis R. Co. v. Lichtenberg, 176 Md.
383, 4 A. 2d 734, s. c., United States v. Baltimore & Annapolis R. Co., 308 U. S. 525.
Here the state regulation imposes no prohibition on the
national government or its officers. They may purchase
milk from whom and at what price they will, without incurring any penalty. See the opinion below, 148 Pa.
Super. 270-71. As in the case of state taxation of the
seller, the government is affected only as the state's regulation may increase the price which the government must
pay for milk. By the exercise of control over the seller,
the regulation imposes or may impose an increased economic burden on the government, for it may be assumed
that the regulation if enforcible and enforced will increase
the price of the milk purchased for consumption in Pennsylvania, unless the government is able to procure a supply from without the state, see Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S.
511. But in this burden, if Congress has not acted to
forbid it, we can find no different or greater impairment
of federal authority than in the tax on sales to a government contractor sustained in Alabama v. King & Boozer,
supra;or the state regulation of the operations of a trucking company in performing its contract with the government to transport workers employed on a Public Works
Administration project, upheld in Baltimore & Annapolis
R. Co. v. Lichtenberg, supra; or the local building regulations applied to a contractor engaged in constructing a
postoffice building for the government, sustained in Stewart & Co. v. Sadrakula,309 U. S. 94.
The trend of our decisions is not to extend governmental
immunity from state taxation and regulation beyond the
national government itself and governmental functions
performed by its officers and agents. We have recognized
that the Constitution presupposes the continued existence
of the states functioning in co6rdination with the national government, with authority in the states to lay

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 271
261

Opinion of the Court.

taxes and to regulate their internal affairs and policy,
and that state regulation like state taxation inevitably
imposes some burdens on the national government of the
same kind as those imposed on citizens of the United States
within the state's borders, see Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
supra, 523-24. And we have held that those burdens,
save as Congress may act to remove them, are to be regarded as the normal incidents of the operation within
the same territory of a dual system of government, and
that no immunity of the national government from such
burdens is to be implied from the Constitution which established the system, see Graves v. New York ex rel.
O'Keefe, 306 U. S.466, 483, 487.
Since the Constitution has left Congress free to set aside
local taxation and regulation of government contractors
which burden the national government, we see no basis
for implying from the Constitution alone a restriction upon
such regulations which Congress has not seen fit to impose,
unless the regulations are shown to be inconsistent with
Congressional policy. Even in the case of agencies created
or appointed to do the government's work we have been
slow to infer an immunity which Congress has not granted
and which Congressional policy does not require. Reconstruction Finance Corp. v. Menihan Corp., 312 U. S.81,
and cases cited; Colorado Bank v. Bedford, 310 U. S.41,
53, and cases cited; cf. Baltimore National Bank v. Tax
Commission, 297 U. S.209. Our inquiry here, therefore,
must be whether the state's regulation of this contractor in
a matter of local concern conflicts with Congressional legislation or with any discernible Congressional policy.
To establish such a conflict the government places its
reliance on Acts of Congress requiring competitive bidding
in the purchase of supplies for the Army. Section 3709 of
the Revised Statutes, 41 U. S. C. § 5, requires public advertising for all government purchases save "when immediate
delivery or performance is required by the public ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

igency." I A similar provision had appeared in § 5 of the
Act of March 3, 1809, 2 Stat. 536, which required all purchases by the Treasury, War or Navy Departments to be
made "by open purchase, or by previously advertising for
proposals respecting the same." The Appropriation Act
of March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 905, and subsequent appropriation acts, included a provision requiring public advertising
for the purchase of all supplies for the use of the Army,
with exceptions not now material, "except in case of emergency or where it is impracticable to secure competition"
and requiring the purchase of such supplies "where the
same can be purchased the cheapest, the quality and cost
of transportation and the interests of the Government considered." 10 U. S. C. § 1201. And a provision enacted as
part of the Appropriation Act of July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 109,
10 U. S. C. § 1200, requires that all purchases of quartermaster's supplies be made by contract after public notice
and that the award be made to "the lowest responsible
bidder for the best and most suitable article, the right being
reserved to reject any and all bids."
It is to be noted that while these statutes direct government officials to invite competitive bidding by contractors
undertaking to furnish Army supplies, and also require
them to accept the lowest responsible bid if any is accepted, they do not purport to set aside local price regulations or to prohibit the states from taking punitive
measures for violations of such regulations. They are
wholly consistent with the continued existence of such
price regulations, and with the acceptance by government officers of the regulated price where that is the low1 This provision was derived from § 10 of the Appropriation Act of

Mar. 2, 1861, 12 Stat. 220, which in turn was a reenactment of § 3 of the
Appropriation Act of June 23, 1860, 12 Stat. 103. Like the Act of
March 2, 1901, R. S. § 3709 has been construed as inapplicable where
competition is impracticable. 38 Op. Atty. Gen. 164, 174; 39 Op. Atty.

Gen. 111; 17 Op. Atty. Gen. 84, 87.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 273
261

Opinion of the Court.

est bid, or the omission of competitive bidding in
circumstances where local price regulations render it "impracticable to secure competition." Nor are we able to
discern, in the language or legislative history of these or
related statutes regulating government contracts, any
indication that low cost was such a controlling consideration with Congress as to justify an inference that Congress intended to displace state regulations affecting the
price of articles purchased by the government. The reason for the passage of § 5 of the Act of March 3, 1809, has
been said to be "to throw additional safeguards around
this subject; to prevent favoritism, and to give to the
United States the benefit of competition . . ." 2 Op.
Atty. Gen. 257, 259.
We are not advised of any statute in which Congress
has undertaken to set aside state laws affecting the price
of goods supplied to the government in order to secure a
lower price than would otherwise be obtainable. And
Congress has often required the inclusion in government
contracts of terms not directly related to the interests of
the government as purchaser, which have the effect of
increasing cost. Title III, § 2 of the Act of March 3,
1933, 47 Stat. 1520, 41 U. S. C. §§ 10 (a)-10 (c), requires
the use of American-produced goods on all public works
contracts unless the head of the department finds that the
use of such materials is "impracticable" or would "unreasonably increase the cost." The Eight Hour Law of
August 1, 1892, 27 Stat. 340, as amended, 40 U. S. C.
H§ 321-326, limits to eight hours per day the work of persons employed by contractors with the government and
requires all government contracts to include provisions to
that effect. The Davis-Bacon Act of March 3, 1931, 46
Stat. 1494, as amended, 40 U. S. C. § 276 (a), requires all
contracts for public buildings to contain prevailing minimum wage provisions, and the Walsh-Healey Act, 49 Stat.
2036, 41 U. S. C. § 35, requires the inclusion in all gov-

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ernment contracts in excess of $10,000 of provisions requiring the contractor's adherence to prescribed minimum
wages, maximum hours, restrictions on employment of
child labor and requirements for safety of working
conditions.'
Evidence is wanting that Congress, in authorizing competitive bidding, has been so concerned with securing the
lowest possible price for articles furnished to the government that it wished to set aside all local regulations
affecting price. On the contrary Congress has regarded
the field of public contracts as one over which to exercise
its supervisory legislative powers in safeguarding interests
2The

Military Appropriation Act of 1941, 55 Stat. 372, requires the

purchase of food and clothing produced in the United States unless none
of satisfactory quality is available in sufficient quantity and at "reasonable prices." And successive Appropriation Acts materially restrict
the use of appropriated funds by the Quartermaster Corps to purchase
oleomargarine or butter substitutes. E. g. 49 Stat. 1285, 50 Stat. 449,
52 Stat. 649, 53 Stat. 600, 54 Stat. 358, 55 Stat. 372. See also R. S.
§ 3716, 10 U. S. C. § 1202 (preference to articles of domestic production
"conditions of price and quality being equal").
The War Department, by Procurement Circular No. 4, February 9,
1938, and Procurement Circular No. 10, January 26, 1942, issued pursuant to Par. 5 (h) of AR 5-140, provided for the inclusion in Army
contracts of provisions requiring the bidder to certify to his compliance
with any applicable marketing agreement, license, or order, executed
or issued by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to the Agricultural
Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, 7 U. S. C. §§ 601 et seq. All Procurement Circulars have since been rescinded, see infra n. 3.
See also Executive Order No. 325-A, May 18, 1905 (convict labor),
temporarily suspended by Executive Order No. 9196, July 9, 1942;
Executive Orders Nos. 6246, Aug. 10, 1933, and 6646, March 14, 1934
(compliance with Codes of Fair Competition).
Despite the enactment of § 201 of the First War Powers Act, Dec. 18,
1941, 55 Stat. 839, empowering the President to authorize contracts to
be entered into without regard to provisions of existing law, the WalshHealey Act, the Davis-Bacon Act, and the Eight Hour Law remain
applicable to all government contracts, Executive Order No. 9001,
Dec. 27, 1941.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 275
261

Opinion of the Court.

which may conflict with the needs of the government
viewed solely as purchaser. An unexpressed purpose of
Congress to set aside statutes of the states regulating
their internal affairs is not lightly to be inferred and ought
not to be implied where the legislative command, read in
the light of its history, remains ambiguous. Considerations which lead us not to favor repeal of statutes by
implication, United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188,
198-9; United States'v. Jackson, 302 U. S. 628, 631;
Posadas v. National City Bank, 296 U. S. 497, 503-5,
should be at least as persuasive when the question is one
of the nullification of state power by Congressional
legislation.
Hence, in the absence of some evidence of an inflexible
Congressional policy requiring government contracts to
be awarded on the lowest bid despite noncompliance with
state regulations otherwise applicable, we cannot say that
the Pennsylvania milk regulation conflicts with Congressional legislation or policy and must be set aside merely because it increases the price of milk to the government.
It would be no more than speculation for us to say that
Congress would consider the government's pecuniary interest as a purchaser of milk more important than the
interest asserted by Pennsylvania in the stabilization of
her milk supply through control of price. Courts should
guard against resolving these competing considerations of
policy by imputing to Congress a decision which quite
clearly it has not undertaken to make. Furthermore we
should be slow to strike down legislation which the state
concededly had power to enact, because of its asserted burden on the federal government. For the state is powerless to remove the ill effects of our decision, while the
national government, which has the ultimate power,
remains free to remove the burden.
The government, in support of its position, points to
Army Regulation 5-100, Paragraph lid, which was in

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

effect at the time this contract was entered into and performed,' and which read as follows:
"State price-fixing laws.-Appropriated funds may not
be used for payments under awards upon invitations for
bids containing restrictive requirements of showing compliance with State price-fixing laws relating to services,
commodities, or articles necessary to be purchased by the
United States until there has been an authoritative and
final judicial determination that such State statutes are
applicable to such contracts. It is not the duty or responsibility of contracting officers of the Federal Government, by means of restrictive specifications, to enforce
contractors to comply with the requirements of pricefixing acts of a State. See 16 Comp. Gen. 97, 348; 17 id.
287; 19 id. 614."
Two observations are to be made with respect to this
regulation. The statutes authorizing the Secretary of
War "to prescribb rules and regulations to be observed
in the preparation and submission and opening of bids
for contracts under the War Department," 20 Stat. 36,
22 Stat. 487, 5 U. S. C. § 218, give no hint of any delegation to the Secretary or his subordinates of power to do
what Congress has failed to do--restrict the application
of local regulations, otherwise applicable to government
contractors, which increase price. And the regulation
itself is at most a direction to contracting officers not to
8 All of the Army Regulations and Procurement Circulars referred to
in this opinion were rescinded on the adoption of War Department
Procurement Regulations, effective July 1, 1942, Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 10, § 81, 7 Fed. Reg. 8082. See Procurement
Regulation 1, Pars. 102, 103. Paragraph 209 of Procurement Regulation 2-issued under the authority of § 201 of the First War Powers
Act, December 18, 1941, 55 Stat. 839, and Executive Order No. 9001,
December 27, 1941-provides that all contracts shall be placed by
negotiation save where formal advertising is authorized by the
Director of Purchases of the War Production Board.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 277
261

Opinion of the Court.

assume by their specifications for bids any responsibility
for requiring compliance with local price regulations before it is judicially determined whether such regulations
are applicable to government contracts.
That such is the meaning of the regulation is made
plain by reference to the opinions of the Comptroller
General, cited in the regulation. All rest on the reasoning of Panhandle Oil Co. v. Knox, 277 U. S. 218, and
like cases, which were overruled in Alabama v. King &
Boozer, supra. The Comptroller General held that since
the constitutional applicability of local price regulations
to government contractors was doubtful, the right of the
government to challenge their validity should not be foreclosed by contractual provisions, and that in the absence
of a judicial determination of their applicability a bid
which failed to comply with such price regulations could
not for that reason be rejected.
When Paragraph lid was adopted, Paragraph 4g of
Army Regulation 5-240 defined the situations in which,
because it was deemed "impracticable to secure competition," supplies might, under 10 U. S. C. § 1201, be purchased in the open market without advertising.
Paragraph 4g (3) declared that such a situation arose
"when the price is fixed by federal, state, municipal or
other competent legal authority," a clear indication that
state price regulations were not thought to be inapplicable
to sales under Army contracts.4 After the present suit
In a memorandum to the Undersecretary of War dated April 16,
1941, after the present litigation had been instituted, the.Judge Advocate General expressed the opinion, that in view of the apparent

conflict between the terms of AR 5-240, Par. 4g (3) and AR 5-100,
Par. lid (at that time renumbered as Par. lie), the former regulation
applied only in exceptional situations and was not effective to make
applicable to government contractors price-fixing regulations such as
that here involved. The Judge Advocate General referred to the
"consistent position" taken by the War Department "that price-fixing

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

was begun subparagraph 3 was eliminated. The only
effect of this elimination was to remove the conflict of that
paragraph with the "hands off policy" of the War Department adopted by Army Regulation 5-100, Paragraph
lid.
Even though it be assumed that the Secretary could
by regulation set aside the state's price legislation which
it has made applicable to government contractors, he
plainly has not done so. He has left the question of its
applicability to be settled by this Court's determination
of the scope of the government's immunity under the laws
and Constitution of the United States. In the meantime
he has adopted a specific policy of not including, in government contracts, terms requiring the contractor's compliance with state price-fixing legislation, thus avoiding
any action which could be construed as an assent to the
application of such legislation to government contractors
in circumstances, if any, where it would without
affirmative assent be inapplicable.
We are unable to find in Congressional legislation,
either as read in the light of its history or as construed by
the executive officers charged with the exercise of the contracting power, any disclosure of a purpose to immunize
government contractors from local price-fixing regulations
which would otherwise be applicable. Nor, in the circumstances of this case, can we find that the Constitution,
unaided by Congressional enactment, confers such an immunity. It follows that the Pennsylvania courts rightly
held that the Constitution and laws of the United States
did not preclude the application of the Pennsylvania Milk
measures of the states have no application to procurements by the
War Department." But we do not understand from this or other
memoranda of the Judge Advocate General that the position referred
to is any broader than that expressed in Par. lid of AR 5-100 and in
the opinions of the Comptroller General to which that paragraph
refers.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 279
261

Mui'yY, J., concurring.

Control Law to appellant Penn Dairies, Inc., by denial of
its license application.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE, MURPHY,

concurring:

I agree with the opinion of the Court that neither Congressional legislation nor the implications of the Constitution prevent the application of the minimum price requirements of the Pennsylvania Milk Control Law to the
sale of milk by a dealer to the United States, but wish to
emphasize a phase of the question which I believe is most
important.
We are not concerned here with just an ordinary state
regulatory statute of non-discriminatory character which
affects the federal government in some degree, but with
a general measure designed to safeguard the health and
well-being of the public by insuring an adequate supply
of wholesome milk at stable prices.' The preservation of
public health is a matter of grave and primary concern
to the states and the nation at all times, but*even more
so in time of war. Then indeed a healthy citizenry is essential to national survival, for the waging of modern
"total war," if it is to be done with maximum
effectiveness, requires a sound and healthy people, as well as a
sturdy fighting force.
1Section 101 of the Pennsylvania law declares that the milk industry "is a business affecting the public health and affected with a
public interest," and that the purpose of the Act is to regulate and
control the industry "for the protection of the public health and
welfare and for the prevention of fraud." Section 801 requires the Milk
Control Commission to ascertain and maintain such prices for milk
"as will be most beneficial to the public interest, best protect the milk
industry of the Commonwealth and insure a sufficient quantity of
pure and wholesome milk to inhabitants of the Commonwealth, having
special regard to the health and welfare of children residing therein."
513236-43-vol. 318-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
NmiTPrYY, J.,

concurring.

318 U. S.

In this country with its heterogeneous population living under diverse conditions in widely separated areas,
state and local authorities are best qualified to determine
what measures are most appropriate and necessary to promote the health and well-being of the people within their
borders, and they should be given the widest possible latitude to solve their special problems as they think best.
The whole framework of our federal system is based upon
this principle. It has contributed to our strength and
solidarity as one people. It should be the aim of all federal procurement officers, military or civilian, to harmonize their work so far as possible with this broad policy of
government. Such an aim is in accord with the spirit
of our laws and the character of our institutions and
will best insure whole-hearted support of the military
program.
In my opinion it is of greater importance to the nation
at war and to its military establishment that high standards of public health be maintained than that the military
procurement authorities have the benefit of unrestrained
competitive bidding and lower prices in the purchase of
needed milk supplies. That the United States must pay
1.60 more per quart for milk in Pennsylvania hardly means
the collapse of the war effort. But it is common knowledge that armies frequently suffer more from the ravages
of disease and sickness than from the perils of combat,
and, if milk vendors dealing with the United States need
not comply with Pennsylvania's minimum price requirements, the effectiveness of Pennsylvania's law is considerably reduced for it is conceded that the instant order
is the largest single one ever given for milk within the
State. This reduced effectiveness may have serious and
unwanted repercussions not only upon civilian health but
that of the military personnel stationed there as well.
In the conduct of the war as well as in other relations,
the larger interests of the federal government and the

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 281
261

DouGAmS, J., dissenting.

nation as a whole will not suffer, nor will constitutional
arrangements be prejudiced, if procurement officers are
obliged to conduct their activities within the general
framework of state laws enacted within reasonable limits
to safeguard the public health and safety. If Alabama
for the purpose of revenue can, consistently with the
Constitution, require government contractors to pay sales
and use taxes upon materials used in a cost plus a fixed fee
construction contract, the effect of which is to increase the
cost of construction to the federal government (Alabama
v. King & Boozer, 314 U. S. 1; Curry v. United States, 314
U. S. 14), there is all the more reason why Pennsylvania,
acting to protect the public health, can require, until Congress makes clear its wishes otherwise, a dealer selling
milk to the United States to adhere to its minimum price
requirements. This is not to say that the States may
exercise direct control over the actions of federal officials,
military or otherwise, or that Congress may not invalidate
or suspend local regulations insofar as they affect transactions with the federal authorities. If Congress determines that the enforcement of the Pennsylvania law
against dealers selling to the United States interferes with
its power to wage war, and forbids its application to them,
we have a different question. See Federal Land Bank v.
Bismarck Co., 314 U. S.95. As yet it has not done so, and
in the absence of such a measure, I can perceive no necessity or adequate justification either in law or constitutional
theory for holding Pennsylvania's regulation void as
applied here.
MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

The contract with Penn Dairies was made by the War
Department acting through the Quartermaster of the
Army. The Quartermaster Corps, one of the statutory
branches of the Regular Army (41 Stat. 759, 10 U. S. C.
§ 4) is charged "under the authority of the Secretary of

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DOUGLAS, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

War" with the "purchase and procurement for the Army
of all supplies of standard manufacture and of all supplies
common to two or more branches" of the Army, with
exceptions not material here. 39 Stat. 170, 41 Stat. 766,
10 U. S. C. § 72. The procedure which controls purchases
of supplies by the Quartermaster Corps is governed by
the statutes and by the Army Regulations. There are
statutory requirements for competitive bidding as respects
the purchase of "all supplies"' and with particular reference to supplies purchased "for immediate use." ' The
only exception relevant here is the case "where it is
impracticable to secure competition." 10 U. S. C. § 1201.
The policy is plain-it is intended that the United States
should get the full benefit of price competition in its
"Except in cases of emergency or where it is impracticable to
secure competition, or in cases otherwise provided for, the purchase
of all supplies for the use of the various departments, and posts of
the Army and of the branches of the Army service shall only be made
after advertisement; and said supplies shall be purchased where the
same can be purchased the cheapest, quality and cost of transportation and the interests of the Government considered." 31 Stat. 905,
32 Stat. 514, 10 U. S. C. § 1201. And see R. S. § 3709, 41 U. S. C.
1

§ 5.
2 "All purchases of regular and miscellaneous supplies for the Army
furnished by the Quartermaster Corps for immediate use shall be made
by the officers of such corps, under direction of the Secretary of War,
at the places nearest the points where they are needed, the conditions
of cost and quality being equal: Provided, That all purchases of
said supplies, except in cases otherwise provided for, and except in
cases of emergency, which must be at once reported to the Secretary
of War for his approval, shall be made by contract after public notice
of not less than ten days for small amounts for immediate use, and
of not less than from thirty to sixty days whenever, in the opinion of
the Secretary of War, the circumstances of the case and conditions of
the service shall warrant such extension of time. The award in every
case shall be made to the lowest responsible bidder for the best and
most suitable article, the right being reserved to reject any and all
bids." 23 Stat. 109, 37 Stat. 591, 10 U. S. C. § 1200.

PENN DAIRIES v. MILK CONTROL COMM'N. 283
261

DouGLAs, J., dissenting.

purchases of Army supplies. See United States v. Purcell
Envelope Co., 249 U. S. 313, 318.
Statutory authority is vested in the Secretary of War
to prescribe rules and regulations covering the preparation,
submission, and opening of bids "for contracts under the
War Department." 20 Stat. 36, 22 Stat. 487, 5 U. S. C.
§ 218. The Secretary pursuant to this authority has
issued numerous regulations governing competitive bidding. Regulation No. 5-100, Par. lid, August 7, 1940,
specifically prohibits use of appropriated funds for payments under contracts containing prices fixed by state law
"until there has been an authoritative and final judicial
determination that such State statutes are applicable to
such contracts." ' The policy of the War Department has
been well established. The Judge Advocate General
stated in April 1941 that "the War Department has consistently taken and maintained the position that pricefixing measures of the states have no application to procurements by the War Department." Whatever ambiguity may have existed in other regulations has been
removed.4
3 This Regulation reads as follows: "Appropriated funds may not be
used for payments under awards upon invitations for bids containing
restrictive requirements of showing compliance with State price-fixing
laws relating to services, commodities, or articles necessary to be purchased by the United States until there has been an authoritative and
final judicial determination that such State statutes are applicable to
such contracts. It is not the duty or responsibility of contracting
officers of the Federal Government, by means of restrictive specifications, to enforce contractors to comply with the requirements of pricefixing acts of a State."
4Army Reg. No. 5-240, February 11, 1936, as amended July 6, 1938,
provided in paragraph (4) (g) (3) that "purchase may be made in the
open market without competition" when the "price is fixed by Federal,
State, municipal, or other competent legal authority." It should be
noted that this was a permissive and not a mandatory requirement.
On May 10, 1941, paragraph (4) (g) was amended so as to omit any
reference to governmental price fixing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
DoUGLAS, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

We have then regulations of the War Department made
pursuant to powers delegated by Congress and which
prohibit the Army's contracting officers from waiving competitive bidding merely because prices are fixed
by the states. I am unable to see why they are not valid
regulations. Congress has said that competitive bidding
"shall" be required except where it is "impracticable to
secure competition." 10 U. S. C. § 1201. The word "impracticable" does not suggest that wherever there is state
price-fixing competitive bidding is not required. A thing
is "impracticable" to do when it is infeasible or incapable
of being done. The contract which the Quartermaster
made with Penn Dairies is conclusive of the fact that it
was not "impracticable" to obtain the milk through competitive bidding. A regulation which interprets "impracticable" so as not to preclude competitive bidding because of state price-fixing stays well within the scope of
the rule making power. These War Department regulations accordingly "have the force of law." Standard Oil
Co. v. Johnson,316 U. S. 481, 484, and cases cited. Their
application in this case therefore has no less force and
effect than if it was specifically directed by Congress. We
have then an assertion of federal power in the field of price
control which by reason of the supremacy clause excludes
any exercise of a conflicting state power. See Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 How. 227; McDermott v. Wisconsin, 228
U. S. 115; PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Illinois Brick Co., 297
U. S. 447; Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52; Cloverleaf
Butter Co. v. Patterson,315 U. S. 148.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in

this dissent.

