ZIFFRIN, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
54

73

Syllabus.

principle expressed, in one of its senses, by the phrase
"assumption of risk," namely, that a carrier is not liable
unless it was negligent.
Perhaps no field of the law comes closer to the lives of so
many families in this country than does the law of negligence, imbedded as it is in the Federal Employers' Liability Act. It is most desirable, therefore, that the law
should not be cloudy and confused. I am not at all certain that the Circuit Court of Appeals misconceived the
nature and extent of the carrier's liability after the 1939
amendment, rather than merely obscured its understanding by beclouding talk about "assumption of risk." But
since I agree that the District Court should have allowed
the case to go to the jury on the issue of negligence, I concur in the decision.
ZIFFRIN, INCORPORATED, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 245. Argued December 16, 1942.-Decided February 1, 1943.
At the time of the filing of an application to the Interstate Commerce
Commission for a permit under the "grandfather clause" of § 209
(a) of the Interstate Commerce Act to continue designated contract carrier operations, and at the time of the hearing by the
Commission on the application, § 210 of the Act provided that
a certificate as a common carrier and a permit as a contract carrier
could not be held by the same carrier except upon a finding by the
Commission of consistency with the public interest. Prior to the
Commission's decision on the application, § 210 was amended to
provide that, without a similar finding, a certificate as a common
carrier and a permit as a contract carrier could not be held by
carriers which are under common control. Held:
1. The Commission was required to make its decision on the
application in accordance with the Act as amended. P. 78.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

2. The contentions that the applicant was not given proper
notice of the hearing, and was denied an opportunity to show
compliance with the Act as amended, are unsupported. P. 79.
3. The Commission's order denying the application on the ground
that the applicant was under common control with a certificated
common carrier, and that the application could not be granted
consistently with the public interest and the national transportation
policy, is supported by the evidence. P. 80.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of a District Court of three
judges refusing to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.

Mr. Ira Howell Ellis, with whom Mr. John S. Powell.
was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Daniel H. Kunkel, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Robert L. Pierce, Edward Dumbauld, and Daniel W.
Knowlton were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal brings here for review a judgment of a
statutory three judge court denying a petition for an interlocutory and a final injunction setting aside and annulling
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission." The
order attacked denied an application of appellant, an
Indiana corporation, filed February 4, 1936, for a permit
to continue designated contract carrier operations under
the grandfather clause of § 209 (a) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The denial of the application by the Commission on
May 29, 1941, 28 M. C. C. 683, was on the ground that
applicant and Ziffrin Truck Lines, Inc., a certificated comI Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 208, 220, 28 U.S. C. §§ 47, 47 (a);
Judicial Code § 238, 43 Stat. 936, 938, 28 U. S. C. § 345; § 205 (h)
Interstate Commerce Act, Part II, 49 Stat. 543, 550, 49 U. S. C.

§ 305 (h).

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. UNITED STATES.

75

Opinion of the Court.

73

mon carrier by motor vehicle, were owned, controlled and
managed in a common interest and that under § 210 of
the Interstate Commerce Act, Part II, it would not be
consistent with the public interest and the national transportation policy to grant the application.
Section 210 of the Motor Carrier Act was amended between the filing of the application and the entry of the
order denying it. The two forms of § 210 appear in the
note below.2
2

Section 210 (49 Stat. 554), as originally enacted in the Motor Car-

rier Act, 1935, provided:
"No person, after January 1, 1936, shall at the same time hold under
this part a certificate as a common carrier and a permit as a contract
carrier authorizing operation for the transportation of property by
motor vehicle over the same route or within the same territory, unless
for good cause shown the Commission shall find that such certificate
and permit may be held consistently with the public interest and with
the policy declared in section 202 (a) of this part."
Section 210, as amended (49 U. S. C. 310) by § 21 (a) of the Transportation Act of 1940 provides:
"Unless, for good cause shown, the Commission shall find, or shall
have found, that both a certificate and a permit may be so held consistently with the public interest and with the national transportation
policy declared in this Act"(1) no person, or any person controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with such person, shall hold a certificate as a common
carrier authorizing operation for the transportation of property by
motor vehicle over a route or within a territory, if such person, or any
such controlling person, controlled person, or person under common
control, holds a permit as a contract carrier authorizing operation for
the transportation of property by motor vehicle over the same route
or within the same territory; and
"(2) no person, or any person controlling, controlled by, or under
common control with such person, shall hold a permit as a contract
carrier authorizing operation for the transportation of property by
motor vehicle over a route or within a territory, if such person, or
any such controlling person, controlled person, or person under common control, holds a certificate as a common carrier authorizing operation for the transportation of property by motor vehicle over the same
route or within the same territory."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

It is appellant's contention that whatever may have
been the effect of the earlier form, with the passage of the
amendment after the hearing the applicant should now
have an opportunity to show the absence of common control of it and Ziffrin Truck Lines, Incorporated. As § 210
stood when appellant requested its permit and at the hearing, a certificate as a common carrier and a permit as a
contract carrier were not to be held by the same person
without special finding of consistency with the public interest by the Commission. The amendment provided that
without a similar special finding no person should hold
a contract carrier permit who was under common control
with a person holding a common carrier certificate. Person, of course, included a corporation. 49 U. S. C.
303 (a)(1).
Obviously the fear of possible evasion led to the change
in language. Indeed, the Commission had disregarded the
corporate fiction and interpreted the earlier form as covering persons under common control.' This was called
to applicant's attention by an order of June 23, 1938, setting the date for hearing the application.4 The interpretation was discussed in the examiner's report, in the Coin8In re New York & New Brunswick Auto Exp. Co., Inc., Common
Carrier Application, 23 M. C. C. 663, 671. Cf. In re Bigley Brothers,
Inc., Contract Carrier Application, 4 M. C. C. 711; Universal Service,
Inc.,-Purchase-W. R. Arthur & Co., Inc., 15 M. C. C. 247.
4 The order read in part as follows:
"Notice is hereby given that although application herein is for a
certificate or permit on Form BMC 1, the applicant must establish
also the corporate relationship existing between the applicant herein
mentioned and the Ziffrin Truck Lines, Inc., (No. MC 2510) and if
said applicant and the Ziffrin Truck Lines, Inc., are found to be affiliated
within the meaning of Section 5 (6) of Part I, applicant must also establish that a permit may be held by applicant consistently with the public
interest and with the policy declared in Section 202 (a) of the Motor
Carrier Act, 1935, within the meaning and contemplation of Section
210 of said Motor Carrier Act, 1935."

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
73

Opinion of the Court.

mission's report, and applied, adversely to appellant, by
the findings. 28 M. C. C. 683, 692-99.
When the Transportation Act of 1940 was before the
Senate, the draftsmen added a sentence to the earlier form
of § 210, reading as follows: "This section shall apply
to dual operations by affiliated carriers." When the
bill, S. 2009, in the two forms in which it was enacted
in the Senate and the House of Representatives, was examined by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the
Chairman of its legislative committee transmitted a report
on the provisions of the bill to the Chairman of the Senate
Interstate Commerce Committee and the Chairman of
the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. 5 In the report (at page 62) this comment was made
as to the present § 210:
"Desirable.- (a) After the new section 22 which we
have proposed above, add a new section 23 (with appropriate renumbering of subsequent sections) reading as
follows:
'SEc. 23. Section 210 of the Interstate Commerce Act,
as amended, is amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new sentence: "This section shall apply to dual
operations by affiliated carriers."'
This sentence has been introduced at the end of section 45
of the Senate bill, and it has our approval. The Commission has construed section 210 of part II to have such
an application, but it is desirable to remove all doubt on
the point."
At the conference of the committee for the two Houses
of Congress, the form of § 210 was changed to the present
reading. The report contains this explanation:'
5 Omnibus Transportation Legislation, House Committee Print, 76th
Cong., 2d Sess.
6H. Rep. No. 2832, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 78.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

"Section 21 (a). Dual Operations Under Certificates and
Permits, Motor Carriers.
"The conference substitute in section 21 (a) amends
section 210 of the Interstate Commerce Act which prohibits a person from holding at the same time both a certificate as a common carrier of property by motor vehicle
and a permit as a contract carrier of property by motor
vehicle over the same route or within the same territory,
unless for good cause shown the Commission shall find
that both forms of operating authority may be held consistent with the public interest and with the policy declared in part II, so that the section will apply not only
to a particular motor carrier but also to any person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such
person."
It is unnecessary, however, to decide whether the Commission correctly applied § 210 as originally enacted to
such common control as the Commission found in appellant and Ziffrin Truck Lines, Inc. We are convinced that
the Commission was required to act under the law as it
existed when its order of May 29, 1941, was entered. The
permit was effective for the future and the amendment
forbade persons under common control holding both a
permit and a certificate. Previously appellant had been
operating under an ex parte permit. Protests to the grant
had been made on account of the dual operation, the
formal hearing was held and the question raised by these
protests was heard at length. A change in the law between a nisi prius and an appellate decision requires the
appellate court to apply the changed law. Vandenbark
v. Owens-Illinois Glass Co., 311 U. S. 538, and cases cited.
Cf. Duplex PrintingPress Co. v. Deering,254 U. S. 443,464.
A fortiori,a change of law pending an administrative hearing must be followed in relation to permits for future acts.
Otherwise the administrative body would issue orders contrary to the existing legislation.

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
73

Opinion of the Court.

We find no basis for appellant's contention that it was
given improper notice of the hearing and denied an opportunity to show compliance with the amended section.
The steps of notice and hearing detailed above demonstrate the error of the former contention. As to the latter,
it is met completely by the report and order of the Commission, made while this suit was pending in the District
Court, and denying appellant's motion for reconsideration
of the order of May 29, 1941. Ziffrin, Incorporated, Contract Carrier Application, 33 M. C. C. 155. This opinion
was called to our attention by the Government in brief
and argument. In the circumstances, we will not disregard it. The Commission there said, p. 156:
"At the conclusion of the trial on applicant's suit before the three-judge court, a conference was held between
the counsel for all the parties to the suit in the court's
chambers. It was there suggested by the court that applicant submit to this Commission some method for
divorcing applicant herein from Ziffrin Truck Lines, Inc.,
which might eliminate the conflict with section 210 of the
act on which the denial of the application was grounded.
Pursuant to this suggestion, applicant has filed a petition
seeking reopening and reconsideration of the proceeding,
and, as a basis therefor, proposes a plan for elimination
of the common control of applicant and Ziffrin Truck
Lines, Inc. The petition is opposed by an association of
motor common carriers. It is understood that the filing
of this petition and action by us thereon does not terminate the court proceeding. Pending our action on the
petition, however, the entry of judgment by the court
is being held in abeyance. In view of the pendency of the
litigation,,we believe that a statement of the reasons for
our action with respect to this petition will be helpful."
The Commission then restated the evidence showing
common control of the two corporations and concluded
that the plan proposed would not change the situation.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

See 33 M. C. C. 155; 28 M. C. C. 683, 692 et seq. The
evidence is ample to support the conclusion of the Commission entered at the earlier hearing. This is sufficient to
support the order upon judicial review. Shields v. Utah
Idaho Central R. Co., 305 U. S. 177, 185; United States v.
Maher, 307 U. S. 148, 155.
Affirmed.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION v.
CHENERY CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 254.

Argued December 17, 18, 1942.-Decided February 1, 1943.

By an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, approval was given,
over objections, to a plan for the reorganization of a registered
holding company, whereby preferred stock which had been acquired
by officers and directors of the company while plans for its reorganization were before the Commission, would not be converted into
stock of the reorganized company, as would all other preferred stock,
but would be surrendered at cost plus interest. The Commission
explicitly based its order on its view of principles of equity judicially
established. However, the Commission did not find, but on the contrary disavowed, that the specific transactions showed misuse by
the officers and directors of their position as reorganization managers, or that as such managers they took advantage of the corporation, other stockholders, or the investing public. Held:
1. On review under § 24 (a) of the Act, the validity of the order
of the Commission must be judged on the grounds upon which the
record discloses that its action was based. P. 87.
2. Tested by principles of equity judicially established, the order
of the Commission can not be sustained. P. 88.
3. It is immaterial that the Commission might have made findings which would justify its order as an appropriate safeguard of
interests which the Act was designed to protect. Such findings
are essential to the validity of the order, and here there is none.
P. 94.

