218

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

practice which can be said to amount to an administrative
construction of the Acts in question.
The judgment below is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

dissent.

FEDERAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR v.
QUAKER OATS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 424. Argued February 4, 5, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
The Federal Security Administrator, acting under §§ 401 and 701 (e)
of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, promulgated regulations establishing "standards of identity" for various milled wheat
products, excluding vitamin D from the defined standard of "farina"
and permitting it only in "enriched farina," which was required to
contain vitamin B., riboflavin, nicotinic acid and iron. The validity
of the regulations was challenged as applied to the respondent, who
for ten years had manufactured and marketed, under an accurate
and informative label, a food product consisting of farina, as defined
by the Administrator's regulations, but with vitamin D added.
Under the Act as supplemented by the regulations, respondent's
product could not be marketed as "farina," since, by reason of the
presence of vitamin D as an ingredient, it would not conform to the
standard of identity prescribed for "farina"; nor could it be
marketed as "enriched farina" unless the prescribed minimum
quantities of vitamin B,, riboflavin, nicotinic acid and iron were
added. Held, that the Administrator did not depart from statutory
requirements in choosing the standards of identity for the purpose
of promoting "fair dealing in the interest of consumers"; that the
standards which he selected are adapted to that end; and that they
are adequately supported by findings and evidence. Pp. 220, 235.
1. Upon review of an order of the Federal Security Administrator issuing regulations under § 401 of the Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act, the findings of the Administrator as to the facts
are conclusive if supported by substantial evidence. P. 227.

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

219

Syllabus.

.(a) It is appropriate that a reviewing court accord proper scope
to the discretion and informed judgment of an administrative agency
where the review is of regulations of general application adopted
by the administrative agency under its rule-making power in
carrying out the policy of a statute with whose enforcement it is
charged. P. 227.
(b) The judgment exercised by the Administrator under § 401,
if based on substantial evidence of record, and if within statutory
and constitutional limitations, is controlling even though the reviewing court might on the same record have arrived at a different
conclusion. P. 228.
2. Taking into account the evidence of public demand for vitaminenriched foods, their increasing sale, their variable vitamin composition and dietary value, and the general lack of consumer knowledge
of such values, there was in this case sufficient evidence, of rational
probative force, to support the Administrator's judgment that, in
the absence of appropriate standards of identity, consumer confusion
would ensue; and to support the Administrator's conclusion that
the standards of identity adopted will promote honesty and fair
dealing in the interest of consumers. P. 228.
3. The text and the legislative history of the Act show that its
purpose was not confined to requiring informative labeling, but was
to authorize the Administrator to promulgate definitions and standards of identity "under which the integrity of food products can be
effectively maintained" and to require informative labeling only
where no such standard had been promulgated, where the food did
not purport to comply with a standard, or where the regulations
permitted optional ingredients and required their mention on the
label. P. 230.
4. The Court cannot say that such a standard of identity, designed
to eliminate a source of confusion to purchasers--which otherwise
would be likely to facilitate unfair dealing and make protection of
the consumer difficult-will not "promote honesty and fair dealing"
within the meaning of the Act. P. 231.
5. The Act does not preclude a regulation which would exclude a
wholesome and beneficial ingredient from the definition and standard
of identity of a food. P. 232.
6. It was not unreasonable to prohibit the addition te "farina" of
vitamin D as an optional ingredient, while permitting its addition
as an optional ingredient to "enriched farina." P. 234.
7. On the record in this case, it does not appear that the increased
cost of adding the minute quantities of the fcur ingredients required

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

for "enriched farina" is sufficient to have any substantial bearing on
the reasonableness of the regulations. P. 235.
129 F. 2d 76, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 616, to review a judgment setting
aside an order of the Federal Security Administrator
under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.

Mr. Valentine Brookes argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and
Messrs. Louis B. Schwartz, Irwin L. Langbein, Richard S.
Salant, Jack B. Tate, and Patrick D. Cronin were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. George I. Haight, with whom Mr. William D. McKenzie was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Federal Security Administrator, acting under §§ 401
and 701 (e), of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic
Act, 52 Stat. 1040, 1046, 1055 (21 U. S. C. §§ 341, 371),
promulgated regulations establishing "standards of identity" for various milled wheat products, excluding vitamin
D from the defined standard of "farina" and permitting
it only in "enriched farina," which was required to contain vitamin B1, riboflavin, nicotinic acid and iron. The
question is whether the regulations are valid as applied to
respondent. The answer turns upon (a) whether there is
substantial evidence in support of the Administrator's
finding that indiscriminate enrichment of farina with
vitamin and mineral contents would tend to confuse and
mislead consumers; (b) if so, whether, upon such a finding, the Administrator has statutory authority to adopt a
standard of identity, which excludes a disclosed non-deleterious ingredient, in order to promote honesty and fair
dealing in the interest of consumers; and (c) whether the

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

221

Opinion of the Court.

Administrator's treatment, by the challenged regulations,
of the use of vitamin D as an ingredient of a product sold
as "farina" is within his statutory authority to prescribe
"a reasonable definition and standard of identity."
Section 401 of the Act provides that "Whenever in the
judgment of the Administrator such action will promote
honesty and fair dealing in the interest of consumers, he
shall promulgate regulations fixing and establishing for
any food, under its common or usual name so far as practicable, a reasonable definition and standard of identity . . . In prescribing a definition and standard of
identity for any food or class of food in which optional
ingredients are permitted, the Administrator shall, for the
purpose of promoting honesty and fair dealing in the
interest of consumers, designate the optional ingredients
which shall be named on the label." By § 701 (e) the Administrator, on his own initiative or upon application of
any interested industry or a substantial part of it, is required to "hold a public hearing upon.a proposal to issue,
amend, or repeal any regulation contemplated by" § 401.
At the hearing "any interested person may be heard."
The Administrator is required to promulgate by order any
regulation he may issue to "base his order only on substantial evidence of record at the hearing," and to "set
forth as part of his order detailed findings of fact on which
the order is based." 1
Any food which "purports to be or is represented as a
food for which a definition and standard of identity has
been prescribed" pursuant to § 401 is declared by § 403 (g)
1 As enacted, the Act vested the foregoing powers in the Secretary
of Agriculture. By §§ 12 and 13 of Reorganization Plan No. IV,
54 Stat. 1234, 1237, approved April 11, 1940, the Federal Food and
Drug Administration and all functions of the Secretary of Agriculture
relating thereto were transferred to the Federal Security Agency and
the Federal Security Administrator.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942:
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

to be misbranded "unless (1) it conforms to such definition and standard, and (2) its label bears the name of the
food specified in the definition and standard, and, insofar
as may be required by such regulations, the common
names of optional ingredients . . . present in such food."
The shipment in interstate commerce of "misbranded"
food is made a penal offense by §§ 301 and 303. "In a
case of actual controversy as to the validity" of an order
issuing regulations under § 401 any person "adversely
affected" by it may secure its review on appeal to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the circuit of his residence or
principal place of business. On such review the findings
of the Administrator "as to the facts, if supported by
substantial evidence, shall be conclusive." § 701 (f) (1),
(f) (3).
After due notice 2 and a hearing in which respondent
participated, the Administrator by order promulgated
regulations establishing definitions and standards of
identity for sixteen milled wheat products, including
"farina" and "enriched farina." Regulation 15.130 defined "farina" as a food prepared by grinding and bolting
cleaned wheat, other than certain specified kinds, to a prescribed fineness with the bran coat and germ of the wheat
berry removed to'a prescribed extent. The regulation
made no provision for the addition of any ingredients
to "farina." Regulation 15.140 defined "enriched farina"
as conforming to the regulation defining "farina," but
with added prescribed minimum quantities of vitamin
2 Respondent contended in the court below that the notice was
inadequate. It appears to have abandoned that contention here,
but in any event we think that it is without merit in view of respondent's participation in the original hearing, and in view of the
publication of notice of a reconvened hearing devoted solely to the

"propriety of the addition of vitamins and minerals to . . . (I)
farina .

.

"

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO. 223
218

Opinion of the Court.

B1, riboflavin," nicotinic acid (or nicotinic acid amide) and
iron. The regulation also provided that minimum quantities of vitamin D, calcium, wheat germ or disodium
phosphate might be added as optional ingredients of "enriched farina," and required that ingredients so added be
specified on the label. In support of the regulations the
Administrator found that "unless a standard" for milled
wheat products "is promulgated which limits the kinds
and amounts of enrichment, the manufacturers' selection
of the various nutritive elements and combinations of
elements on the basis of economic and merchandising
considerations is likely to lead to a great increase in the
diversity, both qualitative and quantitative, in enriched
flours offered to the public. Such diversity would tend
to confuse and mislead consumers as to the relative value
of and need for the several nutritional elements, and
would impede rather than promote honesty and fair
dealing in the interest of consumers."
On respondent's appeal from this order the Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit set it aside, 129 F. 2d
76, holding that the regulations did not conform to the
statutory standards of reasonableness, that the Administrator's findings as to probable consumer confusion in the
absence of the prescribed standards of identity were without support in the evidence and were "entirely speculative and conjectural," and that in any case such a finding
would not justify the conclusion that the regulations
would "promote honesty and fair dealing in the interest
of consumers." We granted certiorari, 317 U. S. 616, because of the importance of the questions involved to the
administration of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
8

The effective date of the riboflavin requirement has been postponed

until April 20, 1943, because it appeared that the available supply
was inadequate. 7 Fed. Reg. 3055.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Respondent, The Quaker Oats Company, has for the
past ten years manufactured and marketed a wheat product commonly used as a cereal food, consisting of farina
as defined by the Administrator's regulation, but with
vitamin D added. Respondent distributes this product
in packages labeled "Quaker Farina Wheat Cereal Enriched with Vitamin D," or "Quaker Farina Enriched by
the Sunshine Vitamin." The packages also bear the
label "Contents 400 U. S. P. units of Vitamin D per ounce,
supplied by approximately the addition of % of 1 percent
irradiated dry yeast."
Respondent asserts, and the Government agrees, that
the Act as supplemented by the Administrator's standards will prevent the marketing of its product as "farina"
since, by reason of the presence of vitamin D as an ingredient, it does not conform to the standard of identity
prescribed for "farina," and that respondent cannot market its product as "enriched farina" unless it adds the prescribed minimum quantities of vitamin B1, riboflavin,
nicotinic acid and iron. Respondent challenges the validity of the regulations on the grounds sustained below
and others so closely related to them as not to require
separate consideration.
As appears from the evidence and the findings, the
products of milled wheat are among the principal items
of the American diet, particularly among low income
groups.' Farina, which is a highly refined wheat product
resembling flour but with larger particles, is used in
macaroni, as a breakfast food, and extensively as a cereal
food for children. It is in many cases the only cereal
consumed by them during a period of their growth. Both
farina and flour are manufactured by grinding the whole
wheat and discarding its bran coat and germ. This process
4One witness at the hearing referred to estimates that over 95% of
human consumption of wheat products is in the form of white flour.

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO. 225
218

Opinion of the Court.

removes from the milled product that part of the
wheat which is richest in vitamins and minerals, particularly vitamin B1 , riboflavin, nicotinic acid and iron, valuable food elements which are often lacking in the diet of
low income groups. In their diet, especially in the case
of children, there is also frequently a deficiency of calcium
and vitamin D, which are elements not present in wheat
in significant quantities. Vitamin D, whose chief dietary
value is as an aid to the metabolism of calcium, is developed in the body by exposure to sunlight. It is derived
principally from cod liver and other fish oils. Milk is the
most satisfactory source of calcium in digestible form,
and milk enriched by vitamin D is now on the market.
In recent years millers of wheat have placed on the
market flours and farinas which have been enriched by the
addition of various vitamins and minerals. The composition of these enriched products varies widely.' There
was testimony of weight before the Administrator, prin5 The report of the officer presiding at the hearing enumerates the
following varieties disclosed by the testimony:
"Flours, phosphated flours, and self-rising flours1. One with added vitamin D;

2. One with added calcium;
3. One with added vitamin B1, nicotinic acid, and calcium [produced
by some 23 mills];
4. One with added vitanin Bi, calcium, and iron;
5. One containing wheat germ and wheat germ oil, said to furnish
vitamin Bi, vitamin E and riboflavin;
6. One 'long extraction' flour containing B1, riboflavin, calcium and

iron."
"Farinas-

7. One with added vitamin D;
8. One with added vitamin B1, calcium and iron."
The labels used, and advertising claims made, for those products
were not in the record. However, there was testimony that certain
of them were sold under such names as "Sunfed," "Vitawhite,"
"Holwhite."

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

cipally by expert nutritionists, that such products, because
of the variety and combination of added ingredients, are
widely variable in nutritional value; and that consumers
generally lack knowledge of the relative value of such
ingredients and combinations of them.
These witnesses also testified, as did representatives of
consumer organizations which had made special studies of
the problems of food standardization, that the number,
variety and varying combinations of the added ingredients tend to confuse the large number of consumers who
desire to purchase vitamin-enriched wheat food products
but who lack the knowledge essential to discriminating
purchase of them; that because of this lack of knowledge
and discrimination they are subject to exploitation by the
sale of foods described as "enriched," but of whose inferior
or unsuitable quality they are not informed. Accordingly
a large number of witnesses recommended the adoption of
definitions and standards for "enriched" wheat products
which would ensur fairly complete satisfaction of dietary
needs, and a somewhat lesser number recommended the
disallowance, as optional ingredients in the standards for
unenriched wheat products, of individual vitamins and
minerals whose addition would suggest to consumers an
adequacy for dietary needs not in fact supplied.
The court below characterized this evidence as speculative and conjectural, and held that because there was
no evidence that respondent's product had in fact confused or misled anyone, the Administrator's finding as to
consumer confusion was without substantial support in
the evidence. It thought that, if anything, consumer
confusion was more likely to be created, and the interest
of consumers harmed, by the sale of farinas conforming
to the standard for "enriched farina," whose labels were
not required to disclose their ingredients, than by the
sale of respondent's product under an accurate and informative label such as that respondent was using.

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

227

Opinion of the Court.

The Act does not contemplate that courts should thus
substitute their own judgment for that of the Administrator. As passed by the House it appears to have provided for a judicial review in which the court could take
additional evidence, weigh the evidence, and direct the
Administrator "to take such further action as justice may
require." H. R. Rep. No. 2139, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., pp.
11-12. But before enactment, the Conference Committee substituted for these provisions those which became
§ 701 (f) of the Act. While under that section the Administrator's regulations must be supported by findings
based upon "substantial evidence" adduced at the hearing, the Administrator's findings as to the facts if based
on substantial evidence are conclusive. In explaining
these changes the chairman of the House conferees stated
on the floor of the House that "there is no purpose that
the court shall exercise the functions that belong to the
executive or the legislative branches." 83 Cong. Rec., p.
9096. See also H. R. Rep. No. 2716, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.,
p. 25. Compare FederalRadio Comm'n v. General Electric Co., 281 U. S. 464.
The review provisions were patterned after those by
which Congress has provided for the review of "quasijudicial" orders of the Federal Trade Commission and
other agencies, which we have many times had occasion
to construe. Under such provisions we have repeatedly
emphasized the scope that must be allowed to the discre6The provision adopted by the Conference Committee is one which
was proposed as an amendment from the floor of the House by Mr.
Mapes, a minority member of the House Committee and one of the
House conferees. In proposing it he said that it was "the same as the
court review section in the Federal Trade Commission Act with only
such changes as are necessary to adapt it to the pending bill," and he

referred to "similar" provisions in the Bituminous Coal Commission
Act, National Labor Relations Act, Securities Exchange Act, and Federal
Communications Act. 83 Cong. Rec., 7892, 7777-8.

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

tion and informed judgment of an expert administrative
body. Federal Trade Comm'n v. EducationSociety, 302
U. S. 112, 117; Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402, 412; Labor
Board v. Link Belt Co., 311 U. S. 584, 597; see Federal
Communications Comm'n v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co.,
309 U. S. 134, 141, 144. These considerations are especially appropriate where the review is of regulations of
general application adopted by an administrative agency
under its rule-making power in carrying out the policy of
a statute with whose enforcement it is charged. Compare
Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co., 249 U. S.
479,487; Opp Cotton Mills v. Administrator,312 U. S. 126,
156. Section 401 calls for the exercise of the "judgment
of the Administrator." That judgment, if based on substantial evidence of record, and if within statutory and constitutional limitations, is controlling even though the reviewing court might on the same record have arrived at a
different conclusion.
None of the testimony which we have detailed can be
said to be speculative or conjectural unless it be the conclusion of numerous witnesses, adopted by the Administrator, that the labeling and marketing of vitamin-enriched
foods, not conforming to any standards of identity, tend
to confuse and mislead consumers. The exercise of the
administrative rule-making power necessarily looks to the
future. The statute requires the Administrator to adopt
standards of identity which in his judgment "will" promote
honesty and fair dealing in the interest of consumers.
Acting within his statutory authority he is required to
establish standards which will guard against the probable
future effects of present trends. Taking into account the
evidence of public demand for vitamin-enriched foods,
their increasing sale, their variable vitamin composition
and dietary value, and the general lack of consumer knowledge of such values, there was sufficient evidence of

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

229

Opinion of the Court.

"rational probative force" (see ConsolidatedEdison Co. v.
Labor Board, 305 U. S. 197, 229, 230), to support the Administrator's judgment that, in the absence of appropriate
standards of identity, consumer confusion would ensue.
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 283 U. S. 643, 651;
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., 316 U. S. 149, 151,
152; Pacific States Box Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 181.
Compare McLean v. Fleming, 96 U. S. 245, 251, 253-4,
255.
Respondent insists, as the court below held, that the
consumer confusion found by the Administrator affords
no basis for his conclusion that the standards of identity
adopted by the Administrator will promote honesty and
fair dealing. But this is tantamount to saying, despite
the Administrator's findings to the contrary, either that
in the circumstances of this case there could be no such
consumer confusion or that the confusion could not be
deemed to facilitate unfair dealing contrary to the interest of consumers. For reasons already indicated we
think that the evidence of the desire of consumers to
purchase vitamin-enriched foods, their general ignorance
of the composition and value of the vitamin content of
those foods, and their consequent inability to guard
against the purchase of products of inferior or unsuitable
vitamin content, sufficiently supports the Administrator's conclusions.
We have recognized that purchasers under such conditions are peculiarly susceptible to dishonest and unfair
marketing practices. In United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 149, 150, we upheld the constitutionality of a statute prohibiting the sale of "filled
milk"-a condensed milk product from which the vitamin content had been extracted-although honestly labeled and not in itself deleterious. Decision was rested
on the ground that Congress could reasonably conclude

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

that the use of the product as a milk substitute deprives
consumers of vitamins requisite for health and "facilitates fraud on the public" by "making fraudulent distribution easy and protection of the consumer difficult."
Both the text and legislative history of the present
statute plainly show that its purpose was not confined
to a requirement of truthful and informative labeling.
False and misleading labeling had been prohibited by the
Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. But it was found that
such a prohibition was inadequate to protect the consumer from "economic adulteration," by which less expensive ingredients were substituted, or the proportion
of more expensive ingredients diminished, so as to make
the product, although not in itself deleterious, inferior
to that which the consumer expected to receive when purchasing a product with the name under which it was
sold. Sen. Rep. No. 493, 73d Cong., 2d Sess., p. 10; Sen.
Rep. No. 361, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 10. The remedy
chosen was not a requirement of informative labeling.
Rather it was the purpose to authorize the Administrator
to promulgate definitions and standards of identity "under
which the integrity of food products can be effectively
maintained" (H. R. Rep. 2139, 75th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 2;
H. R. Rep. 2755, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 4), and to require informative labeling only where no such standard
had been promulgated, where the food did not purport
to comply with a standard, or where the regulations permitted optional ingredients and required their mention
on the label. §§ 403 (g), 403 (i); see Sen. Rep. No. 361,
74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 12; Sen. Rep. No. 493, 73d Cong.,
2d Sess., pp. 11-12.
The provisions for standards of identity thus reflect a
recognition by Congress of the inability of consumers in
some cases to determine, solely on the basis of informative labeling, the relative merits of a variety of products

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

231

Opinion of the Court.

superficially resembling each other.' We cannot say that
such a standard of identity, designed to eliminate a source
of confusion to purchasers-which otherwise would be
likely to facilitate unfair dealing and make protection of
the consumer difficult--will not "promote honesty and
fair dealing" within the meaning of the statute.
Respondent's final and most vigorous attack on the
regulations is that they fail to establish reasonable definitions and standards of identity, as § 401 requires, in that
they prohibit the marketing, under the name "farina," of
a wholesome and honestly labeled product consisting of
farina with vitamin D added, and that they prevent the
addition of vitamin D to products marketed as "enriched
farina" unless accompanied by the other prescribed vitamin ingredients which do not co-act with or have any
dietary relationship to vitamin D. Stated in another
form, the argument is that it is unreasonable to prohibit
the addition to farina of vitamin D as an op3tional ingredient while permitting its addition as an optional ingredient to enriched farina, to the detriment of respondent's
business.
7A Message of the President, dated March 22, 1935, urging passage
of the bill and particularly of the standard of identity provision,
pointed out that "The various qualities of goods require a kind of
discrimination which is not at the command of consumers. They are
likely to confuse outward appearances with inward integrity. In
such a situation as has grown up through our rising level of living and
our multiplication of goods, consumers are prevented from choosing
intelligently and producers are handicapped in any attempt to maintain higher standards." H. R. Rep. No. 2755, 74th Cong., 2d Sess.,

pp. 1-2.
The Chairman of the Food and Drug Administration testified before
the Senate Committee that the provision for standards of identity
which would reflect "the expectation of the buyer" was "one of the
most important provisions of the Act." Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce on S. 1944, Dec. 7 and
8, 1933, pp. 35, 36.
513236-43-vol. 318-

19

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

The standards of reasonableness to which the Administrator's action must conform are to be found in the terms
of the Act construed and applied in the light of its purpose. Its declared purpose is the administrative promulgation of standards of both identity and quality in the
interest of consumers. Those standards are to be prescribed and applied, so far as is practicable, to food under
its common or usual name, and the regulations adopted
after a hearing must have the support of substantial evidence. We must reject at the outset the argument
earnestly pressed upon us that the statute does not contemplate a regulation excluding a wholesome and beneficial ingredient from the definition and standard of
identity of a food. The statutory purpose to fix a definition of identity of an article of food sold under its common
or usual name would be defeated if producers were free
to add ingredients, however wholesome, which are not
within the definition. As we have seen, the legislative
history of the statute manifests the purpose of Congress
to substitute, for informative labeling, standards of identity of a food, sold under a common or usual name, so
as to give to consumers who purchase it under that name
assurance that they will get what they may reasonably
expect to receive. In many instances, like the present,
that purpose could be achieved only if the definition of
identity specified the number, names and proportions of
ingredients, however wholesome other combinations
might be. The statute accomplished that purpose by
authorizing the Administrator to adopt a definition of
identity by prescribing some ingredients, including some
which are optional, and excluding others, and by requiring
the designation on the label of the optional ingredients
permitted
sThe standard of identity provision was repeatedly stated in the
Committee reports to have been patterned on the Butter Standards
Act of 1923, 42 Stat. 1500. Sen. Rep. No. 361, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

233

Opinion of the Court.

Since the definition of identity of a vitamin-treated
food, marketed under its common or usual name, involves
the inclusion of some vitamin ingredients and the exclusion of others, the Administrator necessarily has a large
range of choice in determining what may be included and
what excluded. It is not necessarily a valid objection to
his choice that another could reasonably have been made.
The judicial is not to be substituted for the legislative
judgment. It is enough that the Administrator has acted
within the statutory bounds of his authority, and that his
choice among possible alternative standards adapted to the
statutory end is one which a rational person could have
made. Houston v. St. Louis Independent Packing Co.,
supra, 487.
The evidence discloses that it is well known that the
milling process for producing flours and farinas removes
p. 10; Sen. Rep. No. 646, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 4; Sen. Rep. No.
493, 73d Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 10; H. R. Rep. No. 2139, 75th Cong., 3rd
Sess., p. 5. That Act was entitled "An Act to define butter and
provide a standard therefor," and establish a legislative definition
and standard for butter. The Chairman of the House Committee
which reported it said "The only things you can put into [butter) are
salt, casein, the butter fat, and water. That is what the definition
provides." Hearings, House Committee on Agriculture on H. R.
12053, 67th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 25; see also H. R. Rep. No. 1141,
67th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 4.
Also referred to as models for the standards to be promulgated
under the present act were the advisory standards then being promulgated by the Pure Food and Drug Administration under the
authority given by the Appropriation Act of June 3, 1902, 32 Stat.
286, 296, and subsequent acts. Hearing before a Subcommittee of
the Senate Committee on Commerce on S. 1944, Dec. 7 and 8, 1933,
p. 36. (Statement of Walter B. Campbell, Chief of Food and Drug
Administration, Dept. of Agriculture.) The announcements promulgating these standards stated that they were "so framed as to exclude
substances not mentioned in the definition." E. g., Dept. of Agriculture, Food and Drug Administration, Service and Regulatory Announcement No. 2, Revision 4 (1933) p. 1; id., Rev. 5 (1936) p. 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

from the wheat a substantial part of its health-giving vitamin contents, which are concededly essential to the maintenance of health, and that many consumers desire to
purchase wheat products which have been enriched by
the restoration of some of the original vitamin content
of the wheat. In fixing definitions and standards of identity in conformity with the statutory purpose the Administrator was thus confronted with two related problems.
One was the choice of a standard which would appropriately identify unenriched wheat products which had long
been on the market. The other was the selection of a
standard for enriched wheat products which would both
assure to consumers of vitamin-enriched products some
of the benefits to health which they sought, and protect
them from exploitation through the marketing of vitaminenriched foods of whose dietary value they were ignorant.
In finding the solution the Administrator could take into
account the facts that whole wheat is a natural and common source of the valuable dietary ingredients which he
prescribed for enriched farina; that wheat is not a source
of vitamin D; that milk, a common article of diet, is a
satisfactory source of an assimilable form of calcium;
that the principal function of vitamin D is to aid in the
metabolism of calcium; and that milk enriched with vitamin D was already on the market.
We cannot say that the Administrator made an unreasonable choice of standards when he adopted one which
defined the familiar farina of commerce without permitting addition of vitamin enrichment, and at the same time
prescribed for "enriched farina" the restoration of those
vitamins which had been removed from the whole wheat
by milling, and allowed the optional addition of vitamin D,
commonly found in milk but not present in wheat. Consumers who buy farina will have no reason to believe that
it is enriched. Those who buy enriched farina are assured
of receiving a wheat product containing those vitamins

SECURITY ADM'R v. QUAKER OATS CO.
218

235

Opinion of the Court.

naturally present in wheat, and, if so stated on the label,
an additional vitamin D, not found in wheat.
Respondent speaks of the high cost of vitamin B1 ($700
per pound), but there was evidence that the cost of adding
to flour the minute quantities of the four ingredients required for enriched farina would be about 75 cents per
barrel, and respondent concedes that the cost to it may be
but a fraction of a cent per pound. The record is otherwise silent as to the probable effect of the increased cost
on the marketing of respondent's product. On this record
it does not appear that the increased cost has any substantial bearing on the reasonableness of the regulation.
We conclude that the Administrator did not depart from
statutory requirements in choosing these standards of
identity for the purpose of -promoting fair dealing in the
interest of consumers, that the standards which he selected
are adapted to that end, and that they are adequately
supported by findings and evidence.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS is of opinion that the judgment
should be affirmed for the reasons stated by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 129 F. 2d 76.

