OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

trust, has been deemed exclusive of the jurisdiction of a
federal court over a later suit there for the same relief,
Princess Lida v. Thompson, 305 U. S. 456, 466-67, here
the federal court has not attempted to assume such jurisdiction with respect to an asserted but contested interest
in land located in another state. So far as the suits in
either the federal or the state courts seek an adjudication
of the interests of the parties in the land, it cannot be said
that the federal court has exclusive jurisdiction. Commonwealth Trust Co. v. Bradford, 297 U. S. 613. In any
case, exercise by the state courts of their jurisdiction to
adjudicate the parties' rights to land located in those
states involves no interference with or impairment of the
jurisdiction of the federal court in Illinois, and affords no
ground for the injunction restraining prosecutions of the
suits in the state courts. Commonwealth Trust Co. v.
Bradford, supra. The case does not come within any
exception to the prohibition of ยง 265 of the Judicial
Code.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be
reversed with directions to the district court to vacate the
injunction order.
Reversed.
IN RE WILLIAM V. BRADLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 473. Argued January 8, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.
A federal court having erroneously imposed upon the petitioner a
sentence of fine and imprisonment for contempt (Jud. Code ยง 268,

28 U. S. C. ยง 385), and the fine having been paid to the clerk of
the court, who gave a receipt therefor, the court is without power
thereafter-although the money had not been covered into the
Treasury-to modify the sentence to one of imprisonment only,
and the petitioner must be discharged. P. 52.
Reversed.

IN RE BRADLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

50
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 616, to review a judgment sentenc-

ing the petitioner for contempt.
Mr. Thomas D. McBride for petitioner.
Mr. W. Marvin Smith, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Berge, and Messrs.
Oscar A. Provost and John FordBaecher were on the brief,
for the United States.
MR. JUSTIE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A proceeding, instituted by the National Labor Relations Board against Delaware-New Jersey Ferry Company for enforcement of an order of the Board, was pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals. A hearing was set
at which witnesses were to be heard. The petitioner was
to be a witness for, the Board. During the course of the
trial the petitioner was summoned and, after hearing,
was adjudged guilty of contempt because of his intimidation of a witness for the Ferry Company in the corridor
adjoining the court room.
The court sentenced the petitioner to six months' imprisonment, to pay a fine of $500, and to stand committed
until he complied with the sentence. The sentence was
erroneous. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 176. Under
ยง 268 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. 385, the sentence
could only be a fine or imprisonment. Ex parte Robinson, 19 Wall. 505, 512; Clark v. United States, 61 F. 2d
695, 709; affirmed 289 U. S. 1.
The marshal .was directed forthwith to execute the
judgment. On September 28, 1942, the petitioner was
taken into custody and committed to prison. On October
1 his attorney paid the fine in cash to the clerk of the
court. Later on that day the court, realizing that the
sentence was erroneous, delivered to the clerk an order
amending it by omitting any fine and retaining only the

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

six months' imprisonment. The court instructed the clerk,
who still held the money, to return it to the petitioner's
attorney. The latter refused to receive it, and the clerk
has it.
The petitioner, being in jail, petitioned this Court to
grant certiorari, alleging as errors the adjudication that he
was guilty of contempt and the manner of sentencing him.
We granted the writ and admitted him to bail pending
decision.
We do not review the finding that the petitioner's conduct was a contempt summarily punishable by the court,
for we are of opinion that the errors involved in the
sentence require that he shall be freed from further
imprisonment.
When, on October 1, the fine was paid to the clerk and
receipted for by him, the petitioner had complied with a
portion of the sentence which could lawfully have been
imposed. As the judgment of the court was thus executed
so as to be a full satisfaction of one of the alternative penalties of the law, the power of the court was at an end.1 It
is unimportant that the fine had not been covered into the
treasury; it had been paid to the clerk, the officer of the
United States authorized to receive it,' and petitioner's
rights did not depend upon what that officer subsequently
did with the money.8
It follows that the subsequent amendment of the sentence could not avoid the satisfaction of the judgment,
and the attempt to accomplish that end was a nullity.
Since one valid alternative provision of the original sentence has been satisfied, the petitioner is entitled to be
freed of further restraint.
I Ex parte Lange, supra, 176.

2 In

re Fletcher,71 App. D. C. 108, 107 F. 2d 666, 668.
8 Ex parteLange, supra, p. 176; and compare the dissenting opinion,
pp. 180, 190, 199-200; Yavorsky v. United States, 1 F. 2d 169, 171;
Moss v. United States, 23 App. D. C. 475, 485.

IN RE BRADLEY.
50

SToNE,

C. J., dissenting.

The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded
with directions that the petitioner be discharged from
custody.
Reversed.
MR. CHIEF

JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting:

In Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163, the trial court did
not remit or offer to remit the fine which the offender
had paid. The opinion was careful to point out (p. 175)
that the fine paid had been covered into the treasury and
that the courts were powerless to direct its return. That
decision thus lends no support to that now rendered that
the choice rests with the offender rather than with the
court whether he shall be punished by fine or by imprisonment, either of which alone the court could have lawfully
imposed; and that by payment of the fine, imposed and
accepted under mistake of law and immediately remitted,
he may irrevocably escape punishment by imprisonment.
So far as Ex parte Lange is regarded here as resting on
the ground that it would be double jeopardy to compel
the offender to serve the prison sentence after remission of the fine on the same day on which it was paid, I
think its authority should be reexamined and rejected.
The substance of the punishment imposed on the offender
by a fine is in depriving him of the money he has paid.
Here he has not been deprived of the money paid to the
clerk of the court, for the fine was remitted on the same
day on which it was paid, and he was then free to reclaim
it. Since he is shown to have suffered no more from the
imposition of the fine than if the clerk had refused to
receive it when tendered, there is I think no substance in
the contention that he will suffer double punishment if
compelled to serve out his prison sentence.
The Constitution is concerned with matters of substance not of form. Nothing in its words or history forbids
a common sense application of its provisions, or excludes

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

them from the operation of the principle de minimis. I
can hardly suppose that we would hold unconstitutional
an Act of Congress commanding prompt return of a fine
mistakenly imposed under these circumstances, and requiring the prison sentence originally imposed to be
served. Yet Ex parte Lange as interpreted and applied
here rests on constitutional grounds which are equally
applicable to an Act of Congress.
I agree with the suggestion of the Government that the
court's second order resentencing petitioner could not
rightly be entered without affording petitioner or his
counsel an opportunity to be present, and that the
cause should, on that account, be remanded for further
proceedings.
TILLER, EXECUTOR, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 296.

Argued January 4, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.

1. The 1939 amendment of the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
which provides that in an action against a common carrier under the
Act to recover damages for injury or death of an employee, "such
employee shall not be held to have assumed the risks of his employment in any case where such injury or death resulted in whole
or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or
employees of such carrier," obliterated from that law every vestige
of the doctrine of assumption of risk. P. 58.
2. The rule of decision in cases under the Act as amended is the doctrine of comparative negligence, which permits the jury to weigh the
fault of the injured employee and to compare it with the negligence
of the employer, and thereupon to do justice to both. P. 65.
3. The question of the negligence of the employer is to be determined
by the general rule which defines negligence as the lack of due care
under the circumstances; or the failure to do what a reasonable and
prudent man would ordinarily have done under the circumstances;
or doing what such a person under the circumstances would not have

