184

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

by resort to higher mathematics beyond the ken of the
taxpayer, exhibits the artificiality of the Government's
application of the Act. This is well illustrated in the
companion cases of Robinette and Paumgarten, infra,
p. 184. Such results argue strongly against the construction which the court adopts.
ROBINETTE v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 499.

Argued January 14, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.

A woman, contemplating marriage, created an irrevocable trust of
property, under which she was to receive the income during her
life; upon her death, her mother and stepfather were to have a
life interest in the income; the remainder was to go to her issue
upon their reaching the age of 21, and, in default of issue, then to
whomever the last surviving life tenant should appoint by will. Her
mother created a similar trust, reserving a life interest to herself and
her husband, with a second life interest to the daughter, and remainder to the daughter's issue. Concededly, the secondary life
interests were subject to the federal gift tax. Held:
1. The remainders (after the life interests) were taxable gifts
under the Revenue Act of 1932. Smith v. Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176
P. 186.
2. The fact that on the date of the creation of the trust there were
in existence no eligible remaindermen does not defeat the gift tax.
P. 186.
3. The transfers in this case can not be regarded as supported
by "full consideration in money or money's worth" within the meaning of § 503 of the Act; nor as "in the ordinary course of business"
within the meaning of Art. 8 of Treasury Regulations 79. P. 187.
4. The value of the reversionary interests of the grantors in this
case, being incapable of ascertainment by recognized actuarial meth*Together with No. 500, Paumgartenv. Helvering, Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, also on writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 620, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

ROBINETTE v. HELVERING.
184

Opinion of the Court.

ods, is not deductible in computing the gift tax. Smith v. Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176, distinguished. P. 188.
129 F. 2d 832, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 620, to review the reversal of a

decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 44 B. T. A. 701,
which reversed in two cases, consolidated for hearing before the Board and in the court below, determinations of
deficiencies in federal gift taxes.
Mr. Henry A. Mulcahy, with whom Mr. Guilford S.
Jameson was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney GeneralClark, and Messrs.Sewall Key,
J. Louis Monarch, and L. W. Post were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is another case I under the gift tax provisions of
the Revenue Act of 1932, §§ 501, 506, which, while presenting certain variants on the questions decided in Smith v.
Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176, is in other respects analogous
to and controlled by that case.
In 1936, the petitioner, Elise Paumgarten (nee Robinson), was thirty years of age and was contemplating marriage; her mother, Meta Biddle Robinette, was 55 years of
age and was married to the stepfather of Miss Robinson.
The three, daughter, mother and stepfather, had a conference with the family attorney, with a view to keeping the
daughter's fortune within the family. An agreement was
made that the daughter should place her property in trust,
receiving a life estate in the income for herself, and creating a second life estate in the income for her mother and
stepfather if she should predecease them. The remainder
1These two matters have been considered as one case below and will

be so treated here.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U.S.

was to go to her issue upon their reaching the age of 21,
with the further arrangement for the distribution of the
property by the will of the last surviving life tenant if no
issue existed. Her mother created a similar trust, reserving
a life estate to herself and her husband and a second or
contingent life estate to her daughter. She also assigned
the remainder to the daughter's issue. The stepfather
made a similar arrangement by will. The mother placed
$193,000 worth of property in the trust she created, and
the daughter did likewise with $680,000 worth of property.
The parties agree that the secondary life estates in the
income are taxable gifts, and this tax has been paid. The
issue is whether there has also been a taxable gift of the
remainders of the two trusts. The Commissioner determined that the remainders were taxable, the Board of Tax
Appeals reversed the Commissioner, and the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the Board of Tax Appeals. 129 F.
2d 832.
The petitioners argue that the grantors have not relinquished economic control and that this transaction should
not be subject both to the estate and to the gift tax. What
we have said in the Smith case determines these questions
adversely to the petitioners. However, the petitioners
emphasize certain other special considerations.
First. Petitioners argue that since there were no donees
in existence on the date of the creation of the trust who
could accept the remainders, the transfers cannot be completed gifts. The gift tax law itself has no such qualifications.

It imposes a tax "upon the transfer . . . of

property by gift." And Treasury Regulations 79, Art. 3,
provide that "The tax is a primary and personal liability of
the donor, is an excise upon his act of making the transfer, is measured by the value of the property passing
from the donor, and attaches regardless of the fact that
the identity of the donee may not then be known or ascertainable." We are asked to strike down this regulation

ROBINETTE v. HELVERING.
184

Opinion of the Court.

as being invalid because inconsistent with the statute.
We do not think it is. As pointed out in the Smith case,
the effort of Congress was to reach every kind and type
of transfer by gift. The statute "is aimed at transfers
of the title that have the quality of a gift." Burnet v.
Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, 286. The instruments created by these grantors purported on their face wholly to
divest the grantors of all dominion over the property;
it could not be returned to them except because of contingencies beyond their control. Gifts of future interests
are taxable under the Act, § 504 (b), and they do not lose
this quality merely because of the indefiniteness of the
eventual recipient. The petitioners purported to give
the property to someone whose identity could be later
ascertained and this was enough.
Second. It is argued that the transfers were not gifts
but were supported by "full consideration in money or
money's worth." 2 This contention rests on the assumption that an agreement between the parties to execute
these trusts was sufficient consideration to support the
transfers, We need not consider or attempt to decide
what were the rights of these parties as among themselves. Petitioners think that their transaction comes
within the permissive scope of Art. 8 of Regulations 79
(1936 edition) which provides that "a sale, exchange, or
other transfer of property made in the ordinary course of
Section 503 of the 1932 Act, 47 Stat. 169, provides that "Where
property is transferred for less than an adequate and full consideration in money or money's worth, then the amount by which the value
of the property exceeded the value of the consideration shall, for
"
the purpose of the tax imposed by this title, be deemed a gift, ....
This language is interpreted in the House and Senate Committee
Reports as follows: "The tax is designed to reach all transfers to the
extent that they are donative, and to exclude any consideration not
reducible to money or money's worth." House Report No. 708, 72d
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 29; Senate Report No. 665, 72d Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 41.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

business (a transaction which is bona fide at arm's length,
and free from any donative intent) will be considered as
made for an adequate and full consideration in money or
money's worth." The basic premise of petitioner's argument is that the moving impulse for the trust transaction
was a desire to pass the family fortune on to others. It
is impossible to conceive of this as even approaching a
transaction "in the ordinary course of business."
Third. The last argument is that "in any event, in computing the value of the remainders herein, allowance
should be made for the value of the grantor's reversionary
interest." Here, unlike the Smith case, the government
does not concede that the reversionary interest of the petitioner should be deducted from the total value. In the
Smith case, the grantor had a reversionary interest which
depended only upon his surviving his wife, and the government conceded that the value was therefore capable of
ascertainment by recognized actuarial methods. In this
case, however, the reversionary interest of the grantor depends not alone upon the possibility of survivorship but
also upon the death of the daughter without issue who
should reach the age of 21 years. The petitioner does not
refer us to any recognized method by which it would be
possible to determine the value of such a contingent reversionary remainder. It may be true, as the petitioners
argue, that trust instruments such as these before us frequently create "a complex aggregate of rights, privileges,
powers and immunities and that in certain instances all
these rights, privileges, powers and immunities are not
transferred or released simultaneously." But before one
who gives his property away by this method is entitled to
deduction from his gift tax on the basis that he had retained some of these complex strands it is necessary that
he at least establish the possibility of approximating what
value he holds. Factors to be considered in fixing the
value of this contingent reservation as of the date of the

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
184

189

Syllabus.

gift would have included consideration of whether or not
the daughter would marry; whether she would have children; whether they would reach the age of 21; etc. Actuarial science may have made great strides in appraising
the value of that which seems to be unappraisable, but we
have no reason to believe from this record that even the
actuarial art could do more than guess at the value here
in question. Humes v. United States, 276 U. S. 487, 494.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents for the reasons set forth
in his opinion in Smith v. Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 273.

Argued January 15, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.

1. Where a defendant in a criminal prosecution in a federal court
voluntarily testifies, and upon cross-examination asserts a claim
of privilege against self-incrimination which the court unqualifiedly
grants, albeit mistakenly, it is error for the court thereafter to
permit the prosecutor to comment upon the claim of privilege
and to permit the jury to draw any inference therefrom, if, as
here, it can be said that the defendant's choice of claiming or waiving the privilege would have been materially affected had he known
that the claim though granted would be used to his prejudice.
P. 196.
2. Objection to the prosecutor's comment on an allowed claim of
privilege in this case was expressly waived by the defendant's withdrawing his exception to it and acquiescing in the court's treatment of the matter, and a new trial is not granted. P. 199.
3. Rulings of the trial court excluding the defendant from the court
room while counsel were arguing the question of the propriety of
a line of cross-examination, and requiring that he resume the stand
without conferring with his counsel concerning a claim of privilege,
to which rulings no exceptions were taken, and which did not result

