CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.

629

Syllabus.
CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 321. Argued January 6, 7, 1943.--Decided April 5, 1943.
1. The provisions of treaties of 1866 with the Creek and Seminole
Nations, whereby the United States guaranteed to them quiet possession of their country, can not be construed as obliging the United
States to indemnify them for damages sustained through wrongful
appropriations of tribal land in the guise of "station reservations,"

but for non-railroad purposes, by railroad companies whose lines
were built and operated in the Indians' country by permission of
the United States and under sanction of the treaties. P. 633.
2. Section 15 of the Act of February 28, 1902, provided that the Indian tribes through whose land railroads were to be built under the
Act, should be compensated by the railroad companies for the land
taken, and established a system of valuation under judicial supervision with a right of appellate review. These provisions prescribe
an adequate method by which the tribes could protect their own
interests, but contain no indication that the United States should
pay for the lands taken. P. 636.
3. Read in view of its legislative history and its relation to other similar
legislation, the Act of February 28, 1902 (§ 16), in providing that
where a railroad is constructed under it in the Indian territory the
railroad company shall pay to the Secretary of the Interior, for
the benefit of the particular tribe or nation through whose lands it
is constructed, "an annual charge of fifteen dollars per mile" did not
make the Government an insurer of collection nor put upon the
Secretary a mandatory duty to collect, nor does it import an obligation of the United States to the tribe for charges which railroad
companies have failed to pay. P. 637.
4. The Act of April 26, 1906, § 11, providing that all revenues
accruing to the Creek and Seminole tribes shall "be collected by an
officer appointed by the Secretary of the Interior under rules and
regulations to be prescribed by him" did not make the United States
liable for rents and profits of tribal land allegedly taken and used
for non-railroad purposes by railroad companies under color of
*Together with No. 322, Seminole Nation v. United States, also on
writ of certiorari, 317 U. S. 614, to the Court of Claims.

630

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

authority to build and operate railroads in the Indians' country.
P. 638.
5. As to trespasses which may have been committed by the railroads
without compliance with the forms of the authorizing Acts, or as to
holdings, once proper, which the railroads may have retained after
the rights to them had expired, the Act of 1906 imposed no absolute
duty on the Secretary to obtain compensation. P. 639.
6. The duty of the Secretary of the Interior under the Act of 1906 to
collect revenues of the Creeks and Seminoles, and to bring suits for
their use in the name of the United States for the collection of any
moneys, or the recovery of any land claimed by them, was discretionary. P. 639.
7. The Creek and Seminole Tribes, not having been dissolved, had a
legal right to bring actions for trespasses on their lands by railroad
companies-a right which was not precluded by the fact that the
United States also, as guardian, was empowered to sue. P. 640.

97 Ct. Cla. 591,723, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 614, to review judgments sustain-

ing demurrers to petitions setting up claims against the
United States; and dismissing the petitions. See also
75 Ct. Cls. 873.
Mr. Paul M. Niebell, with whom Messrs. C. Maurice
Weidemeyer and W. W. Pryor were on the brief, for
I
petitioners.
Mr. Archibald Cox, with whom Solicitor General Fahy,
Assistant Attorney General Littell, and Messrs. Vernon L.
Wilkinson and Dwight D. Doty were on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

These actions were originally brought in 1926 under
special jurisdictional acts of 1924, which gave the Court
of Claims jurisdiction over claims under "any treaty or
agreement between the United States" and these tribes.1
'43 Stat. 133, 43 Stat. 139. See also the jurisdictional act of 1937,

50 Stat. 650.

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

631

Opinion of the Court.

The actions were based on a contention that the United
States had breached its obligation as a guardian of its
Indian wards in failing to collect the sums described
below. The Court of Claims sustained, a demurrer to the
first complaint, on the ground that the special jurisdictional acts permitted actions brought on specific statutory
or treaty pledges only, and not actions brought on a wardship theory. 75 Ct. Cls. 873. The petitioners subsequently amended their complaints to comply with the
requirements of the jurisdictional acts, alleging that the
United States in specific statutes and treaties guaranteed
to repay the Indians for the losses claimed to have been
suffered. The Court of Claims sustained a demurrer to
the second amended complaint on the ground that it did
not state a cause of actioAi, 97 Ct. Cls. 591, and we granted
certiorari because of the importance of the questions
raised in the administration of Indian affairs. The cases
present the question whether the United States has assumed treaty or statutory obligations which require it to
indemnify the Creek and Seminole nations for injuries
alleged to have been suffered by them as a result of
the seizure and use of their land by private railroad'
companies.
By the treaties of 1866,2 the Creeks and Seminoles
granted a right of way to railroads which the United
States might later authorize to construct and operate
routes across their lands. They agreed to permit the railroads to buy strips up to three miles in width on each
side of the track. In the succeeding thirty-six years, Congress, by a series of special acts, authorized the construction and operation of railroads,' and in 1902 it passed a
2 14 Stat. 755 (Seminole), 785 (Creeks). The treaties are sufficiently
similar so that hereafter reference will be made to the Creek treaty
only.
s The treaty was originally interpreted as permitting the construction of only two railroads through the Territory. Letter of the Secre-

513236-43-vol. 318-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

general statute concerning future railroad construction in
the Indian Territory.4 The 1902 Act included a provision,
§ 16, that railroads should pay a fixed annual sum per mile
to the Secretary .of the Interior for the benefit of the
tribes.
The Indians allege that the railroads have not complied
with the terms of the treaties and statutes, in that they
have taken and held certain station reservations unnecessary for railroad purposes for their own benefit, that they
have received rents and profits from the use of these lands,
and that they have failed to pay the annual mileage
charge.' They ask that the government indemnify them
for the value of the lands allegedly wrongfully taken, for
rents and profits accruing to the railroads from their use
of those lands, and for the mileage charge.
It must be emphasized that this action is brought, not
against the railroads which have committed the asserted
tary of the Interior to the President, May 21, 1870, approved by him
May 23, 1870, referred to at 13 0. A. G. 285 (1870). In the 1880's,
Congress began, in a series of special acts, to authorize construction
of railroads through the Indian Territory on a theory of eminent
domain. Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.
641. See e. g. the Committee Report.and discussion of the bill granting a right of way to the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway, 15
Cong. Rec. 4711 et seq. (1884). Approximately one half of the railroads involved in the instant case appear to have been authorized by
special acts and to have been constructed prior to the general act of
1902. For a general history of railroads in Oklahoma, see Bulletin
No. 60, The Railway and Locomotive Historical Society, "The Railroads of Oklahoma," published through the Baker Library of the
Harvard Business School (1943).
4 An Act regulating general construction of railroads through Indian
lands was first adopted in 1899, 30 Stat. 990. The 1902 Act was more
particularly directed at construction through the territory of the Five
Civilized Tribes, of which petitioners are two.
5 Under an opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, the obligation
to make this payment terminated upon the admission of Oklahoma
as a state in 1907. 38 Decisions of Secretary of the Interior (Public
Lands) 414.

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

633

Opinion of the Court.

misdeeds, but against the government for its failure to
collect the sums claimed for the petitioners from the railroads. The question for decision here, therefore, is
whether, assuming arguendo that the railroads are at
fault, the government was obligated to compel restitution
or to recover damages; and if the government failed to do
these things, whether it had a duty to make the Indians
whole. We are asked to find an agreement to indemnify
the tribes for these losses in the Treaty of 1866, the Act of
1902, and an Act of 1906.
First. The Treaty of 1866. Article I of the Treaty
provided:
"[The Creeks] also agree to remain at peace with all
other Indian tribes; and, in return, the United States guarantees them quiet possession of their country, and protection against hostilities on the part of other tribes. In
the event of hostilities, the United States agree that the
tribe commencing and prosecuting the same, shall, as far
as may be practicable, make just reparation therefor."
(Emphasis added.)
The petitioners contend that the government failed to
prevent the railroads from taking and holding station reservations later found to be unnecessary for railroad purposes, and that it thus became liable to the petitioners for
breach of the guarantee of "quiet possession."
The Court of Claims concluded that the guarantee of
quiet possession applied only to protection from hostilities by other tribes. Such a conclusion receives support
from a consideration of the circumstances of the time, for
inter-tribal warfare was a dominant danger. Some of
the tribes had fought on, each side in the Civil War, and
strange new tribes were about to be settled on adjacent
land. The turmoil of reconstruction called for military
protection.
We conclude that, whether or not the guarantee is
limited to military protection, this language did not obli-

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

gate the United States to compensate the tribes for encroachments by railroads acting under color of right.
Keeping the peace and protecting the Indians was a difficult, and at times almost impossible, task,' and we cannot
assume that the government meant to guarantee reparations for breach of quiet possession without a single explicit word in the Treaty to that effect. Where reparations were planned, clear language was used. Thus, in
the section quoted above, hostile tribes, and not the government, were explicitly made liable for the tribe's depredations. There is no such provision putting a similar
liability for losses of any sort on the United States.' A
promise by the government to try to keep the peace is not
equivalent to a promise to make payments if the peace is
not kept; "and before any judgment should be rendered
binding the United States it is familiar and settled law
that the statute claimed to justify such judgment should
be clear and not open to debate." Leighton v. United
States, 161 U. S. 291, 296, 297.
This conclusion does not mean that the United States
in signing the treaty made an empty promise. The government undertook to use its military power to protect the
Indians against military aggression, and in addition it un-

I "The treaties of 1866, and other treaties also, guarantee to the five
civilized tribes the possession of their lands; but, without the moral
and physical power which is represented by the Army of the United
States, what are these treaties worth as a protection against the rapacious greed of the homeless people of the States who seek homesteads within the borders of the Indian Territory? If the protecting power of this Government were withdrawn for thirty days, where
would the treaties be, and the laws of the Indians and the Indians
themselves?" Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs in 1
Report, Secretary of the Interior (1886), 81.
7 The only instance which has been called to our attention in which
the United States specifically guaranteed to bring civil actions for
the benefit of a tribe and insured payment for trespasses is the treaty
of May 24, 1834, with the Chickasaws, 7 Stat. 450.

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

635

Opinion of the Court.

dertook through its administrative and legislative policy
to aid the tribes to hold possession of their lands. In view
of the pressures of the time, it appears to have treated
its obligation with real care. The acts providing for the
construction of the railroads, for example, provided for
payment to the Indians for the land taken,' attempted to
restrict the amount granted to that necessary," and usually
provided for reversion of title to the Indians upon discontinuance of the road."° In 1871, upon appeal of the tribes,
the Secretary of the Interior refused to permit a road to
enter the territory because of a claimed violation of the
treaty." The guarantee of quiet possession called for a
8 The Act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292, § 7, authorizing the construction of a railroad through the Indian country provided for a jury
trial to determine the fair price. See, for example of the liberal construction given a similar provision in 23 Stat. 73, Cherokee Nation v.
Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S.641, 651-653. Another act passed
in 1866, 14 Stat. 289, § 8, provided that the railroad should be constructed "with the consent of the Indians, and not otherwise."
9Note, for example, in the Congressional discussion of the bill authorizing construction of the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway,
an Oklahoma railroad not directly involved here, the debate over
the amount of land necessary for sidings. 15 Cong. Rec. 4715-4718
(1884).
10 The experience of one of the first of the two roads authorized under
the treaty is revealing of the manner in which the use of the Indian
lands was supervised: The Atlantic & Pacific Railroad was authorized to build a line by an 1866 Act, 14 Stat. 292. In 1871, after
small parts of the line had been completed, it was ordered to cease
work by the Secretary of the Interior and was not allowed to continue until it had posted a bond for the protection of Indian interests. See discussion in Atlantic & Pacific R. Co. v. Mingus, 165 U. S.
413, 417. Failure to complete the road resulted in an 1886 Act taking the lands previously granted back into the public domain, 24
Stat. 123, and the road was ultimately completed by the St. Louis
& Oklahoma City Ry. Co. under an 1896 special act, 29 Stat. 69.
Section 2 of that Act provides for reversion to the tribes of lands not
used for railroad purposes.
"Letter, Secretary of the Interior, May 21, 1870, supra; note 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

31S U. S.

series of legislative, administrative, and military judgments, but was not a pledge of monetary reparation.
Second. The Act of February 28, 1902. The petitioners
rest on §§ 15 and 16 of the Act of 1902. Section 15 provides that the tribes through whose land the roads were
to be built should be compensated by the railroads for the
land taken. The section established a system of valuation under judicial supervision and with a right of appellate review. These elaborate provisions provide an
adequate method by which the tribes might protect their
own interests, but contain no indication of any kind that
the government should pay for the lands taken. 2
Section 16 provides that "where a railroad is constructed under the provisions of this Act there shall be
paid by the railroad company to the Secretary of the Interior, for the benefit of the particular tribe or nation
through whose lands any such railroad may be constructed, an annual charge of fifteen dollars per mile.
Petitioner contends that this direction to the
Secretary to accept these payments made the government
an insurer of their collection.
Variants of this statutory phrase were used generally in
acts authorizing railroad construction after 1884. The
Act of 1902, as has been noted, was the successor to the
general railroad authorization act of 1899, which in 30
Stat. 990, § 5, required "such an annual charge as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior, not less than
fifteen dollars for each mile." Other acts of the period
varied in that the Secretary was directed to apportion the
sum collected among several tribes according to their
interests.
Some of the earlier acts mentioned no specific
sum, giving the Secretary complete discretion as to the
12 Whether added obligations in connection with this section were
assumed by the United States in the 1906 Act is considered below.
18 See, e. g., the act authorizing construction of the Kansas &
Arkansas Valley Railroad, 24 Stat. .73, §.5 (1886), or th.e act authoriz-

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

637

Opinion of the Court.

amount to be collected and the method of allocating it. 14
This device of assessment of an annual charge payable
to the Secretary was also used in authorizing construction
of telephone and telegraph lines across Indian lands, 25
U. S. C. § 319.
By the time of the adoption of the 1902 Act, the verbal
formula used in § 16 was so familiar that it required no
discussion in Congress. The clause seems first to have
been used in an act of 1884, 23 Stat. 69, § 5, authorizing
the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway to cross the
Indian territory. The $15.00 charge was considered a
tax, approximately equal to the taxes charged by neighboring states." No word was said indicating that the
United States, acting as a voluntary tax collector for the
tribes, meant to guarantee to the tribes that the tax'payers
would make their payments when due.
Considering § 16 in its relation to the other statutes of
the period, many of which through minor variations gave
wide discretion to the Secretary of the Interior, we conclude that the words of this section were a direction to the
Secretary to make the facilities of his office available for
the payment of a form of tax. It provides that the railroads shall pay the tax to the Secretary, but puts no mandatory duty on the Secretary to do the work of collecting.
We cannot suppose from any evidence before us either of
legislative history or administrative practice that the
United States repeatedly assumed obligations to ining construction of a branch of the St. Louis & San Francisco Railroad, 29 Stat. 80, § 5 (1896).
2' The act authorizing construction of a railroad through the Papago
(Arizona) reservation provided: "Such compensation as may be fixed
by the Secretary of the Interior be paid to him by the said railroad
company, to be expended by him for the benefit of the said Indians."
22 Stat. 299 (1882).
15 See discussion in the House of Representatives, 15 Cong. Rec.

4723-4727. For an analysis of the nature of this tax see the Opinion
of the Secretary of the Interior, supra, note 5.

638

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

demnify the Indian tribes for charges which railroad companies, telephone companies, and telegraph companies
constructing lines across Indian lands may have failed to
pay. Cf. United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., 305 U. S.
415, 421.
Third. The Act of 1906. Congress at one time planned
to terminate the existence of the Five Civilized Tribes
in 1906, and the Act of 1906 was introduced into the
House of Representatives with the object of preserving
Indian interests after tribal dissolution. In the course
of discussion, Congress determined to continue the tribal
existence, and the Act was amended to that effect before
passage. The petitioners' final reliance is on §§ 11 and
18 of this Act.
The relevant portion of § 11 of the Act is as follows:
"All revenues of whatever character accruing to the . . .
Creek and Seminole tribes, whether before or after dissolution of the tribal governments, shall . . . be collected
by an officer appointed by the Secretary of the Interior
under rules and regulations to be prescribed by him."
The petitioner contends that under this section the government is liable for rents and profits on the station reservations allegedly wrongfully taken and wrongfully used
by the railroads.
This language, like that of § 16 of the 1902 Act which
it so closely resembles, does not make the government a
guarantor that sums owing will be paid. The claim asserted is in essence one of damages for trespass, and assuming that the proceeds of a trespass action are to be considered "revenue," the Secretary was surely entitled to discretion as to which trespass actions he might consider
worth bringing. In so far as the petitioner contends that
the railroads wrongfully took lands under pretense of right
in their original grants under the statutes, the administrative machinery provided by the acts gave the tribes
adequate redress through the courts at the time the land

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

639

Opinion of the Court.

was taken.1" As to trespasses which may have been committed by the railroads without compliance with the forms
of the authorizing Acts, or as to holdings, once proper,
which the railroads may have retained after the rights to
them had expired, we find no absolute duty on the Secretary to obtain compensation.
That the Secretary's duty to collect revenues and in-

stitute actions under the Act was discretionary is made
clear by § 18:
"The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to
bring suit in the name of the United States, for theuse
of the . . . Creek, or Seminole tribes, respectively . . .
for the collection of any moneys or recovery of any land
claimed by any of said tribes. .. ."
The petitioners contend that under this section the
Secretary was obligated to bring suit for all damages suffered by the tribes for failure to pay sums owing under
§§ 15 and 16 of the 1902 Act, for trespass and mileage
taxes, for any breach of the treaty, and for rents and profits
collected by the railroads. But the use of the word "authorized" in this context necessarily reserved to the Secretary the right to determine his own course of action.
It must be remembered that the Secretary was traditionally given wide discretion in the handling of Indian
affairs " and that discretion would seldom be more necessary than in determining when to institute legal proceedings. For example, a railroad might have become bankrupt or reorganized before a failure to make proper payments was discovered," making recovery impossible; and
18 See for example § 15 of the 1902 Act.
17 Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law, "The Range of Administrative Powers," 100 et seq.
1I The Oklahoma properties of the St. Louis & San Francisco Railway Co. were held by 25 different corporations between 1866 and
1916. The Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe, not directly involved in this
action, is the descendant of 64 railroads with Oklahoma holdings.

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

we can not suppose that the Secretary might not compromise difficult cases without bringing suit.
That the government did not mean to assume an insurer's responsibility for the payment of sums claimed by
the Indians against the railroads is further shown by the
fact that the Indians retained their own independent remedy for wrongs done them. The tribes have not yet been
dissolved, and they have had, both as a general legal
right 19 and by virtue of the very section of the 1906 Act
under discussion here, the power to bring actions on their
own behalf. That the United States also had a right to
sue did not necessarily preclude the tribes from bringing
their own actions.20
We are asked here to impose a liability on the government to these Indians for wrongs allegedly committed
against the Indians by others. Appreciating the desire
of Congress to recognize the "full obligation of this nation
to protect the interests of a dependent people," Tulee v.
Washington, 315 U. S. 681, 685, we are unable to find in
the words of the treaties or statutes upon which this action rests any such prodigal assumption by the government of other people's liabilities as that for which the
petitioners contend here.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.
Approximately 150 railroads have existed in Oklahoma. See "The
Railroads of Oklahoma," supra,note 3, pp. 28-77.
19Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas Ry. Co., 135 U. S. 641;
Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 294; Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553. Cf. Lane v. Pueblo of Santa Rosa, 249 U. S.
110, and United States v. Candelaria,271 U. S. 432.
20
Cf. Heckman v. United States, 224 U. S. 413, 446; United States
v. Osage County, 251 U. S. 128; Sunderland v. United States, 266 U. S.
226.

CREEK NATION v. UNITED STATES.
629

641

MuR'HY, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

dissenting:

As a people our dealings with the Indian tribes have
been too often marked by injustice, neglect, and even
ruthless disregard of their interests and necessities. As
a nation we have incurred moral and political responsibilities toward them and their descendants, which have
been requited in some measure by treaties and statutes
framed for the protection and advancement of their interests. Those enactments should always be read in the
light of this high and noble purpose, in a manner that
will give full scope and effect to the humane and liberal
policy that has been adopted by the Congress to rectify
past wrongs.'
Each railway company whose road was constructed
under the Act of 1902 2 was required by § 16 of that Act
to pay to the Secretary of the Interior, for the benefit of
the particular tribe through whose lands the road passed,
an annual charge of fifteen dollars for each mile of road
constructed. By the Act of 1906 it was provided that all
revenues accruing to the Five Civilized Tribes "shall . . .
be collected by an officer appointed by the Secretary of the
Interior," and the Secretary was authorized to bring suit
in the name of the United States for the use of any one of
the five tribes to collect any moneys claimed by it.3 For
failure of the Secretary of the Interior to collect these
mileage charges for the Creek and Seminole tribes, among
other things, this action is brought under jurisdictional
acts ' which authorize the Court of Claims to hear and
1 Choctaw Nation v. United States, 119 U. S. 1, 27-28; Seminole
Nation v. United States, 316 U. S. 286, 296-97.
2
Act of February 28, 1902, 32 Stat. 43.
s §§ 11 and 18 of the Act of April 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 137, 141, 144.
Act of May 20, 1924, 43 Stat. 133 (Seminole), and Act of May 24,
1924, 43 Stat. 139 (Creek).

OCTOBER' TERM, 1942.
MURPHY, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

determine all legal and equitable claims arising under or
growing out of any treaty or agreement between the
United States and those tribes, or out of any act of Congress relating to Indian affairs.
We have held that the Government in its relations with
the Indian tribes occupies the position of a fiduciary, that
the relationship is similar to that of guardian and ward,
and that the duties and responsibilities of the United
States toward its wards require a generous interpretation.' If it is the duty of a guardian or trustee, as I conceive it to be, to exercise diligence to conserve and protect
the interests of his trust, and collect moneys due to the
estate of his ward, then such a duty may well have arisen
under § 16 of the Act of 1902, a duty which, it is alleged,
the Secretary of the Interior failed to discharge. In
other words, if the railroads failed to pay to the Secretary
the required annual charges for each mile of road constructed, it was the Secretary's duty to act to protect the
Indian beneficiaries who should not be expected to assume
the burden of acting on their own behalf, especially when
the payments were to be made to the Secretary and not
to them. Cf. United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U. S.
103, 110. To read the Act of 1902 otherwise is to take
too restricted a view of the obligations of the United
States toward a dependent people. But if there were
any doubt, the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to
collect the mileage charges was made plain and unmistakable by the Act of 1906, which required him to collect all
revenues accruing to the tribes and specifically authorized
him to bring suit on their behalf. The present claim to
mileage charges undoubtedly is an equitable one arising
out of those statutes and is therefore within the scope and
purpose of the jurisdictional acts.
1See Note 1, ante.

FISHER CO. v. WITMARK & SONS.
629

Opinion of the Court.

In my opinion the petitioners state a cause of action
with respect to these mileage claims, and the judgment of
the Court of Claims should accordingly be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER agrees with these views.

FRED FISHER MUSIC CO. ET AL. V. M. WITMARK
& SONS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 327.

Argued January 14, 15, 1943.--Decided April 5, 1943.

Under the Copyright Act of 1909, as amended, an author's right to obtain a renewal and extension of his copyright is assignable by him
by an agreement made before the expiration of the original copyright
term. P. 656.
125 F. 2d 949, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 611, to review the affirmance of
a decree of the District Court, 38 F. Supp. 72, granting an
interlocutory injunction in a case of alleged copyright
infringement.

Mr. John Schulman, with whom Mr. Arthur Garfield
Hays was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert W. Perkins, with whom Mr. Stuart H.
Aarons was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents a question never settled before, even
though it concerns legislation having a history of more
than two hundred years. The question itself can be
stated very simply. Under § 23 of the Copyright Act of

