350

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

ANDERSON

ET AL.

318 U. S.

v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 10. Argued October 21, 22, 1942.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. The circumstances (detailed in the opinion) under which confessions were obtained from defendants in this case rendered the confessions inadmissible in evidence in a criminal prosecution in the
federal court, and convictions resting upon such evidence must be
set aside. McNabb v. United States, ante, p. 332. P. 355.
2. The detention of the defendants by state officers in this case was
in violation of a statute of Tennessee which provides that "No person can be committed to prison for any criminal matter, until examination thereof be first had before some magistrate." P. 355.
3. That federal officers themselves were not formally guilty of illegal
conduct in this case does not make admissible the evidence which
they secured improperly through collaboration with state officers.
P. 356.
4. The admission in evidence of the confessions of certain of the defendants in this case held to have vitiated the convictions of all,
since the jury, in ascertaining the guilt or innocence of each, was
warranted, by the trial court's charge, in considering the whole
proof made at the trial. P. 356.
124 F. 2d 58, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 316 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of
convictions of conspiracy to damage property of a corporation in which the United States was a stockholder.

Mr. Daniel William Leider argued the cause, and
Messrs. Lee Pressmanand Nathan Witt were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Oscar A. Provost, Archibald
Cox, and Andrew F. Oehmann were on the brief, for the
United States.

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
350

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The petitioners were convicted, in the District Court
for the Eastern District of Tennessee, of conspiring to
damage property owned by the Tennessee Valley Authority, a corporation in which the United States is a stockholder, in violation of §§ 35 (C) and 37 of the Criminal
Code as amended (18 U. S. C. §§ 82, 88). The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the convictions, 124 F. 2d 58, and we brought the case here because
it presented serious questions in the administration of
federal criminal justice, 316 U. S. 651. The questions are
similar to those decided in McNabb v. United States,
ante, p. 332. The two cases were argued at the same time
and, as will appear from a short summary of a long record,
are governed by the same considerations.1
1As in the McNabb case, there are no specific findings here as to the
circumstances in which the incriminating statements in controversy
were admitted against the petitioners. When these statements (excepting the confessions of three petitioners) were offered in evidence,
the petitioners objected, and the trial court held a hearing in the
absence of the jury to determine whether the statements were
"voluntary." At the conclusion of this preliminary examination, the
court overruled objections to the admissibility of these statements.
The jury was recalled and the same testimony was repeated. The
evidence relating to the confessions of three of the petitioners was,
by stipulation, heard only once and in the presence of the jury. Referring to all this evidence as "certain parts of the proof," the judge
thus charged the jury regarding the admission of these incriminating
statements: "There has been allowed for your consideration certain
statements, confessions, or admissions alleged to have been made by
some of the defendants. It is primarily for the Court to determine
whether or not such statements are admissible for your consideration
but it is wholly for you to determine how much weight or credit you
will give to these statements." We shall assume as facts, therefore,
only the testimony of Government witnesses and so much of the
petitioners' evidence as is uncontradicted.

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

In July 1939, the International Union of Mine, Mill
and Smelter Workers struck against the Tennessee Copper
Company's mines at Copperhill, Polk County, Tennessee.
The strike was followed by a shut-down, but the mines
were reopened in August after the sheriff brought in a
number of special deputies who were in the company's
pay. It was one of those obdurate mining strikes, and it
continued into April of 1940, when the violence which gave
rise to this prosecution occurred. On April 1st the company's operations were interrupted by the dynamiting of
two power lines, owned by the TVA, from which the company obtained the power necessary for its activities. On
April 14th two steel towers were dynamited. Two days
later two special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation arrived in Copperhill to investigate the explosions.
On April 24th two more power lines were blown down.
Thereupon, on the same day, the sheriff on his own
initiative began to take into custody strikers, including
the eight petitioners, whom he suspected of participation in the dynamiting. These arrests were made without
warrant. With commendable candor in regard to this
and other misconduct of officers of the law, the Government does not defend the legality of the arrests.2 The
men were not taken before any magistrate or other committing officer, as required by Tennessee law. Michie's
Code (1938) § 11515. Instead they were taken to the
company-owned Y. M. C. A. building in Copperhill, which
was being used by the sheriff and his special deputies as
their headquarters. On April 24th and 25th six more
special agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation
arrived in Copperhill to assist in the investigation.
2 Under Tennessee law an officer may arrest without a warrant when
a felony has in fact been committed, and he has reasonable grounds for
believing that the person arrested has committed it. Michie's Code
(1938) § 11536. But willful destruction of power lines is only a
misdemeanor under state law. Id., § 10863 (8).

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
350

Opinion of the Court.

While the petitioners, with at least thirteen others,
were thus held in custody at the Y. M. C. A. by the state
officers, they were questioned by the federal agents intermittently over a period of six days during which they
saw neither friends, relatives, nor counsel. Incriminating
statements from six of the petitioners were the fruit of
this interrogation. To determine whether these statements were properly admitted in evidence, it is necessary
to particularize the circumstances under which each confession was made.
Simonds. Simonds was arrested by two deputies on
the afternoon of Wednesday, April 24th, and taken directly to the Y. M. C. A. After spending the night at the
county jail, he was questioned by one of the federal
agents for about an hour Thursday morning at the
Y. M. C. A. The questioning was resumed at two o'clock
in the afternoon by three agents who talked with him for
about two hours; at seven o'clock that evening he was
again questioned by two agents for another two hours.
On Friday morning he was questioned for about an hour.
And on Saturday he was questioned at three different
periods throughout the afternoon and evening, each period
lasting about half an hour. He was again questioned on
Sunday afternoon for about an hour by two agents, one
of whom described what occurred then as follows: "We
went over the entire case with him, and pointed out the
discrepancies in his story and the information we had
developed on investigation, which knocked down his alibi,
and out of a clear sky he said 'well, I want to tell you I
am guilty.'" One of the agents thereupon took Simonds'
written statement.
Hubbard. Hubbard was arrested by two deputies on
Wednesday evening, April 24th, and taken to the
Y. M. C. A. He, too, spent the night in the county jail.
He was questioned by four agents at the Y. M. C. A. on
Tlursday afternoon for about two hours. Two of the

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

agents questioned him again that evening for about two
hours. At two o'clock Friday afternoon he was questioned for about forty-five minutes; at five o'clock he was
questioned for another hour and a half. At seven-thirty
Friday evening two agents questioned him for two more
hours. He was questioned intermittently all day Saturday. One agent questioned him for periods of fifteen
minutes two or three times during the morning and afternoon. Another questioned him for half an hour in the
morning. A third agent talked with him for another two
hours sometime during the day. And he was questioned
again for about twenty minutes at six o'clock in the evening. He was not questioned on Sunday, but he was
present during the questioning of Simonds by the federal
officers that morning. After hearing Simonds admit his
guilt, Hubbard also confessed.
Woodward. Woodward was also arrested on Wednesday afternoon, April 24th, by two deputies who took him
first to the Y. M. C. A. and then to the county jail. He
was questioned by four federal officers for about two hours
Thuisday afternoon, and questioned again for another
two hours that night. The officers questioned him for
about fifteen minutes on Saturday. On Sunday he was
brought into the room where Simonds and Hubbard were,
and upon being confronted with their confessions, also
confessed. On Monday the officers spent about five hours,
from 11 a. m. until 2 p. m. and from about 3:30 until 7
or 7:30 p. m., questioning him in order to reduce his confession to writing. The manner of Woodward in giving
his statement was thus described by the agent who questioned him: "He had considerable difficulty in recalling
the details, he said his mind was not exactly clear on
all of it, it took a good while in order to get the details
of it, of how it happened, everything in the. chronological
order of events, and he also complained on occasions that
his mind was befuddled in making the statement, upon

ANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
350

Opinion of the Court. '

relating about what he had done, and that is the reason
it took so long to do it. It took the morning and the
greater part of the afternoon."
Rhodes. Rhodes was arrested Sunday night, April 28th,
and spent that night in the jail, sharing a cell with Woodward, Hubbard, Simonds, and Queen. He was questioned
for about two hours by two agents on Monday morning,
and then confessed.
Queen. Queen was arrested by two deputies on Sunday
afternoon, April 28th, and was taken to the Y. M. C. A.
After spending the night in jail, he was questioned for
about an hour the following night by three agents. Upon
being confronted with the confessions of the others, he
admitted his guilt.
Ballew. Ballew was arrested by three deputies on Tuesday afternoon, April 30th, and taken to the Y. M. C. A.
He was questioned there for about an hour by two federal
officers. After spending the night in jail, he confessed the
following morning.
The question for decision is whether these confessions-repudiated when those who made them took the witness
stand at the trial-were properly admitted in evidence
against all the petitioners, including Anderson and Ellis
who did not confess. In the McNabb case we have held,
ante, p. 332, that incriminating statements obtained under
the circumstances set forth in that opinion cannot be made
the basis of convictions in the federal courts. The considerations which led to that decision also govern this case.
The detention of the petitioners by state officers was, as
the Government concedes, in violation of the Tennessee
statute which provides that "No person can be committed
to prison for any criminal matter, until examination
thereof be first had before some magistrate." Michie's
Code (1938) § 11515. The courts of Tennessee exact scrupulous observance of this prohibition by its law officers.
See Polk v. State, 170 Tenn. 270, 94 S.W. 2d 394; State

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
• Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ex rel. Morris v. National Surety Co., 162 Tenn. 547, 39
S. W. 2d 581.
Unaided by relatives, friends, or counsel, the men were
unlawfully held, some for days, and subjected to long
questioning in the hostile atmosphere of a small companydominated mining town. The men were not arrested by
the federal officers until April 30th, and only then were
they arraigned before a United States commissioner, except for Ballew who was not arraigned until May 2nd or
3rd. There was a working arrangement between the federal officers and the sheriff of Polk County which made
possible the abuses revealed by this record. Therefore,
the fact that the federal officers themselves were not formally guilty of illegal conduct does not affect the admissibility of the evidence which they secured improperly
through collaboration with state officers. Gambino v.
United States, 275 U. S. 310, 314; Byars v. United States,
273 U. S. 28, 33-34.
The Government urges that, even if the confessions
are held to be inadmissible, only the convictions of the
six petitioners who confessed should be reversed. The
prosecution rested principally on these confessions and
the testimony of an informant, Freed Long, whose credibility was under severe attack. The incriminating statement of each petitioner implicated all the others, including those who did not confess. To be sure, the trial court
devised a procedure under which the confessions were
introduced without mention of the names of the other
persons implicated. But their names were in fact revealed in the course of the cross-examination of the confessing petitioners. So also, while the trial judge appeared to admit the confessions "only to be used against
the persons who made them," his charge bound the jury
to no such restricted use of the confessions. On the contrary, from what the trial judge told them the jury had
every right to assume that in ascertaining the guilt or

MARICOPA COUNTY v. VALLEY BANK. 357
Syllabus.

350

innocence of each defendant they could consider the whole
proof made at the trial. There is no reason to believe,
therefore, that confessions which came before the jury as
an organic tissue of proof can be severed and given distributive significance by holding that they had a major
share in the conviction of some of the petitioners and
none at all as to the others. Since it was error to admit
these confessions, we see no escape from the conclusion
that the convictions of all the petitioners must be set
Reversed.
aside.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JusrrIcE RUTLEDGE took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE REED dissents.

MARICOPA COUNTY ET AL. v. VALLEY NATIONAL
BANK OF PHOENIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 449.

Argued February 2, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. Under the Constitution, Congress has exclusive authority to determine whether and to what extent its instrumentalities, such as the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation, shall be immune from state
taxation. P. 361.
2. The Act of March 20, 1936, provided that shares of preferred stock
of national banks "heretofore or hereafter acquired by" the Recunstruction Finance Corporation "shall not, so long as Reconstruction
Finance Corporation shall continue to own the same, be subject to
any taxation . . . by any State, county, municipality, or local taxing authority, whether now, heretofore, or hereafter imposed, levied,
or assessed, and whether for a past, present, or future taxing period."
Held:
(1) In withdrawing pro tanto the consent which by R. S. § 5219 it
had previously given to state taxation of shares of stock of national
banks, Congress did not invade powers reserved to the States by the
Tenth Amendment. P. 361.

