JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
184

189

Syllabus.

gift would have included consideration of whether or not
the daughter would marry; whether she would have children; whether they would reach the age of 21; etc. Actuarial science may have made great strides in appraising
the value of that which seems to be unappraisable, but we
have no reason to believe from this record that even the
actuarial art could do more than guess at the value here
in question. Humes v. United States, 276 U. S. 487, 494.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissents for the reasons set forth
in his opinion in Smith v. Shaughnessy, ante, p. 176.

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 273.

Argued January 15, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.

1. Where a defendant in a criminal prosecution in a federal court
voluntarily testifies, and upon cross-examination asserts a claim
of privilege against self-incrimination which the court unqualifiedly
grants, albeit mistakenly, it is error for the court thereafter to
permit the prosecutor to comment upon the claim of privilege
and to permit the jury to draw any inference therefrom, if, as
here, it can be said that the defendant's choice of claiming or waiving the privilege would have been materially affected had he known
that the claim though granted would be used to his prejudice.
P. 196.
2. Objection to the prosecutor's comment on an allowed claim of
privilege in this case was expressly waived by the defendant's withdrawing his exception to it and acquiescing in the court's treatment of the matter, and a new trial is not granted. P. 199.
3. Rulings of the trial court excluding the defendant from the court
room while counsel were arguing the question of the propriety of
a line of cross-examination, and requiring that he resume the stand
without conferring with his counsel concerning a claim of privilege,
to which rulings no exceptions were taken, and which did not result

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

in a loss of the privilege, held, even if assumed to be erroneous, not

prejudicial. P. 201.
129 F. 2d 954, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 610, to review the affirmance of
a conviction of wilfully attempting to defeat and evade
federal income taxes.
Mr. William A. Gray, with whom Mr. Benjamin M.
Golder was on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Fahy, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Clark and Messrs. Sewall Key, Joseph W. Burns,
and Archibald Cox were on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner was convicted of wilfully attempting to defeat and evade his federal income taxes for the years 1936
and 1937. He was acquitted for 1935. Petitioner was a
political leader in Atlantic City and Atlantic County,
New Jersey. The prosecution's theory was that he had
received large sums of money from those conducting the
numbers game for protection against police interference
and had not reported those sums in his income tax returns for 1935, 1936, and 1937. The defense was that
his failure to return all the income he had received
resulted from the mistaken but sincere belief that he vas
bound to return only the net balance remaining after deducting amounts expended for political purposes. The
evidence was that one Weloff and one Towhey, acting
alternately, delivered to petitioner on behalf of the numbers syndicate $1,200 a week from July 1935 to November
1937. About November 1, 1937, Weloff and Towhey
were displaced by one Jack Southern to whom the syndicate delivered $1,200 a week. Neither the prosecution nor

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
189

Opinion of the Court.

the defense would sponsor Southern's testimony. At the
request of the prosecution the court called Southern as a
witness. He testified that during November and December, 1937, he delivered the $1,200 a week to an inspector
of police named Ferretti, who was dead at the time of the
trial. He denied that he ever made any weekly payments
to petitioner. No evidence was adduced that petitioner
received any sums from the syndicate during November
or December, 1937. Petitioner took the stand and on
direct examination admitted that he had received the
weekly payments from Weloff and Towhey up to November, 1937. For 1937 these admitted payments totalled
$50,400. Petitioner accounted for this sum by stating
that he had reported $30,189.99 in his 1937 return as
"Other commissions" and that he had paid out the balance,
roughly $21,000, as political contributions for that year.
On cross-examination he denied that he had received payments from Southern during November and December,
1937.1 He was then asked "Did you receive any money
from numbers in 1938?" Counsel for the defense objected to the question on the ground that it was not
relevant to the issue and would tend to prove a different
offense than the one charged in the indictment. The
court overruled the objection. Petitioner then answered
the question in the affirmative. He was then asked,
"Who gave it to you?" Counsel for the defense objected.
The court had the jury withdraw. The prosecutor asked
that petitioner "also be excused from the court room during the argument, and that when he resumes the stand
he should do so without having any opportunity to hear
what the argument is about." The court said "that is
a fair request" and ordered petitioner to retire, which he
The indictment charged that the defendant had received $62,400
from the numbers game in 1937. It was the difference between that
amount and $50,400 admittedly received which was in dispute.

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

did. No objection was made to that action. Counsel
for the prosecution argued that the questions asked in
cross-examination were proper to establish a continuous
practice of receiving the numbers income throughout 1937.
Counsel for the defense insisted that the cross-examination should be limited to the subjects opened up by the
examination in chief. The court expressed the view that
the cross-examination was permissible since it bore
directly upon credibility. Counsel for the defense then
pressed the point that even if it otherwise might be proper
cross-examination, nevertheless it was "improper crossexamination for the reason that it is directed to a future
prosecution." He asserted that he made the claim of
privilege on behalf of the accused "in view of the avowed
threat of the government to prosecute him for the very
years concerning which he is now asked to testify." The
court replied that it was for the accused, not his counsel,
to make the claim and added, "You may advise him of his
rights, of course, but it is for him to determine whether or
not he wishes to take advantage of them." After further
argument, the court stated:
"It seems to me that the testimony is perfectly relevant
and material as cross examination directed to credibility.
"In view of the witness' testimony, unless it runs afoul
of his right not to be required to incriminate himself, it
seems to me that that is a right which he may waive or
claim, and that that is a personal right that he may be
advised by counsel when a question is asked, and that
he will have to determine himself whether he is going to
claim it or not."
Petitioner resumed the stand. The question "Who gave
it to you?" was repeated. Counsel for petitioner then
advised him of his constitutional privilege, which he thereupon claimed. The court ruled, "You may decline to
answer."

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
189

Opinion of the Court.

The prosecutor in his address to the jury commented
at some length on petitioner's assertion of his constitutional privilege:
I asked him, "Did you get the money in 1938?" and
he said, "Yes." Well, of course, then a lot of little
things happened. They didn't like that because
naturally you say, "Well, I don't understand that,
Mr. Johnson." I wish you could have asked him
questions then. You say, "Mr. Johnson, you say that
suddenly November 1st, 1937 you stopped getting the
$1200 from numbers; then in 1938 you started to
get it again? How come?" You don't get it, you
don't get it because it isn't the truth. That is what
cross examination is for.
So then we went beyond that. We said, "Who
did you get it from?" He said, "I claim my privilege
against self-incrimination. I violated the income tax
law of 1938; I don't want to tell you about that. I
am having enough trouble with 1935, six and seven."
If he could have claimed his privilege on the stand
here with respect to 1935, six and seven he would have
done it. He would claim anything that is necessary
to get him out of any predicament he is in. Well,
now, ladies and gentlemen, if he got that numbers
money in 1938 who did he get it from? He must
have got it from Jack Southern. Maybe he got it
from Inspector Ferretti, but he admits he got it.
Well, then, if he got it he got it during the last two
months of 1937. They didn't say anything about
that to you because they were trapped. No need of
them talking about it. It is for me to point that out
to you.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, can you believe that
man told you the truth about anything on the witness
stand when he admits that he got numbers money
in 1938 but won't tell you who he got it from on the
ground it would incriminate him? If you can believe
that that man is innocent of this charge when he
stands right up in front of you and says he cannot
answer a question about 1938, that he just got through

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

answering for 1937 on the ground it would incriminate him, well, then, I just don't get it.
An objection was made to these statements and overruled and an exception was noted. The next morning before the court charged the jury various other objections
were submitted. During the colloquy the court stated
that there "were a number of matters referred to last evening . . . I ruled on some of them, all of which rulings I indicated I would reconsider. Now, have you mentioned to me now all the points you desire to refer to?"
Counsel for petitioner replied, "We withdraw whatever
was said last night . . . I think the only fair thing to do
is to forget everything that happened last night and start
this morning." The objection previously made to the
prosecutor's comment on the accused's failure to testify
was not renewed. Nor was any request made to the court
to charge the jury to disregard petitioner's refusal to testify. Though the prosecutor's comment on the accused's
failure to testify was again adverted to, it was in a different
connection. Counsel for petitioner contended that the
prosecutor's statement that the claim of privilege
amounted to an admission of income tax violation in 1938
was "an entire misconception of . . . the claim of privilege" inasmuch as the basis of the claim "is that the testimony . . . would have a tendency to incriminate him,"
and "not that it would prove him guilty." The court indicated that this objection was well taken and should be
called to the attention of the jury. The court added,
"He is not being charged with any 1938 tax." The prosecutor then said, "It is a question of his good faith and his
credibility, and the answers he has already given on similar questions. That is the purpose for which the questions were permitted." The court thereupon stated, "I
think I probably should indicate to the jury that that is
the full extent of it." Counsel for petitioner remained
silent, making no objection. No error was asserted in the

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
189

Opinion of the Court.

motion for a new trial or in the assignments of error on
the ground that the prosecutor's comment or the court's
charge on the inference from the claim of privilege was
improper.
The court in its charge stated that petitioner's refusal
to answer the question on the ground that it would tend
to incriminate him "may only be considered by you in
testing his credibility as to the answers which he did give
and his good faith in the matter" and that petitioner was
not being tried for anything he did in 1938. To this
charge no objection was made.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of
conviction, one judge dissenting. 129 F. 2d 954. The
court held that the exclusion of petitioner from the court
room during the colloquy did not result in prejudice; that
the cross-examination covering 1938 income was proper;
and that the allowance of comment on the claim of privilege was justified. The case is here on a petition for a
writ of certiorari.
The case of an accused who voluntarily takes the stand
and the case of an accused who refrains from testifying
(Bruno v. United States, 308 U. S. 287) are of course
vastly different. Raflel v. United States, 271 U. S. 494.
His "voluntary offer of testimony upon any fact is a
waiver as to all other relevant facts, because of the necessary connection between all." 8 Wigmore, Evidence (3d
ed., 1940) ยง 2276 (2). And see Fitzpatrick v. United
States, 178 U. S. 304, 315-316; Powers v. United States,
223 U. S. 303, 314. The cross-examination did not run
afoul of the rule which prohibits inquiry into a collateral
crime unconnected with the offense charged. Boyd v.
United States, 142 U. S. 450. Inquiry into petitioner's
income for 1938 was relevant to the issue in the case. As
contended by the prosecution, the receipt of money from
the numbers syndicate prior to November, 1937 and after
December, 1937 might well support a finding of the jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

that in view of all the circumstances the payments were
not in fact interrupted during the last two months of 1937.
The amount and source of the 1938 income accordingly
were relevant to show the continuous nature of the transactions in question. That line of inquiry therefore satisfied the test of relevancy and was a proper part of crossexamination. See Cravens v. United States, 62 F. 2d 261,
273; Mehan v. UnitedStates, 112 F. 2d 561, 563; Weiss v.
United States, 122 F. 2d 675, 682; Bullock v. State, 65
N. J. L. 557, 575. Though the issue might have been
more aptly phrased by the court in terms other than credibility, the meaning of the ruling in its context is plain.
Thus we may assume that it would not have been error
for the court to deny petitioner's claim of privilege. In
such a case his failure to explain the source of his numbers income in 1938 could properly be the subject of comment and inference. As stated by this Court in Caminetti v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 494, an accused who
takes the stand "may not stop short in his testimony
by omitting and failing to explain incriminating circumstances and events already in evidence, in which he participated and concerning which he is fully informed, without
subjecting his silence to the inferences to be naturally
drawn from it." But where the claim of privilege is asserted and unqualifiedly granted, the requirements of fair
trial may preclude any comment. That certainly is true
where the claim of privilege could not properly be denied.
The rule which obtains when the accused fails to take the
stand (Wilson v. United States, 149 U. S.60) is then applicable. As stated by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, "If the privilege claimed by the witness be allowed,
the matter is at an end. The claim of privilege and its
allowance is properly no part of the evidence submitted to
the jury, and no inferences whatever can be legitimately
drawn by them from the legal assertion by the witness of
his constitutional right. The allowance of the privilege

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
189

Opinion of the Court.

would be a mockery of justice, if either party is to be
affected injuriously by it." Phelin v. Kenderdine, 20 Pa.
354, 363; Wireman v. Commonwealth, 203 Ky. 57, 62-63,
261 S.W. 862. And see State v. Vroman, 45 S. D. 465,473,
188 N. W. 746; Carne v. Litchfield, 2 Mich. 340; People v.
McGungill, 41 Cal. 429. We also think that the same result should obtain in any case where the court grants the
claim of privilege and then submits the matter to the
jury, if that action may be said to affect materially the
accused's choice of claiming or waiving the privilege and
results in prejudice. The fact that the privilege is mistakenly granted is immaterial.
The ruling of the court gave the petitioner the choice
between testifying and refusing to testify as to his 1938
income. An accused having the assurance of the court
that his claim of privilege would be granted might well
be entrapped if his assertion of the privilege could then
be used against him. His real choice might then be
quite different from his apparent one. In this case it
would lie between protection against an indictment for
1938 and the use of his claim of privilege as evidence that
he did in fact receive the income during the last two
months of 1937. Elementary fairness requires that an
accused should not be misled on that.score. If advised
.bythe court that his claim of privilege though granted
would be employed against him, he well might never
claim it. If he receives assurance that it will be granted
if claimed, or if it is claimed and granted outright, he has
every right to expect that the ruling is made in good faith
and that the rule against comment will be observed. Certainly the question whether petitioner had received income from the syndicate during November and December,
1937, was an extremely material issue in the case. As we
have noted, petitioner admitted receiving $50,400 from
the numbers syndicate during 1937. And all of this
amount according to the testimony was received prior to

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

November 1, 1937. Of this amount he reported only
$30,189.99 in his 1937 income tax return. He testified,
however, that he had paid out $21,000 in political contributions for that year. Thus he attempted to account for
all the numbers income which he had received that year
and defended on the ground that his failure to return the
$21,000 was due to his mistaken but sincere belief that
he was bound to return only the net balance remaining
after deducting amounts expended for political purposes.
The indictment, however, charged that he had received
$62,400 from the numbers syndicate during 1937. And
the prosecution claimed that the weekly payments of
$1,200 continued during November and December, 1937.
If that were established, it would plainly destroy his defense and would be cogent evidence of his wilful attempt
to evade the tax. All of the direct evidence in the record
was to the effect that he had not received income from
the numbers syndicate during November and December,
1937. There was no basis for concluding that he had
unless that fact was to be inferred from the evidence that
he had received the income until November, 1937 and
that he received it again in 1938. Hence it would be
highly valuable to the prosecution and equally damaging
to the accused to have his failure to testify employed to
bolster such an inference.
It is no answer to say that comment on a defendant's
refusal to testify does not in any way place him in jeopardy
of being charged with or convicted of the crime protected
by his privilege. That may be admitted. The problem
here is a different one. It is whether a procedure will be
approved which deprives an accused on facts such as these
of an intelligent choice between claiming or waiving his
privilege. Knowledge that a failure to testify though
permitted by the court would be submitted to the jury
might seriously affect that choice. If the accused makes
the choice without that knowledge, he may well be misled

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
189

Opinion of the Court.

on one of the most important decisions in his defense. We
would of course not be concerned with the matter if it
turned only on the quality of legal advice which he received. But the responsibility for misuse of the grant of
the claim of privilege is the court's. It is the court to
whom an accused properly and necessarily looks for protection in such a matter. When it grants the claim of privilege but allows it to be used against the accused to his
prejudice, we cannot disregard the matter. That procedure has such potentialities of oppressive use that we
will not sanction its use in the federal courts over which
we have supervisory powers.
We are mindful of the fact that there is eminent authority which may be said to represent the contrary view.
State v. Ober, 52 N. H. 459. That case stands for the
general proposition that when the accused took the stand
"without claiming his constitutional privilege, it was too
late for him to halt at that point which suited his own
convenience." Id., p. 465. With that rule we agree.
Whether the facts of that case and the stage of the proof
when the privilege was claimed made the comment on the
accused's failure to testify prejudicial, cannot be determined from the report of the case. The point with which
we are here concerned was not adverted to in the opinion.
Indeed the court stated (52 N. H. p. 465) that the "whole
argument of his counsel now proceeds upon the erroneous
assumption that the ruling of the court [granting the
claim of privilege] was right. That assumption being
groundless, his argument fails." But as we have indicated,
the problem in this case is quite different.
We have considered this matter at length because the
Circuit Court of Appeals ruled upon it and approved the
procedure followed by the District Court. But we do not
grant a new trial because of one circumstance which seems
to us controlling. As we have noted, though an exception
was taken to the prosecutor's comment on petitioner's
51323 -43-vol. 318-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

refusal to testify, it was later withdrawn. And when
the court invited counsel to bring to its attention any objections or requests to charge, counsel did not renew the
objection. Nor was any request made to charge the jury
on the matter. Moreover, though the question of the
prosecutor's comment was again adverted to by the defense, the objection was of a wholly different character and
one which the court indicated its willingness to correct.
And when the court stated what charge it would give the
jury on the point, counsel for the defense stood by and
voiced no protest or objection. We can only conclude
that petitioner expressly waived any objection to the
prosecutor's comment by withdrawing his exception to
it and by acquiescing in the treatment of the matter by
the court. It is true that we may of our own motion notice
errors to which no exception has been taken if they would
"seriously affect the fairness, integrity or public reputa-.
tion of judicial proceedings." See United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157, 160; Clyatt v. United States, 197 U. S.
207, 221-222. But we are not dealing here with inadvertence or oversight. This is a case where silent approval
of the course followed by the court (Boyd v. United States,
271 U. S. 104, 108) is accompanied by an express waiver
of a prior objection to the method by which the claim of
privilege was treated. In such a situation the rule stated
by Mr. Justice Sutherland in United States v. Manton,
107 F. 2d 834, 848, is applicable:
"If the failure to enter an exception or assign error had
been a mere inadvertence the matter might stand in a
different light. But that view cannot be indulged.
Plainly enough, counsel consciously and intentionally
failed to save the point and led the trial judge to understand that counsel was satisfied. We see no warrant for
the exercise of our discretion to set aside standing rules,
so necessary to the due and orderly administration of

JOHNSON v. UNITED STATES.
.189

Opinion of the Court.

justice, and review the challenge to the legal accuracy of
the charge where, as here, the failure of the judge to follow
the text of the requested instruction was, at the last,
induced by the action of counsel . . ."
Any other course would not comport with the standards
'for the administration of criminal justice. We cannot
permit an accused to elect to pursue one course at the trial
and then, when that has proved to be unprofitable, to insist on appeal that the course which he rejected at the
trial be reopened to him. However unwise the first
choice may have been, the range of waiver is wide. Since
the protection which could have been obtained was
plainly waived, the accused cannot now be heard to charge
the court with depriving him of a fair trial. The court
only followed the course which he himself helped to chart
'and in which he acquiesced until the case was argued on
appeal. The fact that the objection did not appear in
the motion for new trial or in the assignments of error
makes clear that the point now is a "mere afterthought."
United States v. Manton, supra,p. 847.
The remaining objections may be briefly disposed of.
It is claimed that the expulsion of petitioner from the
court room while counsel were arguing the question of the
propriety of the cross-examination on his 1938 income
deprived him of his right to be present during the trial.
Cf. Snyder v. Massachusetts,291 U. S.97. It is also urged
that petitioner was denied the advice of counsel in that
the court directed that when he resumed the stand he do
so without having an opportunity to confer with his counSe about claiming the privilege. But there is a simple
answer to these objections. Not only were no exceptions
taken to these rulings; it also appears that they did not
result in a loss of the privilege which the court had indicated it would recognize. For when petitioner resumed
the stand, he was advised of his right to claim the priv-

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

318 U. S.

ilege, he claimed it, and it was granted. Accordingly
we cannot see where any prejudice resulted even if we assume, arguendo, that the rulings of the court were not
correct.
Affirmed.
and MR. JUSTICE JACKSON did
not participate in the consideration or disposition of this
case.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring:

In reviewing criminal cases, it is particularly important
for appellate courts to re-live the whole trial imaginatively
and not to extract from episodes in isolation abstract questions of evidence and procedure. To turn a criminal
appeal into a quest for error no more promotes the ends
of justice than to acquiesce in low standards of criminal
prosecution.
An examination of the entire record of the proceedings
leaves me without doubt that Judge Maris conducted the
trial with conspicuous fairness, and that he committed
no error in the rulings complained of unless it be one in
favor of the defendant. In allowing the defendant, to
withhold testimony regarding gambling receipts for 1938,
the trial court, in recognizing the threat of future prosecution of the defendant for evading taxes in that year,
was exercising a merciful discretion. For this avenue of
inquiry plainly was relevant to the truth of the charges
against Johnson in the present proceeding. In view of all
that took place at the trial, to have denied the jury an
opportunity to consider the significance of the defendant's
desire not to testify regarding gambling receipts in 1938
would have been to withhold from them a factor relevant
in determining whether Johnson's explanation of what
he did with the "protection" money received by him in
1936 and 1937 was the truth or just a cock-and-bull
story.

LEISHMAN v. ASSOCIATED ELECTRIC CO.
189

203

Counsel for Parties.

That the defendant's senior counsel, a lawyer of long
experience in federal criminal practice, did not take exception to the manner in which Judge Maris tempered concern for the proper administration of justice with solicitude for the rights of the defendant, indicates not "waiver"
of a right which had been denied but recognition that the
action of the trial judge was unexceptionable. The claim
that the trial was conducted improperly is obviously an
afterthought. Only after conviction and in an effort to
upset the jury's verdict on appeal was the fair conduct of
the trial court sought to be distorted into an impropriety.

LEISHMAN v. ASSOCIATED WHOLESALE
ELECTRIC CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 332. Argued February 2, 1943.-Decided February 15, 1943.
1. Where a motion under Rule 52 (b) of the Rules of Civil Procedure
(made within an enlargement of time under Rule 6 (b)) to amend
and supplement the findings and conclusions relates to matters of
substance and would, if granted, require an amendment of the
judgment to conform thereto, even though amendment of the judgment was not specifically requested, the time for taking an appeal
from the judgment (28 U. S. C. ยง 230) runs from the date of the
order disposing of the motion. P. 205.
2. Rule 59 of the Rules of Civil Procedure, relating to new trials, held
inapplicable. P. 206.
128 F. 2d 204, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 612, to review a decree dismissing

an appeal for want of jurisdiction.
Mr. John Flam for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Mr. Marston
Allen was on the brief, for respondent.

