OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

LARGENT v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE COUNTY COURT OF LAMAR COUNTY, TEXAS.

No. 559.

Argued February 12, 1943.-Decided March 8, 1943.

1. Since the decision of the county court in this case was not reviewable, on the record made in that court, by any higher court of the
State, and since the decision sustained a municipal ordinance
against a claim of its invalidity under the Federal Constitution, this
Court has jurisdiction on appeal under Jud. Code ยง 237 (a). P.
421.
That the appellant might obtain release by a subsequent and
distinct proceeding in the same or another court of the State does
not affect the reviewability of the present judgment.
2. A municipal ordinance which, as construed and applied, forbids
the distribution of religious publications except upon a permit, the
issuance of which is in the discretion of a municipal officer, held
an abridgment of the freedom of religion, speech, and press guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 422.
It is unnecessary to determine whether the distribution of the
publications in question constituted sales or the acceptance of
contributions.
Reversed.
APPEAL

from a conviction and sentence for violation of a

municipal ordinance.
Mr. Hayden C. Covington for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This ,appeal brings here for review the conviction of
;appellant for violation of Ordinance No. 612 of the City
of Paris, Texas, which makes it unlawful for any person
to solicit orders or to sell books, wares or merchandise
within the residence portion of Paris without first filing
an application and obtaining a permit. The ordinance
goes on to provide that

LARGENT v. TEXAS.
418

Opinion of the Court.

"if after investigation the Mayor deems it proper or advisable he may issue a written permit to said person for

the purpose of soliciting, selling, canvassing or census taking within the residence portion of the city which permit
shall state on its face that it has been issued after a
thorough investigation." 1
A complaint in the Corporation Court of Paris charged
Mrs. Largent, the appellant, with violating this ordinance
by unlawfully offering books for sale without making application for a permit. She was convicted and appealed
to the County Court of Lamar County, Texas, where a trial
de novo was had.2 There a motion was filed to quash the
1The applicable section of the ordinance reads as follows:
"Section 1: From and after the passage of this ordinance it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to solicit orders for
books, wares, merchandise, or any household article of any description whatsoever within the residence portion of the City of Paris, or
to sell books, wares, merchandise or any household article of any description whatsoever within the residence district of the City of Paris,
or to canvass, take census without first filing an application in writing
with the Mayor and obtaining a permit, which said application shall
state the character of the goods, wares, or merchandise intended to be
sold or the nature of the canvass to be made, or the census to be taken,
and by what authority. The application shall also state the name
of the party desiring the permit, his permanent street address and
number while in the city and if after investigation the Mayor deems
it proper or advisable he may issue a written permit to said person
for the purpose of soliciting, selling, canvassing or census taking
within the residence portion of the city which permit shall state on
its face that it has been issued after a thorough investigation."
2 Vernon's Texas Stat. 1936, Art. 876 (Code of Criminal Procedure),
provides:
"Appeals from a corporation court shall be heard by the county
court except in cases where the county court has no jurisdiction, in
which counties such appeals shall be heard by the proper court. In
such appeals the trial shall be de novo. Said appeals shall be governed by the rules of practice and procedure for appeals from justice
courts to the county court, so far as applicable."

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

complaint because the ordinance violated the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
and, at the conclusion of the evidence, there was filed a
motion on the same grounds for a finding of not guilty and
the discharge of the appellant from custody. Both were
overruled.
Appellant's evidence shows that she carries a card of
ordination from the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society, an organization incorporated for the purpose of
preaching the Gospel of God's Kingdom. The Society is
an organization for Jehovah's Witnesses, an evangelical
group, founded upon and drawing inspiration from the
tenets of Christianity. The Witnesses spread their teachings under the direction of the Society by distributing
the books and pamphlets obtained from the Society by
house to house visits. They believe that they have a
covenant with Jehovah to enlighten the people as to the
truths accepted by the Witnesses by putting into their
hands, for study, various religious publications with titles
such as Children, Hope, Consolation,Kingdom News, Deliverance, Government and Enemies.
Mrs. Largent offered some of these books to those upon
whom she called for a contribution of not to exceed 25
cents for a bound book and several magazines or tracts.
If the contribution was not made, the appellant, in accordance with the custom of the Witnesses, would frequently leave a book and tracts without receiving any
money. Appellant was making such distributions when
arrested. She had not filed an application for or received a permit under the ordinance.
The Witnesses look upon their work as Christian and
charitable. To them it is not selling books or papers
but accepting contributions to further the work in whichi
they are engaged. The prosecuting officer contended that
the offer of the publications and the acceptance of the

LARGENT v. TEXAS.
418

Opinion of the Court.

money was a solicitation or sale of books, wares or merchandise. At the conclusion of the hearing, which was
without a jury, the judge found appellant guilty of violating the ordinance of the City of Paris and fined her one
hundred dollars.
The appeal was brought here under ยง 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code which provides for review of a final judgment of the highest court of a state in which a decision
could be had. By our order of December 21, 1942, we
requested counsel to discuss whether this judgment could
be fully reviewed on this record by a higher state court by
habeas corpus or other proceeding. Under the statutes
of Texas, no appeal lies from the judgment of the County
Court imposing a fine of this amount. Vernon's Texas
Stat. 1936, Article 53 (Code of Criminal Procedure);' Ex
parte Largent, 162 S. W. 2d 419, 421, and cases cited. The
appellant, under Texas practice, apparently could test
by habeas corpus the constitutionality on its face of the
ordinance under which she was convicted but may not use
that writ to test the constitutionality of the ordinance as
applied to the act of distributing religious literature. Cf.
Ex parte Largent, supra. Since there is, by Texas law
or practice, no method which has been called to our attention for reviewing the conviction of appellant, on the
record made in the county court, we are of the opinion the
appeal is properly here under ยง 237 (a) of the Judicial
Code. The proceeding in the county court was a distinct
suit. It disposed of the charge. The possibility that the
appellant might obtain release by a subsequent and dis8 "Court of Criminal Appeals.-The Court of Criminal Appeals shall
have appellate jurisdiction co-extensive with the limits of the State
in all criminal cases. This article shall not be so construed as to embrace any case which has been appealed from any inferior court to
the county court or county court at law, in which the fine imposed
by the county court or county court at law shall not exceed one hundred dollars."

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

tinct proceeding, and one not in the nature of a review of
the pending charge, in the same or a different court of
the State does not affect the finality of the existing judgment or the fact that this judgment was obtained in the
highest state court available to the appellant. Cf. Bandini
Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8, 14; Bryant v. Zimmerman, 278 U. S. 63, 70.
Upon the merits, this appeal is governed by recent decisions of this Court involving ordinances which leave
the granting or withholding of permits for the distribution of religious publications in the discretion of municipal
officers.' It is unnecessary to determine whether the distributions of the publications in question are sales or contributions. The mayor issues a permit only if after
thorough investigation he "deems it proper or advisable."
Dissemination of ideas depends upon the approval of the
distributor by the official. This is administrative censorship in an extreme form. It abridges the freedom of religion, of the press and of speech guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.5
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideracion or decision of this case.

Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, 447, 451; Schneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147, 157, 163; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 302.
1 Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568, 570, 571; Cantwell
v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296, 303; Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652.

