GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 523
515

Syllabus.

clear and certain the exclusive and paramount jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court over property dealt with in
a prior equity receivership or like proceeding which is
superseded by a bankruptcy proceeding." Weinstein, op.
cit., p. 154. And see 4 Collier, op. cit., pp. 879-882.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

GROUP OF INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS ET AL. V.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL & PACIFIC
RAILROAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 11. Argued October 14, 15, 1942.-Decided March 15, 1943.
Upon review of a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed an order of the District Court approving a plan, certified to it
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, for reorganization of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company 'under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, held:
1. The Commission's conclusion that the equity of holders of the
debtor's preferred and common stock was without value, and that
* Together with No. 12, Group of Institutional Investors et al. v.
Union Trust Co. et al.; No. 13, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al.
v. Abrams et al.; No. 14, Group of Institutional Investors et al. v.
Orton et al.; No. 15, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al. v. Guaranty
Trust Co. of New York et al.; No. 16, Group of InstitutionalInvestors
et al. v. Chicago, Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry. Co. et al.; No. 17,
Group of Institutional Investors et al. v. United States Trust Co. of
New York, Trustee; No. 18, Group of InstitutionalInvestors et al. v.
Trustees of Princeton University et al.; No. 193 Group of Institutional
Investors et al. v. Glines et al.; and No. 32, Reconstruction Finance
Corporation v. Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Co.
et al., also on writs of certiorari, 316 U. S. 659, to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

they were therefore not entitled to participate in the reorganization,
was sustained by the reasons and supporting data set forth in the
Commission's report on the plan. P. 536.
(a) The Commission is not required by the Act to formalize in
findings the extensive data on which it relied in the exercise of its
expert, informed judgment. P. 539.
(b) Nor was the Commission required to make a precise finding
as to the value of the company's properties in order to eliminate
the old stock from the plan. P. 539.
(c) A finding as to the precise extent of the deficiency is not material or germane to the finding of "no value" prescribed by § 77 (e).
P. 539.
(d) If it is established that there is no reasonable probability
that the earning power of the road will be sufficient to pay prior
claims of interest and principal and leave some surplus for the service of the stock, then the inclusion of the stock would violate the
full priority rule, incorporated in § 77 by the phrase "fair and equitable." P. 541.
2. The criteria employed by the Commission for determining the
permissible capitalization of the reorganized company were in
accord with the Act. P. 539.
(a) Earning power is the primary criterion of value in reorganization proceedings under § 77. P. 540.
(b) The limited extent to which § 77 (e) provides that reproduction cost, original cost, and actual investment may be considered
indicates that these factors are relevant, as in § 77B, only so far as
they bear on earning power. P. 541.
3. The evidence of changed circumstances since the Commission's
approval of the plan, was insufficient to require the District Court
to return the plan to the Commission for reconsideration. P. 543.
Earning power in war years is not a reliable criterion for the
indefinite future. P. 543.
4. The contention that the ratio of debt to stock in the reorganized company results in unfairness to junior interests, is unsupported. P. 544.
(a) The nature of the capital structure, as well as the amount
of the capitalization, is for the determination of the Commission
in its formulation of a plan which will be "compatible with the public interest." P. 544.
(b) Questions of the ratio of debt to stock, the amount of fixed
as distinguished from contingent interest, and the kind of capital
structure which a particular company needs to survive the vicissitudes

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 525
523

Syllabus.

of the business cycle,-are by the Act reserved for the expert judgment of the Commission, which the courts must respect. P. 545.
5. There is no justification in this case for further delay in effectuating the reorganization. P. 545.
6. The effective date of a plan of reorganization under § 77 need
not be the date of the filing of the petition. P. 546.
Section 77 does not preclude the accrual of interest on secured
claims after the date of the filing of the petition for reorganization.
7. The proposed modifications of the lease of the Terre Haute
properties, with the alternative of rejection of the lease in the event
of failure of acceptance of the modifications, were valid. P. 549.
(a) The provisions of § 77 authorize the Commission (and the District Court), in approving a plan of reorganization, to condition acceptance of a lease on terms which are necessary or appropriate to
keep the fixed charges within proper limits or to do equity between
claims which arise under the lease and other claims against the
debtor. P. 550.
(b) The determination of the Commission and the District Court
as.to whether a lease should be rejected, or, if not, on what terms it
should be accepted, ought not to be set aside upon review, except
on a clear showing that the limits of discretion have been exceeded.
P. 551.
(c) The provision of the plan that the Terre Haute lease shall
be rejected as of the date the District Court determines that the
Terre Haute bondholders have not consented to the making of a
new lease at a reduced rental, is valid. P. 551.
(d) In the event of rejection of the lease, pursuant to a plan of
reorganization, operation subsequent to the commencement of the
proceedings and prior to the rejection need not be for the account
of the lessor. P. 552.
(e) When a lease is rejected pursuant to a plan, § 77 (c) (6) may
not be so applied as to give the lessor or its creditors a disproportionate claim against the estate. P. 555.
8. The findings and conclusions of the Commission and the District Court with respect to the allocation of new securities to the
holders of General Mortgage bonds, were adequate and proper.
P. 555.
(a) That system mortgages should be substituted for divisional
ones was a determination which was peculiarly within the province
of the Commission to make. P. 558.
(b) The treatment of the General Mortgage bonds was not inequitable as compared with that accorded the 50-year bonds. P. 562.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

(c) The Commission and the District Court had before them sufficient data from which to determine the allocation of new securities
as between holders of the General Mortgage bonds and holders of
the 50-year bonds; and it can not be said that an incorrect rule of
law was applied in concluding that the plan was fair and equitable
as between these two classes of bondholders.' P. 562.
(d) The determination by the Commission and the District
Court that, so far as the holders of the General Mortgage and 50year bonds were concerned, the requirements of the full priority
rule were complied with, is supported by the evidence. P. 563.
(e) The treatment of the General Mortgage bonds, as compared
with the Milwaukee & Northern First Mortgage bonds and Consolidated Mortgage bonds, was fair and equitable. P. 563.
9. In order to give "full compensatory treatment" to senior claimants and to appropriate to the payment of their claims the "full
value" of the property, it is not essential that a dollar valuation be
made of each old security and of each new security. P. 564.
(a) A requirement that dollar values be placed on what each
security holder surrenders and on what he receives would create an
illusion of certainty where none exists and would place an impracticable burden on the whole reorganization process. P. 565.
(b) It is sufficient that each security holder in the order of his
priority receives from that which is available for the satisfaction
of his claim the equitable equivalent of the rights surrendered.
P. 565.
(c) Whether in a given case senior creditors have been made whole
or received "full compensatory treatment" rests in the informed
judgment of the Commission and the District Court on consideration of all relevant facts. P. 566.
10. The provision in the plan of reorganization for an additions
and betterments fund was proper. P. 566.
11. The contention of the General Mortgage bondholders that,
by reason of the after-acquired property clause in their mortgage,
they have a first lien on so-called "pieces of lines east," the earnings
from which were credited by the Commission to the 50-year bondsa claim made in both courts below but not determined-should be
resolved by the District Court. P. 568.
(a) The objection can not be treated as de minimis. Nor can
it be concluded that the objection has been waived or that the claim
is frivolous. P. 568.
(b) The determination of what assets are subject to the payment
of the respective claims has a direct bearing on the fairness of the
plan as between two groups of bondholders. P. 569.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 527
523

Counsel for Parties.

12. Since junior interests are participating in the plan, the Commission and the District Court should determine what the General
Mortgage bonds should receive in addition to a face amount of
inferior securities equal to the face amount of their old ones, as
equitable compensation, qualitative or quantitative, for the loss of
their senior rights. P. 569.
13. The claims of the 50-year bonds as well as those of the General
Mortgage bonds require that findings be made in respect of the
matters referred to in paragraphs 11 and 12, supra; and final approval of the plan as it affects both groups is dependent thereon.
P. 571.
14. Whether earnings segregation, severance, or contributed traffic
studies should be made is for the Commission initially to determine.
This Court is unable to say that such studies are indispensable in this
case. P. 572.
15. The Commission's conclusion that no allowance should be made
in the plan for interest on the Adjustment bonds subsequent to the
date of the filing of the petition, was justified. P. 573.
124 F. 2d 754, reversed in part.
CERTIORARi, 316 U. S. 659, to review the reversal of an

order of the District Court, 36 F. Supp. 193, approving a
plan formulated in proceedings under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act for reorganization of the Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul & Pacific Railroad Company.
Messrs. Kenneth F. Burgess and Fred N. Oliver (with
whom Messrs. Douglas F. Smith and Willard P. Scott were
on the brief) for Group of Institutional Investors and
Mutual Savings Bank Group, respectively, petitioners in'
Nos. 11 to 19, inclusive. Mr. Russell L. Snodgrass, with
whom Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Emmet McCaffery
were on the brief, for Reconstruction Finance Corporation, petitioner in No. 32.
Mr. A. N. Whitlock for Henry A. Scandrett et al.,
Trustees, Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co.; Mr. John L.
Hall, with whom Messrs. Frank C. Nicodemus, Jr., James
Garfield,and CharlesP. Curtis, Jr., were on the brief, for
Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co.; Mr. Albert K. Orschel,

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Counsel for Parties.

318 U. S.

with whom Mr. Edward R. Johnston was on the brief, for
Protective Committee of Holders of Preferred Stock;
Mr. M'Cready Sykes, with whom Mr. George L. Shearer
was on the brief, for United States Trust Co., Trustee;
Mr. Frederick J. Moses for "University Group" of General Mortgage Bondholders; Messrs. Edwin S. S. Sunderland and C. Frank Reavis (with whom Messrs. Malcolm
Fooshee and Henry F. Tenney were on the brief) for
Fifty-Year Mortgage Trustees and Protective Committee for Fifty-Year Mortgage Bonds, respectively; Mr.
Meyer Abrams for Adjustment Mortgage Bondholders;
Mr. Thomas S. McPheeters for Gary First Mortgage
Group; and Messrs. Reese D. Alsop and Ernest S. Ballard
(with whom Messrs. Carl Meyer, Donald M. Graham,
Frederick Secord, Charles Myers, Robert V. Massey, Jr.,
W. F. Peter, William A. McSwain, and Edwin H. Cassels
were on the brief) for Chicago, Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry. Co. First Lien Bondholders Committee and
Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. et al., respectively,respondents.
Appearances were entered by Mr. Thomas O'G. Fitz
Gibbon for Guaranty Trust Co. et al., Trustees; by Messrs.
John B. Marsh and Edward E. Watts, Jr., for City Bank
Farmers Trust Co., Trustee; and by Mr. Frederic Burnham for Continental Illinois National Bank & Trust Co.,
Trustee,-respondents.
Solicitor General Fahy and Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton
filed a memorandum on behalf of the Interstate Commerce
Commission as amicus curiae. Messrs. John L. Hall,
James Garfield,and CharlesP. Curtis,Jr., on behalf of the
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. et al.; and Mr.
William V. Hodges, also filed briefs as amici curiae.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 529
523

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE. DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases are companion cases to Ecker v. Western
PacificR. Corp., ante, p. 448, and are here on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit. They involve numerous questions relating to a
plan of reorganization for the Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul & Pacific Railroad Co., formulated in proceedings
under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. 49 Stat. 911, 11 U. S.
C. § 205. The plan was approved by the Interstate Commerce Commission (239 I. C. C. 485, 240 I. C. C. 257) and
certified to the District Court. After a hearing and the
taking of additional evidence, the District Court approved
the plan with certain minor modifications not material
here. 36 F. Supp. 193. The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed the order of the District Court (124 F. 2d 754) on
the ground that the Commission did not make the findings
required by Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois,
312 U. S. 510.
The debtor filed its petition under § 77 in 1935. Hearings on proposed plans were closed in 1938. The plan of
reorganization here in issue was approved by the Commission in 1940. It reduced the capitalization and the fixed
charges, eliminated the old stock, and substituted system
mortgages for so-called divisional mortgages. Its effective date was January 1, 1939. The total debt (including
interest accrued to December 31, 1938) was approximately
$627,000,000. In addition the debtor had $119,307,300
of preferred stock and 1,174,060 shares of no-par value
common stock outstanding. The claims against the debtor
which were dealt with by the plan ' are as follows: The Re1 Equipment obligations totalling $33,322,999 and a note of the
trustees for $1,184,000 were undisturbed or extended.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

construction Finance Corporation has a claim for loans
totalling about $12,000,000, secured -as hereinafter described. There are General Mortgage bonds outstanding
in the hands of the public in the principal amount of $138,788,000 with accrued and unpaid interest of over $17,500,000. These bonds, bearing interest at various rates from
31/2 to 434 per cent, have a first lien generally on the debtor's lines east of the Missouri River. In addition to the
amount of these bonds publicly held, $11,212,000 principal amount are held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as security for its loans. There are $8,923,000
First and Refunding bonds outstanding, all of which are
held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as security for its loans and claims. These bonds have a first lien
generally on the lines west of the Missouri and a second
lien on the lines east. There are $106,395,096 principal
amount of 50-year bonds outstanding, with accrued and
unpaid interest of $20,835,706. These bonds, subject only
to the First and Refunding bonds, have a prior lien on the
lines west of the Missouri; and they have a lien subordinate to the General Mortgage and the First and Refunding
bonds on the lines east. They carry interest at the rate
of 5%. There are also 5% Convertible Adjustment bonds
outstanding in a principal amount of $182,873,693, with
accrued and unpaid interest of $79,550,055. These bonds
have the most junior lien on both the lines west and east of
the Missouri River. In addition to those four main mortgages, the debtor had assumed liability on the mortgage
indebtedness of other companies which it or its predecessor
had either purchased or leased. Among these was the Milwaukee & Northern Railroad Co., which had two bond
issues: the First Mortgage 41/2s in the principal amount
outstanding of $2,117,000 and accrued and unpaid interest
of $103,204, which were secured by a first lien on 1f0 miles
of line south of Green Bay, Wisconsin; and Consolidated
Mortgage 4 s in the principal amount outstanding of
$5,072,000 and awrued and unpaid interest of $247,260,

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 531
523

Opinion of the Court.

which were secured by a first lien on 286 miles of line north
of Green Bay and by a second lien on the line south of that
place. There is also in this group a $3,000,000 amount outstanding of First Mortgage 5s of Chicago, Milwaukee &
Gary Ry. Co., with accrued and unpaid interest of
$562,500. They were secured by a first lien on some 80
miles of portions of track around the Chicago district.
In addition there is $301,000 principal amount of Bellingham Bay & British Columbia Railroad Co. First Mortgage bonds, owned by the debtor and pledged with the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as security for its loans.
Furthermore, there are four bond issues of the Chicago,
Terre Haute & Southeastern Ry. Co. and its subsidiaries.
These are in the principal amount outstanding of $21,929,000, are secured by liens on lines and trackage rights
in Indiana and Illinois, and carry either 4% or 5% interest. The debtor operates the lines of the Terre Haute
under a 999 year lease executed in 1921, under which the
lessee agreed to maintain and replace equipment, pay interest on and the principal of the lessor's bonds and to pay
specified annual expenses.2 The annual rental consists of
interest on the Terre Haute bonds, taxes, and the expense
of maintaining the corporate existence of the lessor.
The plan approved by the Commission provides for two
system mortgages. One is a new First Mortgage 8 which
The debtor also owns 97% of the stock of the Terre Haute which
it acquired by purchase. The stock is entitled to 41,730 votes and the
holders of certain Terre Haute bonds are entitled under the terms
of the mortgage to 63,360 votes.
a The bonds secured by this mortgage are unlimited in authorized
principal amount, and, subject to limitations and restrictions specified
in the mortgage, may be issued from time to time in different series
at various interest rates, etc. as the board of directors and the Commission may approve. In addition to the amount of these bonds issued
in the reorganization to security holders, it is contemplated that not
exceeding $10,000,000 principal amount of them will be issued in the
reorganization to provide for reorganization expenses, working capital,
and additions and betterments.
2

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Will be a first lien on all properties of the debtor, subject
only to the lien of equipment obligations, and under which
$58,923,171 principal amount of new First Mortgage 4%
bonds will be issued in the reorganization. The second
is a new General Mortgage which will be a lien on the
properties of the debtor subject to the lien of the First
Mortgage, and under which two series of bonds bearing
4 % interest contingent on earnings will be issued.
Series A bonds will be issued in the principal amount of
$57,256,669, and Series B bonds in the principal amount
of $51,422,111. The interest on both Series A and Series
B bonds is cumulative to the maximum amount at any
one time of 131/2%, but the interest on Series A bonds has
priority to the interest on the Series B.4 The plan provides for the issuance of $111,347,846 of 5% preferred
stock and 2,131,4751/4 shares of no-par value common
stock.' As respects the Terre Haute properties, the plan
4 The bonds secured by this mortgage are unlimited in authorized
principal amount, and, subject to limitations and restrictions contained
in the mortgage, may be issued from time to time in different series at
various interest rates, etc., as the board of directors and the Commission may approve. Interest on any new series does not have priority
over Series A or Series B. Bonds of Series B are convertible into
common stock at the option of the holder at any time at the rate for
each $1000 bond, of 10 shares of common stock. Both Series A and
B are entitled to a sinking fund created by an annual payment out of
available net income of an amount equal to 1/2 of 1% of the aggregate
principal amount of Series A and Series B bonds authenticated and
delivered.
5 The new preferred and new common stock are authorized in an
unlimited amount. Additional amounts are issuable with approval of
the Commission. The shares of preferred issuable in the reorganization are Series A. So long as any shares of Series A are outstanding,
the consent of at least two-thirds in number of those shares is necessary for the issuance of any additional shares of preferred ranking
either as to dividends or as to liquidation, in priority to or on a parity
with the shares of Series A. The dividends on Series A of the preferred
are non-cumulative. But no dividends are payable on the common un-

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 533
523

Opinion of the Court.

provides for the execution of a new lease between the Terre
Haute and the new company on condition that substantially all of the Terre Haute bondholders agree to a modification of their bonds and mortgages. The modifications
include an extension of the maturity of the bonds, a
waiver of equipment vacancies under the existing mortgages, a provision for the abandonment of lines, and reduction of the interest on the bonds so that there is fixed
interest of 2.75% and contingent interest of 1.5%, the
payment of the latter being subject to the same limitations as the interest on the Series A, General Mortgage
bonds. In case substantially all of the Terre Haute
bondholders agree to the modifications, a new lease will
be made under which the new company will assume the
payment of the principal of, and the interest on, the modified bonds and the corporate expenses of the Terre Haute.
If substantially all of the Terre Haute bondholders do not
agree to the modifications, the Terre Haute lease will be
rejected as of the date when the court determines that the
modifications have not been approved. In case of such
disaffirmance of the lease, the plan reserves, as we discuss
hereafter, 15,837 shares of new common stock for certain
less there shall have been paid or set apart for payment on the Series A
preferred dividends at the rate of 5% per annum for the three consecutive income periods immediately preceding. Series A of the preferred participates with the common to the extent of $1 a share after
dividends shall have been paid or set apart for the common at the
rate of $3.50 a share. Series A preferred has voting rights and, voting
cumulatively as a class, is entitled to elect a majority of the board

until full 5% dividends shall have been paid on the Series A for three
consecutive, calendar years. Thereafter, each share of Series A votes

equally with each share of common, until full dividends have not been
paid during three consecutive calendar years in which event the Series
A again becomes entitled to elect a majority of the board.
Each share of common stock carries one vote. Approximately

514,221 shares are reserved for the conversion of Series B, General
Mortgage bonds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

unsecured claims and the claims which would then arise
under the lease. The plan also calls for the establishment of an additions and betterments fund to which
$2,500,000 annually would be paid. This annual charge
is placed ahead of contingent interest. It is further provided that the board of directors may set aside certain
additional amounts for that fund after the payment of
full interest on the Series A, General Mortgage bonds and
the modified Terre Haute bonds. The plan thus authorizes a capitalization of $548,533,321 for the new company,' the percentage of debt to total capitalization
being 40.8. The annual charges ahead of dividends, including fixed and contingent interest, the mandatory payment to the additions and betterments fund, and the sinking fund, are approximately $12,532,528. When dividends on the new preferred stock are included, the annual
charges ahead of dividends on the common stock are
about $18,099,920.
The Commission allocated new First Mortgage bonds
to the Reconstruction Finance Corporation for 100% of
its claim, after reducing the amount of the claim by certain cash credits. We have already noted the offer which
it made to the Terre Haute bondholders. The Milwaukee & Northern First Mortgage bonds were to receive
70% of their claims in First Mortgage bonds and 30% in
Series A, General Mortgage bonds. The Milwaukee &
Northern Consolidated Mortgage bonds were to be offered
25% of their claims in First Mortgage bonds, 35% in
6 This total includes the modified bonds of the Terre Haute, which

though strictly not a part of the capital structure of the new
company will be assumed by it, if the terms of modification are
accepted. The total capitalization is made up of the following:

Debt-fixed interest ........................
Debt-contingent interest ....................
Preferred stock .............................
No-par common stock ($100 per share) ........

$108, 780,470
115,257,480
111,347, 846
213, 147, 525

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 535
523

Opinion of the Court.

Series A and 20% in Series B, General Mortgage bonds,
and 20% in preferred stock. The same participation was
afforded holders of the old General Mortgage bonds.
The old 50-year bonds were to receive 15% of their claims
vin Series B, General Mortgage bonds, 60% in preferred
stock and 25% in common stock. The Gary First Mortgage
bonds were to receive 75% of the amount of their claims
in new preferred stock and 25% in new common. The
Convertible Adjustment bonds were allotted 1,749,492
shares of common stock for their claim upon the mortgaged assets of the debtor. The Commission noted that
the allotment of stock, taken at $100 a share, would fail
to satisfy the claim ' of those bondholders by $55,471,653.
For that portion of their claim, the bondholders were permitted to participate with other unsecured creditors in
the debtor's free assets. 55,000 shares of common stock
were set aside as representing "a fair proportion of the
equity of the new company for the unmortgaged assets
of the debtor." Of these 55,000 shares, the Convertible
Adjustment bondholders were allotted 39,163 shares.
Unsecured creditors with claims amounting to $445,162
and the Terre Haute in case of rejection of the lease were
allotted the balance-or 15,837 shares. The Commission
found that "the equity of the holders of the debtor's preferred stock and its common stock has no value" and that
therefore they were not entitled to participation in the
plan under the rule of Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S. 106. See § 77 (e).
7

The Commission computed the amount of the claim by taking
the principal and interest to June 29, 1935, the date of the filing of
the petition. That amount was $230,420,853. As we discuss hereafter, it concluded that no allowance should be made in the plan for
interest on these bonds subsequent to the date of the filing of the
petition in view of the insufficiency of the mortgaged assets to meet
the claims and the apparent inadequacy of the free assets to satisfy
the deficiency with interest.
513236--43-vol. 318-38

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

We need not stop to discuss the respective functions of
the Commission and the District Court in respect to plans
of reorganization under § 77. That matter has been fully
explored in the Western Pacific case, ante, p. 448. Against
the background of the conclusions there reached, we come
to the various objections to the plan, pressed on the courts
below and renewed here.
Exclusion of the Stockholders. The objections of the
debtor and the preferred stockholders are, in the main,
that the findings of the Commission are inadequate; that
it did not employ proper criteria in determining the capitalization of the new company and in concluding that
there was no equity for the stockholders; and that, however proper the findings of the Commission on this phase
of the case may have been when made, the earnings in
1940, 1941, and 1942 demonstrate that the earning power
of the road exceeds that which the Commission found.
In determining the permissible capitalization of the
new company and the nature of its capital structure, the
Commission made an extensive review of the properties,
business, and earnings of the debtor. It reviewed freight
and total revenues, passenger revenues and their trend,
operating revenues and expenses, and maintenance and
efficiency of operation for various periods ending in
1938. It gave consideration to estimated future taxes,
emergency freight charges, and certain wage factors. It
reviewed the amounts of income available for payment of
interest in each of the years from 1921 to 1938. It considered the original cost of the properties, the cost of reproduction new, the cost of reproduction less depreciation,
and the value for rate making purposes-each of which
was substantially in excess of the capitalization which it
authorized. It stated that its obligation was "to devise a
plan that will serve as a basis for the company's financial
structure for the indefinite future." It concluded that a

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 537
523

Opinion of the Court.

capitalization not exceeding $548,533,321 was "as high as
can reasonably be adopted" after consideration was given
to "the past and prospective earnings of the debtor and
all other relevant facts." It stated that the fixed interest
plus the mandatory payment to the additions and betterments fund should be kept "within the coverage of past
average earnings"; that those totals provided in the plan
would be covered 1.16 times by the average earnings
from 1931 to 1935, and 1.18 times for the period from
1932 to 1936, though they would not have been covered
in 1932, 1935 and 1938. It noted that while the year 1939
showed an improvement in earning power, it would regard any increase in fixed charges "as hazardous." It
said that a "reasonable margin above fixed charges
operates not only to the advantage of the company in
times of depressed earnings but also to the benefit of the
holders of contingent interest bonds and to the marketability of all classes of the securities." Accordingly, it
found that the limitation of fixed interest to $4,269,654 a
year was "reasonable and proper" having regard to "the
clear demands of a conservative policy in the present
reorganization and the claims and rights of the first-lien
bondholders" and that there would be "adequate coverage" of the amount of fixed charges provided in the plan
"by the probable earnings available for the payment
thereof." Furthermore, it stated that the total debt
should "bear a proper relation to the total capitalization,
and such as to make the payment of contingent interest a
probability and of dividends a reasonable prospect, at least
on the preferred stock." It concluded that in view of the
charges ahead of the preferred stock and the earnings
record, it would be "entirely unsound" to increase the
amount of the contingent interest debt. As we have
noted, the Commission found that the present preferred
and common stock have "no value." And the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Court affirmed that finding, as was necessary if the stock
were to be excluded from participation in the plan. ' As
a basis for that finding the Commission noted that, although the original cost and reproduction cost was much
higher than the permissible capitalization which it
authorized, the earning power of the system did not justify inclusion of the old stock. It said that no dividends
had been paid on the stock since 1917, that estimated
future "normal earnings" were $15,894,000 a year, and
that when "these amounts are compared with the annual
interest charges on the principal of the present debt,
$23,739,000 a year, it is evident that the earning power
of the system since the period of peak earnings
[1928-1929] is entirely inadequate to cover the principal
of the debt, disregarding more than $118,000,000 of unpaid interest." It added that there was "no evidence
whatever" to indicate that a recovery of earning power of
the peak periods was "reasonably probable," but that it
was "a remote possibility only, which may not be utilized
to support a finding" that the stock has "an equity." It
also found that, "under all pertinent facts and considerations, the probabilities of the property earning sufficient
to pay dividends on any securities that could properly be
represented by warrants issued under the plan are too
remote to justify provision in the plan for such warrants,"
even though the warrants provided for their exercise on
payment of cash.
Sec. 77 (d) requires the Commission when it renders a
report on a plan of reorganization to "state fully the
reasons for its conclusions." The summary which we have
made on this phase of the case plainly shows that the
8Sec. 77 (e) provides that it is not necessary to submit the plan to
"any class of stockholders" if the Commission "shall have found, and

the judge shall have affirmed the finding, . . . that at the time of

the finding the equity of such class of stockholders has no value."

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 539
523

Opinion of the Court.

Commission did exactly that. Its finding that the stock
had no value was definite and explicit. To require it to go
further and formalize in findings the numerous data on
which it relied in the exercise of its expert, informed judgment would be to alter the statutory scheme. Apart from
the necessity of making a finding for the exclusion of stock
or any class of creditors as provided in § 77 (e), the mandate which Congress gave the Commission by § 77 (d) is
merely to approve a plan "that will in its opinion meet
with the requirements of subsections (b) and (e) of this
section, and will be compatible with the public interest."
Reasons which underlie the expert opinion which the Commission expresses on a plan of reorganization under § 77
need not be marshalled and labelled as findings in order
to make intelligible the Commission's conclusion or ultimate finding or to make possible the performance on the
part of the courts of the functions delegated to them.
Here, as in other situations (Colorado v. UnitedStates, 271
U. S. 153, 166-169; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S.
70, 76-77; Floridav. United States, 292 U. S. 1, 8-9), it is
the conclusion or ultimate finding of the Commission together with its reasons and supporting data which are
essential. Congress has required no more. Nor was it
necessary for the Commission to make a precise finding as
to the value of the road in order to eliminate the old stock
from the plan. A finding as to the precise extent of the
deficiency is not material or germane to the finding of "no
value" prescribed by § 77 (e).
But it is urged that the Commission employed the incorrect criteria for determining the permissible capitalization of the new company. In this connection, reliance is
placed on § 77 (e), which provides in part that the "value
of any property used in railroad operation shall be determined on a basis which will give due consideration to the
earning power of the property, past, present, and prospec-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

tive, and all other relevant facts. In determining such
value only such effect shall be given to the present cost of
reproduction new and less depreciation and original cost
of the property, and the actual investment therein, as may
be required under the law of the land, in light of its earning power and all other relevant facts." It is argued that,
under this provision, earning power is not the primary
criterion of value and that the Commission did not give
proper weight to original cost, reproduction cost new, or
the valuation for rate making purposes. We disagree.
We recently stated in Consolidated Rock Products Co. v.
Du Bois, supra, in connection with a reorganization of an
industrial company, that the "criterion of earning capacity
is the essential one if the enterprise is to be freed from
the heavy hand of past errors, miscalculations or disaster,
and if the allocation of securities among the various claimants is to be fair and equitable." p. 526. That is equally
applicable to a railroad reorganization. Mr. Justice
Brandeis once stated that "value is a word of many meanings." See Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 262 U. S. 276, 310, concurring opinion. It
gathers its meaning in a particular situation from the purpose for which a valuation is being made. Thus the question in a valuation for rate making is how much a utility
will be allowed to earn. The basic question in a valuation
for reorganization purposes is how much the enterprise in
all probability can earn. Earning power was the primary
test in former railroad reorganizations under equity receivership proceedings. Temmer v. Denver Tramway Co.,
18 F. 2d 226, 229; New York Trust Co. v. Continental &
Commercial Bank, 26 F. 2d 872, 874. The reasons why it
is the appropriate test are apparent. A basic requirement
of any reorganization is the determination of a capitalization which makes it possible not only to respect the priorities of the various classes of claimants but also to give the
new company a reasonable prospect for survival. See

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 541
523

Opinion of the Court.

Commissioner Eastman dissenting, Chicago, M. & St. P.
Reorganization, 131 I. C. C. 673, 705. Only "meticulous
regard for earning capacity" (ConsolidatedRock Products
Co. v. Du Bois, supra, p. 525) can afford the old security
holders protection against a dilution of their priorities and
can give the new company some safeguards against the
scourge of overcapitalization. Disregard of that method
of valuation can only bring, as stated by Judge Evans for
the court below, "a harvest of barren regrets." 124 F. 2d
p. 765. Certainly there is no constitutional reason why
earning power may not be utilized as the criterion for
determining value for reorganization purposes. And it is
our view that Congress when it passed § 77 made earning
power the primary criterion. The limited extent to which
§ 77 (e) provides that reproduction cost, original cost, and
actual investment may be considered indicates that (apart
from doubts concerning constitutional power to disregard
them) such other valuations were not deemed relevant
under § 77 any more than under § 77B "except as they
may indirectly bear on earning capacity." Consolidated
Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois, supra, p. 526. In this case
the Commission followed the statute. While it made earning power the primary criterion, it did not disregard the
other valuations. It considered them and concluded in
substance that they afforded no reasonable basis for believing that the probable earning power of the road was greater
than what the Commission had found it to be by the use
of other standards. The Commission need not do more.
The finding of the Commission, affirmed by the District
Court under § 77 (e), that the stock had "no value" is
supported by evidence. The issue involved in such a
determination is whether there is a reasonable probability
that the earning power of the road will be sufficient to pay
prior claims of interest and principal and leave some surplus for the service of the stock. If it is established that
there is no reasonable probability of such earning power,

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

then the inclusion of the stock would violate the full
priority rule of NorthernPacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S.
482-a rule of priority incorporated in § 77 (e) (1), as in
§ 77B and Ch. X (Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products
Co., supra; Marine Harbor Properties v. Manufacturers
Trust Co., 317 U. S. 78) through the phrase "fair and
equitable." A valuation for reorganization purposes
based on earning power requires of course an appraisal of
many factors which cannot be reduced to a fixed formula.
It entails a prediction of future events. Hence "an estimate, as distinguished from mathematical certitude, is all
that can be made." Consolidated Rock Products Co. v.
Du Bois, supra, p. 526. But recognizing the possible
margin of error in any such prediction, we cannot say that
the expert judgment of the Commission was erroneous
when made or that the District Court was not justified in
affirming the finding of "no value."
The question of the increase in earnings since the Commission approved the plan raises of course different issues.
As we have indicated in the Western Pacific case, the
power of the District Court to receive additional evidence
may aid it in determining whether changed circumstances
require that the plan be referred back to the Commission
for reconsideration. The hearings before the Commission
were closed in 1938 and its report rendered in 1940. The
hearings before the District Court were held in September
1940. It had before it the trustees' annual reports for
1937, 1938 and 1939 and a statement of operating revenues
and income available for fixed charges through the first
half of 1940. Similar figures were before the Circuit Court
of Appeals for most of 1941. The debtor and the preferred stockholders contend on the basis of those figures
that the Commission's conclusion that there is no evidence
that a "recovery of the earning power of 1928-29 is reasonably probable" has been disproved by subsequent
events. They argue that while the net earnings for 1928,

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 543
523

Opinion of the Court.

1929 and 1930 were $30,671,000, $29,105,000 and $17,938,000 respectively, those for 1940 were $14,867,000 and
for 1941 $28,939,000. And they point out that the net
for 1940 was almost as great as, and the net for 1941 was
much in excess of, the estimated $15,894,000 of net earnings for the future normal year to which the Commission
referred. They also point to the fact that while that
estimate indicated that 12/2% of gross would be left
for fixed charges, that percentage for 1940 was 13% and
for 1941 20.6%.
We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals that no
sufficient showing of changed circumstances has been
made which requires the District Court to return the plan
to the Commission for reconsideration. Late in 1939 the
Commission had occasion to say, "We know from past experience that the upswing in business which war brings is
temporary and likely to be followed by an aftermath in
which conditions may be worse than before." 53d Annual
Report, p. 5. The record during the last World War is
illuminating. It shows that the Milwaukee's net operating income rose to almost $31,000,000 in 1916, exceeded
$21,500,000 in 1917, dropped to about $4,000,000 in 1918
and to about $2,000,000 in 1919 and showed a deficit of
over $14,000,000 in 1920. See Chicago, M. & St. P. Reorganization, 131 I. C. C. 673, 715. As we have noted, the
Commission conceived as its responsibility the devising of
a plan which would serve "as a basis for the company's
financial structure for the indefinite future." We cannot
assume that the figures of war earnings could serve as a
reliable criterion for that "indefinite future." As some of
the bondholders point out, the bulge of war earnings
per se is unreliable for use as a norm unless history is to
be ignored; and numerous other considerations, present
here as in former periods, make them suspect as a standard
for any reasonably likely future normal year. Among
these are the great increase in taxes and in certain costs of

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

operation and the decrease in water and truck competition.
In addition to the increase in tax rates, of which we cannot be unmindful, there is the likely increase of the total
tax burden occasioned by the conversion of debt into stock.
It is estimated by certain bondholders that by reason of
this fact a full dividend could not be paid on the new preferred stock and no dividend could be paid on the new
common stock even on the basis of earnings as great as
those for 1941. In view of these considerations, we cannot say that the junior interests have carried the burden
which they properly have of showing that subsequent
events make necessary a rejection of the Commission's
plan.
But it is suggested that the vice of the Commission's
plan is the formulation of a capital structure which as a
result of conversion of debt into stock so increases the
impact of mounting taxes on the company as to deprive
junior interests of net earnings which would be available
for distribution to them if the ratio of debt to stock were
increased. Such a conversion of debt into stock is said to
be entirely unnecessary to the formulation of a sound
plan and results in unfairness to junior interests. The
difficulty with that argument is that Congress has entrusted the Commission, not the courts, with the responsibility of formulating a plan of reorganization which "will
be compatible with the public interest." § 77 (d). The
nature of the capital structure, as well as the amount of
the capitalization, is a component of "the public interest."
For the "preservation of the transportation system and
the stability of its credit essential to its preservation depend not alone upon the ability of individual carriers to
meet their obligations, but upon the ability of all to attract the investment of funds in their securities." See
United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S.
311, 337 (dissenting opinion). Furthermore, Congress

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 545
523

Opinion of the Court.

has provided in § 77 (b) (4) that the fixed charges (including fixed interest on funded debt) provided in the plan
shall be "in such an amount that, after due consideration
of the probable prospective earnings of the property in
light of its earnings experience and all other relevant facts,
there shall be adequate coverage of such fixed charges by
the probable earnings available for the payment thereof."
The ratio of debt to stock, the amount of fixed as distinguished from contingent interest, the kind of capital
structure which a particular company needs to survive the
vicissitudes of the business cycle-all these have been reserved by Congress for the expert judgment and opinion
of the Commission, which the courts must respect. Nor
can we conclude that there is anything in § 77 which indicates that it may be used merely as a moratorium. Elimination of delay in railroad receivership and foreclosure
proceedings was one of the purposes of the enactment of
§ 77. Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
294 U. S. 648, 685. Sec. 77 (g), giving the District Court
power to dismiss the proceedings for "undue delay in a
reasonably expeditious reorganization," was inserted in
recognition of "the necessity of prompt action." (H.
Rep. No. 1283, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 3.) We cannot
conclude that in this probeeding, which already has been
pending seven years and which was before the Commission
for over four years, the interests of junior claimants have
been sacrificed for speed. The House Judiciary Committee only recently stated' that "where a railroad company
is so burdened with a heavy capital structure that it is
in need of thoroughgoing reorganization, it is not in the
public interest, nor even, except temporarily, in the interest of the company itself, that such a reorganization
9 Respecting the new Ch. XV of the Bankruptcy Act, c. 610, 56 Stat.
787, which provides for certain voluntary adjustments of obligations
of railroads.

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

be postponed." H. Rep. No. 2177, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 6. No case has been made out for further delay here.
Finally, it is argued on behalf of some of the stockholders that the effective date of a plan promulgated under § 77 must be the date of the filing of the petition, the
theory being that § 77 does not permit the accrual of interest after that date. In Consolidated Rock Products
Co. v. Du Bois, we held that, under § 77B, interest on
secured claims accrued to the effective date of the plan
was entitled to the same priority as the principal. See
312 U. S. p. 514, note 4, p. 527, and cases cited. The
definition of the terms "creditors" and "claims" was substantially the same under § 77B (b) as it is under § 77.
We see no reason why the same result should not obtain
here.
Treatment of the Terre Haute Bonds. The treatment
accorded these bonds is attacked by the Terre Haute and
representatives of its bondholders as well as by certain
groups of Milwaukee bondholders. The Terre Haute
interests contend, inthe first place, that the plan contains
no findings necessary for determining how the sacrifices
required of these bondholders shall be distributed inter se.
It is pointed out that the modifications proposed by the
Commission for these four classes of bondholders are to
be made regardless of the lien, security, interest or maturity of each and the earning power of the respective
underlying properties. Hence it is argued that this phase
of the plan is not fair and equitable, since it does not even
attempt to preserve the respective priorities of these bond
issues. The short answer to that objection is that the
Terre Haute properties have not been treated by the
Commission or the District Court as a part of the properties of the debtor for reorganization purposes. Nor has
any question been raised or argued here as to the power
of the Commission or the District Court so to treat them.
The Commission and the District Court considered the

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 547
523

Opinion of the Court.

problem solely as one of rejection or affirmance of a lease.
The Terre Haute bondholders were in effect given the
option to take the Terre Haute lines back or to agree to,
a reduced rental. If the Commission had authority to
determine the question of rejection in the manner indicated and if it complied with the legal requirements for
the exercise of that authority, the modifications which it
proposed and which the District Court approved are
valid. We think they are.
In 1928 the Commission reviewed the history of the
acquisition of this property. 131 I. C. C. 653-660. It
then said that the Terre Haute was "a distress property
controlled by a committee of Chicago bankers who wanted
to liquidate and who had written the securities off the
books of their banks as losses" (pp. 657-658); that "the
terms upon which the property was acquired were improvident and to that extent adversely affected the financial
condition of the St. Paul" (p. 657); and that "the total
financial burden as of June 30, 1925, which had fallen
upon the income of the St. Paul as a result of this lease
was nearly $11,000,000." p. 656. In its present report the
Commission, after reviewing certain earnings data, concluded that "the earning power of the Terre Haute is sufficient to cover all interest requirements, but this earning
power is largely dependent on a continuation of the Milwaukee's coal traffic, together with the commercial coal
traffic that accompanies it, and would be greatly diminished if such traffic ceased." And it added, "The present arrangement is distinctly to the advantage of the Terre
Haute." The Commission concluded, however, that a
rejection of the lease would be to the "disadvantage" of
both companies and that some means should be provided
"for retaining the Terre Haute lines as a part of the system without unduly jeopardizing a successful reorganization of the Milwaukee.", The Commission, on the other
hand; felt that -an affirmance would be inequitable, from

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the point of view of the Milwaukee bondholders. The
present interest charges on the Terre Haute are about
$1,023,000 a year. If those were assumed by the new
company and fixed interest charges were kept at about
$4,270,000 a year as provided in the plan, the amount of
new first mortgage bonds which could be issued would
have to be reduced by $10,500,000. Such a reduction, said
the Commission, would mean a "substantial sacrifice" by
Milwaukee bondholders which would be "entirely inequitable." In that connection, it also noted that if the
$21,929,000 of Terre Haute bonds were assumed by the
new company, they would constitute about 27% of the
total amount of new fixed interest debt. This would
mean that the allotment of fixed interest bonds to the
General Mortgage bondholders "could not be more than
double the amount of the existing Terre Haute bonds,
whereas the mileage represented by the general mortgage
is about 18 times that of the Terre Haute, and on the basis
of the elements of value . . . for the lines covered by the
general mortgage, about 17 times that of the Terre Haute
properties." Those considerations of fairness constituted
the primary reason which led the Commission to reject
such an "inequitable" proposal. But there were other
reasons too. The early maturities on the Terre Haute
bonds, the substantial default of the debtor under its
covenant in the lease to replace equipment, restrictions
on the abandonment of property (all of which were covered by the proposed modifications) also played a part in
the Commission's conclusion that the lease should not be
assumed by the new company. The Commission said
that its proposed modifications were "the best that we
could devise in the public interest and as affording fair
and equitable treatment to both the bondholders of the
Terre Haute and those of the debtor." The District Court
concurred with the Commission for substantially the same
reasons: The Circuit. Court of Appeals said it could not

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 549
523

Opinion of the Court.

approve that action without more specific findings. Just
what findings it thought necessary we do not know. The
Terre Haute interests suggest that the deficiency was in
the lack of any finding that the lease was burdensome.
And they add that only leases found to be burdensome may
be rejected and that the evidence would not support any
such finding if made.
The argument of the Terre Haute interests that only
burdensome leases may be rejected is based on certain
statements of ours that burdensome leases may be rejected (Palmer v. Webster & Atlas National Bank, 312
U. S. 156, 163; PhiladelphiaCo. v. Dipple, 312 U. S.168,
174) and on cases like American Brake Shoe & Foundry
Co. v. New York Rys. Co., 278 F. 842, 844, which hold
that an equity receiver may not reject a lease when it
does not appear that "in carrying out its affirmative obligations the estate suffers an actual loss as distinguished
from the obtaining of a more profitable rental." And an
extended analysis of the operations under the lease is
made to show that the lease is a valuable asset of the
estate and that the debtor received a net financial benefit
from it in recent years. We do not need to determine,
however, what is the scope of the authority to reject
leases under § 77, either by the trustees or pursuant to a
plan of reorganization. For here we think that the proposed modifications of the lease contained in the plan
were wholly justified. The Terre Haute bondholders are
"dreditors" of the debtor as defined in § 77 (b), for they
are holders of "a claim under . . . an unexpired lease."
Sec. 77 (b) (5) provides not only that the plan "may"
contain provisions rejecting unexpired. leases but also
that it "may include any other appropriate provisions
not inconsistent with this section." It is also stated in
subsection (b) (1) that a plan "shall include provisions
modifying or altering the rights of creditors generally, or
of any class of them, secured or unsecured, either through

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the issuance of new securities of any character or otherwise." In addition, § 77 (b) (4) provides that the plan
"shall provide for fixed charges" including "rent for leased
railroads" in such an amount "that . . . there shall be

adequate coverage of such fixed charges by the probable
earnings available for the payment thereof." And § 77
(e) requires the District Court to be satisfied, before approving the plan, that it is "fair and equitable" and "does
not discriminate unfairly in favor of any class of creditors."
These provisions taken together mean to us that the Commission (and the District Court) have the authority in
approving a plan to condition acceptance of a lease on
terms which are necessary or appropriate to keep the
fixed charges within proper limits or to do equity between
claims which arise under the lease and the other claims
against the debtor. Like the question whether a lease is
burdensome (see Meck & Masten, Railroad Leases and
Reorganization,49 Yale L. Journ. 626, 649), one phase of
that problem is whether the lease is worth its annual
charge. A disregard in that determination of the sacrifices which other creditors are making would be wholly
incompatible with the standards which § 77 has prescribed
for reorganization plans. At the same time, if the Commission deems it desirable to keep the leased line in the
system, it must necessarily have rather broad discretion
in providing modifications of the lease where, as here,
the lessor is not being reorganized along with the debtor.
For under that assumption the modification must be sifficiently attractive to insure acceptance by the lessor or its
creditors. Thus, the question whether a lease should be
rejected and, if not, on what terms it should be assumed
is one of business judgment. See Mercantile Trust Co. v.
Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 81 F. 254, 259; Park v.
New York, L. E. & W. R. Co., 57 F. 799, 802. Certainly
there was ample evidence warranting the conclusion of the
Commission and the District Court that affirmance of the

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 551
523

.

Opinion of the Court.

lease would be unjust from the viewpoint of other creditors. And we could not say that the Commission, exercising its expert judgment, and the District Court, affirming that judgment, were too generous in the offer which
is made to the Terre Haute bondholders or that they should
have rejected the lease. We are not warranted in upsetting those determinations on review except on a clear
showing that the limits of discretion have been exceeded.
We cannot say that here.
Finally, the Terre Haute interests object to the provisions
of the plan which state that the Terre Haute lease shall be
rejected as of the date the District Court determines
that the Terre Haute bondholders have not consented to
the making of a new lease at a reduced rental. They contend that the lessor's claim for damages for breach of the
lease must be measured as of the date on which the proceeding was instituted. They further contend that, in
the event of rejection of a lease, operation of the leased
property subsequent to the commencement of the proceeding must be for the account of the lessor-the latter
being liable for all losses and being entitled to any net
earnings. On the first point they rely on § 77 (b), which
provides that, in case an unexpired lease is rejected, "any
person injured by such nonadoption or rejection shall for
all purposes of this section be deemed to be a creditor
of the debtor to the extent of the actual damage or injury
determined in accordance with principles obtaining in
equity proceedings." It is argued that, since this Court
held that that provision places leases "upon the same
basis as executory contracts" (Connecticut Ry. Co. v.
Palmer, 305 U. S. 493, 502), the rule governing breaches
of an executory contract (Pennsylvania Steel Co. v. New
York City Ry. Co., 198 F. 721, 744; Samuels v. E. F. Drew
& Co., 292 F. 734, 739) must be applied here. This Court
stated in the Palmer case, however, that the provision in
§ 77 (b) which allows the lessor to prove his "actual dam513236-43-vol. 318-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

age or injury determined in accordance with principles
obtaining in equity proceedings" does not "refer to any
rule for the measure of damages in equity receiverships."
305 U. S. p. 503. Furthermore, as we have noted, § 77 (b)
provides not only that a plan may reject unexpired leases
but also that it "may include any other appropriate provisions not inconsistent with this section." And § 77 (b)
(1) says that a plan "shall include provisions modifying or
altering the rights of creditors generally." For the reasons which we have already stated, these provisions give
the Commission and the District Court power to adjust
the claims under the lease so as to do equity between the
various classes of creditors. Deferment of the date as of
which the lease shall be rejected is an appropriate exercise
of that power. During the § 77 proceedings the stipulated
annual rental under the lease has been paid. In view of all
the facts, no element of injustice to the lessor is apparent
by reason of the deferment of the date as of which its
damages, if any, will be measured.
For similar reasons we conclude that, in event of rejection of the lease, operation subsequent to the commencement of the proceeding and prior to the rejection need
not be for the account of the lessor so as to entitle it to any
net earnings. As we have noted, the stipulated annual
rental has been paid during the § 77 proceedings. The
court order authorizing the payment of interest (which
is part of the rental) stated that it should not be construed "to preclude or conclude the Debtor in respect of
its right of election to disaffirm or discontinue" the lease.
And § 77 (b) provides that the adoption of an unexpired
lease by the trustees "shall not preclude a rejection" of it
in a plan of reorganization. Furthermore, § 77 (c) (6)
provides:
"If a lease of a line of railroad is rejected, and if the
lessee;/with the approval of the judge, shall elect no longer
to operate the leased line, it shall be the duty of the lessor

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 553
523

Opinion of the Court.

at the end of a period to be fixed by the judge to begin the
operation of such line, unless the judge, upon the petition
of the lessor, shall decree after hearing that it would be
impracticable and contrary to the public interest for the
lessor to operate the said line, in which event it shall be
the duty of the lessee to continue operation on or for the
account of the lessor until the abandonment of such line
is authorized by the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended."
Sec. 77 (c) (6) contains no express provision that on
rejection of a lease the operation of the property by the
lessee shall be for the account of the lessor for the period
prior to the rejection. But the Terre Haute interests
seek to read into § 77 the doctrine of relation back so
that in case of a rejection of the lease the lessee's operation during the entire period of bankruptcy is for the
account of the lessor, the latter being responsible for all
losses and entitled to all the net earnings. That was the
general rule governing railroad leases in equity receivership proceedings (See Meek, Railroad Leases and Reorganization, 49 Yale L. Journ. 1401, 1405-1407), at least
where the receivers of the lessee made no payments of rent
during the term of their possession. Pennsylvania Steel
Co. v. New York City Ry. Co., supra, 730-732; American
Brake Shoe & Foundry Co. v. New York Rys. Co., 282 F.
523. And see United States Trust Co. v. Wabash Western
Ry. Co., 150 U. S.287. And there is some authority for
the view that the same result follows even though unconditional payments of rent have been made in the interim,
the theory being that the receiver must "be held to have
occupied from the beginning the same position that he
ultimately assumes." Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co.
v. Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co., 6 F. 2d 547, 549. But see
Second Avenue R. Co. v. Robinson, 225 F. 734. Cf. Sunflower Oil Co. v. Wilson, 142 U. S.313. But the rule was

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

not a hard and'fast one. It permitted exceptions based on
equitable considerations. Westinghouse Electric & Mfg.
Co. v. Brooklyn Rapid Transit Co., supra, p. 551. So,
although we assume arguendo that Congress incorporated
the prior equity rule into § 77 (c) (6), which recognizes
the necessity of keeping a railroad in operation until the
public authority permits discontinuance (Warren v. Palmer, 310 U. S. 132), it does not necessarily follow that
the lessor would be entitled to the net earnings accruing
prior to the rejection, at least where the trustees have
unconditionally paid the stipulated annual rental for that
period. Cf. Palmer v. Palmer, 104 F. 2d 161. To be sure,
we recognized in Palmer v. Webster & Atlas National
Bank, supra,that the trustees of a lessee on their rejection
of the lease operated the leased lines for the account of
the lessor, the latter being liable for losses for the whole
period. But we are here dealing with a rejection of a
lease pursuant to a plan of reorganization. And the
question raised relates to the fairness of that plan as between classes of creditors-one group being the Terre
Haute bondholders, and the other the Milwaukee bondholders. In the event of a rejection of the lease, the Terre
Haute interests are claiming that they are entitled not
only to a return of the leased lines, to a claim against the
estate for damages, and to the stipulated annual rental
up to the date of the rejection, but also to any and all net
income from the leased property in excess of that rent.
Such a claim for net income, like a claim for rent, would
be a charge against the estate for whose payment a plan
of reorganization must provide. § 77 (e) (3). The
amount of those charges, like other demands on the cash
resources of the estate or the new company, have a decided
bearing on the fairness and integrity of a plan of reorganization. The Commission and the District Court
certainly have authority to determine whether the total
amount which the lessor receives on rejection of the lease

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 555
523

Opinion of the Court.

is fair in comparison with the sacrifices which the other
creditors make. The District Court agreed with the Commission that it would be inequitable to give the Terre
Haute interests, in the event of a rejection, more than
a return of the leased lines, an unsecured creditor's claim
for damages, and the stipulated annual rental. We cannot say that that was not a fair equivalent of their claim.
Nor can we say that their sacrifices, as compared with
the sacrifices being made by the other Milwaukee creditors, are so great that they should receive an additional
cash payment from the estate. Sec. 77 (c) (6) and the
doctrine of relation back are not to be considered separate
and apart from the other provisions of the Act. The end
product of this reorganization system is supposed to be
a fair plan. When a lease is rejected pursuant to a plan,
§ 77 (c) (6) may not be applied so as to give the lessor or
its creditors a disproportionate claim against the estate.
General Mortgage Bonds. The objections of the corporate trustee and of a group of these bondholders are
that the allocation of new securities under the plan violates their priority rights, that the findings of the Commission are inadequate to sustain that allocation of new
securities, and that the additions and betterments fund
impairs their priorities.
The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the view that the
plan could not be approved because of the absence of certain findings which it thought were necessitated by Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois, supra. It concluded that the findings must include specific values of
liens to be surrendered and specific values of securities
given in exchange. In its view, this defect in the Commission's reports permeated the whole plan except the
finding of "no value" for the stock. As we have pointed
out in the Western Pacific case, such a view misinterprets
ConsolidatedRock ProductsCo. v. Du Bois. In that case
the District Court had found that the properties were

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

worth more than the amount of the debt, in spite of the
fact that they had been operated at a loss for a period
of more than eight years. And it admitted stockholders
to participation in the plan in the face of that fact and
also without compensating the bondholders for their accrued interest. Furthermore, the District Court in that
case approved a distribution of new securities to bondholders under two different mortgages without attempting to ascertain what properties were covered by each.
In addition, the plan as approved cancelled a claim against
the holding corporation without making any finding as
to its amount or validity. We held (1) that the "criterion of earning capacity is the essential one" in making a
valuation for reorganization purposes (312 U. S. p. 526);
(2) that some valuation of the assets of the holding company and of the claim against it must be made, so that
there could be a determination as to whether it, as stockholder, was making a contribution to the new company
for which it would receive new stock; (3) that at least an
''approximate ascertainment" of the assets subject to the
two mortgages must be made (312 U. S. p. 525), as a question of the fairness of the plan between the two classes of
bondholders had been raised; and (4) that in applying
the full priority rule of the Boyd case (228 U. S. 482) and
the Los Angeles Lumber Products case (308 U. S. 106)
full "compensatory provision must be made for the entire
bundle of rights which the creditors surrender." 312
U. S. p. 528. And we added (p. 529), "Practical adjustments, rather than a rigid formula, are necessary. The
method of effecting full compensation for senior claimants will vary from case to case." Applying these principles here, we are of the view that, except as hereinafter
noted, the findings and conclusions of the Commission and
the District Court were adequate and proper.
The objections of the General Mortgage bonds are that
full compensation was not afforded them for the loss of

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 557
523

Opinion of the Court.

their first lien position, and that to sustain the allocation
of new securities to them it must be determined that the
new securities had in fact a value representing compensation for the priority of the old. We can put to one side
at this point the treatment of the Terre Haute bonds at
which the General Mortgage bonds direct some of their
criticism. For the reasons which we have already stated,
we cannot substitute our opinion for the business judgment of the Commission and say that the Terre Haute
lease should have been rejected outright or that the Terre
Haute interests would consent to a new lease on less
favorable terms than are offered. Nor do we stop to
analyze the facts warranting the preferred treatment accorded the amply secured claim of the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation. For no argument is pressed here
that the allocation of new First Mortgage bonds for the
full amount of that claim was not warranted. Furthermore, we cannot agree with the suggestion that the General Mortgage bonds should have been granted a larger
participation in new fixed interest securities. As we have
noted, 25% of their claims is to be satisfied with the new
First Mortgage bonds. We have already reviewed the
reasons why the Commission felt that the fixed interest
charges should not exceed about $4,270,000 a year. It
should be noted at this point that the Commission stated
that it saw "no means by which the exact present lien
position of the general mortgage bonds or the 50-year
bonds can be preserved except under a prohibitive mortgage structure." As we have stated, the determination
of the kind of capital structure which a railroad emerging
from reorganization should have is peculiarly a question
for the expert judgment of the Commission. To give the
General Mortgage bonds a larger percentage of new First
Mortgage bonds-would necessitate an increase in the total
fixed interest charges of the new company. We would
intrude on the Commission's function if we undertook to

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

direct that any such increase be made. The same reply
may be given the contention that the Commission should
not have created new system mortgages but should have
left the 50-year bonds secured by a separate mortgage or
should have created a separate corporation to operate the
western lines which comprise the main security for the
50-year bonds. The Commission considered and rejected
these proposals, saying that it was "of great importance
that a completely unified system be created through the
reorganization and that the capital structure be not complicated by numerous mortgages." Such a determination
is peculiarly one for the Commission under § 77. So far
as the law is concerned, there is no obstacle to the substitution of system mortgages for divisional ones. We so
held in ConsolidatedRock ProductsCo. v. Du Bois, supra,
pp. 530-531, indicating that the requirements of feasibility
and practicability may often necessitate such a course.
The same principles are applicable here.
So the problem for us on this phase of the case is
whether, within the framework of the capital structure
which has been designed, the allocation of new securities
to the General Mortgage bonds was permissible within
the rule of the Boyd and the Consolidated Rock Products
cases. On this record, that entails primarily a consideration of the treatment accorded the General Mortgage
bonds, on the one hand, and the Milwaukee & Northern
bonds and the 50-year bonds on the other.
As we have noted, the General Mortgage bonds are to
receive 25% of their claims in new First Mortgage bonds,
35% in Series A and 20% in Series B, new General Mortgage bonds, and 20% in preferred stock. The same treatment is accorded the Milwaukee & Northern Consolidated
Mortgage bonds. The Milwaukee & Northern First
Mortgage bonds, however, are to receive 70% of their
claims in new First Mortgage bonds and 30% in Series A
new General Mortgage bonds. And the 50-year bonds

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 559
523

Opinion of the Court.

are to receive 15% of their claims in Series B, new General Mortgage bonds, 60% in new preferred stock, and
257o in common stock. If the criterion of earning power
be given the weight which we think is necessary under
this statutory system, the Milwaukee & Northern First
Mortgage bonds are entitled to preferred treatment over
the General Mortgage bonds and the Milwaukee & Northern Consolidated bonds. On the basis of system earnings
for 1936, the Commission noted that income available for
the Milwaukee & Northern First Mortgage bonds was
about three times interest charges, and for the General
Mortgage bonds about 1.16. In the case of the Milwaukee & Northern Consolidated Mortgage bonds, the interest for the same period was earned about 1.2 times. Regard for the earning power of those respective units of
property led to the preferred treatment of the Milwaukee
& Northern First Mortgage bonds and to the same offer
being made to the General Mortgage bonds as was made
to the Milwaukee & Northern Consolidated Mortgige
bonds. But the attack of the General Mortgage bonds
is directed, in the main, to the participation accorded the
50-year bonds and to the inadequacy as compared with
them of the treatment given the General Mortgage
bonds.
They point out that the Commission referred to the
General Mortgage lines as "the heart of the system"; that
the interest on these bonds has been earned, with the exception of a few years, since 1889; that the western lines securing the 50-year bonds are deficit lines. In that connection they refer to the Commission's statement that the
losses by the western lines were $142,591 in 1930 and $1,540,808 in 1931, before payment of interest and that "on

any reasonable basis of allocation between the lines west
and the other parts of the system, the lines west cannot be
expected to earn any sum for the payment of interest. In
years when the system earnings approach $10,000,000,

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

some interest is apparently earned for the 50-year mortgage bonds under the present capital structure, but this
reflects system operation and does not demonstrate any
earning power for the western lines." But the problem
for the Commission and the District Court was not as
simple as the General Mortgage bondholders make it appear. The lien of the 50-year bonds embraces not only
the western lines but also, subject to the First and Refunding Mortgage, the leasehold interest of the debtor in the
Terre Haute and stocks and bonds of other companies, the
most important of which are shares of Indiana Harbor
Belt R. Co. and most of the Terre Haute stock. There
was evidence that income from certain securities pledged
under the First & Refunding Mortgage (largely the Indiana Harbor Belt stock) was $402,031 in 1936 and net
income from the Terre Haute during that year was $875,327, after payment of all interest charges. Though the
Commission recognized that the propriety of crediting the
50-year mortgage with income from the Terre Haute was
doubtful because of the assumption that the First & Refunding Mortgage would be satisfied by other earnings, it
gave some weight to those earnings in determining the
participation to be accorded the 50-year bonds. Thus,
it noted that one analysis in 1935 showed about $1,000,000
available for interest on the 50-year bonds, "on the basis
of $10,263,185 of system earnings available for fixed
charges, approximately $2,000,000 of net income from the
Terre Haute, and a deficit of $500,000 on the lines west."
The Commission also reviewed another analysis showing
that the First & Refunding Mortgage lines contributed
$6,249,099 of gross revenues and $3,300,400 of net revenues
to the General Mortgage lines in 1936; and that the
income for the 50-year mortgage lines (after payment
of interest on the bonds of the Terre Haute, the Northern,
the Gary, and the First & Refunding) was about $2,000,000, while the income of the General Mortgage lines avail-

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 561
523

Opinion of the Court.

able for interest was approximately $6,400,000, after interest on equipment certificates. While the Commission
was critical of that analysis, it felt that that computation
deserved "careful considerafion," as the estimate of
$2,000,000 was "roughly comparable" to the "other estimate of $1,000,000 in 1935, representing the earnings
for the 50-year bonds, after payment of all interest on
the general mortgage bonds." It noted that the analysis
showing $2,000,000 available for the 50-year bonds also indicated that, on the basis of system earnings of about
$12,300,000, all interest charges on the General Mortgage
bonds, and only 38% of the interest on the 50-year bonds,
were earned. The examiner had recommended that the
50-year bonds receive 10% of their claims in Series A, new
General Mortgage bonds and 10% in Series B. The
Commission did not consider that treatment "to be justified on any basis of earnings shown." It concluded that
if the 50-year bonds were assigned a part of the new
Series B bonds only, they would begin "to share earnings
with the general mortgage bonds and Northern Consolidated bonds after $9,675,000 of prior charges." That
treatment, said the Commission, "goes far toward resolving the doubts as to the accuracy or fairness of the allocation of earnings in favor of the 50-year bonds, without
injustice to the general mortgage bonds."
The problem in such a case is not a simple One. The
contribution which each division makes to a system is not
a mere matter of arithmetical computation. It involves
an appraisal of many factors and the exercise of an informed judgment. Furthermore, an attempt to put precise dollar values on separate divisions of one operating
unit would be quite illusory. As the Commission recently stated, "The properties comprise one operating
unit; a complete separation of values would necessarily
have to be based on extensive assumptions of unprovable

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
OPinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

validity; and any attempt at such a separation would in
the end serve no purpose except to present an apparent
certainty in the formulation of the plan which does not
exist in fact." St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. Reorganization, 252 I. C. C. 325, 361. In the present case,
the Commission and the District Court were satisfied that
they had adequate data based on earning power to make a
fair allocation of new securities between the General
Mortgage bonds and the 50-year bonds. We cannot say
that it was inadequate. Sec. 77 contains no formula for
the making of such an allocation nor for the determination of the earning power of the entire system or parts
thereof. The earnings periods to be chosen, the methods
to be employed in allocating system earnings to the various divisions, are matters for the informed judgment of
the Commission and the Court. Nor was there a failure
here, as in the Consolidated Rock Products case, to ascertain what properties were subject to the respective
divisional mortgages. With one minor exception, to be
discussed later, that was done. So the Commission and
the Court had before them data which we cannot say was
inadequate to determine the allocation of new securities
between these two classes of bondholders. Nor can we
say that the Commission and the Court applied an incorrect rule of law in concluding that the plan was "fair
and equitable" as between the General Mortgage bonds
and the 50-year bonds. We are not dealing here merely
with a first mortgage and a second mortgage on a single
piece of property. For each of the two groups of bondholders has a first lien on a part of the Milwaukee properties."0 In case of first and second liens on the same prop30 The lien of the 50-year bonds is of course subject to the First &
Refunding Mortgage bonds, all held by the Reconstruction Finance

Corporation as security for its loan. But in view of the adequacy of
that security, the Circuit Court of Appeals recognized that, as a practical matter, the 50-year bonds were to be considered as having a
first lien on the western lines.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 563
523

Opinion of the Court.

erty, senior lienors, of course, would be entitled to receive,
in case the junior lienors participated in the plan, not only
"a face amount of inferior securities equal to the face
amount of their claims" but, in addition, "compensation
for the senior rights" which they surrendered. Consolidated Rock Products Co. v. Du Bois, supra, p. 529. But
where, as here, each group of bondholders is contributing
to a new system mortgage separate properties from old
divisional mortgages, it is necessary to fit each into the
hierarchy of the new capital structure in such a way that
each will retain in relation to the other the same position
it formerly had in respect of assets and of earnings at various levels. If that is done, each has obtained new securities which are the equitable equivalent of its previous
rights, and the full priority rule of the Boyd case, as applied to the rights of creditors inter se, is satisfied. That
rule was applied here. And the determination by the
Commission and the District Court that its requirements
were satisfied is supported by evidence. Sixty per cent
of the General Mortgage bonds receives priority, as respects assets and earnings, over the 50-year bonds, since
the former receive 25% in new First Mortgage bonds and
35% in Series A, new General Mortgage bonds, while the
50-year bonds were allotted none of those new securities.
Furthermore, the General Mortgage bonds received a
larger share of Series B bonds (20% as against 15%), a
smaller share of new preferred stock (20% as against
60%) and no common stock as compared with 25% by
the 50-year bonds. For similar reasons, we cannot say
that the treatment of the General Mortgage bonds as
against the Milwaukee & Northern First Mortgage bonds
and Consolidated Mortgage bonds was not fair and equi'
table. No fixed rule supplies the M~ethod for bringing two
divisional mortgages into a new capital structure so that
each will retain in relation to the other the same position
it formerly had in respect of assets and of earnings at vari-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ous levels. The question in each case is one for the informed discretion of the Commission and the District
Court. We cannot say that that discretion has been
abused here.
We would have quite a different problem if the District
Court had failed to perform the functions which § 77 (e)
places upon it. But it cannot be said that there was any
such failure here. The District Court satisfied itself
that the principles of priority as applied to these facts
were respected. See 36 F. Supp. pp. 202-203, 211-212.
Since such a determination rests in the realm of judgment
rather than mathematics, there is an area for disagreement. But we are not performing the functions of the
District Court under § 77 (e). Our role on review is a
limited one. It is not enough to reverse the District
Court that we might have appraised the facts somewhat
differently. If there is warrant for the action of the District Court, our task on review is at an end.
That leads to a question much discussed in this case, as
in the Western Pacific case, as to the nature and extent of
the findings necessary under § 77 in order to approve a
plan as "fair and equitable." As we have said, the finding of the Commission, affirmed by the District Court,
that the stock had "no value" was warranted. Furthermore, the Commission's determination of the permissible
capitalization of the new company was sufficient as a
finding of the maximum reorganization values which
might be distributed among the various classes of security
holders. But it has been argued here, as in the Western
Pacificcase, that a dollar valuation must be made of each
old security and of each new security in order to give
"full compensatory treatment" to senior claimants and
to appropriate to the payment of their claims the "full
value" of the property, in accord with the principles of
ConsolidatedRock Products Co. v. Du Bois, supra,p. 529.
The rule in equity receivership cases that the creditors

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 565
523

Opinion of the Court.

were entitled to have the "value" (Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Boyd, supra, p. 508) or the "full value" (Kansas
City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., 271
U. S. 445, 454) of the property first appropriated to the
satisfaction of their claims never was thought to require
such valuations. Nor does the Consolidated Rock Products case or § 77 require them. We indicated in the Los
Angeles Lumber Products case "(308 U. S. p. 130) that
compromises, settlements, and concessions are a normal
part of the reorganization process. And see Marine Harbor Properties v. Manufacturers Trust Co., supra. We
stated in the Consolidated Rock Products case (312 U. S.
p. 526) that a determination of earning power of an enterprise "requires a prediction as to what will occur in
the future, an estimate, as distinguished from mathematical certitude." And in discussing the method by
which creditors should receive "full compensatory treatment" for their rights, we emphasized, as already noted,
that "Practical adjustments, rather than a rigid formula, are necessary." Id. p. 529. Certainly those
standards do not suggest any mathematical formula.
We recently stated in another connection that, whatever
may be "the pretenses of exactitude" in determining a
dollar valuation for a railroad property, "to claim for it
'scientific' validity, is to employ the term in its loosest
sense." Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. v. Browning, 310 U. S.
362, 370. That is equally true here. A requirement that
dollar values be placed on what each security holder surrenders and on what he receives would create an illusion
of certainty where none exists and would place an impracticable burden on the whole reorganization process.
See Bourne, Findings of "Value" in Railroad Reorganizations, 51 Yale L. Journ. 1057. It is sufficient that each
security holder in the order of his priority receives from
that which is available for the satisfaction of his claim
the equitable equivalent of the rights surrendered. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

requires a comparison of the new securities allotted to him
with the old securities which he exchanges to determine
whether the new are the equitable equivalent of the old.
But that determination cannot be made by the use of
any mathematical formula. Whether in a given case
senior creditors have been made whole or received "full
compensatory treatment" rests in the informed judgment
of the Commission and the District Court on consideration of all relevant facts.
The General Mortgage bondholders attack the additions and betterments fund on the ground that it is unlawful and results in a dilution of their priority rights.
They contend that § 77 (b) (4) 11 contemplates that the
probable future earnings found to be available for fixed
charges shall be used to pay those charges; that this provision of the plan reduces by $62,500,000 (the capitalized
value of $2,500,000) the amount of new bonds available
for the present underlying bonds; that additions and betterments are a capital charge and that the income of the
road pledged to the underlying bonds cannot be diverted
for that purpose at least without some compensating advantage given the underlying bonds; that the fund will
enrich the junior interests at the expense of the bondholders; that the expenditures contemplated should be
obtained from surplus earnings or from new capital raised
under the open end First Mortgage.
The Commission, in determining that an additions and
betterments fund should be set up, reviewed at some
length the capital requirements of the system. It observed that, generally, "the expenditures for additions and
11 Which provides that a plan of reorganization "shall provide for
fixed charges (including fixed interest on funded debt, interest on unfunded debt, amortization of discount on funded debt, and rent for
leased railroads) in such an amount that .. .there shall be adequate
coverage of such fixed charges by the probable earnings available for
the payment thereof."

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 567
523

Opinion of the Court.

betterments have varied in proportion to earnings available for interest. Ordinarily with a rising trend in traffic
and revenues the carrier would need more or better facilities." Its conclusion was that "the increased income
should properly provide, in part, for their cost." These
amounts would supplement the "cash represented by
charges to depreciation, retirements, and salvage." And
the plan provides that if the new company establishes an
"operating expense account for its roadway and structures," the additions and betterments fund shall be paid
from the amount credited to such fund for the applicable
income period to the extent that such amount is adequate
therefor. Likewise, the additions and betterments fund
is to be credited with the amount which the new company
"shall charge to operating expenses in any year" for the
"cost of any additions and betterments, properly chargeable to capital account under the rules now in effect."
Since the Commission recently has required railroad companies generally to establish a depreciation reserve with
respect to their roadway and structures, 2 the General
Mortgage bonds concede that the alleged illegality of
such a fund will be rendered largely academic. But in any
event, we see no barrier to a determination by the Commission that expenditures which are incident to a normal
and proper operation of the road are costs or charges
which should be paid before net income is computed. Nor
can we see any legal reason why, as the Commission has
determined here, those charges should not be in part dependent on the level of earnings. The Circuit Court of
Appeals thought that there must be findings which would
support both the allowance and its amount. But as we
have pointed out earlier, Congress has merely provided in
§ 77 (d) that the plan approved by the Commission must
be one which "will in its opinion meet the requirements
12

Order of June 8, 1942, effective January 1, 1943.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

of subsections (b) and (e) of this section, and will be compatible with the public interest." And in its report the
Commission is directed to "state fully the reasons for its
conclusions." We do not see where the Commission failed
to meet these requirements. The need for such a fund
and its amount involve matters of policy. The determination that a particular fund should be constituted calls
for the exercise of an expert, informed judgment. The
Commission clearly has power to require that such a fund
be provided for in a plan of reorganization under § 77,
whether or not the payments to it are properly included
within the term "fixed charges" as used in § 77 (b) (4).
For such a fund, like the amount of capitalization and the
nature of the capital structure, may be highly relevant to
the financial integrity of the company which emerges from
reorganization and to stability and efficiency of the transportation system.
There are, however, two objections made by the General
Mortgage bonds which we think have merit. The first
of these relates to the dispute as to the so-called "pieces
of lines east." The General Mortgage bonds contend
here, as they did before the Commission, that they have a
first lien on those properties by reason of the afteracquired property clause in their mortgage. The Commission credited the 50-year bonds with the earnings from
those properties, indicating, however, that the propriety
of doing so was doubtful in absence of a judicial determination of the question. Some, of the General Mortgage
bonds objected to that allocation before the District
Court. The District Court, however, did not undertake
to resolve the dispute. These General Mortgage bondholders likewise raised the point before the Circuit Court
of Appeals. But it was not considered there. The objection has been renewed here but has not been argued
on the merits. We can hardly treat the matter as de
minimis, as there is evidence that these properties had a

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 569
523

Opinion of the Court.

net income of $170,100 in 1936. Nor can we conclude
that the objection has been waived or that the claim
is frivolous. Here, as in the Consolidated Rock Products
case, the "determination of what assets are subject to the
payment of the respective claims" (312 U. S. p. 520) has
a direct bearing on the fairness of the plan as between two
groups of bondholders. The District Court should resolve the dispute.
The second of these objections is that the General
Mortgage bonds are to receive under the plan, only a
face amount of inferior securities equal to the face amount
of their claims. The objection would, of course, not be
valid if claimants wholly junior to the General Mortgage
bonds were not participating in the plan. But here the
Adjustment bonds, junior to the General Mortgage bonds,
receive a large amount of common stock under the plan
for their claim upon the mortgaged assets."3 The rule
of the Boyd case "protects the rights of senior creditors
against dilution either by junior creditors or by equity interests." Marine Harbor Properties v. Manufacturers
Trust Co., supra. That view has not been contested here.
Hence, as we indicated in the ConsolidatedRock Products
case, where junior interests participate in a plan and
where the senior creditors are allotted only a face amount
of inferior securities equal to the face amount of their
claims, they "must receive, in addition, compensation for
the senior rights which they are to surrender." 312 U. S.
529. And we stated that whether they should "be made
whole for the change in or loss of their seniority by an
increased participation in assets, in earning or in control,
13This objection obviously would not run to a participation by
junior creditors in unmortgaged assets-against which in this case
55,000 shares of common stock were reserved. Of those the Adjustment bonds were allotted 39,163 shares. But as we have noted,
the Adjustment bonds were also allotted 1,749,492 shares of new common for their claim upon the mortgaged assets of the debtor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

or in any combination thereof, will be dependent on the
facts and requirements of each case." Id. p. 529. We
felt that that result was made necessary by the ruling in
the Boyd case that, "If the value of the road justified the
issuance of stock in exchange for old shares, the creditors
were entitled to the benefit of that value, whether it was
present or prospective, for dividends or only for purposes
of control." 228 U. S. p. 508. We adhere to that view.
Unless that principle is respected, there will be serious
invasions of the rights of senior claimants to the benefit
of junior interests. The property of one group will be
subtly appropriated to pay the claims of another while
lip service is rendered the principles of priority.
Some argument is advanced that under this plan the
General Mortgage bondholders do receive as against the
junior interests compensatory treatment which is adequate to make up for the seniority rights which they are
to surrender. Part of that is said to be in the control
which they obtain. It is pointed out that the plan provides for a five year voting trust in which the several
groups of bondholders will be represented; that thereafter the plan protects their control by providing that the
new preferred stock (all of which is to be issued to the
Milwaukee & Northern Consolidated bonds, the Gary
bonds, the General Mortgage bonds, and the 50-year
bonds) will be entitled to cumulative voting to elect a
majority of the board of directors during certain periods
when full dividends on the preferred have not been paid;
and that the exercise of the conversion rights of the Series
B new General Mortgage bonds, allotted to these senior
bondholders, would result in their acquisition of over 50%
of both the preferred and common. It is also argued that
compensatory treatment is to be found in the fact that the
new General Mortgage bonds have sinking funds and are
cumulative up to three years of interest, and that the new
preferred stock is participating.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 571
523

Opinion of the Court.

But neither the Commission nor the District Court considered the problem. As we have indicated, the question
whether senior creditors have received "full compensatory treatment" rests in the informed judgment of the
Commission and the court. A decision on that issue involves a consideration of the numerous investment features of the old and new securities and a financial analysis
of many factors. Our task is ended if there is evidence
to support that informed judgment. We are not equipped
to exercise it in the first instance. Nor is it our function. Nor can we conclude that its omission in this instance was harmless. And minorities under § 77, like
minorities under other reorganization sections of the Act
(Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra, pp.
114-115, 128-129), cannot be deprived of the benefits of
the statute by reason of a waiver, acquiescence or approval by the other members of the class. Certainly we
cannot say that the inclusion in the new securities to be
received by the General Mortgage bonds of features normally common to them are adequate compensation for
the lost seniority. Our conclusion on the point is that,
since junior interests are participating in the plan, the
Commission and the District Court should determine
what the General Mortgage bonds should receive in addition to a face amount of inferior securities equal to the
face amount of their old ones, as equitable compensation,
qualitative or quantitative, for the loss of their senior
rights.
50-Year Bonds. The two points just discussed in relation to the General Mortgage bonds are equally applicable
to the 50-year bonds. Final approval of the plan as it
affects those two issues cannot be made until. findings are
made on those two matters.
The 50-year bonds raise other objections. We have
already Considered their major objections in other connections, and they need not be repeated. But a word should

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

be added in answer to their argument that the data before
the Commission as to segregated earnings was too meager
to warrant a permanent disruption of liens. They urge
that the plan be remitted to the Commission so that the
earning power of the various component parts or mortgage divisions of the road may be determined in light of
earnings segregation studies, severance studies, and contributed traffic studies." These are highly technical
matters. See Meck & Masten, Railroad Leases and Reorganization, 49 Yale L. Journ. pp. 640-647. As stated
above, we cannot say that the data as to earning power
of the various divisions which was utilized by the Commission was inadequate. The earnings periods to be
selected and the methods to be employed in allocating
earnings among the various divisions are matters for the
informed judgment of the Commission and the District
Court. Whether earnings segregation, severance, or contributed traffic studies should be made is for the Commission initially to decide in light of the requirements of a
particular case. We cannot say that those studies are so
indispensable that they should be required here. Sec. 77
(c) (10) provides that the judge "may direct" the debtor
or trustees "to keep such records and accounts, in addition
to the accounts prescribed by the Commission," as will
permit such a segregation and allocation of earnings and
expenses. That does not indicate that Congress felt that
the suggested studies were always necessary.
Gary First Mortgage Bonds; Adjustment Bonds. We
have carefully considered the objections raised by these
two groups. Their objections, for the most part, are of a
14 Although the 50-year bonds and the debtor raised this point before

the Commission as early as February, 1938, and the 50-year bonds
raised it again when they filed their objections to the plan in the
District Court, neither of them attempted to submit any such studies
either in the hearings before the Commission or in the hearings before

the District Court more than two years later.

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 573
523

Opinion of the Court.

kind which have been fully treated in other parts of this
opinion and need not be elaborated. But one point raised
by the Adjustment bonds need be mentioned. As we
have noted, the interest on these bonds accrued to December 31, 1938 is over $79,000,000. The Commission ruled
that, in view of the insufficiency of the mortgaged assets
to meet the claims of the Adjustment bonds and the inadequacy of the free assets to satisfy the deficiency, with
interest, and the unsecured claims, with interest, no allowance should be made in the plan for interest on these
bonds subsequent to the date of the filing of the petition.
For reasons we have already stated, the conclusion of the
Commission that the mortgaged assets were insufficient to
meet the bonded indebtedness was supported by evidence.
Since the distribution provided for these bonds on the
basis of their mortgage securities is less than the principal
amount of their claim, the limitation of their right to
share the unmortgaged assets ratably with the unsecured
creditors on the basis of principal and interest prior to
bankruptcy only is justified under the rule of Ticonic National Bank v. Sprague, 303 U. S. 406.
We have considered all other objections to the plan and
find them without merit. But for the exceptions we have
noted, we conclude that the District Court was justified in
approving the plan and that the Circuit Court of Appeals
was in error in reversing that judgment. Accordingly,
we reverse in part and affirm in part the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and direct that the cause be
remanded to the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
did
not participate in the consideration or decision of these
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of Roi=Ts, J.

318 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

This case presents two questions on which I feel compelled to express my views. I have set forth in Ecker v.
Western PacificR. Corp., ante,p. 448, what I consider the
respective functions of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the district judge in respect of a plan of
reorganization formulated under § 77. It follows from
what I there said that I agree with the opinion of-the Court
except as herein noted.
The two matters as to which I disagree are the provisions of the plan respecting the lease of Chicago, Terre
Haute & Southeastern Railway Company and the allocation of securities to the holders of General Mortgage
bonds.
1. The statute deals with unexpired leases under which
the debtor is lessee. It does not provide that the lessor
may be brought into a reorganization proceeding with
the debtor so that the properties of both debtor and lessor
may be reorganized as a unit. On the contrary, all the
relevant provisions contemplate the recognition of the
lessor-lessee relation, and the dealing with the leased
property in that light, and not as if it were part of the
property of the lessee. The practice in equity receiverships prior to the adoption of § 77 permitted the affirmance or disaffirmance of unexpired leases. That practice
is perpetuated in the reorganization statute. Prior to
the formulation of a plan, the trustee appointed by the
court may disaffirm the lease.' He may, on the other
hand, adopt the lease.2 But if he does so his adoption
is subject to reversal by a provision in the plan providing
for rejection The plan itself must, amongst other things,
1§ 77 (c) (2); Palmer v. Webster & Atlas National Bank, 312 U. S.
156, 163.
2 § 77
3 Id.

(b).

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 575
523

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

provide for the rental payment under existing leases not
rejected.' But the plan may provide for rejection and,
in that case, the lessor is to be treated as a creditor with a
claim for the amount of damage or injury done by rejection.' What is to be done with respect to the continued
operation of a leased line upon the rejection of the lease
is covered.'
It is evident that Congress concluded that the old and
well-recognized principles applied in equity receivership
should be substantially incorporated into § 77 so far as
concerns unexpired leases. The draftsmen of the legislation did not provide for a case in which it would be to the
interest of the reorganized corporation to retain the leased
property under a new or amended lease stipulating for a
reduced rental. But whether the omission to confer upon
the Commission and the court the power to work out
such a result arose from inadvertence or reasons of policy,
or because of a belief that power was lacking, I need not
speculate. Whatever the reason, it seems clear that such
a case is not covered and that the only alternatives provided by. the statute are disaffirmance or affirmance. In
view of the provisions of subsection (b) as to what a plan
shall or may include, I think it is inadmissible to find
authority for what the Commission has done in this case in
the concluding sentence of the first paragraph to the effect
that the plan "may include any other appropriate provisions not inconsistent with this section." In view of
the statutory provisions to which I have referred, the
features of the plan respecting the Terre Haute lease are
inconsistent with the section. Congress did not contemplate the treatment of a lessor as if the property it owns
and leases to the debtor is part of the property to be re'Id.
Id.

§ 77'(c) (6).

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

318 U. S.

organized, nor did it intend to put the Commission in a
position of bargaining with such a lessor for a new base.
The plan formulated by the Commission seems to me
to be a straddle between these two alternatives. The
holders of bonds secured by mortgages on the Terre Haute
property are, in some aspects, treated as if they were mortgage creditors of the debtor. In other aspects, Terre
Haute is treated as an arm's length creditor with whom a
bargain must be struck. The vice of this seems apparent
on this record. Whereas each class of mortgage creditors
of the debtor is afforded a participation in the securities
and probable earnings of the new company in purported
compliance with the rule of the Case and Rock Products
decisions, and whereas the Commission recognizes the
difference in the nature of the lien and security of the
three issues of mortgage bonds of Terre Haute, in the
plan they are all treated alike and not accorded positions
corresponding to their respective liens and priorities. The
excuse for this is that the Commission is dealing with a
lease and fixing a rental to be paid to an outside lessor.
On the other hand, the concept of dealing with a lessor, as
I read the record, moved the Commission to propose to
the lessor what it thought would be an attractive offer in
order to persuade the lessor to accept a new lease. In
this aspect, the Commission, as I think, made the bondholders of Terre Haute, treated as a class, a proposition
which gives them an inordinately superior position to that
accorded the holders of General Mortgage bonds, and produces a serious discrimination against the latter.
I refer to these circumstances merely to reinforce what
I have said above to the effect that it is evident Congress
did not provide for any such treatment of the rights accruing under an unexpired lease. I am of opinion, therefore, that, as a matter of law, the plan adopted by the
Commission does not conform to the standards set up by
§ 77, and particularly by subsection (b).

GROUP OF INVESTORS v. MILWAUKEE R. CO. 577
523

Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

2. Upon the facts set forth in the Commission's report,
I think it clear that the award of securities in the new corporation to' the holders of General Mortgage bonds does
not comply with the rule of absolute priority announced
in the Boyd and Rock Productscases. If this is true, the
plan violates subsection (e).
In conformity with what I have said in Ecker v. Western Pacific R. Corp., I think the duty rested upon the district judge to sustain the objections of General Mortgage
bondholders, because I cannot find in the facts stated by
the Interstate Commerce Commission and those proved
before the District Court any reasonable justification for
the allocation made to them as against that made to the
holders of bonds secured by the Milwaukee & Northern
Consolidated Mortgage and the Fifty Year Mortgage, or
for the treatment accorded them in comparison to that
accorded Terre Haute's bondholders. The opinion of the
Court treats this question as, in effect, lying within the
sound discretion of the district judge and refuses to review
his action on the ground that it is not evident he abused
that discretion. I am of the view that, unless we are to
recant what we have heretofore said, the rule of law as to
the maintenance of the respective positions of lienors
must be enforced. Of course, that rule must be applied
in the light of the facts of each case, but I do not think
the district judge may abdicate the duty of examining
those facts and correcting what is shown to be a clear infraction of the rule. Neither the judge nor the Commission need essay to value the property under each mortgage, or the securities to be allocated to the mortgagees
under it, in dollars and cents. Substantial equivalence
satisfies the requirement of "fairness and equity" in its
legal sense as used in this setting. The court should, of
course, give weight to what the Commission has found,

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318. U. S.

and its reasons for its allocation, but I think that, if the
district judge had, in this case, exercised the duty which
lay upon him he would have held that there was no substantial foundation for the Commission's treatment of
General Mortgage bondholders and would have been
bound, therefore, to disapprove the plan. As he did not
perform that duty, I think that, unless the right to come
to this Court is vain, we have the duty to correct his action. I should, therefore, reverse the decree below.

EX PARTE REPUBLIC OF PERU.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR A WRIT OF
PROHIBITION AND/OR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 13, original.

Argued March 1, 1943.--Decided April 5, 1943.

1. This Court has power, under 28 U. S. C. §§ 342, 377, to issue a writ
of prohibition or mandamus to restrain the district court from exercise of further jurisdiction in rem, in an admiralty suit, although
the case be one in which direct appellate jurisdiction is vested in the
circuit court of appeals, this Court having ultimate discretionary
jurisdiction by certiorari; but such power will be exercised only
where the question is of public importance or is of such nature that
the exercise of such power is peculiarly appropriate. Ez parte
United States, 287 U. S. 241. Pp. 582, 586.
2. A case of that character is presented by the claim of a friendly
foreign state that its vessel, seized by the district court under a libel
in rem in a private litigation, should be released as immune from suit,
which claim of immunity had been recognized by the Department of
State, whose action has been certified to the district court. P. 586.
3. In a suit in rem in admiralty by a private libelant for breach of a
charter party, the district court acquired jurisdiction in rem by
seizure and control of a vessel owned by the Republic of Peru. The
Republic moved for release of the vessel upon the ground of sovereign immunity from suit and there was presented to the court by
the Attorney General a certification showing that such immunity
had been recognized and allowed by the State Department. Held

