OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

them from the operation of the principle de minimis. I
can hardly suppose that we would hold unconstitutional
an Act of Congress commanding prompt return of a fine
mistakenly imposed under these circumstances, and requiring the prison sentence originally imposed to be
served. Yet Ex parte Lange as interpreted and applied
here rests on constitutional grounds which are equally
applicable to an Act of Congress.
I agree with the suggestion of the Government that the
court's second order resentencing petitioner could not
rightly be entered without affording petitioner or his
counsel an opportunity to be present, and that the
cause should, on that account, be remanded for further
proceedings.
TILLER, EXECUTOR, v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 296.

Argued January 4, 1943.-Decided February 1, 1943.

1. The 1939 amendment of the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
which provides that in an action against a common carrier under the
Act to recover damages for injury or death of an employee, "such
employee shall not be held to have assumed the risks of his employment in any case where such injury or death resulted in whole
or in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or
employees of such carrier," obliterated from that law every vestige
of the doctrine of assumption of risk. P. 58.
2. The rule of decision in cases under the Act as amended is the doctrine of comparative negligence, which permits the jury to weigh the
fault of the injured employee and to compare it with the negligence
of the employer, and thereupon to do justice to both. P. 65.
3. The question of the negligence of the employer is to be determined
by the general rule which defines negligence as the lack of due care
under the circumstances; or the failure to do what a reasonable and
prudent man would ordinarily have done under the circumstances;
or doing what such a person under the circumstances would not have

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.

55

Opinion of the Court.

54
done.

The standard of care must be commensurate to the dangers

of the employment. P. 67.
4. Under the Act as amended, no case is to be withheld from a jury on
any theory of assumption of risk, and questions of negligence should

be submitted to the jury with appropriate instructions. P. 67.
5. Upon the evidence in this case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the question of negligence on the part of the railroad and
on the part of the employee should have been submitted to the
jury. P. 68.
128 F. 2d 420, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 610, to review the affirmance of a
judgment on a directed verdict for the defendant in a suit
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. J. Vaughan Gary for petitioner.
Messrs. Collins Denny, Jr. and'Thomas W. Davis for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner's husband and intestate, John Lewis
Tiller, was a policeman for the respondent railroad.
Among his duties was that of inspecting the seals on cars
in railroad yards to make sure that no one had tampered
with them. He had held this position for some years, was
familiar with the yard, and was aware, in the words of
the court below, that respondent's employees "are instructed that they must watch out for the movement of
the trains as no employee watches out for them and no
lights are used at night on the head end of back-up movements except when an employee is placed at the back end
with a lantern to protect a road crossing." The Circuit
Court of Appeals found that there was evidence sufficient
to sustain the following account of the tragedy:
On the night of March 20, 1940, Tiller was standing between two tracks in the respondent's switch yards, tracks
which allowed him three feet, seven and one-half inches
of standing space when trains were moving on both sides.
513236-43-vol. 318-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

The night was dark 1 and the yard was unlighted. Tiller,
using a flashlight for the purpose, was inspecting the seals
of the train moving slowly on one track when suddenly
he was hit and killed by the rear car of a train backing in
the opposite direction on the other track. The rear of the
train which killed Tiller was unlighted although a brakeman with a lantern was riding on the back step on the side
away from Tiller. The bell was ringing on the engine
but both trains were moving, and the Circuit Court found
that it was "probable that Tiller did not hear cars approaching" from behind him. No special signal of warning
was given.
Petitioner brought this suit to recover damages under
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U. S. C. § 51
et seq. The complaint alleged negligent operation of the
car which struck defendant and failure to provide a reasonably safe place to work. Respondent denied negligence, pleaded contributory negligence on the part of the
defendant, and set up as a separate defense that the deceased had assumed all the risks "normally and necessarily
incident to his employment." After the plaintiff's evidence had been heard the defendant moved for a directed
verdict on the grounds (a) that the evidence disclosed
no actionable negligence and (b) that the cause of the
death was speculative and conjectural. The motion was
granted, judgment was accordingly entered for the defendant and the Circuit Court of Appeals, interpreting the
decision of the district court as resting on a conclusion
that the evidence showed no negligence, affirmed. 128 F.
2d 420. This result was based on a holding that the deceased had assumed the risk of his position and that therefore there was no duty owing to him by respondent. We
granted certiorari because of the important question in1 It was so dark that when the engineer after the accident asked the
fireman to pick up an object near the tracks, the fireman replied, "No,
I am afraid to go down in the dark by myself; you come with me."

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

57

Opinion of the Court.

volved in the Circuit Court of Appeals' interpretation of
the scope and effect of the 1939 amendment to the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, 53 Stat. 1404, 45 U. S. C. 54.
The amendment provides that an "employee shall not be
held to have assumed the risks of his employment in any
case where such injury or death resulted in whole ,or in
part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents, or
employees of such carrier."
The Circuit Court distinguished between assumption of
risk as a defense by employers against the consequence of
their own negligence, and assumption of risk as negating
any conclusion that negligence existed at all. The court
reasoned that if, for example, the respondent had negligently failed to provide a workman with a sound tool, and
he was thereby injured, it could not under the amendment
claim that he had assumed the risk of using the defective
implement; but that if a workman were injured in the
ordinary course of his.work, as in such a switching operation as this, the assumption of risk might still be relied
upon to prove that the respondent had no duty to protect
him from accustomed danger. The court rejected petitioner's argument that since the doctrine of assumption
of risk had been abolished "the carrier can no longer interpose it as a shield against the consequences of its neglect
and hence is liable for injuries to its employees in its railroad yards or elsewhere, unless it takes precautions for
their safety commensurate with the danger that they are
likely to encounter." In rejecting this argument the court
below put the core of its decision in these words: "The
conclusion is inescapable that Congress did not intend
to enlarge the obligation of carriers to look out for the
safety of their men when exposed to the ordinary risks of
the business, and that in circumstances other than those
provided for in the amended section of the statute, the
doctrine of the assumption of the risk must be given its
accustomed weight." [Italics added.]

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

We find it unnecessary to consider whether there is any
merit in such a conceptual distinction between aspects of
assumption of risk which seem functionally so identical,
and hence we need not pause over the cases cited by the
court below, all decided before the 1939 amendment, which
treat assumption of risk sometimes as a defense to negligence, sometimes as the equivalent of non-negligence.'
We hold that every vestige of the doctrine of assumption
of risk was obliterated from the law by the 1939 amendment, and that Congress, by abolishing the defense of
assumption of risk in that statute, did not mean to leave
open the identical defense for the master by changing
its name to "non-negligence." As this Court said in facing
the hazy margin between negligence and assumption of
risk as involved in the Safety Appliance Act of 1893, "Unless great care be taken, the servant's rights will be sacrificed by simply charging him with assumption of the risk
under another name;" I and no such result can be permitted here.
Perhaps the nature of the present problem can best be
seen against the background of one hundred years of master-servant tort doctrine. Assumption of risk is a judicially created rule which was developed in response to
the general impulse of common law courts at the beginSee, e. g., Toledo, St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 171,
172; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Aeby, 275 U. S. 426, 430. It is sometimes said that courts have held the master blameless in actions by
employees who have entered and remained in hazardous occupations
on the premise that the employee assumed the risk; but the theory
has not always appeared under the name "assumption of risk" since
the same result is reached by assigning a given case to one of three
practically interchangeable categories: (a) the employee assumed the
risk; (b) he was guilty of contributory negligence; (c) the master
was not negligent. See 35 Am. Jur. 719 and 3 Labatt, Master and
Servant, 2d ed. par. 1164-1172, 1205, 1210. The court below thought
the Amendment eliminated defense (a) but in effect retained defense (c).
8Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry. Co., 205 U. S. 1, 12, 13.
2

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

59

Opinion of the Court.

ning of this period to insulate the employer as much as
possible from bearing the "human overhead" which is an
inevitable part of the cost-to someone--of the doing of
industrialized business." The general purpose behind this
development in the common law seems to have been to
give maximum freedom to expanding industry.5 The
assumption of risk doctrine for example was attributed by
this Court to "a rule of public policy, inasmuch as an
opposite doctrine would not only subject employers to
unreasonable and often ruinous responsibilities, thereby
embarrassing all branches of business," but would also encourage carelessness on the part of the employee.' In the
'The following table drawn from the 51st through the 55th Reports
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, indicates that a substantial
number of railroad employees are killed and injured each year:
Employees Killed and Injured on Steam Railways
1936 ............................
1937 ............................
1938 ............................
1939 ............................
1940 ............................

Killed
593
557
386
400
475

Injured
9,021
9,294
6,481
6,988
7,956

See 35 Am. Jur. 717; and for discussion of this view, see Pound,
Economic Interpretation of Torts, 53 Harv. L. Rev. 365, 373.
6 Tuttle v. Detroit, G. H. & M. Ry., 122 U. S. 189, 196. Representative Claiborne, advocating a bill to abolish assumption of risk as a defense under the Federal Employers' Liability Act at a Committee
Hearing in the 75th Congress expressed a contrary view as to the usefulness of the doctrine as an accident preventive: "The courts went
along and commenced to weave into the decisions this assumption of
risk doctrine . . . They said for one thing that it is good public policy
to hold the employee liable when he knew of certain conditions and did
not protect himself against them; that by doing that, you made the
man better regard his two legs, or better regard his two hands, or
better regard his stomach. Why, no employee of a railroad company
is going out there and lose an arm or an eye or a leg and rely on a jury
to make him whole." Hearings before Sub-committee Number 4 of the
Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, 75th Cong.,
1st Sess., on H. R. 5755, H. R. 7336 and H. R. 7621, p. 62.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

pursuit of its general objective the common law took
many forms and developed many doctrines. One of the
first was the fellow servant-assumption of risk rule which
originated in Priestley v. Fowler.7 In Priestley v. Fowler,
the Court said, "The servant is not bound to risk his safety
in the service of his master, and may, if he thinks fit, decline any service in which he reasonably apprehends injury
to himself: and in most of the cases in which danger may
be incurred, if not in all, he is just as likely to be acquainted
with the probability and extent of it as the master."
As English courts lived with the assumption of risk doctrine they discovered that the theory they had created
had become morally unacceptable but of such legal force
that it could not be repudiated:8 The English sought to
eliminate the fellow servant rule, which placed the burden
of an employee's negligence as it affected another employee
on the injured person rather than on the business enterprise, by the Employers' Liability Act of 1880 1 and found
that the assumption of risk doctrine still left the employee
in a hopelessly unprotected position. In the leading case
73

M. & W. 1, 6 (Ex. 1837); on the question of which was the first
case creating this doctrine, cf. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Ross,

112 U. S. 377, 386.

1"Morally speaking, those who employ men on dangerous work without doing all in their power to obviate the danger are highly reprehensible, as I certainly think the company were in the present instance.
The workman who depends on his employment for the bread of himself
and his family is thus tempted to incur risks to which, as a matter of
humanity, he ought not to be exposed. But looking at the matter in
a legal point of view, if a man, for the sake of the employment, takes
it or continues in it with a knowledge of its risks, he must trust himself
to keep clear of injury." Woodley v. MetropolitanDist. Ry. Co., L. R.
2 Ex. Div. 384 (1887).
9 For brief discussion of the English experience, see Packer, Workmen's Compensation, Sen. Doc. 618, 62nd Cong., p. 5; Cohen, Workmen's Compensation in Great Britain, chap. 5. For an account covering the history of English and American Workmen's Compensation
laws, see Dodd, Administration of Workmen's Compensation, chaps.
1 &2.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

61

Opinion of the Court.

of Thomas v. Quartermaine,18 Q. B. D. 685 (1887), the
court held that an employee standing on a three foot runway between two unfenced vats who was attempting to
dislodge a piece of wood from one of the vats and who by
accident fell into the other and was scalded was barred
from recovery. Since he had long known of the possible
dangers of the narrow passage he was held to have assumed
the risk of his position. In 1897 the English finally abandoned the common law remedy altogether as a protection
for injured employees and adopted a workmen's compensation law. 60 & 61 Vict. c. 37.
This Court accepted the assumption of risk doctrine as
applied to railroad employees, at least in part, in 1879.10
That decision placed the employee's assumption of risk
upon the theory that an agreement to assume the risk was
implied from the terms of the employment contract.
Prior to the passage of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act of 1906 the assumption of risk doctrine, except for a
considerable vagueness as to its relation with contributory
negligence, was fairly well known. 1 It had already been
applied generally at the time of the adoption of the Act
because of acceptance of the theory that the employee's
compensation was based upon the added risk to his position and that he could quit when he pleased. Tuttle v.
Detroit,G. H. & M. Ry., supra;and compare for a restatement of this view after the passage of the Employers'
Liability Act, Seaboard Air Line v. Horton, 233 U. S.492,
504.12 Federal and state courts, with some notable excep"oHough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213, 217. See also Narramore v.
Cleveland, C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co., 96 F. 298.
" See Warren, Volenti Non Fit Injuria, etc., 8 Harv. L. Rev. 457
(1895); Bohlen, Voluntary Assumption of Risk, 20 Harv. L. Rev. 14,
91, (1906).
12 Senator Neely, sponsor of the 1939 amendment, explicitly rejected
the economic theory which was the basis of the early opinions: "The
contention that you have advanced apparently embraces the theory
that the employee ...

voluntarily assumed the risk in spite of

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

tions, accepted and applied the rule with all of its implications and consequences except when expressly prohibited
from doing so by statute."
Congress took a major step toward modification of the
common law barrier against employee recovery in accident
suits in the Federal Employers' Liability Act of 1906, 34
Stat. 232, repassed with alterations not material in 1908,
35 Stat. 65. This Act, in its principal features, abolished
the fellow servant rule, substituted comparative negligence for the strict rule of contributory negligence, and
allowed survivors' actions for tort liability. Section 4 of
that Act, as interpreted by this Court in SeaboardAir Line
v. Horton, supra, perpetuated the defense of assumption
of risk.1" Unfortunately, from the standpoint of legal
clarity, the Act as interpreted required careful distinction
between assumption of risk and contributory negligence,
since assumption of risk was an absolute bar to recovery
the fact that the employer said, in effect, 'You take the risk or you get
no job.' In these days when millions are unemployed and must find
work in order to save themselves and their families from distress, the
situation is so desperate that men will sign any sort of waiver or agreement in order to obtain employment." Hearings, Subcommittee of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., on S. 1708, p. 33.
13 For collections of early state cases, see 49 L. R. A. 33 and 97 Amer.
State Reports 877. Early state and foreign statutes are summarized
in the Report of the House Judiciary Committee on the 1906 Act,
Rept. No. 2335, p. 2, and decisions on state statutes are collected in the
Am. State Rep. note 891. The Seaboard Air Line case, supra, held
these statutes inapplicable to actions under the federal act.
14 For a vigorous attack on this decision, see Buford, Assumption of
Risk Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 28 Harv. L. Rev.
163; and see Peterson, The Joker in the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, 80 Cent. L. J. 5. The House Judiciary Committee in reporting
a bill aimed at making some minor modification in the assumption of
risk rule stated that the 1908 Congress never "dreamed, when it passed
this former law, that this defense [assumption of risk] would ever be
raised by the use of" § 4 of the Act. Report of the House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., Rept. No.
1222, on H. R. 4988, p. 4.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

63

Opinion of the Court.

while contributory negligence merely reduced the amount
of recovery. The great uncertainty existing prior to the
Act as to what the margin between these doctrines was "
thus became of real significance. The language of the
statute itself seemed to impel the courts to practice "the
niceties, if not casuistries, of distinguishing between assumption of risk and contributory negligence, conceptions
which never originated in clearly distinguishable categories, but were loosely interchangeable until the statute
attached such vital differences to them." Pacheco v.
N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 15 F. 2d 467. For an attempt to
distinguish between the doctrines, see Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry. Co., supra, 12, and the same case at 220
U. S. 590, 596.
The assumption of risk clause in the statute became the
subject of endless litigation. The Federal Code Annotated and the United States Code Annotated devote over
thirty pages each of fine type merely to the citation and
brief summary of the reported decisions; and the number of unreported and settled cases in which the defense
was involved must run into the thousands."0 Aside from
the difficulty of distinguishing between contributory negligence and assumption of risk many other problems
arose. One of these was the application of the "primary
duty rule" in which contributory negligence through violation of a company rule became assumption of risk.
UnadillaValley Ry. Co. v. Caldine,278 U. S. 139; Davis v.
Kennedy, 266 U. S. 147. Other complications arose from
the introduction of "promise to repair, "simple tool," and
"peremptory order" concepts into the assumption doc15 See 49 L. R. A. 33, 49 (Relation Between Defenses of Assumption
of Risk and Contributory Negligence), and 35 Am. Jur. 719 (Pragmatic
Distinctions Shown to be Lacking).
18 For some analysis of the cases, see Note 32 Col. L. Rev.. 1384, 53
Harv. L. Rev. 341, 71 A. L. R. 451, 89 A. L. R. 693. For an estimate
of their quantity, see Schoene and Watson, Workmen's Compensation
on Interstate Railways, 47 Harv. L. Rev. 389, 394.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

trine. 7 In the disposition of cases the question of a plaintiff's assumption of risk has frequently been treated
simply as another way of appraising defendant's negligence," as was done by the court below in the instant
case.
It was this maze of law which Congress swept into
discard with the adoption of the 1939 amendment to the
Employers' Liability Act, releasing the employee from
the burden of assumption of risk by whatever name it
was called. The result is an Act which requires cases
tried under the Federal Act to be handled as though no
doctrine of assumption of risk had ever existed.
If this were not sufficiently clear from the language of
the amendment, any doubt would be dissipated by its legislative history. The 1939 bill 1 was introduced by Senator Neely and was supported at the hearings by the railway labor unions. It was accepted both by the unions
and the railroads that the bill would utterly and completely abolish the defense of assumption of risk.20 The
report of the Senate Judiciary Committee struck at the
"In thousands of cases the doctrine is complicated by 'promise to
repair,' 'peremptory order,' and other special incidents. The 'simple
tool' doctrine also arose as an exception. The 'promise to repair'
aspect of the question is further confused by two superimposed theories; that the employee may rely upon such promise for a reasonable
time and, next, that if the danger was so manifest that no reasonable
person would act upon such promise, then assumption of risk is reestablished." House Committee Report, supra, Note 14, p. 4. For a
collection of citations on all of the assumption of risk problems, see 2
Roberts Federal Liability of Carriers, 2nd ed., Chapter 39. For a
discussion of the "simple tool" doctrine, see Jacob v. New York City,
315 U. S. 752, 756.
18 Harper, The Law of Tort, 292.
19 S. 1708, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.
17

20 Substantially the same proposal as that finally adopted in 1939
was before the 75th Congress in H. R. 7336. The chief labor exponent
of that bill said: The "bill in its nature is intended to relieve the servant
from the assumption-of-risk doctrine as interpreted and applied by our
United States Supreme Court." Hearings, supra, Note 6, p. 69. Or,

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

65

Opinion of the Court.

basic reasons advanced by common law courts for the
existence of the doctrine, declared it unsuited to present
day activities, and described them as out of harmony
with the equitable principles which should govern determinations of employer-employee responsibilities.2' The
bill, as described in the report, was clearly aimed at making
the principles of comparative negligence the guiding rules
of decision in accident cases: "The adoption of this proposed amendment will, in cases in which no recovery is
now allowed, establish the principle of comparative negligence, which permits the jury to weigh the fault of the
injured employee and compare it with the negligence of
the employer, and, in the light of the comparison, do justice to all concerned." 2
as it was put by the principal railroad representative at the 1939
Senate hearings, "Here . .. . the proposal is to abolish the defense
of assumed risk, to abolish it in toto." Hearings, Note 12, supra,
p. 37, 38.
21 "But such simple doctrines do not apply equitably under the infinite
complexities of modern industrial practices when one's fellow servants
may be numbered by hundreds or even thousands, and unlimited output
and maximum speed are watchwords on every hand. The commonlaw doctrine of assumption of risk, as applied to the worker in a small
factory, cannot be fairly applied to the railroad man, whose services
are performed over 150 miles of railroad track, or in a large and congested railroad yard.
"The present rule apparently ignores the fact that the master, and
not the servant, has control over the conditions which affect the safety
of employees. . . .The existing rule not only permits the employer
to be careless about the condition of his premises but, in effect, places a
premium upon his carelessness. ...
"Under present economic conditions, employees must, of necessity,
continue to work under unsafe conditions or frequently sacrifice the
fruits of many years of accumulated seniority, go on relief, or beg their
bread."
Report of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.,
Rept. No. 661, p. 4.
22 One statement by the bill's chief supporter at the Senate Hearings
comes very close to covering the instant case: "It gets back to our

66

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

The purpose of the Act is made clearer upon analysis
of the House bill which was rejected by the conference
committee in favor of the Senate bill which is now the
law. The House bill 23 was intended to preserve some part
of the doctrine of assumption of risk, preserving that
defense except "where said employee has not had actual
notice of any negligently maintained condition or practice." The bill, unlike the Senate bill as the Representative reporting it explained, left untouched the rule of
Toledo, St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, "namely,
that in the absence of special custom or unusual circumstances, a man who is run over by a switching movement
cannot recover." 24 It was the Allen opinion on which the
court below in the instant case particularly relied. But
the House bill, which the chief railroad counsel appearing
before the Senate committee conceded would make no
change in the existing law,25 was rejected in conference.
The Allen case was specifically and caustically discussed
at the Senate hearings, and the Senate bill was clearly
aimed at ending its rule.2"
The doctrine of assumption risk can not be "abolished
in toto"2 and still remain in partial existence as the court
below suggests. The theory that a servant is completely
barred from recovery for injury resulting from his master's
negligence, which legislatures have sought to eliminate in
original argument that the courts have so enlarged upon this doctrine
that we are confronted with such a situation as this: A poor fellow working in a yard, intent upon his work, and somebody kicks a car on top
of him, and the courts, notwithstanding he has no knowledge of it, if
he is struck, hold that he has no right to recover. It may be that
he was negligent, but again I say the comparative negligence doctrine
should be applied." Hearings, Note 12, supra, p. 78.
23 H. R. 4988, 76th Cong., 1st Sess.
24 House Report, Note 14, supra, p. 6.
25 Senate Hearings, Note 12, supra, p. 61.
26 Senate Hearings, Note 12, supra, 14,17, 76, 81.
27
Supra, Note 20.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

67

Opinion of the Court.

all its various forms of contributory negligence, the fellow
servant rule, and assumption of risk, must not, contrary
to the will of Congress, be allowed recrudescence under any
other label in the common law lexicon. The Act of 1908
and the amendment of 1939 abolish the post-Priestley v.
Fowler defenses and authorize comparison of negligence
instead of barring the employee from all recovery because
of contributory negligence. They leave for practical purposes only the question of whether the carrier was negligent and whether that negligence was the proximate
cause of the injury.
In this situation the employer's liability is to be determined under the general rule which defines negligence as
the lack of due care under the circumstances; or the failure
to do what a reasonable and prudent man would ordinarily
have done under the circumstances of the situation; or
doing what such a person under the existing circumstances
would not have done." A fair generalization of the rule
is given in the Senate Committee report on the 1939
amendment: "In justice, the master ought to be held
liable for injuries attributable to conditions under his
control when they are not such as a reasonable man ought
to maintain in the circumstances."" Of course in any case
the standard of care must be commensurate to the dangers
of the business. Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213,
218; cf. Northern PacificR. Co. v. Herbert, 116 U. S. 642,
652.
No case is to be withheld from a jury on any theory of
assumption of risk; and questions of negligence should
under proper charge from the court be submitted to the
jury for their determination. Many years ago this Court
said of the problems of negligence, "We see no reason, so
2

8 RailroadCo. v. Jones 95 U. S. 439, 442; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Barrett, 166 U. S. 617, 619; Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Ives, 144 U. S.
408.
29 Sen. Report, 8upra,Note 21, p. 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRAKnTER,

J., concurring.

318 U. S.

long as the jury system is the law of the land, and the jury
is made the tribunal to decide disputed questions of fact,
why it should not decide such questions as these as well
as others." Jones v. East Tennessee, V. & G. R. Co., 128
U. S. 443, 445. Or as we have put it on another occasion,
"Where the facts are in dispute, and the evidence in relation to them is that from which fair-minded men may
draw different inferences," the case should go to the
°
jurys

We think that the question of negligence on the part
of the railroad and on the part of the employee should
have been submitted to the jury. The decision below is
reversed and the case is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring:
The phrase "assumption of risk" is an excellent illustration of the extent to which uncritical use of words bedevils
the law. A phrase begins life as a literary expression; its
felicity leads to its lazy repetition; and repetition soon
establishes it as a legal formula, undiscriminatingly used
to express different and sometimes contradictory ideas.
Thus, in the setting of one set of circumstances, "assump80 Washington & Georgetown R. Co. v. McDade, 135 U. S. 554, 572.
See also Kane v. Northern Central Ry. Co., 128 U. S. 91, 95, 96; Hough
v. Railway Co., supra, 225; Jacob v. New York City, 315 U. S. 752,
757. It appears to be the clear Congressional intent that, to the
maximum extent proper, questions in actions arising under the Act
should be left to the jury: "At the beginning this defense [assumption
of risk] was deemed to be at most a jury question. But repeated
holdings have encroached more and more upon the right of the employee and various new doctrines or amplifications of previous principles have tended constantly to treat this. defense as one to be determined by the courts as 'matter of law'-taking it away from the
jury; and the courts have decided now it is a question of law." House
Report, 8upra, Note 14, p. 1. Cf. Delaware,L. & W. R. Co. v. Koske,
279 U. S: 7, 11; Toledo, St. L. & W. R. Co. v. Allen, 276 U. S. 165, 170.

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

FRANKFmm,

69

J., concurring.

tion of risk" has been used as a shorthand way of saying
that although an employer may have violated the duty of
care which he owed his employee, he could nevertheless
escape liability for damages resulting from his negligence
if the employee, by accepting or continuing in the employment with "notice" of such negligence, "assumed the
risk." In such situations "assumption of risk" is a defense
which enables a negligent employer to defeat recovery
against him. In the setting of a totally different set of
circumstances, "assumption of risk" has a totally different
meaning. Industrial enterprise entails, for all those engaged in it, certain hazards to life and limb which no
amount of care on the part of the employer can avoid. In
denying recovery to an employee injured as a result of
exposure to such a hazard, where the employer has in no
sense been negligent or derelict in the duty owed to his
employees, courts have often said that the employee "assumed the risk." Here the phrase "assumption of risk"
is used simply to convey the idea that the employer was
not at fault and therefore not liable.
Plainly enough only mischief could result from using
a single phrase to express two such different ideas. Such
ambiguity necessarily does harm to the desirability of
clarity and coherence in any civilized system of law. But
the greater mischief was that in one of its aspects the
phrase "assumption of risk" gave judicial expression to
a social policy that entailed much human misery. The
notion of "assumption of risk" as a defense-that is,
where the employer concededly failed in his duty of care
and nevertheless escaped liability because the employee
had "agreed" to "assume the risk" of the employer's
fault-rested, in the context of our industrial society,
upon a pure fiction. And in all English-speaking countries
legislation was necessary to correct this injustice. In
enforcing such legislation the courts should not lose sight
of the ambiguous nature of the doctrine with which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

318 U. S.

legislation dealt. In giving effect to the legislative policy, care must be taken lest such ambiguity perpetuate
the old mischief against which the new legislation was
directed.
Our present concern is with the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. Prior to 1939, the only inroad made by the
Act upon the doctrine of "assumption of risk" as a defense
to liability arising from negligence was that in any action
brought by an employee, he "shall not be held to have
assumed the risks of his employment in any case where the
violation by said common carrier of any statute enacted
for the safety of employees contributed to the injury or
death of such employee." Section 4 of the Act as amended
April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65. The provision was construed, naturally enough, to mean that "the assumption
of risk as a defense is abolished only where the negligence
of the carrier is in violation of some statute enacted for
the safety of employees. In other cases, therefore, it is
retained." Jacobs v. Southern Ry. Co., 241 U. S.229, 235.
By only partially withdrawing the defense of "assumption
of risk," Congress enabled the railroads to avoid liability
in many situations where the employee's injury resulted
from the negligence of the carrier in the only way in which
an employer can be negligent, namely, through the negligence of its servants. In other words, Congress continued
to sanction the fiction of attributing to employees a willingness to bear the consequences of the carrier's negligence, other than that arising from its violation of a
statute enacted for the safety of employees.
This was the unfortunate situation which the 1939
amendment, the Act of August 11, 1939, c. 685, 53 Stat.
1404, sought to remedy. To § 4 was added the provision
that in any action brought by an employee he "shall not
be held to have assumed the risks of his employment in
any case where such injury or death resulted in whole or
in part from the negligence of any of the officers, agents,

TILLER v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. CO.
54

FRANKFURTER,

J.,

71

concurring.

or employees of such carrier. .. ." The effect of this
provision is to make it clear that, whatever other risks
an employee may assume, he does not "assume the risk"
of the negligence of the carrier or its other employees.
Once the negligence of the carrier is established, it cannot
be relieved of liability by pleading that the employee
"assumed the risk."
But the 1939 amendment left intact the foundation of
the carrier's liability-negligence. Unlike the English
enactment which, nearly fifty years ago, recognized that
the common law concept of liability for negligence is
archaic and unjust as a means of compensation for injuries
sustained by employees under modern industrial conditions, the federal legislation has retained negligence as the
basis of a carrier's liability. For reasons that are its concern and not ours, Congress chose not to follow the example of most states in establishing systems of workmen's compensation not based upon negligence. Congress has to some extent alleviated the doctrines of the
law of negligence as applied to railroad employees. By
specific provisions in the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, it has swept away "assumption of risk" as a defense
once negligence is established. But it has left undisturbed the other meaning of "assumption of risk," namely,
that an employee injured as a consequence of being exposed to a risk which the employer in the exercise of due
care could not avoid is not entitled to recover, since the
employer was not negligent.
The point is illustrated by two opinions of Mr. Justice
Holmes. In Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry. Co., 205
U. S. 1, 12-13, he called attention to the danger of relieving from liability for negligence by talking about "assumption of risk"-a danger resulting from the ambiguity
of the phrase. "Assumption of risk" by an employee may
be a way of expressing the conclusion that he has been
guilty of contributory negligence. But an employee can513236-43-vol. 318-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
FRANKFURTER,

J., concurring.

318 U. S.

not be charged with contributory negligence simply because he "assumed the risk"; the inquiry is, did his conduct depart from that of a reasonably prudent employee
in his situation? As Mr. Justice Holmes admonished us
in the Schlemmer case, "unless great care be taken, the
servant's rights will be sacrificed by simply charging him
with assumption of the risk under another name." Ibid.
That case was decided before the Federal Employers'
Liability Act was in force. In a later case arising under
the Act, Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. S.
218, Mr. Justice Holmes for a unanimous Court reversed
a judgment for the plaintiff on the ground that the employee's death was caused by a failure to keep a lookout
which was one of the "usual risks" of his employment.
To be sure, this decision was made prior to the 1939
amendment, but in this respect that enactment makes no
change in the law. The basis of an action under the Act
remains the carrier's negligence. The carrier is not to be
relieved from the consequences of its negligence by any
claim that the employee "assumed the risk" of its negligence. But neither is the carrier to be charged with those
injuries which result from the "usual risks" incident to
employment on railroads-risks which cannot be eliminated through the carrier's exercise of reasonable care.
"Assumption of risk" as a defense where there is negligence has been written out of the Act. But "assumption
of risk," in the sense that the employer is not liable for
those risks which it could not avoid in the observance of
its duty of care, has not been written out of the law. Because of its ambiguity the phrase "assumption of risk" is
a hazardous legal tool. As a means of instructing a jury,
it is bound to create confusion. It should therefore be
discarded. But until Congress chooses to abandon the
concept of negligence, upon which the Act now rests, in
favor of a system of workmen's compensation not dependent upon negligence, the courts cannot discard the

ZIFFRIN, INC. v. UNITED STATES.
54

73

Syllabus.

principle expressed, in one of its senses, by the phrase
"assumption of risk," namely, that a carrier is not liable
unless it was negligent.
Perhaps no field of the law comes closer to the lives of so
many families in this country than does the law of negligence, imbedded as it is in the Federal Employers' Liability Act. It is most desirable, therefore, that the law
should not be cloudy and confused. I am not at all certain that the Circuit Court of Appeals misconceived the
nature and extent of the carrier's liability after the 1939
amendment, rather than merely obscured its understanding by beclouding talk about "assumption of risk." But
since I agree that the District Court should have allowed
the case to go to the jury on the issue of negligence, I concur in the decision.
ZIFFRIN, INCORPORATED, v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 245. Argued December 16, 1942.-Decided February 1, 1943.
At the time of the filing of an application to the Interstate Commerce
Commission for a permit under the "grandfather clause" of § 209
(a) of the Interstate Commerce Act to continue designated contract carrier operations, and at the time of the hearing by the
Commission on the application, § 210 of the Act provided that
a certificate as a common carrier and a permit as a contract carrier
could not be held by the same carrier except upon a finding by the
Commission of consistency with the public interest. Prior to the
Commission's decision on the application, § 210 was amended to
provide that, without a similar finding, a certificate as a common
carrier and a permit as a contract carrier could not be held by
carriers which are under common control. Held:
1. The Commission was required to make its decision on the
application in accordance with the Act as amended. P. 78.

