CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST.
LOUIS v. BROTHERHOOD OF RAILROAD TRAINMEN ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 218. Argued December 15, 16, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. In the absence of federal legislation which conflicts or occupies
the field, as here, it is within the authority of a State, in the interest
of the health and safety of employees, to require a terminal railroad,
though engaged largely in interstate commerce, to provide cabooses
on trains within the State on designated runs. P. 7.
Neither the Boiler Inspction Act, the Safety Appliance Act, nor
the Interstate Commerce Act precludes the state regulation here
involved; and, since the Interstate Commerce Commission has made
no rule or regulation in respect of the matter, it is unnecessary to
consider the extent of the Commission's power under those Acts.
Nor is the regulation precluded by the Railway Labor Act.
2. The state regulation here involved is not rendered invalid by the
fact that some of the runs are across state lines and, because of lack
of facilities, the cabooses must be provided for some distance into a
neighboring State; nor by the fact that the requirement may to
some extent retard, or increase the cost of, interstate transportation.
P. 8.
379 Ill. 403, 41 N. E. 2d 481, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment which, reversing a lower

state court, sustained an order of the Illinois Commerce

Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Mr. Bruce A. Campbell, with whom Messrs. Rudolph
J. Kramer, Arnot L. Sheppard, Louis A. McKeown,
Carleton S. Hadley, and Walter N. Davis were on the
brief, for appellant.
Messrs. William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General
of Illinois, and Alvin E. Stein, with whom Mr. George
F. Barrett, Attorney General, was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.

Appellant is a corporation engaged in performing terminal services and furnishing terminal facilities in and about
East St. Louis, Illinois, to a number of railroad companies which share its ownership and control. It operates
several yards for the sorting and classification and interchange of cars, with some service to industries within the
switching district.
The Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, one of the appellees, representing trainmen and switchmen employed
by appellant, complained to the Illinois Commerce Commission of appellant's failure to provide caboose cars for
its employees. In answer the appellant denied that the
Commission had power to enter any order that would relate to movements in interstate commerce, which it said
included substantially all of its operations; and it contended further that it had already provided all reasonably
necessary facilities. The issues were sharply contested
before the Commission, and the evidence, while it may not
have required, certainly permitted these conclusions:
Appellant's switching crews make and break up trains
of cars and deliver and transfer them. One man of each
crew is required to ride the rear car of the train when it is
in motion. Depending upon the distances by which fixed

TERMINAL ASSN. v. TRAINMEN.
I

Opinion of the Court.

structures along the track clear this car, he rides its top or
side, and in some places both top and side clearances are
so small that he must ride on the drawbar projecting from
the end of the car. Sudden jerks and stops are common
and they have on occasion thrown off switchmen. The
duties of the rear switchman include lining switches into
position after the train has passed and watching street and
highway crossings to protect the public when the train is
backing up. In cases of emergency he must stop the train
by turning an air valve located next to the drawbar, which
he cannot readily or safely do if he is riding on the top or
side of the car.
During some seasons of the year he is exposed to rain,
sleet, snow and ice, which also cover the parts of the car
to which he must cling to stay on it, thus adding to his
difficulties.
Appellant's trains, when not equipped with cabooses,
have no storage space for safety devices, flagging equipment, or for extra clothing, lunches and drinking water
of the men; and they provide no space in which the men
can perform their clerical duties.
The Commission found that by providing cabooses
the appellant could eliminate the necessity for the rear
switchmen to ride the tops, sides, or draw-bars of the rear
cars; afford safe and ready access to the air valve; and
provide space for storage and for clerical work. It found
that it was essential to the health, safety, and comfort
of the rear switchmen that the appellant proide cabooses
on all of designated runs in so far as they were within the
confines of the State, and made its order accordingly.
The order was sustained by the Supreme Court of Illinois as "obviously promulgated to protect the lives
and health of citizens of this State engaged in appellee's
business within the State," and as not imposing an un-

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

lawful burden upon interstate commerce.' The case is
here on appeal.2
All but an insignificant number of the cars in the trains
on the specified runs move in interstate commerce, so
that the order pertained to a matter clearly within the
power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
Appellant claims that there had been Congressional
occupation of the field by virtue of the Boiler Inspection
Act,' the Safety Appliance Act,4 and the Interstate Commerce Act.' It is not contended, nor do we understand,
that these statutes, by themselves and unimplemented
by any action of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
lay down any requirement that cabooses shall or shall
not be used on any of the runs in question. Nor is it
contended that the Interstate Commerce Commission
itself has sought to make any such requirement. At least
in the absence of such action these Acts do not themselves
preclude the state order, Atlantic Coast Line v. Georgia,
234 U. S. 280; cf. Welch Co. v. New Hampshire,306 U. S.
79, and it is unnecessary to consider on this occasion and
without the participation of the Interstate Commerce
Commission what may be the extent of its power under
these Acts. If it should in the exercise of granted power
determine whether appellant must provide cabooses, the
State would be powerless to gainsay it. This and no
S379 Ill. 403, 41 N. E. 2d 481.
2§

237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
8 45 U. S. C. §§ 22-34.
4 45 U. S. C. § 1 et seq.
5 49 U. S. C. § 1 et seq. Particular reliance is put upon paragraphs
(10), (11), (13), (14), (15), (16), (17), and (21) of § 1, relating
to the Commission's powers in respect to car service; and upon paragraph 2 of § 20 (a), relating to its powers over the issuance of securities and the assumption of liabilities thereon. We have not been
informed whether such issuance or assumption is needed to obtain
the cabooses which the Illinois Commission has ordered to be used.

TERMINAL ASSN. v. TRAINMEN.
Opinion of the Court.

more is the effect of PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Public Service Commission, 250 U. S. 566.
The'Railway Labor Act,' also relied upon by appellant,
remains for consideration and presents questions of a different order, not heretofore examined in any opinion of
this Court.7 The purpose of this Act is declared to be to
provide "for the prompt and orderly settlement of all
disputes concerning rates of pay, rules, or working conditions"; and "for the prompt and orderly settlement of all
disputes growing out of grievances or out of the interpretation or application of agreements covering rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions." 8 It places upon carriers
and employees the duty of exerting every reasonable effort
to settle these disputes by agreement, and prohibits the
carrier from altering agreed rates of pay, rules, or working
conditions except in the manner provided by the agreement or by the Act itself.' Machinery is set up for the
adjustment, mediation, and arbitration of disputes which
the parties do not succeed in settling among themselves."
The First Division of the National Railroad Adjustment
Board has jurisdiction over disputes involving train and
yard-service employees of carriers, which may be referred
to it by agreement of both parties or by either party."
Its awards are made "final and binding" upon both parties
to the dispute 12 and the carrier may be required by the
courts to comply, the Board's findings being, in a proceeding for such purpose, prima facie evidence of the facts
therein stated."
6 45 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
7 Cf. Missouri Pacific R. Co. v. Norwood, 283 U. S. 249, 258.
845 U. S. C. § 151a.
9 45 U. S. C. § 152, paragraphs 1 and 7.
10 45 U. S. C. § 153 et seq.
1145 U. S. C. § 153 (h) (i); see also § 155.
12 45 U. S. C. § 153 (m).
18 45 U. S. C. § 153 (p).

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

The order before us is the outgrowth of a dispute between the carrier and its employees. The contract between the appellant and the Brotherhood contains
provision for cabooses for certain trains and services, but
does not provide for those ordered by the Illinois Commission. We assume, without deciding, that the demand for
additional caboose service and its refusal constitute a dispute about working conditions, and that the National
Railroad Adjustment Board would have jurisdiction of
it on petition of the employees or their representative
and might have made an award such as the order in question or some modification of it. The question is whether
the Railway Labor Act, so interpreted, occupied the field
to the exclusion of the state action under review. We
conclude that it does not, and for the following reasons:
The Railway Labor Act, like the National Labor Relations Act,' does not undertake governmental regulation
of wages, hours, or working conditions. Instead it seeks
to provide a means by which agreement may be reached
with respect to them. The national interest expressed
by those Acts is not primarily in the working conditions
as such. So far as the Act itself is concerned these conditions may be as bad as the employees will tolerate or be
made as good as they can bargain for. The Act does not
fix and does not authorize anyone to fix generally applicable standards for working conditions. The federal interest that is fostered is to see that disagreement about
conditions does not reach the point of interfering with
interstate commerce. The Mediation Board and Adjustment Board act to compose differences that threaten
continuity of work, not to remove conditions that
threaten the health or safety of workers. Cf. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72, 84.
State laws have long regulated a great variety of conditions in transportation and industry, such as sanitary
1"29 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.

TERMINAL ASSN. v. TRAINMEN.
I

Opinion of the Court.

facilities and conditions, safety devices and protections,
purity of water supply, fire protection, and innumerable
others. Any of these matters might, we suppose, be the
subject of a demand by workmen for better protection
and upon refusal might be the subject of a labor dispute
which would have such effect on interstate commerce
that federal agencies might be invoked to deal with some
phase of it. But we would hardly be expected to hold
that the price of the federal effort to protect the peace
and continuity of commerce has been to strike down state
sanitary codes, health regulations, factory inspections, and
safety provisions for industry and transportation. We
suppose employees might consider that state or municipal
requirements of fire escapes, fire doors, and fire protection
were inadequate and make them the subject of a dispute,
at least some phases of which would be of federal concern.
But it cannot be that the minimum requirements laid
down by state authority are all set aside. We hold that
the enactment by Congress of the Railway Labor Act
was not a preemption of the field of regulating working
conditions themselves and did not preclude the State of
Illinois from making the order in question.
We must decide the question of state power in this case
in the absence of any Act of Congress that conflicts with
the order or may be said t6 occupy its field.
The order of the State Commission requires that cabooses be used on appellant's trains making runs of two
different sorts. Runs of the first sort are made by trains
which, although they begin and end and make their entire
movements within the State, are made up almost entirely
of cars moving in interstate commerce. Runs of the second sort are made by trains which move between points
in East St. Louis, Illinois, and St. Louis, Missouri, and
cross one or the other of two bridges spanning the Mississippi River and the state line. On its face the order requires only that cabooses be used within Illinois, and
513236-43-vol. 318-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

does not require that they be used in Missouri. Appellant
contends, and we assume, however, that there do not
exist, and that it is not reasonably practicable to install,
facilities for taking on and dropping off cabooses at the
points where the trains cross the state line; and that the
practical consequence of the order is that if cabooses are
to be used in Illinois on runs of the second sort they must
also be used at least as far as the nearest switching point
in Missouri.
As to both classes of runs, the effect of the order is in
some measure to retard and increase the cost of movements
in interstate commerce. This is not to say, however, that
the order is necessarily invalid. In the absence of controlling federal legislation this Court has sustained a wide
variety of state regulations of railroad trains moving in
interstate commerce having such effect. 5 The governing
principles were recently stated in Parker v. Brown, 317
U. S. 341, 361-363.
We are of opinion that under these principles the
order is valid as to runs of both sorts. It finds its origin
in the local climatic conditions and in the hazards created
by particular local physical structures, and it has rather
obvious relation to the health and safety of local workmen. The record in the case does not afford a sure basis
for calculating the costs to commerce resulting from the
order against the costs to the safety and health of the
workmen which it was intended to minimize, and there is
evidence in the case that nearby railroads have seen fit
in the absence of legal compulsion to provide cabooses in
circumstances substantially similar to those upon which
appellant relies to establish absence of state power.
If lack of facilities at the state line requires as a practical
matter that in order to provide cabooses in Illinois appellant must also provide them for some distance in Missouri,
that fact does not preclude Illinois from regulating the
15 See cases cited in Californiav. Thompson, 313 U. S. 109, 113-114.

LABOR BOARD v. I. & M. ELECTRIC CO.

9

Syllabus.

operation to the limits of its territory. Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 262; cf. South Covington &
C. S. Ry. Co. v. Covington,235 U. S. 537.11
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. INDIANA & MICHIGAN ELECTRIC CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 73. Argued November 13, 16, 1942.-Decided January 18, 1943.
1. An application to the Circuit Court of Appeals, under § 10 (e) of the
National Labor Relations Act, for leave to adduce additional evidence before the Board, is addressed to the sound judicial discretion
of the court. P. 16.
2. Although misconduct of the party making charges of unfair labor
practices does not deprive the National Labor Relations Board of
jurisdiction to issue a complaint and conduct a proceeding, such
misconduct may properly be considered by the Board in determining whether it should institute or continue a proceeding upon the
charges. P. 18.
16 This case involved a street-car line running between Covington,
Kentucky, and Cincinnati, Ohio, over a bridge connecting the two cities.
The City of Covington required that: (1) passengers must not ride
on car platforms unless the platforms were equipped with suitable
rails and barriers; (2) the cars must be kept clean, ventilated and
fumigated; (3) the temperature of the air in the cars must never fall
below a stated minimum; (4) in practical effect, that additional cars
must be run in Cincinnati as well as in Covington in excess of the Cincinnati franchise rights and in such manner as to make probable the
creation of serious impediments to other traffic in Cincinnati and conflict with Cincinnati regulations. The first two requirements were
sustained. The third was struck down because the opening and closing
of the car doors made compliance impossible; the fourth, because
of the likelihood that serious burdens would be imposed upon interstate
commerce by virtue of the impossibility of compliance with probable
conflicting regulations. These factors have not been shown to exist in
the present case.

