ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
660

Counsel for Parties.

tal feature of our system of federal jurisprudence which
is protected by the Seventh Amendment." Jacob v. New
York City, 315 U. S. 752. This constitutional command
should not be circumvented.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY join

in this dissent.

ILLINOIS COMMERCE COMMISSION ET AL.

V.

THOMSON, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 178.

Argued January 12, 1943.-Decided April 12, 1943.

1. The order of January 21, 1942, in a proceeding known as Ex parte
No. 148, by which the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized
the railroads, including the Chicago & North Western, to increase
passenger fares by 10%, was not intended to apply to intrastate
commutation fares on that railway in Illinois. P. 684.
2. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing an
increase of railroad fares should not be held to apply to intrastate
fares in the presence of a serious doubt that it was so intended.
P. 685.
3. In the absence of circumstances of peculiar urgency, a railroad, asserting that passenger fares fixed by state authority are confiscatory,
should exhaust the administrative remedy afforded by the state law
before seeking an injunction in a federal court. P. 686.
Reversed.

from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, awarding to the Trustee in reorganization of the
Chicago & North Western Railway an injunction permanently restraining the Illinois Commerce Commission and
APPEAL

state enforcement officials from taking any steps to prevent a 10% increase of intrastate commutation passenger
fares on that railway.

Mr. William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of
Illinois, with whom Messrs. George F. Barrett, Attorney

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

General, and Albert E. Hallett, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Nye F. Morehouse, with whom Messrs. William T.
Faricy and P. F. Gault were on the brief, for appellee.
Solicitor General Fahy and Messrs. Robert L. Stern,
Daniel W. Knowlton, and J. Stanley Payne filed a brief
on behalf of the Interstate Commerce Commission, as
amicus curiae. Messrs. William C. Chanler and Herman
Horowitz also filed a brief on behalf of New York City, as

amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. CIEF JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case, which comes here by direct appeal under
§ 266 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 380, involves the
meaning of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission and its application to the Illinois intrastate commutation passenger fares of the Chicago & North Western
Railway. By interlocutory and finally by permanent injunction, the district court below of three judges has enjoined appellants, the Illinois Commerce Commission and
named law enforcement officers of the state, from taking
any steps to prevent a 10% increase in such fares by appellee, trustee of the Chicago & North Western Railway
Company in reorganization under §77 of the Bankruptcy
Act. The 10% increase, if effective, would bring the fares
in some instances above the maximum of two cents per
mile imposed by state statute. Illinois Revised Statutes,
1941, c. 114, §§ 154-56.
The bill of complaint alleges, and the district court
found, substantially as follows: Until March 7, 1942, appellee and his predecessor in interest, the Chicago & North
Western Railway Company, had collected commutation
fares for the intrastate transportation of passengers in
Illinois, as required by a report and order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission entered October 6, 1925, in a pro-

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

Opinion of the Court.

ceeding under § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act (now
49 U. S. C. § 13). The purpose and effect of that order
was to require the Chicago & North Western to increase its
intrastate commutation fares to substantially the same
level as the fares then in force for interstate passenger
traffic, which had previously been increased by order of
the Commission, and thus to remove undue preference
and prejudice and unjust discrimination against interstate commerce, as well as undue preference and advantage to persons traveling in intrastate commerce on the
Illinois lines of the Chicago & North Western. The order
was entered upon appropriate findings. Intrastate Rates
Within Illinois, Docket No. 11703, 102 I. C. C. 479. It
directed an increase of 20% over the then prevailing rates
for the intrastate commutation fares involved in this case,
but provided that this increase should be "subject to a
maximum of 2 cents per mile," the Commission's opinion
stating that this was "in deference to the state statute."
(102 I. C. C. at 485.)
On February 28, 1936, the Interstate Commerce Commission, after a general and nationwide investigation of
railroad passenger fares, entered an order by which it retained its continuing jurisdiction over the Illinois intrastate commutation passenger fares here in question, by
specific reference to its previous order in Docket No.
11703, although the order did not require any modification of those fares. Passenger Fares and Surcharges,
Docket No. 26550, 214 I. C. C. 174.
In December 1941, the Commission undertook a further nationwide investigation of both freight rates and
passenger fares, to determine whether increases of 10%,
as asked by the railroads, should be authorized in view of
increased operating expenses and costs of materials and
supplies. By order of January 21, 1942, in that proceeding, known as Ex parte No. 148, the Commission-upon
findings that the increase was necessary for adequate and

678

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

efficient service during the war emergency-authorized
the railroads, including the Chicago & North Western, to
increase passenger fares by 10%. The order further directed that "all outstanding orders, as amended, of the
Commission, authorizing or prescribing interstate and intrastate fares, or bases of fares be, and they are hereby,
modified, effective concurrently with the establishment
of the increased fares" approved by the order, but only
to the extent necessary to permit the authorized increase
to be added to "the interstate and intrastate fares approved or prescribed in, or maintained or held by virtue
of, said outstanding orders"; that a copy of the order be
filed "in the docket of each such proceeding, including
those proceedings under § 13 of the Interstate Commerce
Act enumerated in the order of February 28, 1936, in
Docket No. 26550"; and "that all tariffs or supplenments
changing fares by authority of this order, which are maintained or held by authority of outstanding orders of the
Commission, shall bear on their title pages specific reference to this order." In a report and order of March 2,
1942, in Ex parte No. 148, the Commission reaffirmed
these findings, authorized certain increases in freight
rates, and made further findings of fact in support of the
increases. Increased Railway.Rates, Fares, and Charges,
1942, 248 I. C. C. 545.
The district court held that the Commission's order of
January 21, 1942, by its specific references to all outstanding orders previously issued in § 13 proceedings, which
would include that of 1925 in Docket No. 11703, had been
made applicable to the Illinois commutation passenger
fares here in question.
Acting under the purported authority of these orders,
appellee, about February 6, 1942, filed with the Illinois
Commerce Commission, and with the Interstate Commerce Commission, tariff schedules referring to the latter's
order of January 21, 1942, and increasing by 10%, effective

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

Opinion of the Court.

March 8, 1942, its previously existing Illinois intrastate
passenger commutation fares. The fares proposed by
these tariffs in some instances exceed the limit imposed by
the Illinois two cent fare law. On February 18th the Illinois commission issued an order purporting to suspend
these tariffs and the increased fares named in them until
July 6, 1942, and ordered appellee not to file any new
tariff or otherwise to change the previously existing fares
during the period of suspension or any extension of it
without the permission of the state commission. The
order directed that a hearing be held by the state commission on the propriety of the proposed changes.
The district court held that the effect of the state commission's order was to prescribe for appellee the continuation of the intrastate passenger fares in force immediately before February 18, 1942, and to prohibit appellee
from increasing or modifying those fares save as permitted
by the state commission; that appellants have threatened
and continue to threaten appellee with the prosecution of
numerous proceedings in the state courts to impose upon
appellee and his agents fines and penalties for failure to
comply with the state commission's order; that unless
appellants are enjoined from such threatened prosecutions and cumulative penalties, appellee will suffer irreparable injury.
From all this the district court concluded, as matters of
law, that the Interstate Commerce Commission's order of
January 21, 1942, is a valid order which modified the 1925
and 1936 orders taking jurisdiction over the intrastate
commutation fares in question, and that the 1942 order,
without more, authorized the increased fares prescribed
in the tariffs filed by appellee. The court held that the
Illinois commission's order of February 18, 1942, was invalid and without force with respect to these commutation fares because in conflict with the 1942 order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and for the additional
513236-43-vol. 318--47

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

reason that the old fares continued in effect by the state
commission are confiscatory and in violation of the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The
court accordingly restrained appellants from enforcing the
state commission's order, and from interfering with the
collection of the commutation fares prescribed by appellee's proposed tariffs.
Appellants assail the judgment of the district court on
the grounds that the' purport and true meaning of the
Interstate Commerce Commission's 1942 order was not to
order into effect Illinois intrastate fares superseding those
previously in force, but only to assent to increased rates
when and if permitted by the state commission, which it
has not done; that the Interstate Commerce Commission's order, if intended to compel increases in intrastate
rates, is not supported by adequate findings (cf. Florida
v. United States, 282 U. S. 194); and that, so far as the
judgment below rests on the alleged confiscatory character of the preexisting rates, the finding of confiscation
is not supported by the record, and appellee has not pursued the administrative remedy available before the state
commission, as is prerequisite to equitable relief.
The neaning and appropriate application of the Interstate Commerce Commission's order are undoubtedly obscure. We have heard exhaustive argument and examined elaborate briefs by the parties to this litigation and
by the City of New York as amicus curiae, endeavoring
to throw light on its true meaning. Like arguments have
been made, in a cause pending in the New York state
courts,' to determine the application of this order to intra1 The Supreme Court of New York concluded that the Commission's
order was not intended to direct a 10% increase in those intrastate
rates. Matter of Transit Commission v. Long Island R. Co., 178
Misc. 290, 33 N. Y. S. 2d 993. The Court, however, suggested that
an application might be made to the Interstate Commerce Commission for a clarification of its order to remove any doubt. On such

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

Opinion of the Court.

state standard passenger fares of the Long Island
Railroad.
As we were in doubt as to the intended scope of the
Commission's order, and the Commission had not filed a
brief or otherwise intervened in this litigation, we requested a brief on its behalf discussing the meaning and
application of its order. In compliance with our request
it has filed a brief, in which it takes the position that the
1942 order was not intended, and should not be construed,
to direct a 10% increase in the Illinois intrastate commutation fares established in 1925. Although the brief is
not wholly free from the obscurity surrounding the order
itself, the Commission's ultimate position that the order
is inapplicable to these particular commutation fares is
one which, under all the circumstances of the case, we
accept.
The doubt concerning the application of the 1942 order
arises from uncertainty as to the extent to which its
broad language is to be deemed restricted when read with
the earlier orders of the Commission relating to intrastate
rates, and in the light of the nature of the functions which
the Commission is called on to perform in prescribing such
rates. On its face, the order provides broadly that: "all
outstanding orders, as amended, of the Commission, authorizing or prescribing interstate and intrastate fares
. . . are hereby, modified, effective concurrently with the
establishment of the increased fares herein approved, only
to the extent necessary to permit the increase herein
authorized to be added to the interstate and intrastate
fares approved or prescribed in . . . said outstanding
application the Commission refused to clarify the order, and on rehearing the court adhered to its original decision. I. C. C. Order,
entered in Ex parte 148, April 6, 1942; 107 N. Y. L. Journal, p. 1958,
May 8, 1942. The decision was affirmed by the Appellate Division,
265 App. Div. 847, 38 N. Y. S. 2d 361, and the case is now pending in
the. New York Court of Appeals.

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

orders." Whether this, without more, was intended or
operates to direct a 10% increase of appellee's intrastate
commutation fares in Illinois, so as to preserve the established relationship between them and interstate fares,
rather than intended to permit appellee to obtain the 10%
increase only with t-he assent of the state commission, is
the question.
The position of the Interstate Commerce Commission
is, in substance, that the order is not to be construed as
prescribing Illinois intrastate commutation fares for the
Chicago & North Western, because the order was unattended by the procedure which the Commission regards
as the appropriate basis for such an order, and consequently that the Commission did not have in mind or
intend that the order should have that effect.
It has long been established that the Interstate Commerce Commission, under § 13 (4) of the Act, has power
to supersede an intrastate rate by prescribing in its stead
a new rate which the Commission finds necessary to remove undue or unreasonable prejudice to interstate commerce resulting from the maintenance of the intrastate
rate. It may rightly establish such a modification of the
intrastate rate only upon notice to the intrastate carriers
concerned, and hearings, followed by findings showing
prejudice to interstate commerce. Upon such findings
the statute makes it the duty of the Commission to prescribe the just and reasonable intrastate rate found necessary to remove the prejudice. Wisconsin Railroad
Comm'n v. C., B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563; Louisiana
Public Service Comm'n v. Texas & New Orleans R. Co.,
284 U. S. 125; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70.
And for purposes of this case we may assume, without
deciding, that intrastate rates which have once been prescribed by § 13 orders may be modified by a blanket order
raising or lowering the level of intrastate and interstate
rates, even though the Commission makes no new findings

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

Opinion of the Court.

of discrimination but leaves that question subject to later
inquiry upon applications filed in particular cases. Cf.
United States v. Louisiana, supra, 73-79; New England
Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 196-201.
In 1920 the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized a general increase of 20% in interstate passenger
fares, establishing a countrywide standard passenger fare
of 3.6 cents a mile. Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220
and 302. The Commission later instituted the § 13 proceeding which resulted in its 1925 order increasing by
20%, subject to a 2 cent per mile maximum, the Illinois
intrastate commutation fares of the Chicago & North
Western, in order to remove the prejudice of such fares to
interstate commerce. Intrastate Rates Within Illinois,
102 1. C. C. 479. This was followed by the 1936 order
directing a general reduction of interstate passenger fares.
By this order the Commission, as a means of increasing
passenger traffic, reduced maximum standard Pullman
fares to three cents and coach fares to two cents a mile.
And to prevent intrastate fares subject to the earlier § 13
orders from being higher than the new interstate maximum fares, the Commission ordered all outstanding § 13
orders to be modified to the extent necessary to permit the
new fares to become effective. Passenger Fares and Surcharges, 214 I. C. C. 174. While this order affected many
intrastate fares which had previously been subject to
§ 13 orders, it was without effect on Illinois commutation
fares on the Chicago & North Western, which had been no
greater than the maximum of two cents a mile. Thus the
Illinois commutation fares involved in the present case,
established in 1925, were not reduced between 1925 and
1942.
It is the position of the Commission that, since the
10% increase of 1942 if mandatory would raise these Illinois intrastate commutation fares (unlike the standard
fares) above the level set by the § 13 order of 1925, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

as the Commission made no special findings justifying.
such an increase of the level of intrastate fares, the 1942
order is not to be understood to have the effect ascribed
to it by the district court. The Commission points out
that even if the need of equivalence of intrastate and interstate fares has not changed since 1925, the Commission
is concerned not only with the necessity for maintaining
the equivalence, but also with the particular point at
which the fares should be brought together. The Commission intimates that its findings establishing the 1925
maximum level of intrastate fares would not be regarded
by it as sufficient support for a still higher level in 1942.
It urges that the absence of findings supporting a higher
level therefore indicates that its 1942 order was not intended, without more, to increase by 10% the Illinois
intrastate commutation fares.2
The Interstate Commerce Commission is without jurisdiction over intrastate rates except to protect and make
effective some regulation of interstate commerce. In
view of the Commission's construction of its order, and the
grounds upon which it rests, we can only conclude that
there is at least serious doubt whether the 1942 proceeding and the order which resulted from it were ever intended by the Commission to increase the intrastate rates
in question. Since the Commission alone is authorized
to wield the constitutional power to set aside state-established intrastate rates by prescribing intrastate rates
itself, state power cannot rightly be deemed to be sup2 The brief filed by the Commission in this Court to assist in discovering the intended meaning of the order in Ex parte No. 148, states
that "the 1942 increase may well be mandatory" as to standard intrastate passenger fares covered by prior outstanding § 13 orders, as
in the New York case discussed in note 1, supra. This is said to be
because, in the 1936 proceeding, such fares were reduced, and because
the 10% increase of 1942 would only raise them to a level well within
the maximum prescribed for such fares in § 13 proceedings in .1920.

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

Opinion of the Court.

planted so long as the Commission's exercise of itm
authority is left in serious doubt. Arkansas Railroad
Comm'n v. Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 274 U. S. 597, 603.
And where the applicability of the order is as doubtful as
it is in this case, we should not feel justified in disregarding
the Commission's disclaimer in this Court of all intention
to override Illinois state law by its 1942 order--especially
in view of the fact that in the § 13 proceeding in 1925 the
Commission had framed its order in deference to the twocent fare law prevailing in Illinois.
It is regrettable that prolonged litigations should have
resulted because of the absence from the Commission's
order of a sentence more precisely defining its scope, or
of a clarifying order which could have been entered at any
stage of the pending litigations.
Since we accept the Commission's conclusion that the
1942 order is inapplicable, it is unnecessary for us to consider whether, as appellants contend, the order if applicable would be open to collateral attack in this proceeding
for the insufficiency of the Commission's findings to support it, or whether that issue may be litigated only in a
suit to set aside the order brought against the United
States as prescribed by the Urgent Deficiencies Act. 38
Stat. 219, 28 U. S. C. § 46.
Only a word need be said of the district court's finding
of confiscation. Appellants filed no answer to the bill
of complaint and no evidence was taken in the cause.
Judgment in favor of appellee was entered upon appellants' motion to strike the complaint and dismiss the
cause, and upon the prayer of the bill for a permanent
injunction. The only support for the finding of confiscation is in the general allegations of the complaint that
the existing intrastate commutation fares complained of
are confiscatory, and more particularly that these fares
are not adequate to compensate for the cost of the particular service.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
ROBFRTS,

J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

Apart from the insufficiency of such allegations, when
not buttressed by convincing proof, to sustain an injunction setting aside rates as confiscatory, see California
Railroad Comm'n v. Pacific Gas Co., 302 U. S. 388, 401, it
appears that when the present suit was brought the state
commission had ordered a hearing before it concerning
the propriety of appellee's proposed increase of the existing, allegedly confiscatory, fares. There is no contention
and no finding that appellee's attack on the existing fares
as confiscatory was not open for consideration before the
commission. The equitable remedy sought by appellee
in court should have been denied because of his failure
first to pursue the administrative remedy thus afforded.
Gilchrist v. Interborough Co., 279 U. S. 159, 208-09;
Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300, 310-11. There
are no circumstances of peculiar urgency alleged, and no
other ground is disclosed by the record which would warrant a federal equity court in dispensing with this salutary requirement.
Upon this record the district court should have declined
to pass on the merits of the confiscation issue.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I am of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
This case is important not so much because of the relative rights of the parties as of the principles announced
by the court, which I think are likely to produce unfortunate results in later cases.
First. The meaning and scope of the Interstate Commerce Commission's order is, in my view, clear. It expressly included the earlier § 13 order affecting the intrastate rates of the Chicago and North Western which are

ILLINOIS COMM'N v. THOMSON.
675

-

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

in question. I could understand the assertion that the
order is obscure if its purported application were to intrastate rates not specifically mentioned in the order itself.
But here the Commission seems ex industria to have
referred to an earlier § 13 order so as to leave no doubt of
its purpose.
Second. Even if the order were obscure, any party in
interest could have obtained a clarification by application
to the Commission. It is somewhat difficult to understand why the Commission, in response to an informal application, refused to vouchsafe any clarification of the
order in the case of New York intrastate rates.
Third. It seems to me inadmissible to permit the Commission, in a litigation such as the present, to suggest that
its order was not intended to cover the intrastate rates
in question because, forsooth, the order is not supported
by requisite findings. I fail to see the fairness or equity
of permitting parties to struggle for months or years over
the meaning or scope of an order which happens to be
involved in a collateral proceeding and then permit the
Commission to appear in the litigation and attempt to explain why its order does or does not cover the situation
disclosed.
Fourth. I also think it inadmissible to litigate, in a collateral proceeding such as this, the question of the adequacy of the support of the Commission's order in the
record made before the Commission. Congress has provided a method whereby orders not entered in accordance
with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act may
be set aside or enjoined by a petition to a District Court
of the United States. This method of attack is available to any party in interest or any intervenor before the
Commission. It is wrong, in my judgment, to permit a
state commission, or any other party, to forego the method
prescribed by the Urgent Deficiencies Act for enjoining
or setting aside a Commission order on such ground as

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

is here asserted, and to act in the teeth of the order, reserving an attack on the findings, or lack of findings, to
support the order 'until its regulations are challenged in
an independent proceeding. In such a proceeding as this,
I think the order should be treated as binding until modified or set aside in the manner provided by federal law.
NEW YORK EX REL. WHITMAN v. WILSON,
WARDEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 72. Argued February 1, 1943.-Decided April 12, 1943.
Since the present proceeding must be dismissed if habeas corpus is not
an appropriate remedy under the state law, and since this Court

is unable to determine that question with finality, or to resolve the
contentions with respect to it, in advance of a controlling decision
by the state courts, the judgment appealed from is vacated and the

cause is remanded to the state court for further proceedings. P. 690.
263 App. Div. 908, 924, 32 N. Y. S. 2d 29, 1023, vacated.

CERTIORARI, 317 U. S. 615, to review a judgment affirming the dismissal of a writ of habeas corpus. Leave to
appeal to the highest court of the State was denied, 263
App. Div. 924; 287 N. Y. 856; and an appeal taken as of
right was dismissed, 290 N. Y. 670.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., with whom Mr. Curtiss E.
Frank was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. BernardL. Alderman, with whom Messrs.Nathaniel
L. Goldstein, Attorney General of New York, Orrin G.
Judd, Solicitor General, and Wendell P. Brown, Assistant
Attorney General, were on the brief, for respondent.
PER CURIAM.
Petitioner began this proceeding by an application for
a writ of habeas corpus in the Supreme Court of the State

