236

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 458. Argued February 1, 2, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.
1. Where the charge of the trial court in a criminal prosecution for

violation of the Act of June 8, 1938, as amended by the Act of
August 7, 1939, authorized the jury to return a verdict of guilty
if it found that the defendant had willfully failed to disclose activities
which were wholly on his own behalf, the conviction can be sustained
only if the failure to disclose such activities was a criminal offense,
even though the evidence might warrant a finding that all of the
defendant's activities were in fact in behalf of foreign principals.
P. 240.
2. The Act of June 8, 1938, as amended by the Act of August 7, 1939,
held not to require, or authorize the Secretary of State to require,
registrants to make any statement of their activities other than
those in which they have engaged "as agent" of a foreign principal.
P. 243.
3. the unambiguous words of a criminal statute are not to be altered
by judicial construction so as to punish one not otherwise within
its reach, however deserving of punishment his conduct may
seem. P. 243.
4. The application of the amendatory Act of April 29, 1942, to impose
upon the defendant in this case a duty which the words of the
prior Act plainly exclude, can not be justified by denominating the
amendatory legislation as clarifying or declaratory. P. 247.
5. The defendant's right to a fair trial in this case was prejudiced by
the conduct of the prosecutor, who, in his closing remarks to the
jury, indulged in an appeal wholly irrelevant to any facts or issues
in the case, and the only purpose and effect of which could have
been to arouse passion and prejudice. Such remarks should have
been stopped by the trial judge sua sponte. P. 247.
6. It is as much the duty of the prosecutor to refrain from improper
methods calculated to produce a wrongful conviction as it is to use
every legitimate means to bring about a just one. P. 248.
130 F. 2d 945, reversed.

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236
CERTIORARI,

Opinion of the Court.

317 U. S. 618, to review the affirmance of

a conviction for violation of a federal Act requiring the
registration of certain agents of foreign principals.
Mr. 0. R. McGuire for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney GeneralBerge, with whom Solicitor
General Fahy and Messrs. Oscar A. Provost and Andrew'
F. Oehmann were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioner was convicted on three counts of an indictment, each charging him with the willful omission to state
a material fact required to be stated in a supplemental registration statement filed by him with the Secretary of
State, in violation of the penal provisions of the Act of
June 8, 1938, 52 Stat. 631, as amended by the Act of
August 7, 1939, 53 Stat. 1244, requiring the registration
of certain agents of foreign principals. The question decisive of petitioner's challenge to the validity of his conviction is whether the statute or any authorized regulation
of the Secretary required the statement which petitioner
omitted to make.
Section 2 of the Act of 1938, as amended, provides that
every person acting as "agent of a foreign principal,"
either as public-relations counsel, publicity agent or representative, with exceptions not now relevant, must file
with the Secretary of State a registration statement, on a
form prescribed by the Secretary, containing certain specified items of information. These include a copy of the
registrant's contract with his principal, or a statement
of its terms and conditions if oral, the compensation to
be paid under the contract, and the names of all who have
contributed or promised to contribute to the compensa-

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

tion. Beyond the terms and conditions of the registrant's
contracts with foreign principals, the statute made no
requirement that the original registration statement contain any information as to the registrant's services or
activities either in performance of his contract of employment or otherwise.
By § 3 every registrant is required to file at the end of
each six months' period, following his original registration, a supplemental statement "on a form prescribed by
the Secretary, which shall set forth with respect to such
preceding six months' period-(a) Such facts as may be
necessary to make the information required under section
2 hereof accurate and current with respect to such period,"
and "(c) A statement containing such details required
under this Act as the Secretary shall fix, of the activities
of such person as agent of a foreign principal during such
six months' period." And by § 6, "The Secretary is
authorized and directed to prescribe such rules, regulations, and forms as may be necessary to carry out this Act."
Section 5 imposes penal sanctions upon "any person who
willfully fails to file any statement required to be filed
under this Act, or in complying with the provisions of this
Act, makes a false statement of a material fact, or willfully omits to state any material fact required to be stated
therein."
In purported conformity to the statute, the Secretary,
on September 15, 1939, promulgated regulations and prescribed a form of "Supplemental Registration Statement."
Chapter IV, regulation 12, of the regulations provided:
"Agents of foreign principals who engage, whether or not
on behalf of their foreign principal, in activities not included among the exceptions set forth in the act and regulations shall be considered subject to the requirement of
registration." The prescribed form of Supplemental Registration Statement directed the registrant to make a
statement giving certain items of information, No. 11 of

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

which was "Comprehensive statement of nature of business of registrant."
The three counts of the indictment on which petitioner
was convicted charged that in three successive supplemental registration statements filed by him on April 23,
1940, October 25, 1940, and April 25, 1941, as the agent
of German principals, he had knowingly and willfully
failed to disclose, in response to item 11 which called for
a "Comprehensive statement of nature of business of registrant," numerous activities in which he had engaged
during the period covered by the supplemental registration statement. On the trial it appeared that petitioner,
on September 26, 1939, had registered as agent and United
States correspondent for the Miinchner Neueste Nachrichten, a Munich newspaper, and had later lodged with
the State Department a copy of his contract, dated September 27, 1939, as agent and editorial writer for the
German Library of Information, an agency of the German government, to do editorial work in connection with
"Facts in Review," a publication of the Library. On
March 17, 1941, petitioner registered his contract, with
a person associated with the Munich newspaper, to
act as agent for the publication in the United States of
a book "The One Hundred Families Who Rule Great
Britain."
There was also evidence from which the jury could have
found that during the eighteen months' period covered
by petitioner's three supplemental registration statements, and from August 3, 1940, he had controlled and
financed Flanders Hall, a corporation which published
numerous books and pamphlets from manuscripts furnished by petitioner; that it had also published other
books furnished by petitioner which purported to be English translations of French or Dutch publications, or to
have been compiled from English sources, but which were
in fact translations of German books published by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Deutsche Informationsstelle of Berlin. All were highly
critical of British foreign and colonial policy. During
this period petitioner actively participated in the formation of the "Make Europe Pay War Debts Committee,"
and the "Islands for War Debts Committee," and made
use of these organizations as a means of distributing
propaganda through the press and radio and under Congressional frank. He also consulted with and was active
in writing speeches for various members of Congress,
and in securing distribution of the speeches under Congressional frank.
In making the statement required by item 11 in each
of his three supplemental registration statements, petitioner responded to the request for a comprehensive statement of the nature of his business by the single phrase
"Author and journalist." He made no further disclosure
of his various activities during the period covered by the
supplemental registration statements.
When submitting the case to the jury, the trial court,
at the Government's request, charged that "if you find
that the defendant engaged in the activities set forth in
the indictment, it is not necessary that you find that he
engaged in such activities on behalf of his foreign principal or principals. It is sufficient if you find that he
engaged in the activities, whether on behalf of his foreign
principal or principals or on his own behalf." On appropriate objection and exception to this instruction, petitioner contended that under the statute he was not
required to disclose his activities on his own behalf but
only those for foreign principals. The jury returned a
verdict of guilty, the judgment of conviction was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
130 F. 2d 945, and we granted certiorari. 317 U. S. 618.
As the charge left the jury free to return a verdict of
guilty if it found that petitioner had willfully failed to
disclose activities which were wholly on his own behalf,

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

the conviction can be sustained only if the failure to disclose such activities was a criminal offense. In its brief
and on the argument here the Government accordingly
conceded that-even though the evidence might warrant
a jury's finding that all petitioner's activities were in fact
in behalf of his foreign principals-the conviction cannot
stand if the charge was erroneous. See Williams v. North
Carolina,317 U. S. 287, 292; Pierce v. United States, 314
U. S. 306, 310. We are thus brought to the question
whether the statute, supplemented by the regulations of
the Secretary, required such information to be given and
imposed penal sanctions for petitioner's willful failure
to give it.
The Act of 1938 requiring registration of agents for
foreign principals was a new type of legislation adopted
in the critical period before the outbreak of the war. The
general purpose of the legislation was to identify agents
of foreign principals who might engage in subversive acts
or in spreading foreign propaganda, and to require them
to make public record of the nature of their employment.
But the means adopted to accompli, h that end are defined
by the statute itself, which, as will presently appear more
in detail, followed the recommendations of a House Committee which had investigated foreign propaganda.
These means included the requirement of registration of
agents for foreign principals-with which it appears that
petitioner complied-and the requirement that the registrant give certain information concerning his activities
as such agent.
One may be subjected to punishment for crime in the
federal courts only for the commission or omission of
an act defined by statute, or by regulation having legislative authority, and then only if punishment is authorized by Congress. United States v. George, 228 U. S.
14, 20-22; Williamson v. Unite4i States, 207 U. S. 425,
453-62; United States v. Standard Brewery, 251 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

210, 219-20; United States v. Eaton, 144 U. S. 677; United
States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; United States v. Smull,
236 U. S. 405; In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526. Penal sanctions attach here for willful failure to file a statement when
required, or if the registrant "willfully omits to state
any material fact required to be stated." Unless the
statute, fairly read, demands the disclosure of the information which petitioner failed to give, he cannot be
subjected to the statutory penalties.
It is to be noted that although the statute required
registration of contracts already entered into at the time
of its adoption, it did not include, in its enumeration of
information to be given in the original registration statement, any disclosure of a registrant's activities either
under his agency contract or otherwise. And the only
mention in the statute of a statement of such activities
is in § 3 (c), which directed that supplemental registration statements contain "such details required under this
Act as the Secretary shall fix, of the activities of such
person as agent of a foreign principal." The requirement of this section is subject to two limitations. One
is that the statement is to be of such details of the registrant's activities "as the Secretary shall fix"; the other
is that the details are to be of activities of the registrant
"as agent of a foreign principal."
Neither limitation can be disregarded in determining
what statement the statute, and any regulation which
it authorizes the Secretary to promulgate, called on petitioner to make. The Secretary's regulation 12 of chapter IV, already quoted, on which the Government relies,
plainly does not call for any statement of a registrant's
activities. It only declares that agents who engage in
activities "whether or not on behalf of their foreign principal" are subject to registration. It requires no statement of their activities and adds nothing to the command
of §§ 2 and 3 that all agents of foreign principals shall

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

register, a requirement with which petitioner complied.
Whatever the undisclosed purpose of this regulation, a
fair reading of it would not indicate to a registrant that
it required any statement of his activities in any
capacity.
But treating item 11 of the Supplemental Registration
Statement ("Comprehensive statement of nature of business of registrant"), prescribed by the Secretary, as a regulation fixing the details of the registrant's activities which
he is required to state, it must either be taken as limited
to a statement of his activities as agent, to which § 3 (c)
alone refers, or to exceed the authority conferred upon the
Secretary by that section. In neither case does the
statute command, or authorize the Secretary to command,
registrants to make any statement of their activities other
than those in which they have engaged "as agent."
We cannot read that phrase as though it had been written "while an agent" or "who is an agent." The unambiguous words of a statute which imposes criminal
penalties are not to be altered by judicial construction
so as to punish one not otherwise within its reach, however
deserving of punishment his conduct may seem. Nor is
such an alteration by construction aided by reference to
§ 6, which directs the Secretary to prescribe rules and
regulations "to carry out this Act." For, as we have seen,
the only provision of the Act relating to statements of
the registrant's activities is § 3 (c), which defines its own
and the Secretary's limitations. Section 6 does not give
to the Secretary any authority not to be found in the Act,
and especially not an authority which overrides the
specific limitations of § 3 (c).
While Congress undoubtedly had a general purpose
to regulate agents of foreign principals in the public interest by directing them to register and furnish such
information as the Act prescribed, we cannot add to its
provisions other requirements merely because we think

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

they might more successfully have effectuated that purpose. And we find nothing in the legislative history of
the Act to indicate that anyone concerned in its adoption
had any thought of requiring, or authorizing the Secretary
to require, more than a statement of registrants' activities in behalf of their foreign principals.
In 1935 the McCormack committee, reporting on its
Investigation of Nazi and Other Propaganda, recommended: "That the Congress should enact a statute requiring all publicity, propaganda, or public-relations
agents or other agents or agencies, who represent in this
country any foreign government or a foreign political
party or foreign industrial or commercial organization, to
register with the Secretary of State of the United States,
and to state name and location of such foreign employer,
the character of the service to be rendered, and the amount
of compensation paid or to be paid therefor." H. R. Rep.
No. 153, 74th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 23. The House and Senate committee reports, urging enactment of the McCormack bill which became the 1938 Act, both declare that
its purpose was to carry out these recommendations of
the McCormack committee. H. R. Rep. No. 1381, 75th
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1; S. Rep. No. 1783, 75th Cong., 3d
Sess., p. 2.
As may be seen from the text which we have quoted,
these recommendations were limited to the proposal of
specific measures for achieving the committee's general
purpose, by requiring disclosure of the identity of the
agent and of his foreign principal and the agent's relationship to the principal. They give no hint of an intention
to require agents to disclose activities not in behalf of their
foreign principals. And in supporting the amendatory
*legislation enacted in 1942, which, among other additions,
required registrants to make "a comprehensive statement
of the nature of registrant's business" (Act of April 29,
1942, § 2 (a) (3)), Representative McCormack stated:

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

"The present bill strengthens the McCormack Act. I was
experimenting at that time, and, naturally, when you are
experimenting you cannot go as far as you can after you
have had experience, and in the light of the experience
gained from the administration of the McCormack Act,
these amendments are necessary to strengthen the Act
for the best interests of our country." 88 Cong. Rec.,
Jan. 28, 1942, p. 802.
Even though the specific restriction of § 3 (c) were due
to defective draftsmanship or to inadvertence, which
hardly seems to be the case, men are not subjected to
criminal punishment because their conduct offends our
patriotic emotions or thwarts a general purpose sought to
be effected by specific commands which they have not disobeyed. Nor are they to be held guilty of offenses which
the statutes have omitted, though by inadvertence, to
define and condemn. For the courts are without authority
to repress evil save as the law has proscribed it and then
only according to law.
The Government argues that the statute would have
been a "halfway measure" had it not required, or at least
authorized the Secretary to require, the registrant to reveal
the propaganda which he put out other than on behalf of
his foreign principal. Congress itself has recognized that
the legislation was in this sense a halfway measure when in
1942 the Act was amended so as to require both original
and supplemental registration statements to contain a
"comprehensive statement of the nature of registrant's
business," together with other specifically required information as to the character of registrants' activities. Act
of April 29, 1942, c. 263, 56 Stat. 248, §§ 2 (a) (3), 2 (a)
(4), 2 (a) (8), 2 (a) (10), 2 (b).
The Senate Judiciary Committee in recommending the
1942 legislation said that "the present Act is also improved
by explicit enlargement of the registration provisions so as
to render them more efficacious for disclosure and investi-

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

gative purposes." S. Rep. No. 913, 77th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 9. The House Judiciary Committee declared "the existing law is also believed to have been bolstered by explicit
enlargement of the registration provisions so as to render
them more efficacious for disclosure and investigative purposes. . . All of these additions have been prompted by
experience in cases under the present act." H. Rep. No.
1547, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 3-4.'
1This statement, which omitted to point out that the activities referred to in § 3 (c) were the registrant's activities "as agent," was
copied verbatim from a statement which had been submitted at a
hearing on November 28, 1941, by the Chief of the Special Defense
Unit of the Department of Justice, who had a large share in drafting
the 1942 legislation. See Hearings before Subcommittee No. 4 of the
House Committee on the Judiciary, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., on H. R. 6045,
pp. 26, 12. There is some language in his statement, also copied in the
House Report at p. 4, which may indicate that the Department of Justice thought that the existing law required disclosure of "information
about the nature of the registrant's business," and that the provision in
the 1942 law would be "declaratory." If such was its meaning, the
statement ignored and did not point out to the committee the explicit
limitation of § 3 (c) of the old Act to the registrant's activities "as
agent." Moreover, the statement was submitted by the Department
after the institution of the prosecution of this case (the indictment was
filed October 8,1941). Hence in some measure it may have represented
the Department's view of the law, which we think inadmissible, reflected
in its requested charge to the jury in this case.
A like indefiniteness as to the extent to which the new legislation might
be regarded as declaratory is suggested by the letter of the Attorney
General of November 24, 1941, recommending the new legislation to the
chairmen of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees. The Attorney General, however, seems to have thought that the provisions
of the new bill would be declaratory, not of the provisions of the old
Act, but of the "requirements of the registration statement of foreign
agents as now prescribed or may be prescribed by the Secretary." Indication that the Attorney General did not regard the Act, before the
1942 amendment, as embodying this requirement of the Secretary is to
be found in the first paragraph of his letter: "Under existing law, every
person who is an agent of a foreign principal is required to file a registration statement with the Secretary of State, setting forth certain

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

Opinion of the Court.

While we find in the committee reports no mention of

the explicit restriction of the application of § 3 (c) of the
old Act to the registrant's activities "as agent," the reports reveal a clear purpose to make the registration re-

quirements of the new Act extend to all his activities.2
We think that in this respect the new Act extends beyond

the old, and that the application, ex post facto, of the new,
to impose on petitioner a duty which the words of the
old plainly exclude, is not to be justified by denominating
the amendment as clarifying or declaratory legislation.
As the case must be remanded to the district court for
further proceedings, we direct attention to conduct of the
prosecuting attorney which we think prejudiced petitioner's right to a fair trial, and which independently of the
error for which we reverse might well have placed the
judgment of conviction in jeopardy. In his closing remarks to the jury he indulged in an appeal wholly irrelevant to any facts or issues in the case, the purpose and
effect of which could only have been to arouse passion and
prejudice.' The trial judge overruled, as coming too late,
information disclosing the nature of his relationship to such foreign
principal." Hearings, supra, pp. 55-56; S. Rep. No. 913, 77th Cong.,
1st Sess., pp. 10-11.
2 The committee reports referred to are reports on H. R. 6269, which
was passed by Congress, but vetoed by the President because our
entrance into the war had made it necessary to alter the bill in certain
respects, not material here. A new bill, S. 2399, containing such
changes, became the Act of April 29, 1942. See S. Rep. No. 1227,
77th Cong., 2d Sess.; H. R. Rep. No. 2038, 77th Cong., 2d Sess.
8 "In closing, let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is
war. This is war, harsh, cruel, murderous war. There are those
who, right at this very moment, are plotting your death and my death;
plotting our death and the death of our families because we have
committed no other crime than that we do not agree with their ideas
of persecution and concentration camps.
"This is war. Ii is a fight to the death. The American people are
relying upon you ladies and gentlemen for their protection against this
sort of a crime, just as much as they are relying upon the protection
513236-43-vol. 318-

20

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

petitioner's objection first made in the course of the court's
charge to the jury.
At a time when passion and prejudice are heightened
by emotions stirred by our participation in a great war,
we do not doubt that these remarks addressed to the
jury were highly prejudicial, and that they were offensive
to the dignity and good order with which all proceedings
in court should be conducted. We think that the trial
judge should have stopped counsel's discourse without
waiting for an objection. "The United States Attorney
is the representative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern
impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern
at all; and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall
be done. As such, he is in a peculiar and very definite
sense the servant of the law, the twofold aim of which
is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer. He may
prosecute with earnestness and vigor-indeed, he should
do so. But, while he may strike hard blows, he is not at
liberty to strike foul ones. It is as much his duty to
refrain from improper methods calculated to produce a
wrongful conviction as it is to use every legitimate means
to bring about a just one." Berger v. United States, 295
U. S. 78, 88. Compare New York Central R. Co. v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 310, 316-18.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

and

MR. JUSTICE RuTLEDGE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
of the men who man the guns in Bataan Peninsula, and everywhere else.
They are relying upon you ladies and gentlemen for their protection.
We are at war. You have a duty to perform here.
"As a representative of your Government I amcalling upon every
one of you to do your duty."

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, with

whom MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concurs, dissenting.
The petitioner, having registered with the Secretary of
State as a foreign agent, was convicted of willful refusal
to inform the Secretary of certain business activities in
which he systematically attempted to influence the political thought of this country on behalf of Germany. The
trial judge charged the jury not to convict the petitioner
unless he had actual knowledge that the Act and the regulations required him to supply this information to the
Secretary, and that having such knowledge he had refused
to answer the Secretary's question with the "deliberate
intention of avoiding the requirement 'of the statute."
The jury found, and it is not questioned here, that the
petitioner was a paid German propagandist engaged in
various business activities, in all of which he made use
of the same kind of propaganda calculated to further the
interests of Germany in the United States. The Court
holds that the Congressional enactment required petitioner to reveal to the Secretary only the particular propaganda activities in which he engaged pursuant to his
agency. It holds that the petitioner could keep secret,
without violating the law, those propaganda activities
undertaken on his own behalf, which were of exactly the
same type and were intended to accomplish exactly the
same purpose as those for which he had been hired by his
German principals.
To this construction of the Act I cannot agree. I think
that § 3 (c) of the Act, which authorizes the Secretary
to require statements "of the activities of such person
as agent of a foreign principal" must be read in the light
of the general purpose of the Act and in close connection
with §6, which permits the Secretary to prescribe the
"rules, regulations, and forms" necessary to carry out the

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BL.cx, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

Act. By such a reading, the Secretary was authorized
to ask the question the petitioner failed to answer.
The general intent of the Act was to prevent secrecy
as to any kind of political propaganda activity by foreign
agents. Both the House and Senate Committees reporting the Bill under consideration declared it to be their
purpose to turn "the spotlight of pitiless publicity" upon
the propaganda activities of those who were hired by
foreign principals. Appreciating that "propaganda efforts of such a nature are usually conducted in secrecy,"
they wanted to make full information concerning it
"available to the American public" and sought by "the
passage of this bill" to "force propaganda agents representing foreign agencies to come out 'in the open' in their
activities, or to subject themselves to the penalties provided in said bill."' 1 They declared that the purpose of
the Bill was to require all such hired agents "to register
with the State Department and to supply information
about their political activities, their employers, and the
terms of their contracts." I
"Senate Report No. 1783, House Report No. 1381, 75th Cong.,
3d Sess.
2The House Committee hearings, which are available in manuscript
form only, show the same broad purpose. In explaining the Bill to
the House Committee, its author pointed out that it was particularly
aimed at firms, groups, or businesses, used "as a means for that particular country or political party to hide its identity" and that the Bill
covered "all activities of all kinds, that is, all propaganda activities, no
matter from what source it emanates." The Congressional Committee,

whose Chairman was the author of this Bill, had discovered through
hearings, that business enterprises had been utilized as a means for
propagandizing, and that many persons including the petitioner here
had published articles in various magazines, concealing their identity
behind pseudonyms. The purpose of these activities, the Committee
found, had been to influence "the policies, external and internal, of
this country, through group action. They were employing the same
method that they had employed in Germany for the purpose of
obtaining control of the government over there."

VIERECK v. UNITED STATES.
236

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

What emerged from extended Congressional investigations, hearings and deliberations was this Act, intended
to provide an appropriate method to obtain information
essential for the proper evaluation of political propaganda emanating from hired agents of foreign countries.
As the House and Senate Committees considering the
Bill said, it "does not in any way impair the right of
freedom of speech, or of a free press, or other constitutional
rights." Resting on the fundamental constitutional
principle that our people, adequately informed, may be
trusted to distinguish between the true and the false, the
bill is intended to label information of foreign origin so
that hearers and readers may not be deceived by the belief
that the information comes from a disinterested source.
Such legislation implements rather than detracts from the
prized freedoms guaranteed by the First Amendment.
No strained interpretation should frustrate its essential
purpose.
Section 6 of the Act provides that "The Secretary is
authorized and directed to prescribe such rules, regulations, and forms as may be necessary to carry out this
Act." Congress did not set out in the Act the questions
to be answered, and it surely did not intend to entrust
the Secretary with no more than the power to copy the
Act in seeking information. Such latitude as he has, the
Secretary immediately used to require that "agents of
foreign principals who engage, whether or not on behalf
of their foreign principal," in political propaganda activity should register; and he asked the registrants to make
a "comprehensive statement of nature of business." In
view of the general purpose of the Act, such a question
seems eminently reasonable. As a practical matter, the
very fact that in the instant case it is extremely difficult
to determine with conviction which activities the petitioner carried on in his own behalf and which he carried
on in behalf of Germany is reason enough for requiring

252.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
BLAcK, J., dissenting.

318 U. S.

him to report on both. The Act did not contemplate that
a foreign agent could evade its terms by claiming that
all unreported political activities, upon their discovery by
this government, were undertaken on his own behalf.
Under the general power given the Secretary by § 6 to
determine the form of questions, he was entitled to ask
such questions as would make the enforcement of § 3 (c)
possible. I think the Secretary was authorized to ask the
question under consideration in this case and that the
Act required the petitioner to answer it.
As is pointed out in the opinion of the Court, the 1942
amendment to the Act explicitly authorizes the Secretary to ask the question which is involved in the instant
case. The addition of this provision to the Act, however,
I consider purely declaratory. The 1942 Bill was passed,
as shown by the Senate and House reports, to serve four
major purposes: It required the labeling of foreign propaganda mailed in the United States; transferred the
administration of the Act from the Department of State
to the Department of Justice; extended the application of
the Act to certain propaganda affecting Latin America;
and improved the enforcement provisions. The Attorney
General, in expressing his views on the bill, declared that
the registration provisions of the amendment, which includes specific authorization to ask the very question now
before us, were "merely declaratory." ' If so, the Secretary had the authority to ask the same question under
the 1938 Act.
The reversal here apparently does not rest on the concluding remarks of counsel for the government set forth in
the Court's opinion. I am in accord with the sentiments
expressed in Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, 88,
which the Court today repeats. In that case the Court
declared that counsel had misstated the facts; put words
Sen. Report No. 913, 77th Cong., 1st SBess.

MARSHALL FIELD & CO. v. BOARD.236

253

Syllabus.

into the mouths of witnesses which they had not said:
intimated that statements had been made to him personally out of court in respect of which no proof was offered; pretended to understand that a witness had said
something which he had not; bullied and argued with the
witnesses; and committed other offenses. This Court
properly declared that his conduct called for stern rebuke
by the trial judge, for repressive measures, and "perhaps, if these were not successful, for the granting of a
mistrial."
A prosecutor must draw a careful line. On the one
hand, he should be fair; he should not seek to arouse passion or engender prejudice. On the other hand, earnestness or even a stirring eloquence cannot convict him of
hitting foul blows.'
MARSHALL FIELD & CO. v. NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 453.

Argued February 3, 1943.-Decided March 1, 1943.

1. Benefits received under the Illinois Unemployment Compensation
Act were not "earnings" within the meaning of an order of the
National Labor Relations Board requiring an employer to pay to
certain discharged employees sums equal to what they normally
would have earned, less their "net earnings," during the prescribed
period. P. 255.
2. Since it does not appear from the record that the question of the
National Labor Relations Board's authority to award back pay
4"To
shear him [the prosecutor] of all oratorical emphasis, while
leaving wide latitude to the defense, is to load the scales of justice; it
is to deny what has always been an accepted incident of jury trials,
except in those jurisdictions where any serious execution of the criminal
law has yielded to a ghostly phantom of the innocent man falsely
convicted." Di Carlo v. United States, 6 F. 2d 364, 368.

