CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

CHOCTAW NATION OF INDIANS v. UNITED

STATES

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 80. Argued December 7, 8, 1942.-Decided March 8, 1943.
1. In construing Indian treaties, their plain terms may not be disregarded in order to remedy a claimed injustice or to arrive at what
is asserted to be the understanding of the parties. P. 432.
2. Under the agreement of 1902 between the United States and the
Chickasaw and Choctaw Nations, which superseded the Treaty
of 1866 and supplemented the Atoka agreement of 1897, allotments
of common tribal lands to Choctaw freedmen were to be made without deduction from the Choctaw Nation's proportionate interest
in the common lands remaining and the Chickasaw Nation is not
entitled to compensation in respect of such allotments. P. 433.
95 Ct. Cls. 192, reversed.

317 U. S. 607, to review a judgment against
the Choctaw Nation in a suit brought by the Chickasaw
Nation against the United States under a special jurisdictional Act, in which suit the Choctaw Nation was impleaded as a defendant on motion of the United States.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. William G. Stigler for petitioner.
Mr. Robert E. Mulroney, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Littell, and Messrs.
Vernon L. Wilkinson and Roger P. Marquis were on the
brief, for the United States; and Mr. Melven Cornish
for the Chickasaw Nation,-respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
On August 5, 1929, this suit was begun against the
United States by the Chickasaw Nation under the jurisditional Act of June 7, 1924, 43 Stat. 537.1 By order of
1

As amended by 44 Stat. 568, and 45 Stat. 1229.
513236-43-vol. 318-

31

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

January 2, 1940, the Choctaw Nation was impleaded as a
defendant on motion of the United States. The question
is whether the Chickasaw Nation is entitled to compensation for its one-fourth interest in the common lands of the
two nations allotted to the Choctaw freedmen, and, if so,
who should compensate the Chickasaw Nation. The
Court of Claims held that the Chickasaws were entitled to
compensation and that the primary liability, the amount
of which was reserved for future determination, rested
upon the Choctaw Nation. Since there was no indication
that it would be unable to satisfy whatever judgment
might be made, the Court of Claims declined to consider
or decide the liability, if any, of the United States.2 We
granted certiorari because the case was thought to raise
important questions concerning the relations between the
two tribes and the United States.
At the time of the Civil War, the Chickasaws and the
Choctaws were slave-owning tribes holding their lands in
common, their respective interests being one-fourth and
three-fourths. Both fought on the side of the Confederacy, and, after the cessation of hostilities, they entered
into the Treaty of April 28, 1866, 14 Stat. 769, with the
United States. That treaty abolished slavery among them
and provided in Article III for a fund of $300,000 which
was to be held in trust for the two nations and paid to
them (one-fourth to the Chickasaws and three-fourths to
the Choctaws) when they conferred tribal rights and privileges upon their former African slaves and gave them
each forty acres of the common lands. If such laws were
not adopted within two years, the fund was to be held for
the benefit of those former slaves whom the United States
should remove from the territory, instead of for the two
2

95 Ct. Cls. 192.

The United States, while insisting that the Court

of Claims correctly decided that the primary liability rests upon the
Choctaw Nation, has joined that nation in urging before this Court
that no liability in fact exists.

CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
423

Opinion of the Court.

nations. However, the Treaty also provided in Article
XLVI that $200,000 of the fund was to be paid over immediately to the two nations and this was done. See
Act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 255, 259.
In 1882, neither nation having acted in accordance with
the Treaty and the United States having taken no steps
to remove the freedmen, an act was passed by Congress
which provided that either tribe might adopt and provide
for their freedmen in accordance with Article III of the
Treaty. Act of May 17, 1882, 22 Stat. 68, 72-73. In 1883
the Choctaws adopted their freedmen and declared them
each entitled to forty acres of the nation's lands, but no
allotments were actually made. Congress thereupon appropriated for the Choctaws their share of the balance of
the $300,000 fund. See Act of March 3,1885, 23 Stat. 362,
366. The Chickasaws never adopted their freedmen although they took an abortive step in that direction in 1873.
See The Chickasaw Freedmen, 193 U. S. 115, and H. Ex.
Doc. No. 207, 42d Cong., 3d Sess. Despite this failure the
Chickasaws received some of the balance of their share of
the original fund.In 1897, the Commission of the Five Civilized Tribes
negotiated the Atoka agreement with the two Indian
nations. That provided for the allotment in severalty
of the common tribal lands, including forty-acre allotments to the Choctaw freedmen, and contained a provision for the reduction of allotments to Choctaw Indian
3

The act of adoption is set forth in the annual report of the Com-

missioner of Indian Affairs for 1884. See H. Ex. Doc. No. 1, pt. 5,
48th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 36-37.
4See Act of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 255, 259; Act of April 10, 1869,
16 Stat. 13, 39; Act of May 17, 1882, 22 Stat. 68, 72.
5 This Commission, commonly known as the Dawes Commission,
was created by the Act of March 3, 1893, 27 Stat. 612, 645, to negotiate with the Creeks, Cherokees, Choctaws, Chickasaws and Seminoles
for the extinguishment of tribal titles to land and the allotment of their
lands in severalty.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

citizens on account of the allotments to the Choctaw
freedmen, as follows:
"Provided that the lands allotted to the Choctaw freedmen, are to be deducted from the portion to be allotted
under this agreement to the members of the Choctaw
tribe, so as to reduce the allotments to the Choctaws by
the value of the same and not affect the value of the allotments to the Chickasaws."
No provision was made in the original Atoka agreement for allotments to the Chickasaw freedmen, but in
confirming the Atoka agreement as part of the Curtis Act
of 1898 (30 Stat. 495) Congress stipulated in § 21 that
forty-acre allotments were to be made to the Chickasaw
freedmen as well, to be used until their rights under the
Treaty of 1866 were determined in such manner as Congress might direct. It also provided in § 29 that all the
lands of the two tribes were to be allotted to the members
of the tribes so as to give each one a fair and equal share,
and that the lands allotted to the Choctaw and Chickasaw freedmen were "to be deducted from the portion to be
allotted under this agreement to the members of the Choctaw and Chickasaw tribe so as to reduce the allotment to
the Choctaws and Chickasaws by the value of the same."
(30 Stat. 505-06.) This confirmed agreement was approved by both tribes.
Before any allotments were made, however, a supplementary agreement was entered into by the United States
and the two nations in 1902 (32 Stat. 641), which radically
changed matters by providing for the allotment to each
member of the two tribes of but three hundred and twenty
acres instead of the aliquot allotment of all the land, as
provided in the Atoka agreement. Permanent allotments of forty acres were to be made to each Chickasaw
and Choctaw freedman, the remaining unallotted land
was to be sold and the proceeds were to be used to equal-

CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
423

Opinion of the Court.

ize allotments as far as necessary, the balance being paid
into the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the
two tribes and distributed per capita as their other funds.6
That agreement also contained elaborate provisions in
§§ 36-40, inclusive, under a subheading entitled "Chickasaw Freedmen," for a suit in the Court of Claims to determine whether the Chickasaw freedmen had any right
to allotments under the Treaty of 1866 and subsequent
Congressional and tribal legislation, the United States to
pay the value of those allotments to the two nations according to their respective interests if the Chickasaw
freedmen were held to be without such rights.
The 1902 agreement contained no express provision
concerning the deduction of allotments to the Choctaw
freedmen from allotments to the members of the Choctaw
Nation or from that nation's proportionate share in the
common lands. Section 40 concluded with a proviso that:
"nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed
to affect or change the existing status or rights of the two
tribes as between themselves respecting the lands taken
for allotment to freedmen, or the money, if any, recovered
as compensation therefor, as aforesaid." A further provision of the agreement, § 68, declared that: "No act of
Congress or treaty provision, nor any provision of the
Atoka agreement, inconsistent with this agreement, shall
be in force in said Choctaw and Chickasaw nations."
Following the 1902 agreement, allotments were made
from the common lands to the citizens and the freedmen
of the two tribes. The Chickasaws received no compensation for their one-fourth interest in the common lands
allotted to the Choctaw freedmen either by reduction of
6 The balance was distributed according to the historic proportionate interests of the tribes, one-fourth to the Chickasaws and threefourths to the Choctaws.

Cls. 140, 144.

Choctaw Nation v. United States, 83 Ct.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

the allotments to the Choctaw citizens or of that tribe's
proportionate share, or by any other settlement or adjustment. In the litigation authorized by §§ 36-40 of the
1902 agreement, the Chickasaw freedmen were held without rights to the allotments which had been given them,
and accordingly judgment was rendered against the United
States for the value of their allotments in the sum of
$606,936.08, which was paid to the two nations in the proportion of one-fourth to the Chickasaws and three-fourths
to the Choctaws. United States v. Choctaw Nation, 38
Ct. Cis. 558, affirmed sub nom., The Chickasaw Freedmen,
193 U. S. 115; and see Act of June 25, 1910, 36 Stat. 774,
807-08.
The Court of Claims held that the Treaty of 1866 was
not determinative, that the confirmed Atoka agreement
required that allotments to Choctaw freedmen be deducted from the allotments to the Choctaw citizens and
that the proviso to § 40 of the supplemental agreement
of 1902, while "not well chosen" for the purpose, preserved
this requirement. We take a different view.
The Treaty of 1866, in Article III of which the Chickasaws unconditionally consented to allotments from the
common lands to Choctaw freedmen who might be adopted
in conformity with the treaty requirements, is not determinative because it was superseded, before any allotments
were made, by the confirmed Atoka agreement which required the deduction of all freedmen's allotments, both
Choctaw and Chickasaw, from those of the members of
their respective tribes. The Atoka agreement was in
turn supplemented by the 1902 agreement, which omitted
the deduction requirement of the Atoka agreement and
contained not a word about deducting freedmen's allotments from the respective tribal shares in the common
lands. In view of § 68 of the 1902 agreement, which

CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
423

Opinion of the Court.

repealed all inconsistent provisions of the Atoka agreement, these omissions were fatal. When the differences
between the Atoka agreement and that of 1902 are coisidered, it is clear that the deduction provision of the
former was inconsistent with the latter. The Atoka
agreement provided for the allotment of all the land
with the members of the tribes sharing equally, and the
allotments to their freedmen were to be deducted from
their portion so as to reduce their allotments pro tanto.
But under the 1902 agreement the members of both tribes
were to receive definite allotments of three hundred and
twenty acres instead of equal shares of the whole. If the
forty-acre allotments to freedmen were deducted from
the specific allotments to members of their tribes so as
to reduce those allotments "by the value of the same,"
as required by the Atoka agreement, the members would
not have received their designated acreage. Also, an attempt to shift the deduction burden from members' allot-'
ments to the proportionate shares of the tribes in the
unallotted lands which were to be sold is barred by the
fact that the Atoka agreement required deduction to reduce the value of members' allotments, not to reduce the
respective interests of the tribes in the proceeds from the
sale of unallotted lands, a provision wholly foreign to the
Atoka agreement.
Further proof of the inconsistency between the 1902
agreement and the deduction requirement of the Atoka
agreement is the fact that allotments to Chickasaw
freedmen were made from the common lands and both
tribes were to and did share, "according to their respective
interests," in the ultimate recovery of the value of those
lands from the United States, as promised in § 40. Only
the. Chickasaws should have been compensated for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

allotments to their freedmen if the deduction requirement of the Atoka agreement was carried over into the
1902 agreement, whether that provision be taken as requiring the reduction of members' allotments (which it
did), or as requiring the reduction of the tribes' proportionate shares in the common lands (which it did not).
The circumstance that both tribes were to and did share
in the award supports the conclusion that allotments to
all freedmen were to be charged to the common holdings
without deduction from the respective tribal interests.
Despite these inconsistencies, the Chickasaws urge that
the proviso to § 40 of the 1902 agreement preserved the
deduction requirement of the Atoka agreement. The
terms of the proviso, however, do not support this conclusion. It does not read, as the Chickasaws would have it,
that "nothing contained in this agreement shall be construed to affect or change the existing status or rights of
the two tribes as between themselves respecting the lands
taken for allotment to freedmen, or the money, if any,
recovered as compensation therefor, as aforesaid." Actually the proviso concerns itself only with the possible
effect of "this paragraph" which must mean § § 36-40,
grouped under the heading "Chickasaw Freedmen."
That "paragraph" merely required that allotments to the
Chickasaw freedmen were to be permanent, that their
right to allotments be litigated in the Court of Claims,
and that any resulting award be paid to both tribes by the
United States. Not once in the entire "paragraph" is
there a reference to Choctaw freedmen. And, since the
proviso concludes with a reference to "the money, if any,
recovered as compensation therefor, as aforesaid," it even
more clearly was not concerned with allotments to Choctaw freedmen because no provision was made in the 1902
agreement for money recovery in the case of allotments to
Choctaw freedmen. If the proviso is construed as pre-

CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
423

Opinion of the Court.

serving the deduction requirement, it is rewritten in
effect, and this should not be done.
In so construing the proviso, the Court of Claims relied
heavily upon certain findings of fact, set forth below,' to
show-that was the intention and understanding of the parties. Of course, treaties are construed more liberally
than private agreements, and to ascertain their meaning
The court found:
(a) That the Chickasaws objected to allotments to the Choctaw
freedmen out of the commonly owned lands;
(b) That the Chickasaws insisted that the 1902 Agreement contain
some provision saving their rights not to have allotments to the Choctaw freedmen made at the expense of the Chickasaws' interest in the
common lands, and after a. conference with the assistant attorney
general who was legal adviser to the Department of the Interior, it was
agreed that the proviso to § 40 be included to protect their interests;
(c) That the Choctaw Nation, prior to the entry of final judgment
on January 24, 1910, in the proceeding authorized by §§ 36-40 (see 38
Ct. Cls. 558; 193 U. S. 115), filed an "Application for Additional
Decree" in which it set out that the Chickasaws were entitled to compensation for their proportionate interest in the commonly owned
lands allotted to the Choctaw freedmen and requested the court to enter
a supplemental decree deducting from their proportionate share of the
judgment one-fourth of the value of the jointly held lands allotted to
the Choctaw freedmen and add that amount to the amount to be
apportioned to the Chickasaw Nation under the judgment. (No
action was taken on this request.)
(d) That on March 11, 1910, the Governor of the Chickasaw Nation
wrote to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs requesting permission to
employ separate counsel for the Chickasaw Nation and setting out
in support of this request the Chickasaws' claim for compensation for
lands allotted to the Choctaw freedmen out of the common domain
of the two nations without the consent of the Chickasaws and pointed
out that the Chickasaws had had no attorney to represent them at the
time that judgment was entered in the suit brought pursuant to the
Supplemental Agreement. The Commissioner recommended denial
of the request on the ground that in view of the admission of the
Choctaws in their request for an additional decree, judicial action did
not seem to be necessary to settle the controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

we may look beyond the written words to the history of
the treaty, the negotiations, and the practical construction
adopted by the parties. Factor v. Laubenheimer, 290
U. S. 276, 294-95; Cook v. United States, 288 U. S. 102,
112. Especially is this true in interpreting treaties and
agreements with the Indians; they are to be construed,
so far as possible, in the sense in which the Indians understood them, and "in a spirit which generously recognizes
the full obligation of this nation to protect the interests
of a dependent people." Tulee v. Washington, 315 U. S.
681, 684-85. See also United States v. Shoshone Tribe,
304 U. S. 111, 116; Choctaw Nation v. United States, 119
U. S. 1, 28. But even Indian treaties cannot be rewritten
or expanded beyond their clear terms to remedy a claimed
injustice or to achieve the asserted understanding of the
parties. Cf. United States v. Choctaw and -Chickasaw
Nations, 179 U. S. 494, 531-33; United States v. Mille
Lac Chippewas,229 U. S. 498, 500. Here the words of the
proviso are inapposite to the proposed construction and
we do not believe the findings are enough to warrant departing from the language used. The findings are merely
findings as to evidence. There is no finding as to the ultimate fact whether or not the two tribes intended to agree
on something different from that appearing on the face of
the 1902 agreement. Without such a finding the agreement must be interpreted according to its unambiguous
language. Furthermore, if we were to find the ultimate
fact, we seriously doubt whether we could discover from
these evidentiary findings what the agreement among the
two tribes and the United States was, if other than that
expressed in the 1902 agreement. For the most part,
the findings are concerned with the assertions and claims
of the Chickasaws. The only indication that the Choctaws ever shared those views at any time is their request
for an "Additional Decree," upon which no action was
ever taken.

CHOCTAW NATION v. U. S.
423

Opinion of the Court.

Equitable considerations do not dictate a different result.
By the Treaty of 1866 both tribes shared in the $200,000
advance payment for the adoption of their freedmen and
the allotment of forty acres of land to them. Even though
the Chickasaws never adopted their freedmen, they did
receive a portion of their share of the balance of the original $300,000 treaty fund.8 When they contested the right
of their freedmen to allotments, the United States explicitly promised in the 1902 agreement to reimburse them
if there were an adverse judicial decision. The agreement
contained no promise to reimburse them for allotments to
Choctaw freedmen, and, in view of the specific promise
with regard to their own freedmen, none should be
implied.
We conclude that allotments from the common tribal
lands were to be made under the 1902 agreement to
Choctaw freedmen without deducting those allotments
from the Choctaw Nation's share of the lands or otherwise
compensating the Chickasaws for their interest in the lands
so allotted. Since no liability exists, it is unnecessary to
consider whether the Choctaw Nation or the United States
is primarily liable, or whether the Court of Claims had
power under the jurisdictional act (43 Stat. 537) to place
liability upon the Choctaw Nation.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
with instructions to dismiss the petition.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE

or decision of this case.

8 See note 4, ante.

took no part in the consideration

