OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Statement of the Case.

318 U. S.

the receipt of income. On the contrary, the decision was
that, to render the dividend taxable as income, there must
be a change brought about by the issue of shares as a dividend whereby the proportional interest of the stockholder
after the distribution was essentially different from his
former interest.
No. 2 affirmed.
No. 66 reversed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

took no part in the consideration

or decision of these cases.
and
from
each
judgment.
They
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON dissent
are of opinion that Koshland v. Helvering, 298 U. S. 441,
requires contrary conclusions.
MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION

ET AL.

V.

SIMS, AUDITOR OF THE STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 319.

Argued February 9, 10, 1943.-Decided April 5, 1943.

1. In the light of the character and history of the business of the insolvent corporation in this case, held that its petition for reorgauization under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act should have been
dismissed as not filed in "good faith" within the meaning of § 146
(3), (4), since it was unreasonable to expect that the company could
be reorganized as a going concern, and since the interests of creditors
would be best subserved in prior proceedings pending in state courts.
Pp. 618, 619..
2. Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act may not be availed of merely
for the purpose of liquidation. P. 621.
129 F. 2d 442, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

317 U. S. 614, to review the reversal of an

order of the District Court, 42 F. Supp. 973, approving a

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

609

Opinion of the Court.

plan of reorganization under Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.
Mr. Homer A. Holt, with whom Messrs. JamesR. Fleming, John V. Ray, and T. C. Townsend were on the brief,
for petitioners.
Mr. John F. Davis, with whom Solicitor General Fahy
and Messrs. Richard S. Salant, Homer Kripke, and Justin
N. Reinhardt were on the brief, for the Securities & Exchange Commission; Mr. H. Vernon Eney, with whom
Mr. Guy B. Brown was on the brief, for John B. Gontrum,
Insurance Commissioner of Maryland; Mr. Rickard H.
Lauritzen, Assistant Attorney General of Wisconsin, with
whom Messrs.James Ward Rector, Deputy Attorney General, Carl J. Stephens, and Ben C. Buckingham were on
the brief, for the Banking Commission of Wisconsin et al.;
Mr. Fyke Farmer,with whom Messrs. Nat Tipton, Assistant Attorney General of Tennessee, Weldon B. White, and
Rudolph K. Schurr were on the brief, for L. H. Brooks,
Trustee, et al.; and Mr. J. Campbell Palmer, III, with
whom Mr. Ira J. Partlow was on the brief, for Edgar B.
Sims, Auditor of West Virginia, et al.,-respondents.
Mr. Harry L. Deibel filed a brief on behalf of Victor
Salkeld et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal. A joint
brief as amici curiae was filed on behalf of the States and
state officials of Alabama, California, Delaware, Illinois,
Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Nebraska, North
Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Texas, Utah, and Washington, and
the state court receiver of Virginia, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents important questions concerning the
construction of Chapter X of the Bankruptcy Act.'
'Act of June 22, 1938, 52 Stat. 840, 883; 11 U. S. C. §§501-676,
inclusive.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

Many states of the Union are interested because of the
asserted incidence of its provisions upon state laws and
rights thereby created. A number of state officers are
parties.
Fidelity Assurance Association, a West Virginia corporation, filed its petition for reorganization in the District
Court for Southern West Virginia. The Judge made an
order approving the petition as properly filed. He also
entered orders enjoining state officials from dealing with
property held by them.2
State banking and insurance commissioners and state
court receivers answered, asserting that the debtor could
not avail itself of the Act because it was an insurance company,8 and that, in any event, the petition was not filed
in good faith, as the phrase is defined in § 146 (3) (4) of
Chapter X.' The Securities and Exchange Co)mmission
intervened at the request of the District Court. After
trial of the issues, the court formally approved the petition and overruled the motions to rescind the decrees
granting injunctions.' The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed.'
The debtor was organized April 11, 1911, under the
name of Fidelity Investment and Loan Association. Its
corporate purposes were enlarged in 1912 to include the
soliciting and receiving of ipayments on annuity contracts. Thereby it became subject to the provisions of
2 An appeal was taken from the District Court's refusal to rescind
the orders. The Circuit Court of Appeals refused to disturb them at
that stage of the proceeding. Sims v. Central Trust Co., 123 F.
2d 89.
3Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, § 4, 30 Stat. 547, as amended, 11
U. S. C. § 22.
11 U. S. C. § 546.
S42 F. Supp. 973.
8 129 F. 2d 442.

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

611

Opinion of the Court.

Art. 9 of Ch. 33 of the Code of West Virginia,' relating to
the selling of annuity contracts and, as therein provided,
to the supervision of the Auditor, as ex-officio Insurance
Commissioner of the State.
From December 1912 to the close of 1940, the company's
business was the selling of investment contracts and for
this purpose it was licensed in many states. It altered
its contracts from time to time, but in general they consisted of certificates evidencing the agreement of the
purchaser to make specified periodic payments and the
company's agreement that upon the expiration of a stipulated term it would return to him in instalments a sum
designated as the face amount, or pay a lump sum less
than the face amount.
During the six years preceding December 30, 1940, the
debtor sold a contract having a collateral insurance feature provided by a blanket policy procured by Fidelity
from Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. Approximately seventy-five per cent of the contracts issued
after 1934 contained this feature.
It will be seen that the business was essentially the conduct of a compulsory savings plan. The interest paid a
certificate holder was at a low rate and the penalty for
failure to keep a certificate alive was heavy. The expense of selling the contracts was inordinately high and,
in spite of a large volume of sales, the company was constantly falling behind and suffering serious losses.
The present Insurance Commissioner of West Virginia
took office in 1933. It was his duty to require and approve the deposit with the State Treasurer of bonds and
securities to be held in trust for the benefit of the company's West Virginia contract holders to an amount equal
7 Michie's W. Va. Code 1937, p. 1204 ff.
This Article was repealed
by chapter 46, § 12, Acts of West Virginia, 1941, effective ninety days
from March 8, 1941, but this fact is irrelevant to any issue in this
case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

to the cash liability to them; to require a similar deposit
in trust for the benefit of holders located in other states
to the extent that the laws of such states did not provide
for a deposit equal to, or greater than, that called for by
the laws of West Virginia. Shortly after taking office, the
Commissioner discovered that the company was insolvent.
There is a long history of negotiations and requirements,
extending almost to the time of filing the petition, in an
effort to restore it to a solvent condition.
The company was at one time licensed in twenty-nine
states, each of which had laws regulating its business.
Fifteen required a deposit of approved investment obligations with some state official to secure payment of outstanding contracts held by residents; the remainder had
no such requirement, but the contracts sold in these states
were secured by the deposit made with West Virginia.'
As of the date of the filing of the debtor's petition, the
deposits made with various states, including West Virginia, amounted, according to the debtor's figures, to
$20,056,680.27, against a net reserve liability of $24,221,651.36. In addition, the company had securities, not
deposited anywhere, valued at $556,467.51, most of which
were ineligible for deposit under the laws of any state;
and $500,000 in cash.
Each of the series of contracts sold by Fidelity embodied
provisions for the creation and maintenance of a reserve
fund. All of the contracts provided that the reserve fund
maintained by the company should be invested in approved securities and deposited in trust as required by the
laws of West Virginia. Securities purchased with the
moneys paid by the contract holders were deposited with
the Treasurer of West Virginia and officials of other states
in compliance with their respective laws, but no effective
8

The security afforded by these laws. was stressed by sales. agents

and was effective in the procurement of contracts.

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

613

Opinion of the Court.

effort was made to designate the source of the funds with
which securities were purchased so as to identify the latter
as belonging to the reserve of any series, nor did the state
authorities make any such allocation. The securities on
deposit with the states were at all times treated by the
debtor, and state authorities, as securing all obligations to
contract holders in the state where each deposit was made,
and reports by the company to the states respecting total
liabilities failed to show such liabilities by funds or series.
There were certificate holders in all forty-eight states,
the District of Columbia, and foreign countries.
December 14, 1938, the Securities and Exchange Commission sought an injunction in a federal court, alleging
the company was engaged in acts and practices violative
of the fraud provisions of § 17 (a) of the Securities Act
of 1933.1 This suit resulted in an injunction; and was
followed by another for appointment of a receiver in a
federal court in West Virginia, which was dismissed. 0
Prior to 1938 the debtor had made efforts to obtain
fresh capital to be used in reorganizing its business. After
1938 the effort was continuous, but no capital was forthcoming.
Despite enormous sales,'1 the company could not attain
a solvent position. Moreover, the publicity ensuing the
two suits resulted in the surrender of many contracts, the
temporary suspension of the sale of new certificates, and a
serious diminution of sales when activity was resumed."2
Pursuant to the Public Utility Holding Company Act
of 1935,' the Securities and Exchange Commission conAct of May 27, 1933, c. 38, Tit. I, § 17, 48 Stat. 84, 15 U. S. C.

§ 77q.
0

1 McCammon v. Fidelity Investment Assn., 26 F. Supp. 117,

affirmed Hutchinson v. Fidelity Investment Assn., 106 F. 2d 431.

11 The gross business written in 1938 was $52,000,000.
12Sales in 1940 were $12,000,000.
18 Act of August 26, 1935, c. 687, Tit. I, § 30, 49 Stat. 837, 15
U. S. C. § 79z-4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

ducted an investigation and reported its findings respecting Fidelity's business and other matters to Congress on
March 13, 1940. As a result, the Investment Company
Act of August 22, 1940,'- was adopted. Fidelity's officers and directors realized that the company could not
meet the statutory requirements and survive. They
therefore cast about for some other business to which the
corporate resources might be devoted. They hit upon life
insurance.
Accordingly, on December 31, 1940, the debtor amended
its charter. The amendment changed its name to Fidelity Assurance Association, eliminated the existing corporate powers and purposes, and adopted as the corporate
purpose "to issue insurance upon the lives of persons and
every insurance appertaining thereto and connected therewith, and to grant, purchase, and dispose of annuities."
In January 1941, by charter amendment, the authorized
capital stock was altered in order to qualify the company
to transact a life insurance business in West Virginia
and elsewhere. The company also registered under § 8a
of the Investment Company Act, supra, so that it might
continue to service outstanding contracts. The Insurance Commissioner of West Virginia issued a license for
the conduct of an insurance business, but with the understanding that no such business should be written until the
company's affairs had been put into satisfactory order.
Notwithstanding this arrangement, the company, by written negotiations, procured some 9,800 of its certificate
holders to accept an amendment of their outstanding certificates providing an insurance obligation on the part of
the company.
At the instance of the Insurance Commissioner, the Attorney General of West Virginia, on April 11, 1941, instituted proceedings for the appointment of a receiver in the
14 c.

686, 54 Stat. 789, 15 U. S. C. § 80a-1 et seq.

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.

615

Opinion of the Court.

608

Circuit Court of Kanawha County. The company entered
an appearance but interposed no answer or objection.
The court appointed receivers who took over the cash and
undeposited securities but did not essay to obtain possession of the assets on deposit with the Treasurer of West
Virginia or with officials of other states. The authorities
of the various states were notified of the pendency of this
suit. Thereafter, proceedings were instituted or steps
taken by state officers, pursuant to state law, for the
liquidation of the company's obligations to local certificate holders in Wisconsin, Iowa, Ohio, Illinois, Tennessee, Missouri, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, and
Pennsylvania.
The respondents, other than Securities and Exchange
Commission, contended below, and urge here, that the
petition should be dismissed, since (1) the debtor is an
insurance company exempted from the provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act, (2) the petition was not filed in good
faith. The debtor, the trustee appointed under Chapter
X, and the Commission, successfully opposed these contentions in the District Court. The Circuit Court of
Appeals held with the respondents on both grounds. We
find it unnecessary to consider or decide whether, at the
date of filing, the debtor wAs an insurance company within the meaning of the Act, for we think the Circuit Court
of Appeals was right in holding the petition not filed in
good faith as the phrase is defined in § 146 (3) and (4).
Section 144 15 requires that if the judge is not "satisfied"
that the petition "has been filed in good faith" he shall
dismiss it. The relevant portions of § 146 18 are that "a
petition shall be deemed not to be filed in good faith
if . . . (3) it is unreasonable to expect that a plan of re-,

organization can be effected; or (4) a prior proceeding is
11 U. S. C. § 544.
16

11 U. S.C. § 546.
513236--43-vol. 318--43

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

pending in any court and it appears that the interests of
creditors and stockholders would be best subserved in such
prior proceeding."
As the court below has said, in applying the statutory
test the situation should be viewed realistically. If this
be done, we think the rejection by the court below of the
claim of the debtor and its trustee that it can be reorganized as a going concern must be affirmed. In appraising the soundness of this claim, certain facts additional
to those already noticed must be kept in mind. On April
10, 1941, there were 87,999 contracts outstanding for a
face amount of $181,948,026.70. At that time, liabilities exceeded assets, on the company's showing, by
$2,500,000. The business written in 1940 had shrunk
to 23%o of that written in 1938. The company had been
losing money at the rate of $250,000 per annum. Its sale
of investment certificates had ceased December 30, 1940,
and, even if it had been possible to resume this activity in
compliance with the requirements of the Investment
Company Act, the reestablishment of the sales force would
have cost $500,000.
In the light of all relevant facts, it seems clear that
Fidelity cannot be reorganized for the purpose of conducting its old business of selling investment certificates.
Conviction that this was so led its managers to attempt
to alter its corporate purposes to those of a life insurance
company. The District Judge said: "It is true that the
broad picture developed by the testimony at the hearing
does not present a very favorable view with respect to
the rehabilitation and continued operation of the debtor
as a face amount certificate company." And he added:
"It is extremely doubtful whether, in view of unsettled
economic conditions and the critical international situation, the Fidelity plan would any longer appeal to a large
public; but it is not impossible; and it is not the duty
of the court to decide for the public that investors will
not or should not buy these contracts in the future."

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

617

Opinion of the Court.

There is no prospect that the debtor can be reorganized
as an insurance company, and the District Judge did not
find that it could.
The petitioners say: "Upon this record, can it be said
that it is unreasonable to expect that some insurance or
investment company can be found to take over or buy the
assets of Fidelity under a contract for the benefit of the
Fidelity contract holders, to issue them investment certificates or insurance policies, of one or more kinds of
greater value than the dividends to such contract holders
through the liquidation of Fidelity would buy?"
The court below properly concluded that "the possibility that thousands of contract holders could be persuaded to modify their contracts and scale down their
claims17 to enable the company to go on is so remote as
to exist only in the imagination."
Petitioners and Securities and Exchange Commission
urge, however, that Chapter X may be employed to accomplish a slow and orderly liquidation which they say
is imperative in the interest of all creditors. The District
Court so held.
It must be remembered that Fidelity is admittedly insolvent and no one suggests there is any equity in its
stock; that there is one greatly preponderant class of
creditors,-certificate holders-all having security for
their claims on one or more deposits with state authorities,
and all having unsecured claims against the unpledged
assets of the debtor. The necessity for decision as to the
relative rights of these classes in pledged assets may
present difficult questions of distribution, but has little,
if any, bearing upon the method of turning the debtor's
assets into money.
The deposited securities are generally readily marketable at favorable prices. They are scattered through
17

The claims average less than $273 each.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Court.

318 U. S.

fifteen states, in hands of public officials whose duty it
is to liquidate them on terms most favorable to those for
whose protection they stand pledged. The suggestion
that these quasi-trustees will force the securities on the
market without regard to its ability to absorb them, to
the destruction of their beneficiaries' security, is inadmissible, and, in addition, is contrary to what occurred
after the institution of the West Virginia receivership.
There is no foundation for the position that the so-called
reorganization should take the form of the creation of a
new corporation to which all these securities would be
transferred for conversion into cash, particularly as the
advocates of such a project admit that the application
of the security afforded classes of certificate holders according to state law cannot be avoided in any distribution
of assets.
It is urged that a plan of liquidation may constitute a
reorganization under Chapter X, and decisions are cited
to that point, 8 but an examination of them will demonstrate that in none save where the corporate purpose of
the debtor was, in effect, holding and liquidating securities was the plan such as is proposed here. Under the
facts of this case, the suggested plan is but an alternative
for ordinary bankruptcy, without any readjustment of
the rights of creditors and stockholders inter se, and this
fact serves to distinguish the remaining cases on which
reliance is placed.
We conclude that, in this aspect, good faith, in the
statutory sense, is lacking, since no such reorganization as
the statute was intended to accomplish is reasonably to
be expected.
18 In

re Central Funding Corp., 75 F. 2d 256; In re Mortgage Securities Corp., 75 F. 2d 261; Continental Ins. Co. v. Louisiana Oil
Rfg. Corp., 89 F. 2d 333; R. L. Witters Associates v. Ebsary Gypsum
Co., 93 F. 2d 746; In re Porto Rican American Tobacco Co., 112 F.
2d 655.

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

619

Opinion of the Court.

In the second place, we hold that the interests of creditors would be best subserved in the pending prior proceedings in West Virginia and other states. The court below
was of this opinion for these reasons: It appears unlikely
that there will be any surplus after payment of local
claimants in any state other than West Virginia; state
law must govern the distribution of the respective deposits; creditors can as readily present claims against the
surplus of the West Virginia deposit in the West Virginia
court as in the federal court in this proceeding.
The Securities and Exchange Commission insists that
the Chapter X proceeding is more advantageous as affording opportunity for impartial investigation of wrongdoing by company officers, and the solution of problems
of marshalling and distribution. If, as the court below
held, nothing is to be accomplished but the liquidation
of Fidelity, it is difficult to see why that process and consequent distribution of the proceeds should be held up
by the search for causes of action against officers and directors. Nor is any convincing showing made that such
investigation cannot, or will not, be made and availed of by
the state court receivers. Moreover, if Fidelity is not
an insurance company, it could have been put into ordinary bankruptcy, orderly liquidation accomplished, and
impartial investigation made by a trustee elected by the
creditors.
There are no true problems of marshalling presented.
Creditors in the various states will unquestionably go first
against the local deposits. They may, or may not, be
paid in full from those funds. They will have claims
against the surplus of the West Virginia fund for any
deficiency. On the other hand, a surplus in a state fund
after satisfaction of local creditors, will be added to the
surplus fund in West Virginia for the benefit of all having claims against it. Rights against local deposits will
be adjudicated by the courts of the states, near the homes

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Opinion of the Cotirt.

318 U. S.

of the beneficiaries and at a minimum of inconvenience,
delay, and expense. The advantages of bringing all these
funds to the District Court for administration in conformity to diverse state law, and compelling claimants to
come there to assert their rights, are not apparent.
It is said, however, that Fidelity agreed to segregate
the reserve fund of each series, and that the holders of certificates in any series are entitled to have the securities
purchased for the reserve of that series traced and set
apart for their benefit, and that this can be done only in
the present proceeding by bringing all the funds under a
single administration.
Without reciting the facts in detail, it is enough to say
that, while the different reserve funds were separately
set up on the books of the company, they were, for the
greater part of the period in question, kept in a single
bank account, and the securities purchased for the various
reserve funds were not earmarked as such. Moreover,
for the most part, securities deposited with state authorities were not, at the time of the deposit, designated as belonging to the reserve fund for any series of contracts.
In some instances, designations of them were made subsequent to their deposit. In addition, it is to be noted
that under the law of West Virginia, and that of other
states having deposits, the securities deposited are made
a common fund for the protection of all outstanding contracts, and the certificate holders were advised by the
company in its literature that it proposed to deposit reserve fund securities in accordance with the law of the
states. The situation discloses so many difficulties of law
and fact as to render segregation for purposes of distribution of the avails of the securities improbable. And the
smallness of the average amount due certificate holders
indicates that the expense of the effort, if successful,
would, in the end, prove more detrimental to a claimant
than foregoing the trifling advantage of a reallocation of
securities to the respective reserve funds.

FIDELITY ASSURANCE ASSN. v. SIMS.
608

621

Opinion of the Court.

It was suggested at the bar that, even if liquidation is
all that can be hoped, this would be better managed by a
single bankruptcy court than in several separate proceedings. The difficulty with the suggestion is that Congress did not intend resort to Chapter X to be had for the
mere purpose of liquidation. The scheme of the chapter
precludes any such conclusion. The mandate of § 144 is
clear that unless the judge is satisfied the petition was filed
in good faith he must dismiss it. Under the predecessor
of Chapter X-§ 77B of the Bankruptcy Act-the district judge was given authority, by subsection (c) (8),19
under certain circumstances, to "direct the estate to be
liquidated, or direct the trustees to liquidate the estate
*

. ."

In Chapter X, on the other hand, § 236 (2)

20

pro-

vides that if no plan is approved or accepted, or if it is not
consummated, the judge may, after hearing all persons
in interest, adjudge the debtor a bankrupt or dismiss the
proceeding, as he may decide is in the interest of creditors
and stockholders. Thus the statute does not contemplate
a liquidation in a Chapter X proceeding but a liquidation
in ordinary bankruptcy or a dismissal outright.
If the liquidation of Fidelity's affairs in bankruptcy had
been proposed at the start, the petition in bankruptcy
could not have been filed in the District Court for the
Southern District of West Virginia, in which this proceeding is pending. A Chapter X proceeding may, under
§ 128,1 be initiated either at the principal place of business of the corporation or where it has its principal assets.
The present proceeding was initiated in the Southern District on the ground that the principal assets of the company are located at Charleston in that district, in the
possession of the State Treasurer. Under § 2 of the Bank19 11 U. S. C. § 207 (c) (8).
211 U. S. C. § 636 (2).
211

U. S. C. § 528.

OCTOBER TERM, 1942.
Syllabus.

318 U. S.

ruptcy Act,2" an ordinary bankruptcy may be initiated
only at the corporation's principal place of business,
which is Wheeling, in. the Northern District of West
Virginia.
Congress did not intend a Chapter X case to be turned
into a liquidation proceeding at the outset, but intended
the litigation to become a straight bankruptcy only after
the failure to consummate a plan, and meant to limit the
parties to their remedy in ordinary bankruptcy in all
other cases. It would, therefore, be a perversion of the
Congressional intent to treat the present as a liquidation
proceeding, since the rights of persons having liens or
security pledged for their claims differ widely in the two
sorts of bankruptcy.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR.

JUSTICE RUTLEDGE

took

no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MYERS, TRUSTEE, v. MATLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 540. Argued March 5, 1943.-Decided April 5, 1943.
1. Under § 70 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, originally and as amended
in 1938, a homestead is exempt in bankruptcy if, under the state

law, it was exempt from levy and sale when the petition in bankruptcy was filed. P. 625.
2. White v. Stump, 266 U. S. 310, distinguished. P. 625.
3. Historically, and under the theory of the present Act, bankruptcy has
the force and effect of the levy of an execution for the benefit of
creditors to insure an equitable distribution amongst them of the
bankrupt's assets. The trustee is vested not only with the title
22 11 U. S. C. § 11.

