OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

custom of. banks, it cannot be that the parties understood
that the collections made by the Fidelity, during the intervals between the days of remitting, were to be made special
deposits, but On the contrary, it is clear that they intended
that the moneys thus received should pass into the general
funds of the bank, and be used by it as other funds, and that
when the day for remitting came, the remittance should be
made out of such general funds.
The conclusions, therefore, reached by the Circuit Court
were correct, and the judgment is
AflA~'med .

MAY v. TENNEY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 99. Argued December 22, 1892.-Decided March 6,1893.

A chattel mortgage of the stock of goods in a store in Colorado, given to
secure the mortgagees for their liability as endorsers of notes of the
mortgagor, is held to be a chattel mortgage, and not a general assignment for the benefit of creditors.
In Colorado a general transfer of property by a debtor for the benefit of a
preferred creditor, does not, if found to be in violation of the policy of
the State as expressed in its legislation, become a general assignment
for the benefit of all creditors, without preferences, but is entirely void.

ON March 24, 1887, Samuel Rich, a clothing merchant of
Leadville, Colorado, executed to the appellants, May and
Hirsch, an instrument conveying certain personal property,
which instrument was called a chattel mortgage, and was
duly acknowledged and recorded. The istrument sets forth,
in separate paragraphs, nine notes to the Carbonate Bank of
Leadville, the payment of eight of which were endorsed or
guaranteed by May or Hirsch, severally On the first note
neither May nor Hirsch's name appears. After this description, which is full and specific as to each note, the instrument
goes on further to recite:
"And whereas said notes are all now due, and, except as

MAY v. TENNEY.
Statement of the Case.

hereinbefore stated, unpaid, and whereas the said Samuel
Rich is legally liable to pay the whole amount due -on said
notes. and is unable to pay the -same or any part thereof, and
whereas the said the Carbonate Bank of Leadville, Colorado,
threatens to commence suit by attachment against the said
Samuel Rich on the note first hereinbefore mentioned, and to
attach the property hereinafter mentioned of the said Samuel
Rich, and whereas the said A. Hirsch and David May have
assumed the payment of said note and have become liable and
responsible therefor to said bank, and whereas the said David
May and A. Hirsch are legally liable and responsible for the
amount due on the'residue of said notes, each for a -certain,
portion thereof, and have agreed to 'take up and pay the same
Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, and in consideration of the sum of one dollar ($1.00) to the said Samuel
Rich in hand paid by the said David May and A. Hirsch, the
receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, the same Samuel
Rich has granted, bargained and sold and by these presents
does grant, bargain and sell, unto the said David May and
A. Hirsch, all that certain stock of men's, boys' and children's
clothing, hats, caps and gents' furnishing goods, being and
contained in that certain store-room, in the city of Leadville,
county of Lake and State of Colorado, known -as No. 313
Harrison Avenue, together with all and singular the showcases, counters, shelving, chandeliers and all other property
of every kind in said room pertaining to the business of the
said Samuel Rich, which said stockof goods is the property of
the said Samuel Rich, and now in his possession in said place:
To have and to hold all and singular. the said goods and ciattels unto the said David May and A. Hirsch, their heirs, adinmistrators and-assigns forever."
And then after a covenant of title, it adds
4;The said David May and A. Hirsch shall take the immediate possession of all said goods and chattels and of the said
room in which they are contained as aforesaid, and ihall proceed to sell and dispose of the same with reasonable diligence
at private or public sale, as they may deem best, and out of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the proceeds of such sale of said goods and chattels pay1st. The amount due on said notes, with the interest thereon,
and. the costs and expenses of such sale, 2d. Rendering the
surplus,-If any, to the said Samuel Rich, his executors, administrators or assigns P2rowded, however, That if the said
Samuel Rich shall, at any time before a sufficient quantity of
said goods and chattels shall be so sold to realize a sum sufficient to pay said amount due and said-expenses, pay to the said.
DavidIfay and A. Hirsch, or their assigns, the amount due,
on said notes or the balance which may be due thereon after
deducting the net amount realized from such sale, then these
presents shall be void and the residue of said-goods remaining
unsold shall be delivered to the said Samuel Rich and possession
thereof restored to him.
"In witness whereof the said Samuel Rich has hereunto
set his hand and -seal this twenty-fourth 'day, of March, A.D.
,
1887.
"(Signed)

SAM. RM. _[sEA]":

'

The grantees m 'this conveyance took possessio -oVftth
property, and, after a. very brief attempt to sells it at,'retail,
sold it in bulk to one Joseph Shoenberg for $20,100.00. A
portion of this, $2113, they were compelled to pay in .satisfaction of a claim for goods wrongfully taken possession of
and sold. The amount of the indebtedness of Rich to the
bank, assumed by May and Hirsch, was about $18,400.00,
including intei'est. It was admitted on the trial' that thig
sum was owing by Rich to them. The appellee, Tenney, is
a trustee -for several creditors of Samuel Rich, in whose behalf
he obtained judgment on April 25, 1887, for' the sum "of
$13,665.00. Upon a hearing before the Circuit Court, this
instrument was adjudged in effect an assignment for the
benefit of credit .rs, and an accounting was ordered before
a master as to the value of the property received 'by- May
and Hirsch under it, as well as the names of, the various
creditors of Rich, and the amounts due to6 them.- Upon the
report of the master a final decree was entered "That the chattel mortgage mentioned in the defendants'

"MA Y v.
vTEN-EY.
Opinion of the CourL£

answer 'herein, given by 'the said Rich to the said May &
Hirsch on IMarch24, 1887, is in legal effect an assignment for
the benefit of the-'creditors of the defendant Rich; that the
defendants May & Hirschtook the propertyconveyed by said
mortgage as the' assignees or trustees of the 'shid defendant
Rich, and as such-assignees or trustees of the shid'Rich shall
accountto the said creditors for the value of said property as
determined and found by the said master in chaticery"
And then after an adjudication of the-amounts due to the
various creditors of 'Rich, there followed.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the value
of the-prope'rty transferred, as aforesaid, on YarAL 24, A.D.
1887, by the said Rich to'the said ]-fay- & Hirsch, and for
which the said- May-& Hirsch are answerable andf responsible
as assignees f6r the benefit of the creditors of ihe said Rich
$31,387, which
by virtue of the said'transfer, is the sum oti
sum.of $31,387 the said defendants, May &'Eicli, are hereby
ordered to digtribute and pay to the parties rn-interest herein
in the following proportions, to wit."
And the distribution and payment ordergdIare to the various
proportion to'the amounts thii adjudged duecreditors in,
to them. From this decree, May & Hirsch'-appealed to this
court.

"

-tr C. S.'Tomas for appellants:
-fr Solicitor General fo appellee.
M'r D 1C Tenney and .Mr William
for appellee.
MR.JUSTICE BREwE.E

. Ckurck filed a brief

delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal question in this- case is xwhether the conveyance from Rich. to May and Hirsch was, in legal effect, a
general assignmqnt or only a chattel mortgage: The Circuit
Court held it to be the former, following in this a series of
decisions under, the statutes of Missouri, -commencing with

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Xwatin v Hausman, 14 Fed. :Rep. 1 60, in which Judge Krekel
ruled that "A debtor in Missouri, under its legislation and
adjudications thereon, may, though he be insolvent at -the
time, prefer one or more of his creditors by securing them,
but he cannot do it by an instrument conveying the whole of
his property to pay one or more creditors. Instruments of
the latter class will be construed as falling within the assignment laws, and as for the benefit of all creditors, whether
named in the assignment or not," and continued in .Dahlmian.
v Jacobs, 16 Fed. Rep. 614, _ellog v. Rschavdson, 19 Fed.
Rep. 70; Clap v. D-ittman, 21 Fed. Rep. 15, Perry v. Corby,
21 Fed. Rep. 737, -erbs v. Ewzng, 22 Fed. Rep. 693, Freund
v. Yaegerman,,26 Fed. Rep. 812, and 27 Fed. Rep. 248, State
v. Aforse, 27 Fed. Rep. 261. Since the decision of this case
by the Circuit Court, in Chzeago Unton, Bank v .- ansas City
Ban, 136 U. S. 223, the several cases in Missouri, above
referred to, were rdviewed and disapproved. That case, however, cannot be cited as decisive of this, for the matter of
assignments is one of local law As was said in the opinion
there delivered, and with a view of distinguishing between it
and TWhite v Cotzk~ausea, 129 U. S.329, in which a seemingly
different conclusion had been reached under the statutes of
Illinois, "the question of the construction and effect of a statute
of a State, regulating assignments for the benefit of creditors,
is a question upon which the decisions of the highest court of
the State, establishing a rule of property, are of controlling
authority in the courts of the United States. Brasheaor v
I"est, 7 Pet. 608, 615, Allen v .Massey, 17 Wall. 351, Lloyd
v .Fulton,91 U. S. 19, 485, Sumner v Hicks,,2. -Black, 532,
534, Jafray v .Me Gehee, 107 U. S. 361, 365, Peters,v. Barn,
133 U. .S. 670, 686, Randolph's xeecutor v. Qutdn.ck LJo., 135
U. S. 457. The decision in W-lute v. Cotzhausen, 129 U. S.
329, construing a similar statute of Illinois in accordance with
the decisions of the Supreme Court of that State as understood
by this court, has, therefore, no bearing upon the case at bar.
The fact that similar..statutes are allowed different. effects in
different States is immaterial, As observed by MIr. Justice
Field, speaking for this court, ' The interpretation within the

MAY v.. TENNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of one State becomes a part of the law of that
State, as much so as if incorporated into the body of it by
the legislature. If, therefore, different interpretations are
given, in different States to a similar local law, that law in
effect becomes by the interpretations, so far-as it is a rule for
our action, a different law in one State from what it is inthe other.' Christy v. Przdgeon., 4 Wall. 196, 203. See also
-Detroitv Osborne, 135 T. S.492."
We must, therefore, examine the statutes and decisions of
Colorado. Before doing that, it may be well, however, to consider how the instrument would be regarded at common law
and independently of any,local statute or decision. And, first,
it does not purport to be a transfer of all the grantor's property, but only of a certain described stock of goods, together
with theshow-cases and store fixings used, in connection with
that stock. On the face, therefore, there is no general assignment, or general conveyance, but only a specific conveyance of
particular property Whether the grantor was in fact possessed of other property, and to what extent, may not be
certain from. the testimony When the case was first submitted for decision the matter had not been a subject of investigation, and the court said in its opinion "The question was
not asked directly of any witness put upon the stand, either on
the part of complainants or -of defendants. Counsel seem to
have icgnored that as a question in the case." And the interlocutory order, which after argument was entered, gave to the
parties 1time to take further testimony before the master of
this court, or any notary public, on the question as to whether
the chattel mortgage mentioned in the complainant's bill covered all or substantially all of the property of Rich, at the
time of the execution of said mortgage." From the testimony
taken under this order it would seem probable tnat he had
other property, though of small value, a few hundred dollars
or such a matter.
Again, the form of the instrument is unquestionably that of
a mortgage. It is called in -the acknowledgment a chattel
mortgage. The complainant, in his bill, constantly speaks of it
as a mortgage. And the burden of his complaint is that it
VOL. CXLVTII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

was void because fraudulently entered into, the facts claimed
to show the fraud being specifically stated. It is true, there
is in the bill a claim that it be adjudged an assignment, but
the language of the averments in this respect shows that the
lanm was only that the legal effect of an assignment should
be imputed to that which was in form a chattel mortgage, for,
after asserting the insolvency of Rich, it alleges "That it became and was necessary for bun to suspend payment of his indebtedness, being insolvent, and thereupon it
was his duty to have made an assignment for the equal benefit
of his creditors, and so he proposed to the defendants Mav
and Hirsch, but by reason of their persuasions and promises
aforesaid lie gave the chattel mortgage aforesaid instead ;-that
said chattel mortgage was a full and complete disposition of
all the property of the said defendant Rich- in view of the insolvency, which - was well known to the mortgagees.
"And your orator claims and insists that the said mortgage
constitutes in law an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
giving preference to the claims of the mortgagees, and that
the same, being preferential, is void as to your orator and all
other of the creditors of Samuel Rich."
And in the order of the court, heretofore referred to, the
instrument was described as "the chattel mortgage mentioned
in the complainant's bill." Obviously, it was the understanding and the concession that this was in form a mortgage, and
the effort was to prove that it covered all the property of
Rich, in order to bring the case within the rule stated by
v ]auEmnan, supra.
Judge Krekel in .iarn
Not only that, the conveyance is for the sole benefit of the
grantees named in it-May and Hirsch. No other creditor is
to receive any benefit therefrom. But an assignment contemplates the intervention of a trustee. "A voluntary assignment
for the benefit of creditors implies a trust and contemplates
the intervention of a trustee. Assignments directly to creditors, and not upon trust, are not voluntary assignments for
the benefit of creditors." Burrill on Assignments, 5th ed. sec. 3.
"The transfer by a creditor of all his property does not ot
itself make what is termed a general assignment, but it must

MAY v. TENNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

also be conveyed to trustees, to be held by them in trust for
other creditors." Burrill on Assignments, 5th ed. see. 122.
Counsel urge that May and Hirsch were in fact trustees, the
real creditor being the Carbonate Bank, because, as appears on
the face of the paper, May and Hirsch had not at the time
paid the bank, and had only assumed Rich's indebtedness to
it. But this instrument proceeds upon the assumption that the
burden of this indebtedness to the bank was transferred from
Rich, the grantor, to -May and Hirsch, the grantees, parties
who were solvent, and whose assumption of liability was accepted by the bank, and the conveyance was to them and for
their protection and benefit. Out of the proceeds of sales they
were to pay these notes and interest and return the surplus to
Rich. 'No other creditors were in terms interested in this conveyance. And, further, the defeasance clause provided for
payment, not to the Carbonate Bank, but to May and Hirsch
or their assigns. The conveyance was not for the benefit of
the -Carbonate Bank, but for that of May and Hirsch, who
had assumed Rich's liabilities to that bank. Suppose, the day
after this instrument had been executed, May and Hirsch had
been paid by Rich the full amount due on these notes-to the
Carbonate Bank, can it be doubted that -all rights under this
Could the arboconveyance would- have been disbarged
nate Bank have held -May and Hirsch- responsible fQr a breach
of trust in surrendering the property under those circumstances to, Rich 2 It is suggested by the Circuit Court, in its
opinion, that ,there was no future dtay of payment -named in
the instrument, and that-the mortgagees were to take possession and sell- at once. But as 'the debts for the securing of"
which this conveyance was made were then due, the naming
of a future day of .payment was rfet' to be expected, and uiglit
have suggested a suspicion as to -the bone-,fides of the transaction, 'and the duty of -immediate sale" cast ,by this instrument
upon the grantees was the duty cast upon- chattel mortgagees.
Within accepted definitions and- settled rules of construction,
this instrument was in form, at least, that'-which the parties,
the counsel, and the court called it, a chattel mortgage.
Is -there anything -in the statutes-,or decisions of Colorado

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

which transforms the character or denies validity to such. an
instrument, securing and- intended, to secure only one of many
creditors 9 In 18S1, there was passed by the legislature of
Colorado (Laws 1881, p. 35,) an act to regulate assignments for
the benefit of creditors. It consisted of but a single section)
which provided that, "Whenever any person or corporation
shall hereafter make an assignment of his or its estate for the
benefit of creditors," the assignee should be required to pay
certain specified debts in full, and then followed this clause
"All the residue of the proceeds of such estate shall be distributed ratably among all other creditors, and any preference
of one creditor, over another, except as above allowed, shall be
entirely null and void, anything in the deed of assignment to
the contrary notwithstanding." A case under that statute
came before the Supreme Court, Campbell v Colorado Coal &c.
Co., 9 Colorado, 60, 64, and it was held that the word "estate"
meant all the debtor's property, and hence that the statute was
designed to cover general assignments; and in the opinion pronounced by Mr., Justice Helm it was said
"A fundamental principle underlying this subject is.that, so
long as the debtor retains dominion over his property, in the
absence of statute and of fraud, he may do with it as he
pleases. He may transfer the whole of his estate in payment
or in security of a single bonajide debt. He may assign, mortgage, .or otherwise encumber his estate, or a part thereof, in
favor of some of his creditors, excluding the rest, or he may
make an assignment for the benefit of all his creditors, and
therein give preferences to a selected few It is only when,
either by a general assignment or otherwise, the debtor has
parted with the dominion over his property, that, in the
absence of statute or fraud, the foregoing privilege is forTo hold that debtors may not give preferences
feited.
among their bon~f#de creditors, so long as they control their
property, would greatly embarrass the transaction of nearly
all kinds of business. Some of the authorities go so. far as to
say that such a rule would prevent the carrying on of business
altogether."
The statute of 1881 was superseded by that of 1885, which

MAY

. TENNEY.

Opimon of the Court.

was that in force at the time of these transactions.

This

statute may be found in the Laws of 1885, p. 43, and in the
first volume of Mills' Annotated Statutes, p. 453. The only
portions of that statute .having any bearing on the matters
here in controversy are sections 1 and 3 and the last half of
section 18, which are as follows
"Any person may make a general assignment of all his
property, for the benefit of his creditors, by deed, duly
acknowledged, which, when filed for record in the office of
the clerk and recorder of the county where the assignor resides, or, if a non-resident, where his principal place of.business
is, in this State, shall vest in the assignee the title to all the
property, real and personal, of the assignor, in trust,.for the
use and benefit of such creditors.'
"INo such deed of general assignment of property by an
insolvent, or in contemplation of insolvency for the benefit of
creditors, shall be valid, unless by its terms it be made for the
benefit of all his creditors, in proportion to the amount of their
respective claims.2
CC
But nothing in this act contained shall invalidate.
any conveyance or mortgage of property, real or personal, by
the debtor before the assignment, made in good faith, for a
valid and valuable consideration."
This statute, so far as we are advised, has not been before
the Supreme Court of Colorado for construction, at least, not
for any question involved in this case. The first section, it will
be perceived, gives permission to make a general assignment.
There is no compulsion. There is neither in terms nor by
implication any duty cast upon an insolvent to dispose of his
property by a general assignment, or anything which prevents
him from paying or securing one creditor in preference, to
others. On the contrary, the last -half of section 18 plainly
recognizes the right of a debtor to prefer by payment or
.security, and, in the light of this statute, the quotation which
we have.made from the Supreme Court of Colorado becomes
pertinent, which clearly affirms the right of a debtor to do
with his property as he pleases, except as interms-restrained
by statute, and a statute which simply permits a debtor to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the -Court.

make a -certai disposition of his property works no destruc
tion of his otherwise unrestrained dominion over it:
And, further, when we look at section 3 we find that when
a.conveyance is made which is a general assignment, it is void
unless by its terms it is made for the benefit of all creditors.
The rule thus declared is not that the preferences fail and the
'assiagnment stands, but that the assignment itself fails unless
it be in terms free from preferences. So, if this conveyance
were in form unquestionably a general assignment, as it contemplated the payment only of May and Hirsch, it was not
only not for the benefit of all creditors, but avowedly for the
benefit of these two, and it would, therefore, have to be adjudged-a void instrument, and could not be upheld under that
rule which prevails in some jurisdictions of, in such cases, upholding the conveyance and avoiding the preferences. -So it
follows that either this is a chattel mortgage given as security
to two creditors for their debts, a transaction in no manner
forbidden by the statutes of .Colorado, or, if it be a general
assignment, then it was an assignment with preferences, which
preferences by those statutes, avoid the conveyance. We
think, therefore, the Circuit Court erred in the conclusions
which it reached, so far at least as this aspect of the case is
concerned.
As we have heretofore noticed, the burden of the complaint
was that this conveyance was fraudulent and void because, as
alleged, made in pursuance of a conspiracy between RiCb, May,
and Hirsch, a conspiracy by which Rich was to go east and
buy, goods, and, when those goods had been purchased and
brouzit to Leadville, transfer them To May and Hirsch. So
tia-as this charge is concerned, we agree with the Circuit
Court that it is not established by the testimony
Rich
evidently would like to convey that idea, andt yet he does
not directly testify to it, and May and Hirsch clearly deny
it.. Obviously there was no conspiracy between the. patties,
and all talk between them was only to the effect that, if Rich
should succeed in-buying what he talked of buying, May and
Hirsch would help him to carry the burden. He largely failed
m that, and they, when he became pressed by -the bank,

