OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

for another circuit had reached the opposite conclusion, under
similar circumstances, the request for instruction is preferred.
While the fact that the Circuit Court of Appeals for one
circuit has rendered a different judgment from that of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for another, under the same conditions, might furnish ground for a cetiorarzon proper application, the assertion of the existence of such difference and of
the wish that it might be determined by this court is not
equivalent to the expression of a desire for instruction as to
the proper decision of a specific question or questons requirng determination i the proper disposition of the particular
case. Thel difference can only exist when the courts have
actually reached contradictory results, but each must proceed
to its own judgment, unless such grave doubts arise as to
induce the conviction that this court should be resorted to for
their solution in the manner provided for.
As in our judgment this c6rtificate is not in compliance
with the statute, we must decline to certify any opinion upon
the matters involved, and direct the cause to be

.Dzsmtssed.

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFACTURING COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM! THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
1No. 143. Argued March 16, 17,1893. -Decided March 27,1893.

Letters patent No. 260-,32, granted June 27 1882, to Henry Huber, as
assignee of Stewart Peters and William Donald, of Glasgow, Scotland,
for an "improvement in water-closets," the patent expressing on its face
that it was "subject to the limitation prescribed by § 4887, Rev. Stat.,
by reason of English patent dated April 7, 1874, No. 1207," are void
because the English patent had expired April 7, 1881.
Reissued letters patent No. 10,826, granted to James E. Boyle, April 19,
1887, for an improvement in fiushing apparatus for water-closets, on
the reissue of original patent No. 291,139, granted to Boyle January. 1,
1884, the application for the reissue having been filed January 2, 1885.,
are void, as to claims 1 and 2 of the reissue.

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

271

Opinion -of the Court.
Every claim of'the original patent contained, as an element, a flushing
chamber, and no claim of the reissue which leaves out a-flushing chamber
can be construed as valid.
There is new matter in the reissue specification inserted to lay a foundation
for the expanded claims in the reissue.
There is nothing in the original patent which suggests the possibility that
Boyle's invention could be operated bv a combination which omitted the.
flushing chamber as an element thereof.

IN EQuITy, to prevent the infringement of letters patent,
and for damages for such infringement. Decree dismissing
the bill, from which the plaintiffs appealed. The case is
stated in the opinion.
"'A[thur S. Browne and Xr Phillip -Mauro for appellants. J2P Anthony PoZlok and .Yr Paul Bakewell were
with them on the-brief.
.1r Seneca N

Taylor and Mr Benjamm. F

.Rex for

appellee.
MR.JusTincE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity, filed October 3, 1887, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern Division of the
Eastern District of Missouri, by Henry Huber and James E.
Boyle, as plaintiffs, against the N. 0. 'Nelson Manufacturing
Company, a Missouri corporation) for the alleged infringement
of two patents.
The first patent sued upon was granted June 27, 1882,
No. 260,232, for an "improvement in water-closets," to Henry
Huber, one of the plaintiffs, as assignee of Stewart Peters and
William Donald, of Glasgow, Scotland. That patent sets
forth that Peters and Donald had presented a petition for
the grant of a patent for such improvement, and had assigned
their right, title and interest in it to HUiber, -and that a
description of the invention was contained in-the specification
.annexed to the patent, and the patent- granted to Huber, his
heirs or assigns, for seventeen years from June 27, 1882,the
exclusive riaght to make, use and vend the invention through-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

out the United States and the Territories thereof, "subject to
the limitation prescribed by sec. 4887, Rev Stat., by reason
of English patent, dated April 7, 1871, No. 1207."
The answer of the defendant avers that, although the
British patent, Nor 1207, was granted to Peters and Donald
on April 7, 1874, for fourteen years from that date, it was
subject to the provisions and conditions of § 2 of chapter 5
of the act of 16 Victoria, approved February 21, 1853, and to
the condition thereunder that, if Peters and Donald, their
executors, administrators or assigns, did not pay a stamp duty
of £100 on the patent5 before the expiration of seven years
from its dae, it should become void, that such duty was not
paid, but the patentees voluntarily allowed the patent to
expire at the end of seven years from its date, and that it
became void thereby, and, since April 7, 1881, has been of
no force, or effect.
The English patent. covered the same invention which is
covered by United States patent No. 260,232. Peters and
Donald assigned all their interest in the invention to James
F. Boyle, October 27, 1881. The application for the United
States patent was filed November 29, 1881, and, after the
patent was granted, Boyle assigned his interest to Huber,
November 26, 1881. Thus it appears that the application
for No. 260,232 was filed more than seven months after the
English patent to Peters and Donald had become void, and
that the invention was assigned by Peters and Donald to
Boyle. more than six months after that patent had become

iid.
Sections 4886 and 4887 of the Revised Statutes (which were
taken from §§ 24 and 25 of the act of July 8, 1870, c. 230, 16
Stat. 201) read as follows
"SEC. 4886. Any persoif who has invented or discovered
any new and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition
of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof, not
known or used by others in this country, and not patented or
described in any printed publication in this or any foreign
country, before his invention or discovery thereof, and not in
public .use or on sale for more than two years prior to his

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

273

Opinion of the Court.

application, unless the same is proved to have been abandoned,
may, upon payment of the fees required by law, and other due
proceedings had, obtain a patent therefor.
"SEC. 4887. No person shall be debarred from receiving a
patent for his invention or discovery, nor shall any patent be
declared invalid, by reason of its having been first patented or
caused to -be patented in' a foreign country, unless the same
has been introduced into public use in the United States for
more than two years prior to the application. But every
patent granted for an invention which has been previously
patented in a foreign country shall be so limited as to expire
at the same time with the foreign patent, or, if there be more
than one, at the same time with the one having the shortest
term, and in no case shall it be in force more than seventeen
years."
It was contended for the defendant in the Circuit Court,
and was so held by that court, that patent No. 260,232 was
void, under § 4887 of the Revised Statutes, because it was
granted after the English patent to Peters and Donald had
ceased to exist. The opinion of Judge Thayer, who held the
Circuit Court, is reported in 38 Fed. Rep. 830. The facts
above set forth are undisputed. Judge Thayer held that,
under the decision of this court in Bate -RefrtgeratingCo. v.
Hammond, 129 U. S. 151, patent No. 260,232 was void.
In Bate Befrzgerating Co. v. Hammond, a United States
patent had been granted November 20, 1877, for seventeen
years on an application filed December 1, 1876. A patent for
the same invention had been granted in Canada, January 9,
1877, to the same patentee, for five years from that day, on
an application made December 19, 1876. On a petition filed
in Canada by the patentee, December 5, 1881, the Canada
patent, on December 12, 1881, was extended for five years
from January 9, 1882, and. on December 13, 1881, for five
years from January 9, 1887, under § 17 of the Canada act
-assented to June 14, 1872, (35 Vict., c. 26.) On those facts,
this court held, under § 4887 of the Revised Statutes, that, as
the Canada act was in force when the United States patent
was applied for and issued, and the Canada extension was a
VOL. CXLVM-I18

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

matter of right, at the option of the patentee, on his payment
of a required fee, and the fifteen years term of the Canada
patent had been continuous and without interruption, the
United States patent did not expire before the end of the fifteen years duration of the Canada patent. Of course, the
Canada patent was in force when the United States patent
was granted, and the question presented in the present case
did not distinctly arise. Judge Thayer held, that it was a
logical conclusion from the decision in Bate Refrtgerating Co.
v. Hammond that a United States patent which was issued
subject to the provisions of § 4887 remained in force no longer
than the fbroign patent having the shortest term, and that
the omission to do an act required by the foreign law, which
worked an absolute forfeiture of the foreign grant, extinguished the United States patent.
The Circuit Court also held that, as § 4887 enacted that the
United States patent granted for an invention which had
been previously patented in a foreign country should be so
limited as, to expire at"the same time with the foreign patent,
it presupposed that, at the date of the United States patent,
there was in force a foreign patent for the invention, and
that, if there was no such foreign patent in force when the
United States patent issued, but only one which had lapsed and
become void, although theretofore granted for the invention,
there was no authority in law for the United States grant.
In other words, the moment patent No. 260,232 was granted,
§ 4887 took effect upon it, and caused it to expire in the same
instant in w.hich it was created, orto be strangled in its
birth.
The final decrea of the Circuit Court in the present case was
entered May 25, 1889. It decreed among other things that
No. 260,232 was issued without authority of law, and was null
and void. Since that time, and on March 24, 1890, this court
decided the case of Pold v. Anchor Brewzng Co., 134 U. S.
385, in which we held that a United States patent ran for the
term for which the prior-foreign patent was granted, without
reference to whether the latter-patent became lapsed and forfeited, after the grant of the United States patent, by reason

HUBER v. NELSON -MA UFACTURING CO.

275

Opinion of the Court.

of the'failure of -the-patentee to comply with the requirements
of the foreign patent law But that -case did not distmctly
cover the present one, because in that case the foreign patent
was in force when the United States' patent was grinted, -and
it became lapsed or forfeited thereafter, in consequehce-of
the failure of the patentee to 'comply' with- the requirements
of the foreign patent law
We are of opinion that, as in the case at bar the forefgn
patent was not in force when the United States patent was
issued, the latter patent never had imy force or validity The
delay in applying for the United States patent, until after
the foreign patent expired, amounted to 6n abandonment of
the right to a United States patent. This is m accordance
with the mew of the Commissioner of Patents in .
Aeat's
Case, (Commissioner's Decisions of 1870, p. 106.)
The other patent sued on in the -present case is reissued
letters patent No. 10,826, granted to James Y. Boyle, April
19, 1887, for an improvement in flushing apparatus for waterclosets, claims 1 and 2 of which are alleged to have been
infringed. The original patent, No. 291,139, was granted to
Boyle, January 1, 1884, and the 'application for the reissue
was filed January 2, 1885.
The answer sets up the invalidity of such reissue, and avers
that the original patent was not inoperative or invalid by
reason of an insufficienf or defective specification, but was
surrendered, after unreasonable delay, solely for the purpose
of enlarging the specification and claims, and to cover improvements not within the contemplation of Boyle when he filed his
original application and received his original patent, that the
claims of the reissue unduly broadened the original patent;
that the further design of Boyle in asking for the reissue was,
to cover apparatus placed upon the market before such reissue
was applied for, by Frank B. Hanson. under letters patent Not.
308,358, issued to Hanson, November 25, 1884, but applied for
June 12, 1883, that said reissue No. 10,826, and especially
claims 1, 2 and 4 thereof, were not for any invention described,
indicated or suggested in'the original patent No. 291,139, that
the Commissioner of Patents' exceeded his authority in grant-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

ing such reissue, and that said claims and such reissue were
void from the beginning.
The Circuit Court, in its decree entered May 25, 1889,
adjudged that claims 1 and 2 of such reissue were granted
without authority of law and were null and void, that the
defendant had not infringed any of the remaining claims of
such reissue (the whole number of claims being six), and that
the bill be dismissed with costs. The plaintiffs appealed to
this court from the. entire decree. James E. Boyle having
died-during the pendency of the appeal, his administrator has
been substituted as a party
Judge Thayer, in his opinion, 38 Fed. iRep. 830, goes very
fully into the question of the validity of the reissue. In order
that the claims of the original and reissue patents may be
more readily compared, they are here produced in parallel columns, the italicized words in each claim of one patent showing
wherein it differs from the corresponding claim in the other
patent
Original-Patent.

Reissue Patent.
"1. A water-closet conststng of a bowl, wtth the soilpassage leading therefrom and
two successive traps in said
passage, sn combination with
a flushing-pipe for conveying
water to the bowl, a suctionsnjector arranged in connection with said p pe and to be
traversedby theflushing water,
and an ar:pzipe leading from
the ar-space, between said
traps and communwat ng with
said njector, sibstantially as
set forth, whereby the flow of
water through said injectorserves to draw airfrom said
air-space.

HUBER v. NELSON iEA.NUFACTURING CO.

277

Opinion of the Court

"1. A flushing apparatus
for water-closets, consisting of
a reservoir-tank, a flushingchamber adapted to be filled
therefrom, a valve controlling
the admssion of water from
said tank to sazd chamber, a
suction-injector arranged beneath the outlet from said
chamber, a flushing-pipe lead'ng from said snlector, and a
suction or azr pipe communzcating with said injector, all
combined and arranged substantiallyas setforth, whereby
the water in escaping from
said chamber into the flushingpipe traverses said injector,
and sucks the air from said
suction-pipe.
" 2. The combination of
a reservoir-tank, a flushingchamber, a valve controlling
the admission of water from
said tank to said chamber, a
suction-pipe terminating at the
upper part of said chamber,
an injector beneath the outlet
from said chamber, a flushingpipe leading downward from
said injector, and a suctionpassage affording communication from said injector to said
suction-pipe, substantially as
and for the purposes set forth.

"2, A flushing apparatus
for water-closets, consisting of
the combination of a reservoirtank, a flushing-valve controlling the outlet thereof, a flushing-pipe for conveying water
therefrom to the bowl of the
closet, a suction-injector arranged sn, connection with
said }p+pe and to be traversed
by the descending flushng
water, and a suction-pipe sn
connecton with said injector,
whereby the water in flowing
from said tank downward
throu9 the flushing-pipe traverses said injector and sucks
the air from said suction-pipe.

"3. The combination of a
a flushingreservoir-tank
chamber, a valve controlling
the admission of water from
said tank to said chamber, a
suction-pipe, communwating
with the snterzorof'said chamber, an injector beneath the
outlet from said chamber, .a
flushing-pipe leading, downward from said injector, and
a suction-passage affording
communication from said injector to said suction-pipe,
substantially as and for the
purposes-set forth.
"4. A flushing apparatus
"3. A flushing apparatus
of
consisting
for water-closets, consisting
for water-closets,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

a reservoir-tank, a flushingchamber, a valve controlling
the admsszon of water from
sad tank to sad chamber, a
suction-injector beneath the
outlet from sad chamber, a
flushing-pipe leading down-

ward from said nyeetor, a
suction or oir pipe openng
into the upper part of sad
chamber, and a suction-passage extendingfrom sad p2pe
to san snector, whereby the
passage of .water through said
injector into the flushzng:-ppe
will develop a suctzon sn said
suctwon-passage and suctionpipe, sn combinatzon with
means, substantzally as described,.for admitting air to
said Suctwn-passage or ptpe,
and so breaking the vacuum
theremn before all the water has
escaped from the chamber,
whereby an after-wash is secured, all combined and arranged to operatesubstantially
as set forth.
"4 . In combination, the
tank E, the chamber F, provided with inlet-orifice h and
outlet-orifice z, the valve h,
the suction- injector I, the
flushing-pipe 1, the air-pipe e,
the suction-passage t, and the
air-bell n, substantially as set
forth.
". A flushing apparatus

of a reservoir-tank, a flushingvalve controlling the outlet
thereof,a flushing-pipefor conveying water therefrom to the
bowl of the closet, a suction-injector arranged in connecthon
with said pipe and to be traversed by the descending flushing-water, and a suction-pipe
in connection with satd injector, whereby the passage of
water through said injector
will suck the azr from said
suction-pipe, all combzned together, and with a trapped arpassage communcating with
the said suction-pipe and arranged to be unsealed, and
thereby to admit air to the
suctionppe and break the
vacuum therezn before the cessation of theflow of'flushngwater, substantially as set
forth

"5. The combination of the
tank E, th( chamber F, provided with inlet-orifice h', and
outlet-orifice z, the valve h,
the suction -injector I, the
flushing-pipe 1, the air-pipe e,
the suction-passage t, and the
air-bell n, substantially as set
forth.
"6. A flushing apparatus

HUBER v. NELSON MNUFACTURINTG CO.

279

Opinion of the Court.

for a water-closet, consisting
of the combination of a reservoir-tank a flushing-chamber
provided with an inlet-orifice
of large area communicating
with said tank, and with an
outlet-orifice

of

contracted

area proportioned to the area
of said inlet-orifice, substantially as specified, a valve
adapted to close said inletorifice, an- air-pipe opening
into said flushing- chamber,

and a flushing-pipe leading
from said outlet-orifice, all

for a water-closet consisting
of the combination of a reservoir-tank, a flushing-chamber
provided with an inlet-orifice
of large area, communicating
with said tank and with an
outlet- orifice of contractea
area proportioned to the area
of said inlet-orifice, substantially as specified, a. valve
adapted to close said inletorifice, an air-pipe opening
into said flushing-chamber
and a flushing-pipe leading
from 'said outlet-orifice; a,
arranged and adapted Ia

arranged and adapted to
operate substantially as set operate substantially as Lforth.
forth."
"6. The combination, with
tank E and chamber F, of the
valve h thereof, its sten -conssting of an overflow tube,
m, and a sealing cup m, be-

low the valve, in which cup
the lower end of the overflow
tube ss 'mmersed, substantially
as setforth."
In each of the six claims of the original patent, the flushing
chamber F is made an element of the combination. Claim 6
of the reissue is substantially identical with claim 5 bf the
original, claim 5 of the reissue with claim 4 of the original,
and claim 3 of the reissue with claim 2 of the original. Claim
4 of the reissue is in some respects similar to claim 3 of the
original, but it omits the flushing chamber F, an'd mentions tn
its place a flushing valve, thus making a different combinatio:
Neither the specification of the original nor any of its claim.
corresponds with or suggests the first two claims of the reissuc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Parts of the two specifications are here placed by us side by
side, in order that the additions in the reissue to what was in
the original may be distinctly seen, the additions in the reissue
being printed in italics

Old S.pecXication.

Iew Specifecation.

The diagram, Fig. 6, is designed to illustrate the essential principle of my present
invention even more clearly
than the preceding figures.
The air-pipe e does not enter
the chamber F, but is connected by a branch with
.the flushing-pipe I below the
chamber, the injector I being
arranged at their junction.
The valve g' is shown merely
to prevent water setting back
and flowing down the pipe e,
since the top of this pipe is
below the water level w w,
instead of above it, as before.

The diagram, Fig. 6, is designed to illustrate the essential principle of my present
invention even more clearly
than the preceding figures.
The air-pipe e does not enter
the chamber F, but is connected by a branch with
the flushing-pipe I below the
chamber, the injector I being
arranged at their junction.
The cheek valve. g' is shown
merely to prevent water setting back and flowing down
the pipe e, since the top of
this pipe is below the water
level a a, instead of above it,
as before. W-hen the fgusuhngvahzte h ss lifted the water
from the tank B flows down
the flushzng -_p'oe 1, and
through the snyector i, thus
drawsng amr from the pe e
during the" whole %ime that
the water continues to flow
through the iv~ector In this
construction the chamber F
has no function of its own,
and constitutes essentially a
mere enlargement of the
uper portzon of the flushng-pipe, to the same efect as

HUBER v. NELSONT MANUFACTURINTG CO.

281

Opinon of the Court.

ordinary "servtce box "
commonly used by plumbers.
1o provision for securing an No provision for securing an
after-wash is here shown, but after-wash is here shown, but
the bowl may be refilled the bowl may be refilled after
after the flushing by any the flushing by any suitable
suitable means, as by water means- as, for snstance, by
admitted by a valve through water admitted by a valve
an independent flushing-pipe. through an independent flushig-pipe, as shown sn the
.patentof Peters and -Donald,
.STo. 260,232, dated June 27,
1882.
fhe

In the opinion of Judge Thayer, it is correctly said "In
the construction of the 'flushing apparatus' or water-closet
covered by the original letters, Boyle, the inventor, employed
what is commonly called an 'injector' to exhaust the air confined between two traps located beneath the bowl or seat of
the ' flushing apparatus.' The apparatus was so arranged that
when in use water falling through a pipe from the water-tank
or reservoir into the bowl passed by the mouth of the ' injector,'
which was connected by a pipe with the confined air chamber
between the traps, and by the operation of a well-known principle tended to exhaust the air and to create a vacuum in
such chamber, the purpose of creating a vacuum being to
induce a more powerful outflow of water from the bowl
through the traps and into the soil pipe, by the aid of atmospheric pressure on the surface of the water in the bowl. The
idea of constructing a water-closet or flushing apparatus with
double traps underneath the seat, and a confined air chamber
between the same, from which the air might be withdrawn
when the closet was used, so as to induce a more powerful
outflow, was not novel. The same method of construction
was shown iu the Peters and Donald patent before mentioned,
but Peters and Donald employed-a different device to exhaust
the air between the traps. Although injectors and the principle upon which they were operated were well known, and.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

although they were in use for various purposes, it may be conceded that Boyle was the first to employ them in the construction of aflushing apparatus or water-closet. Being an old device,
he could not claim the injector, independently, or .otherwise
than in combination with other devices forming a part of his
improved sanitary water-closet. The first and most important
claim m the original letters patent was for 'a flushing apparatus consisting of a reservoir tank, a flushing-chamber adapted
to be filled therefrom, a valve controlling the admission of
water from said tank to said chamber, a suction injector
arranged beneath the outlet from said chamber, a flushing
pipe leading from said injector, and a suction or air pipe communicating with said injector, all combined
substantially as set forth, whereby the water in escaping from said
chamber into the flushing pipe, traverses said injector and
sucks air from said suction pipe.' It will thus be seen that the
' injector ' was one of six elements in the combination covered
by the first claim of the original letters, No. 291,139."
In the affidavit made by Boyle, on December 27, 1884, to
accompany his application for the reissue, he states that he
believes his patent No. 291,139 "to be inoperative to fully
protect the invention intended to be covered by it, for, the
following reason, namely, that the principal claims in said
patent are defective or insufficient in that they are, or appear
to be, limited to combinations embodying the ' flushing-chamber
F ' as an essential element, whereas that chamber is not essential to his invention in its generic features," that, as stated
in the specification of the original patent, his invention introduced "a new principle for operating double-trapped or siphon
water-closets, namely, that of producing the requisite vacuum
by causing the falling, flushing water to act as an injector and
draw air along with it," and that through inadvertence or
mistake of judgment his claims were drawn with less breadth
than his specification and do not, as they should, cover broadly
the application of such principle, that such inadvertence or
mistake arose by and m consequence of a. misunderstanding
between him and his attorney, Mr. Arthur C.Fraser, of the
firn of Burke,Fraser & Connett, who prepared he applica-

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFAOTUITRING CO.

283-

Opinion of the Court.

tion.for the patent, and also by reason of Boyle's want of
familiarity with the techncal meaning, of the language lised
in patent claims, and that the same arose without any fraudulent or deceptive intention, that, in- -his early- experiments
with the invention, he devised and tested various forms and
modifications of mechanism, and among others- the three constructions shown by sketches which he annexed to the affidavit, and which sketches he describes as each showing a
water-tank with an outlet valve, -a flushing-pipe extending
down to the closet bowl, an injector therein, a suction or aii
pipe extending to the air-space between the two traps below,
and a lever for working the valve, that in one of such sketches
the suction or air pipe joined the flushing-pipe by an elbow,
their point of junction constituting the injector, -that in an,other there was the same construction, except that the end of
the suction or air pipe, entered the flushing-pipe and turned
down, therein, forming a more perfect injector; that in the
third, the suction or air pipe extended over the top of the
tank, and was connected by a rubber tube with the tubular
valye-stem of the outlet valve, the bottom of the stem extending-below the valve and into the flushing-pipe far enough. to
constitute an injector,, that those constructions were all made
-and operated by him before January 1, 1882.; -that they all
worked satisfactorily in siphoning the closet, but embodied no
,meaus for giving an '5after-wash" for filling the bowl after
the flushing, that in supplying suih -means he modified the
construction and, adopted those constructions which are shown
in Figures 1, 4, and 6 of .his original patent, that in describing
his invention to'his said attorney, hedid-not describe the first
constructions devised by him and shown -in the said three
sketches,, :butl only the preferred: constructions, that on or
about ,Novemnber 28, 1884, he observed in, the Patent Office
Gazette the reportof. a patent No. 308,358, granted November
25, 1,881, to FrankB. Hanson, showing Boyle's said invention,
in,a form almost, identical with one 'of the, said constructions
originally inyented by Boyle, that. he-.thereupon consulted
with, bis, attornep to ascertain how such-a patent came to be
issued to. Hanson, that -his said attornuy,-, in.the course of -a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

few days, advised him of the defect or insufficiency in his said
original patent, that, prior to being so advised, Boyle had no
suspicion that his said patent was in anywise defective or
insufficient, that he thereupon instructed his attorney to
prepare an application for reissue of his said patent, that,
believing that he, and not Hanson, was the original inventor
of the subject-matter thereof, he demanded of the Oommissioner of Patents the declaration of an interference with
Hanson's patent, that, so far as he was aware, no interest
had arisen adverse to the grant of the reissue which he applied
for, either in favor of Hanson or of .any other person, and
that, so far as he was aware, his patent had not been infringed,
nor had any attempt been made to imitate or evade the same,
except by Hanson.
One of the claims of the patent issued to Hanson covers
a flushing apparatus substantially the same as that described
in claim 1 of the original patent to Boyle, omitting only the
"flushing-chamber."
The view taken by Judge Thayer was that the sole purpose
of Boyle, in asking for a reissue, was to eliminate the "flushing-chamber," as a constituent element of the combination
covered by certain claims of the original patent to Boyle,
particularly of claim 1, and to obtain a patent for a flushing
apparatus like that described in said claim 1, less the flushingchamber, and so claim .2of the reissue was granted in the
terms above set forth, omitting the flushing-chamber from the
combination. It was omitted also from claim 1 of the reissue.
The effect of this was to expand the claims of the original
patent, because they had been limited by including the
"flushing-chamber" as an element of the combination.
It is contended for the plaintiffs that the main feature of
Boyle's flushing apparatus consisted in the use of an injector
operated by falling flushing water, to pump air from between
the two traps, that that fact was shown and spoken of in the
original specification, that the flushing-chamber was not
essential to the operation of that device, a single reservoir
tank being sufficient for the purpose, that by inadvertence
or mstake a non-essential limitation was put upon such claims

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

285

Opinion of the Court.

of the original patent as covered the injector device, that in
consequence thereof the original patent was inoperative to
secure the invention intended to be claimed, and that the
patent, therefore, was properly reissued, the claims having
simply been altered to cover more accurately the invention
described in the original specification.
The opinion of the Circuit Court, in speaking of the contention that the original patent was ihoperative to protect the
invention intended to be covered by it, said that such patent
certainly protected the flushing apparatus that was claimed
as a whole in the first claim, and carefully described in the
specification, that it protected also all the combinations which
were claimed in its several claims, that it was not necessqry
to change the specification or the drawings to secure fully the
apparatus claimed in the several claims of the original patent,
that that was the identical apparatus which Boyle intended
to manufacture, that, therefore, it could not be said that the
original patent was "inoperative or invalid" in the sense that
Boyle could not hold what he claimed, and intended to manufacture, because his original specification was either defective
or insufficient, that what Boyle meant by asserting that the
original patent was inoperative was only that a particular
combination of parts might have been claimed originally that
was not claimed, and that his original patent was inoperative
to protect such particular combination, because no right to
the protection of it had been asserted, that, even conceding
that the original patent was "inoperative" in the sense in
whicli that word is used in § 4916 of the Revised Statutes,
the question remained whether the failure to claim what the
original patent did not. protect because it, was not claimed
therein, was due to "inadvertence, accident or mistake"
in the sense of the statute, that all of the evidence which
was before the Commissioner of Patents, tending to show
inadvertence or mistake, (that is, the affidavit of Boyle, that
of Fraser, and other documents,) was pffered by the plaintiffs
in the present suit, supplemented by some additional testimony, and that, under those circumstances, the Circuit Court
could review the finding of the Commissioner on the point

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

that the original patent was inoperative by reason of matvertence and mistake, at least to the extent of determining
whether, as a matter of law, what was alleged to be a mistake
was such a mistake as warranted a reissue.
Mr. Fraser, the attorney who obtained the original patent
as well as the reissue, said in. his affidavit presented to the
Patent Office with the application for the reissue, that he
clearly understood "that the invention in question introduced
a new principle in water-closet flushing apparatus, that of
exhausting the air by means of an injector, and so described
the invention in the specification, but that in drawing the
claims he inadvertently incorporated the flushing-chamber as
an element therein, being at the time under the impression
that the said flushing-chamber was essential to the operation
of the invention, whereas in fact, the said chamber is essential
only to the operativeness of the devices for producing the
'after-wash' for refilling the bowl, which devices are claimed
specifically in claim 4 of said patent;" that he was not then
aware that Boyle had used the flushing apparatus with a
single tank, from which the flushing pipe led directly, thereby
omitting the flushing-chamber beneath the tank, nor did it
occur to Fraser at that time that the invention was susceptible
of being so modified, that he drew the first three claims of
the original patent, as granted, through a misapprehension
of the essentials of the invention, arising from a misunderstanding between himself and Boyle, without any fraudulent
or deceptive intention on the part of either, that Fraser wag
not aware of the defect or insufficiency in the patent until
after he saw the patent of Hanson, No. 308,358, and that,
after examining that patent and ascertaining the circumstances
of its grant, he advised Boyle that Hanson had secured a patent
covering Boyle's prior invention and counselled Boyle to apply
for a reissue of his patent and to demand an interference with
the patent of Hanson.
The Circuit Court.further observed -that Mr. Fraser's explanation showed that. he understood .that the -falling flushingwater traversing -the injector would perform its function of
pumping air from between the traps equally well, whether the

HUBER v. NELSON

ANUFAOTURII{G CO.

287

Opinion of the Court.

water proceeded from a reservoir -having one compartment or.
one having a dozen, that such fact was obvious to any observer
who had any knowledge of the principle upon which an injector acts; that Fraser, therefore, must be understood ag
asserting merely that he incorporated the flushing-chamber
as an element in the several combinations claimed in the
original patent, because he intended to describe and claiman operative flushing apparatus or water-closet which would.
prove a marketable invention, that it was manifest from other
statements made by Fraser in the course of his tesfimony, that
in his opinion a flushing apparatus minus the flushing-chamber
with its attendant devices for securing -an after-wash would
be practically useless, that some provision for refilling the
bowl after the injector had ceased to act was 5sential to, the
successful operation of the flushing apparatus or water-closet,
considered as a whole, and that, in drafting the several claims
of the original'patent, he intentionally and, as it would seem,
with great care, included the flushing-chamber, for the reason.
that it was one of the essential parts of the flushing apparatus,.
without which the latter -would not be serviceable.
The opinion also states that Boyle's affidavit, filed with theapplication for the reissue, describes no mistake, inadvertence
or accident, that Boyle contents himself with the generalstatement that a misunderstanding existed- between him and
his attorney, but what it was does not appear., that, from his
testimony in the present suit, it was manifest that Boyle, as
well as Fraser, was of the opinion, when the original patent
was granted, that a flushing apparatus constructed according
to Boyle's design, but without the flushing-chamber to secure
an after-wash, would be valueless, because it would command
no sale; that Boyle admitted that he had made a flushing
apparatus minus the flushing-chamber, which was not satisfactory, was not intended to be operative, and was not intended
as a design for a water-closet that he expected to manufacturer
or sell, that if Boyle and Fraser made any-mistake, or labored
under any misapprehension when the original patent was taken
out, it consisted in the assumption that the omission of a flushing-chamber on which the after-wash devices, depended, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

without which there was no means (so far as Boyle had then
discovered) of securing an after-wash automatically, would
leave -a valueless combination, and hence that there was no
need of claiming -such a combination, and that, when the
statements of Boyle and Fraser were fairly analyzed, such
appeared to be all that could reasonably be said in support of
the contention that the claims of the original patent were due
to inadvertence and mistake.
The opinion further states that the testimony showed, to
the entire satisfaction of the court, that Fraser was right in
supposing that Boyle's flushing apparatus, without the flushingchamber, would be incomplete and therefore practically valueless, that Hanson, whose patent covered a water-closet having
a single water reservoir and an injector, but no flushing-chamber or provision for an after-wash, and who caused Boyle to
apply for the reissue in question to invalidate Hanson's patent,
admitted that a water-closet constructed according to the
specification of the Hanson patent was defective and unsalable, and for that reason had never been put upon the market,
that Boyle, Fraser, and Hanson substantially agreed in their
testimony that some mechanism to secure automatically an
after-wash, that is, to flush the closet and refill the bowl at
the end of the flushing by -a single pull at the lever, was
essential to the successful operation of a flushing apparatus,
that, without such mechanism, an apparatus constructed with
double traps and an injector to exhaust the air between the
traps would be useless, in the sense that there would be no
demand for such an apparatus, and that it would seem that
Boyle displayed as much ingenuity (if not more) in devising
the mechanism to produce an after-wash as in employing an
injector, which was an old device, to pump air from between
the traps.
The opinion then cites the cases of .3filler v Brass Con.pany, 104 U S. 350, 355, .Makn v ~afrwood, 112 U. S. 354,
359, and Coon v. Wilson, 113 U S. 268, 277, to the effect
that a patent for an invention could not be lawfully reissued for
the mere purpose of enlarging the claim, unless a clear mistake
had been inadvertently committed in the wording of the claim.

HUBER v. IELSO2

MANUFACTURLNG

CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.

The opinion of the Circuit Court further said that the testimony did not tend to establish that either Boyle or Fraser
acted so inadvertently or under such misapprehension of
either law or fact, when the claims of the original patent
were formulated, as to justify a reissue of the patent, that it
was obvious to them, as to any one, that the injector would
perform its function as well with a single tank as with a tank
and flushing-chamber combined, that both of them believed
that a water-closet constructed according to Boyle's design,
but without provision for an after-wash, would be valueless in
the market, that in that belief they, were right, that Boyle
had discovered no method of producing an after-wash automatically by using a single water-tank, and hence both he and
Fraser regarded the flushing-chamber as one of the essential
features of the flushing apparatus intended to be manufactured, and accordingly claimed it industriously in all of the
important claims, that even though they claimed the injector
in combination with a part which was non-essential to its
operation, and thereby limited the claim, yet they did so in
pursuance of a well-defined purpose, not based upon a misconception of matters of fact or ignorance of law, so far as the
records before the Commissioner of Patents or the proof in this
case showed , that the injector was an old device when Boyle
adopted it, that it could be claimed only in combination with
other parts which would together produce a new result or
effect, or constitute a new machine, that Boyle placed the
injector, in combination with certain other old parts or devices
which he deemed it necessary to employ, to make a new flushing apparatus that would be operative and useful., that by so
doing he made each element of the combination material, and
was entitled to be protected in the use of the combination so.
formed and claimed , that his sole purpose in asking for a
reissue was to slough off one element of the combination, and
so reduce the parts embraced in the claim that it would be
impossible for any other person to use an injector in the
construction of a double-trapped water-closet, without paying
tribute to his patent, and that as the claims are enlarged in
the reissue, it would be unlawful for a mechanic to use an
VOL. CXLVIH-19

..-- OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Coutt.

injector in the construction of a flushing apparatus, even
if he should succeed in doing what Boyle failed to accomplish,
that is to say, produce an aftor-wash automatically by the use
of a single tank, because the parts -with which the injector has
been combined in the claii.s of the reissue are so few that
they must necessarily all be used to work the injector.
The opinion further observed that if the injector were new
with Boyle, and had not been claimed mthe original patent,
it might be proper to interpret the law liberally in favor of
Boye, to enable him to realize the full benefit of his 'invention,
that an injector is an old device, and Boyle merely adopted it
and applied it to a new use, anu that he ought to be limited
to that combination in which he deliberately placed and
claimed it.

The conclusion of the opinion was that the reissue, being
granted merely to enlarge the claims, could not be sustained,
citing Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531, and Gill v TFells, 22 Wall.
I.,that the failure to clain the particular combination not
claimed in the- original patent but claimed in the reissue, was
not due to any such inadvertence or mistake as would authorize:the claiming .of it in the reissue-; and that-the failure to
claim'such combination originally occurred under such circumstances, and was accompanied with such full knowledge of'
all material facts, as to amount to an abandonment of that
particular combination to the public.
We are unanimously of opinion that these views of the
Circuit Court are sound, and that it is unnecessary to consider
the point made by the defendant that the reissue was invalid
because it lacked novelty and invention. It is-not contended
that the defendant has infringed any other claims of the
reissue than claims I and 2, and we think it entirely clear
that the defendant has not infringed any of the claims of the
original patent. The defendant had no flushing-chamber-in
any flushing apparatus made by it, and such flushing-chamber
was an essential element in the specification and drawings of
the original patent, and was one of the necessary elements in
each-of the six claims of the original patent, as made. It is
impossible to examine-the drawings of the original patent and

HUBER v. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

291

Opinion of 'the Court.

see that the flushing-chamber could be dispensed with in the
structure. The original specification says that the invention
of Boyle "has for its principal object to cheapen and simplify
the overhead flushing apparatus." If the idea of constructing
an apparatus without the flushing-chamber had occurred to
Boyle, he would have set forth such a construction in one of
the figures of his drawings, because the omission of theflushngchamber would'have promoted both cheapness and simplicity
The drawings, however, contradict the possibility of making
the structure without a flushing-chamber. The eritire text of
the original specification shows nothing but the intention of
a structure containing. both a tank and a flushing-chamber.
That chamber is referred to in the texb of the original speciftication thirty-one tivnes.
We think that, on all the facts of this case, no one of the
claims of the reissue can be construed as valid in leaving out
the flushing-chamber as an element of the combination, inasmuch as every claim of the original patent contained it,
Proutyv 1Ruggles, 16 Pet. 336, 341, Brookes v Fiske, 15 How
212, 219, Burr v Daryee, 1 Wall. 531, Reckendorfer v.
-Faber,92 U. S. 347, Fuller v. Yentzer,. 94 U. S. 288, Roil'way Co. v Sayles, 97 U S. 554, Water .Mfeter Co. v Deqper
101 U. S. 332.
Moreover, the matter above printed in italics, m the righthand column, taken from the new specification, is .new matter,
inserted evidently for the purpose of laying a foundation for
the two expanded claims in the reissue, which it is alleged the
defendant infringes. In the reissue, the flushing-chamber
forms an element -in the combination, claimed in each claim
except claims 1, 2 and 43 and to lay the foundation for leaving out the flushing-chamber- as an element in clami 1, 2 and
4 of the reissue, the statement is .made in the specification.of
the reissue of the new matter that the flushing-chamber "'hbs
no function of its own, and constitutes essentially a mere
enlargement of the upper portion-of the flushing-pipe, to, the
same effect as the ordinary 'service-box' commonly used by
plumbers."
In the specification of the original 'patent, the flushing-

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

chamber had been made an essential element in each of the
six claims. The application for the Hanson patent was filed
in the Patent Office, June 12, 1883, although the patent was
not granted until Kovember 25, 1884, and it was pending in
the Patent Office during more than six months before Boyle's
original patent, No. 291,139, was granted, January 1, 1881.
The Hanson patent shows a flushing apparatus wherein the
injector principle is used for exhausting the air in the confined space between the two traps, by the use of one tank
containing water for flushing the basin. It was not until
Boyle obtained knowledge of the Hanson patent that he conceived the idea of claiming such a construction as had been
patented to Hanson. Then, and not until then, he announced
the idea that it was of value to do away with the flushingchamber, although the specification of his original patent, in
its text and drawings-and claims, emphasized the importance
of the flushing-chamber as an element in every one of his
combinations. The specification, drawings and claims of the
original patent do not suggest the idea that the flushingchamber "has no function of its own." There is nothing in
the original patent which suggests any such combination as
is claimed in claims 1, 2 and 4 of the reissue, or which suggests the possibility that Boyle's invention could be operated
by a combination which omitted the flushing-chamber as an
element thereof. Every one of the elements which is made
a part of the several combinations claimed in the original
patent is thereby made material to such combinations. Eames
v Godfrey, 1 Wall. 78, Burr v .Duryee, 1 Wall. 531, Case
Gill
v Brown, 2 Wall. 320, Gould v Bees, 15 Wall. 18I,
v Wells, 22 Wall. 1, Fuller v. Yentzer, 94 U. S. 288,
Powder Co. v Powder Works, 98 U S. 126, -Leggett v Avery,
101 U. S. 256, James v Canmbell, 104 U. S. 356, Coon v
Milson, 113 U. S. 268,. Parker & ITkipple Co. v Yale
Clock Co., 123 U S. 87, -Electric Gas Lighting Co. v Boston
Electric Co., 139 U. S. 481, Toplif v Toplif, 145 U. S. 156.
Decree affirmed.

