OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

had been stolen by the former treasurer were valid obligations
of the State in the hands of McGehee, the plaintiff, and,
secondly, whether the defendant Bier was liable for money
received by him upon a consideration which had failed.
In the case of Sage v Zouwzana, 144 U. S. 647, 650, it was
said by this court, speaking of this same issue of bonds, that
the Supreme Court of Louisiana had decided "that the governor, asthe chief executive officer of the State, had no power
wvhatever to deal with those bonds or to dispose of them, except in the precise manner and for the distinct purpose pointed
out by the law, and that any act of his in contravention of its
provisions iik that regard would be void, and could not confer
on any person or holder of the bonds a right to recover them
or to enforce their liquidation or payment." This decision
was held not to have raised a Federal question, and the writ
of error was~ismissed.
It is true.-fhat article. 233 did not identify the bonds beyond
describing them as "the consolidated bonds of the State for
the use of the said fund," (agricultural and mechanical,) but
the treasurer, in whose possession they were, could not fail to
know what bonds were intended, and whether such bonds,
subsequently stolen by him and put in circulation, were,

though not identified as belonging to this fund, valid obligations of the State, in the hands of innocent holders, was not a
Federal question.
The writ of error will, therefore, be
.Dzsmssed.
ROSENTHAL v. COATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 3. Submitted February 6, 1893. -Decided

March 13,1893.

'Men this case was reached it. was dismissed under rule 10 because the
record was not printed; but, upon a representation that the parties had
stipulated under rule 32 that it should not be printed, the court vacated
t h..order and permitted the case to be restored to the docket on payment
o0;.costs and printing the record.

ROSENTHAL v. COATES.
Statement of the Case.
Under the act of March 3, 1875, IS Stat. 470, c. 137, a cause could not be removed from a state court unless the application was made before or at
the term at which it could 'first be tried..
A cause could be removed on the ground of local prejudice, under Rev.
Stat. ยง 639, sub-div. 3, only where all the parties to the suit on one side
were citizens of a different State from those on the other.
In a suit by an assignee under an assignment for the benefit of creditors to
disencumber a fund in his possession of alleged liens in favor of several
different creditors, the fact that each defendant bad a separate defence
did not create a separable controversy as to each.
The removal acts do not contemplate that a party may experiment on his
case in the state court, and, upon an adverse decision, then transfer it to
the Federal court.

IN the call of the docket this case was reached on the 17th
of October, 1892, and was then dismissed pursuant to the
tenth rule, on the ground .that the record was not printed.
Thereupon, on the 19th of December, 1892, the following"
motion was submitted on behalf of the appellant, entitled in
the cause
" Now comes :Max Rosenthal, appellant, by George loadly,
his attorney, and moves the court to set aside the order made
herein on M'fonday, October 17th, 1892, dismissing this cause
under the tenth rule, 'on the ground that the record was
not printed,' for the following reasons, to wit (1) That
this is an appeal un4er Section 5 of the Act lof Mlarch 3d,
1875, and is governed by Rule 32 of this court.'(2) That
Section I of Rule 32 reads as follows - As soon as such a
case is docketed and advanced, the record shall be printed,
unless the parties stipulate to the contrary, and file their
stipulation with the Olrk ' (3) That on :November 26th,
1889, appellant filed a stipulation s.igned by counsel for
appellee and appellant, 'I agreeing that the record need not be
printed,' and in the agreed statement of what the record
contains, on file in. this court and printed with appellant's
brief, it is therein again stipulated by both parties that I the
record need not belprinted ' (4) That the agreed statement
of what the record contains, embodied in appellant's brief,
contains everything that coul& in any wise bear on the question now before this court.

OCTOBERB

TERM, 1892.

Statement of the Case.

"Yet), if your Honors construe Section 4 of Rule 32 as
requiring the record to be printed,, or if your Honors desire it.
printed, appellant will gladly have it done.
"Wherefore, appellant prays your Honors to set aside your
said order and reinstate this cause upon the docket, subject to
such conditions as to printing the record as your Honors may
consider proper
"Wherefore; appellant prays your Honors to sustain his said
motion."
On the 3d of the following January the court ordered the
decree of dismissal to be vacated on payment of costs, and
printing of record, the case to be submitted on printed briefs
on or before February 3d, next. The case being submitted,
the court, in delivering its opinion, made the following statement of the case
On August 3, 1878, the Mastin Bank of Kansas City failed,
and also executed a deed of general assignment to Kersey
Coates for the benefit. of all creditors. Coates accepted and
administered the trust. At the time of the failure the MIastin
Bank had on deposit in the Metropolitan Bank of New York
a large sum- $50,00 and over- that bank being its New
York correspondent. It had, prior to August 3, and m the
regular course of business, drawn and sold drafts on the Metropolitan Bank to different parties. One of the parties holding such drafts was Rosenthal, the appellant. He brought
suit in. New York City, to secure payment from the Metropolitan Bank out of the funds in its hands, but the decision of
Mr. Justice Blatchford, then Judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, into
which court the case had been removed, was adverse to his
right to appropriate any portion of that fund to the payment
of his draft. Rosenthal v Mastzn Bank, 17 Blatehford, 318.
It would seem from the opinion that the. case proceeded no
further than to sustain a demurrer to the bill, with leave to
the plaintiff to move on notice, etc., for an amendment. What
orders. if any, were entered thereafter in that case are not
disclosed by this record.

ROSENTHAL v. COATES.
Statement of the Case.

On June 23, 1881, Coates, as assignee of the Mastili Bank,
filed in the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri, a petition, in whicia he set forth the failure of the bank, the assignment, his acceptance of the trust, the amount of the deposit
in the Metropolitan Bank to the credit of the Mastm Bank at
the time of the failure, which deposit had subsequently passed
into his hands, the fact that various drafts had been drawn
by the latter on the former bank prior to the failure, which.
drafts were outstanding and unpaid, and that the holders of
these drafts claimed the right to have that fund appropriated
specially to the payment of their drafts. The holders of the
drafts were made parties defendant, andV the prayer was, substantially, that their rights in this fund be determined, to
which petition Rosenthal, among other defendants, answered.
He admitted the charge made in the petition that a decree
adverse to his claim of payment out of that fund had been
rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of :New York, but, nevertheless, claimed
the benefit of a different line of decisions obtaining at that
time in- the trial courts of M issouri. This case came on regularly for hearing in the state trial court, and a decree was
there entered directing Coates, the assignee, to pay all the
other holders of drafts in full out of that fund, it being conceded to be sufficient in amount, but denying Rosenthal any
right therein by reason of the prior adjudication in New York
City From such decree Coates and Rosenthal both appealed,
Coates, however, gave no supersedeas bond. When the case
reached the Supreme Court, the question involved having been
recently theretofore presented in another case and decided
adversely to the right of the holders of these drafts to payment out of such fund, that court simply entered an order
reversing the decree of the Circuit Court, and remanding the
case for further proceedings. No special notice seems to have
been taken of the fact that the decree of the trial court was
adverse to Rosenthal, and, in accordance with the conclusions
of the Supreme Court, should have been affirmed. When the
case returned to the Circuit Court, and before it was reached
for further hearing, Coates had paid all the other holders of
VOL. CXLV3]l-10

OCTOBER TER2M, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

drafts. Thereupon Rosenthal filed a.petition for removal to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Missouri, he being a citizen of New York and Coates a
citizen of Missouri. This petition for removal was filed on
February 10, 1885. The record having been transmitted to
the Federal court, a motion was made to remand, and, on
October 25, 1886, it was sustained, -and from this order remanding the case to the state court Rosenthal has appealed to this
court.
I"r George Hfoadly for appellant.
-Mr T A. Frank Jones for appellee.
M, .

JUSTinc.

BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The motion to remand was properly sustained. No removal
could be had under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470,
c. 137, because the application was not made before or at the
term at which said cause could be first tried. The case had
been once tried in the Circuit Court, and thereafter reversed
on appeal by the Supreme Court of the State.
Neither could it be removed on the ground of locaL prejudice, which is one of the grounds set forth in the petition for
removal, because such removal can be had only where all the
parties to the suit on one side are citizens of a different State
from those on the other. Jefferson v .Drsver,117 U S. 272.
Here, several of the defendants were citizens of Missour, the
same State that Coates was a citizen of. Neither did the
payment by Coates to the other defendants change the status
of the suit. The petition did not disclose a separable controversy between Coates the assignee, and Rosenthal or any
other holder of a draft, but a single controversy between him
and all the defendants. Looking back of the form, to the
substance, it will be seen to have been one between all
the creditors of the Mastin Bank as a body, represented by
Coates, the assignee, as plaintiffs, and the defendants as ano'ther body, and the question was whether this fund should

ROSENTHAL v. COATES.
Opinion "ofthe' Court.

be applied solely to the payment of the claims of the latter,
or distributed generally among all-of the former. Whether the
fund was sufficient to pay all of the draft holders in full or
not, was, therefore, immaterial. It was not enough to pay all
the creditors, and they collectively and as represented by the
assignee, Coates, were the real party in interest on the other
side. The suit was, in effect, one by the assignee to disencumber this fund in his possession of alleged liens, and the
fact that each defendant had a separate defence to this claim
did not create a separable controversy as to him. Fidelity
Insurance Co. v Huntzngton, 117 U. S. 280, Graves v Corbzn,
132 U. S. 571, 586, Young v. Parker,132 U S. 2,67. Nor
did any defendant create a separable controversy, by simply
petitioning in his answer for payment out of that fund.
The appellant relies on the case. of Yulee v. 'Fose, 99 U. S.
539. But in that case there was a separable controversy, and
one in fact separated by the decision of the Court of Appeals
of the State of New York. The case of Brooks v Clark, 119
U. S.502, is more in point. See also Shdinwald v. Leww, 108
U. S. 158, Torrence v. Shzedd, 144 U S.527. The other defendants, although, they have received the amounts due on
their drafts, are not necessarily eliminated from this suit.
Payments were made by Coates pending an appeal, under a
mistaken notion of the law He may be entitled to a decree
declaring that they have no recourse upon this special fund,
and then, perhaps, pursue some remedy to recover what he
has erroneously paid. It igunnecessary to speculate what
may be done. It is enough that they are still parties to the
record, against whom some relief may be had, and that there
is no -separable controversy between the -assignee and any
defendant.
Further; to sustain this removal would certainly violate the
spirit of the removal acts, which do not contemplate that a
party may experiment on his case in the state court, and,
upon an adverse decision, then: tiansfer it to the Federal court.
Here, Rosenthal has gone through the state trial and appellate courts, and his rights have been finally declared by the
Supreme Court of the State, and though as yet no formal

