OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

The shape of the front end being old, the sharp drop of the
pommel at the rear seems to constitute what was new and
to be material.

Now, the saddles of the defendants, while

they have the slight curved drop at the rear of the pommel,
similar to the Granger saddle, do not have the accentuated
drop of the patent, which "falls nearly perpendicularly several inches," and has a "straight inner side." If, therefore,
this drop were material to the design, and rendered it patentable as a complete and integral whole, there was no infringe-

ment.

As before said, the design of the patent had two

features of difference as compared with the Granger saddle,
one the cantle, the other the drop. And unless there was
infringement as to the latter there was none at all, since the
saddle design of the patent does not otherwise differ from the
old saddle with the old cantle added, an addition frequently
made. Moreover, that difference was so marked that in our
judgment the defendants' saddle could not be mistaken for
the saddle of the complainant.
There being no infringement the decree must be reversed
and the cause remanded, with a direction to dismiss the bill,
and it is
So ordered.

BUSHNELL v. CROOKE MINING & SMELTING
COMPANY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 195. Argued and submitted April 4, 5,1893. -Decided

April 17,1893.

A federal question, suggested for the first time In a petition for a rehearing,
after judgment in the highest court of a State, is not properly raised so
as to authorize this court to review the decision of that court.
The decision in the state court in this case clearly presented no federal
question; as no right, immunity or authority under the Constitution or
laws of the United States was set up by the plaintifs in error, or denied
by the Supreme Court of the State, nor did the judgment of the latter
court necessarily involve any such question, or the denial of any such
right.

BUSHNELL v. CR0OKE MIRING CO.
Opinion. of the Court.

MOTION to dismiss.

The case is stated m the opimon.

-Mr A. R. BushnelZ in person for himself and others plaintiffs in error, and in opposition to the motion.
I&fr Frederwi D McKenney, for defendant in error and in
support of the motion.
.Mr C. S. Tkomas and Mr. W IT Bryant filed a brief -m
support of the motion.
MR.JUSTICE JAxso-N

delivered the opinon of the court.

Tins was an action of ejectment brought by the defendant in error in the district court of Hinsdale County, State of
Colorado, against the plaintiffs in error to recover possession
of a certain portion of the surface location of a mning claim
on Ute Mountain in said county and State. The suit grew
out of conflicting and interfering locations of mining claims
by the parties. The defendant in error was the owner or
claimant of a mining location, called the Annie lode, while
the plaintiffs in error were the owners of a claim called the
Monitor lode. The claim of the latter was first located, but
when the plaintiffs in error applied for a patent the defendant
in error filed an advefse claim to a potion of the same location, and thereafter, under section 2326 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, and within the time prescribed theren,
the defendant in error commenced this action in the state
court to recover possession of the portion of the surface location which was m interference and in controversy between the
parties.
In its complaint or declaration it is alleged that it is the
owner of the Annie lode miung clain, and that defendants
below had, at a certain date, entered upon and ever since
wrongfully held possession of a part of said claim specifically
described, and that the action -was in support of plaintiff's
adverse claim to such portion of the surface location. The
answer of the defendants (plaintiffs in error) interposed a gen-

OCTOBER TERIl:, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-ral denial of all the allegations contained in the complaint or
leclaration.
The question presented on the trial of the controversy, under
the pleadings, was purely one of fact, and had reference to the
true direction which the Monitor lode or vein took after encountering a fault, obstruction or interruption at a point south
of the discovery shaft sunk thereon. It was claimed by the
plaintiff below that the true vein or lode of the Monitor claim
did not bear westwardly so as to cross the Annie lode, but that
its true direction was southeastwardly across the line of its
location, and was not within the distance of one hundred and
fifty feet from the centre of the Annie lode.
The court charged the jury fully and clearly upon this question of fact, as follows
"1st. The court charges you that the defendants have
applied for a patent from the United States on what is claimed
by.them as the Monitor lode mimg claim, in Galena mining
district in this county The plaintiff company has brought
this action in ejectment in support of an adverse claim made
and filed by it to a part thereof described in the complaint as
lying within the boundaries of what is claamed by the plaintiff as the Annie lode.
"2d. The court charges you that if the original locators of
the Monitor lode within the time required by law sunk a sufficient discovery shaft thereon, posted at the point of discovery a sufficient location notice, and properly put out their
boundary posts marking their surface boundaries, and, on
June 20, 1875, recorded their claim in the office of the
county recorder by a sufficient location certificate, in compliance with the law, and the owners thereof have ever
since then performed labor or made improvements thereon
each year to the amount of one hundred dollars or more then
the plaintiff company's original grantor, John Dougherty in
attempting to locate the Annie lode to include a part of such
surface ground and in sinking the discovery shaft thereon in
October, 1878, was primmfacme a trespasser in so doing, and

the plaintiff cannot recover in this action unless it shows that
he was not a trespasser in so doing.

BUSHNELL v. CROOKE

1MING 00.

Opinion -of the Court.

"3d. The court charges you that the plaintiff clais that
the Monitor lode clam was never properly located, and that
the vein on which its discovery shaft is sunk does not rim
down through its surface ground as located to the southwest,
but that it runs off from its surface ground through its southeast side line at a point about - feet from its discovery shaft,
and that by reason thereof Dougherty [plaintiff's grantor]
was not a trespasser in locating the Annie lode discovery
shaft and a, part of its surface ground within the boundary
stakes of the Monitor lode."
"9th. The court charges you that the question here is: Is
the course of the Monitor vein from the discovery shaft down
the mountain towards the southwest, along the line claimed
by defendants, or off through the southeast side line of the
Monitor lode surface grounds or otherwise, as claimed by
plaintiff 2 Lnd the court further charges you that upon this
question the presumption is that the course of the vein is as
located, and the plaintiff company must prove that the course
of the vein is not as located, otherwise, on this point, plaintiff
cannot recover, and your verdict shall be for the defendants.
"10th. The court charges you that it is not sufficient that
the plaintiff merely raises a doubt in your minds as to whether
the Monitor vein runs as the lode is staked or not. The
plaintiff must satisfy you by a preponderance of the testimony
that the lode does npt run as staked, otherwise, upon this
question, you will find for the defendants.
"Ilth. The court charges you that the discoverer and
prior locator of a lode or vein has a right to stake hia lode
according to his best judgment as to where it runs.
"c12th. Such prior locator has a right to move and change
his boundary stakes upon his lode and take his ground thereon
within the legal limits to suit hinself at any time within sixty
days after the date of his location-or discovery notice."
"14th. The court charges you that when a vein branches
in its course a prior ]ocator has a legal right to follow with
his location whichever branch of it he chooses at the time of
making such location."
" 16th. The court instructs the jury in the law of this case

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that if the locators of the Monitor nne made the location on
the Monitor lode or vein and staked it as running down the
mountain in the direction of the Annie vein in controversy,
and uniting therewith or running parallel thereto substantially
through the centre of the surface ground of the Monitor lode
claim, the said Monitor locators or their assignees are entitled
to the whole of said vein as staked, even if the alleged Enterprise vein crosses said Monitor vein and runs in the course of
the Monitor vein as staked, provided that at such crossing the
said veins course so together that it is simply conjectural thai
said 'Monitor' lode is crossed by said so-called 'Enterprise
vein and doe not continue in its course as staked."
"18th. The court instructs you that it is of no consequence
where the so-called Annie vein runs in any part of its course
if Dougherty [the plaintiff's grantor] was a trespasser in
locating it. A trespasser's location is entirely void."
The court then refused to give the following instructions
for the plaintiffs in error
"13. The court charges you that a prospector in locating
his vein is not required to follow it through a fault or other
obstruction which interposes solid country rock in its course,
but m such case he may follow with his location any vein that
continues on from the point of such obstruction in the general
course of his original vein."
"15. The court charges you that if a prospector in locating his lode discovered by a first location secures continuous
Vein matter substantially along through the centre of his
surface ground in a continuous general direction, and so that
the extension of his end lines will include between them all
of his surface ground, he will hold the same and every part
thereof against all subsequent claimants."
It thus appears that the question at issue, under the pleadings and at the trial, was as to the true course of the Monitor
lode or vein down the mountain south of its discovery shaft.
The jury found the following verdict in favor of the defendant
in error - "We, the jury, find the issues joined for the plaintiff, and that it is the owner of and entitled to the possession
of the ground described in the complaint."

BUSHNELL v. CROOKE

INING CO.

Opinion of the.Court.

The plaintiffs in error moved for a new trial on the ground
of error in the charge to the jury, and because of the refusal
of the court to instruct the jury as requested, and for various
reasons, such as the admission of improper testimony offered
by the plaintiff below, and the refusal to admit proper testimony offered by the defendants below, and other alleged
errors and irregularities committed in the progress of the trial,
which are not brought under review in the present case.
A new trial being refused an appeal was taken to the
Supreme Court of Colorado, which held that there was no
error m the instructions given to the jury,.nor in the refusal
to give those requested by the plaintiff in error, and affirmed
the judgment of the lower court. The Supreme Court of
Colorado rested its judgme.1 and affirmance upon the general
proposition that the trnU court had correctly stated to the
jury the principal point in controversy, and had left it properly to them to determine as a matter of fact what was the
course of the Monitor lode. The Supreme Court said "The
controlling issue in the case, we think, was fully understood
by the jury, and was clearly stated by the court in the 9th
instruction, viz. 'The principal point m the controversy
is, upon what vein was the Monitor claim located or what
is the course of said vein. The defendants allege and seek
to prove that the location was made upon a vein which
runs from the discovery shaft of the Monitor across and
towards the vein "upon which the Annie claim was located,
while the plaintiff asserts and seeks to prove that the location
was made upon a vein which runs from the Monitor shaft.
down and nearly parallel with the Annie lode, and which
empties into or connects with the Ule lode. This is the pnncipal point in controversy, and to determine which claim is
best supported by testimony and reason is the province and
duty of the jury '"
After the decision nad been rendered by the Supreme Court
of the -State a petition for rehearing was presented by the
plaintiffs in-error, which, for the first time, sought to present
the question whether section 2322 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States gave to the appellants "' the exclusive right

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of possession' and enjoyment of all other veins and lodes
having their apexes within the Monitor surface ground, which
would give to these appellants beyond all question the so-called
' Enterprise ' that is alleged to ' cross ' the 'Monitor ' on the
surface, and certainly a vein that is thus our own cannot be
used by one who has no interest either in the 'Monitor' or
'Enterprise' title to create any question of lode crossing between them or any other question of conflict. Under such
circumstance there is but one grant, and it is all the ' Monitor'
grant and its rights and title, and such grant is in nowise
severable into a part 'Monitor' and a part 'Enterprise,' no
separate life or vitality being given to the said so-called
Enterprise.'"
The application for rehearing being demed, the present
writ of error was. brought to have the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Colorado reviewed and reversed. The defendants in error have moved to dismiss the writ or affirm
the judgment. The motion to dismiss is based upon several
grounds. The principal and only ground which need be
noticed, however, is that the record Dresents no question of a
federal character such as will give this court jurisdiction to
review the judgment complained of.
It is plainly manifest that neither the pleadings nor the
instructions given and refused present any federal question,
and an examination of the opinion of the Supreme Court
affirming the action of the trial court as to instructions given,
as well as its refusal to give instructions asked by the defendants below, fails to disclose the presence of any federal question. It does not appear from the record that any right,
privilege or immunity under the ConstitUtion or laws of the
United States was specially set up or claimed by the defendant below, or that an such right was denied them, or
was even passed upon by the Supreme Court of the State,
nor does it ap ar, from anything disclosed in the record, that
the necessary' .ffect in law of the judgment was the denial of
any right claimed under the laws of the United.States.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Colorado in no way
brought into question the validity or even construction of any

BUSHNELL

. CROOKE

MINING CO.

Opinion- of the Court.

federal statute, and it certainly did not deny to the plaintiffs
in error any right arising out of the construction of the federal statutes. It was said by the Chief Justice, in Cook County
v Calumet and Chwago Canal Co., 138 U. S. 635, 653 "The
validity of a statute is not drawn m question every tune rights
claimed under such statute are controverted, nor is the validity
of an authority every time an act done by such authority is
disputed."
The attempt to raise for the first time a federal question in
a petition for rehearing, after judgment, even assuming that
the petition presented any such question, is clearly too late.
It has been repeatedly decided by this court that a federal
question, when suggested for the first time in a petition for
rehearing after judgment, is not properly raised so as to
authorize this court to review the decision of the highest
court of the State. Texas & PaczA-l Railway v Southern
PacXic Railroad,137 U. S. 48, 54; .Butlerv Gage, 138 U. S.
52, WFinona & St. Peter Railroad v. Plaqnvew, 143 U. S.
371, leeper v Texas, 139 U. S. 462.
In the case of Doe v City of 2fobile, 9 How 451, it was
held that under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
this court "cannot reexamine the decision of a state court
upon a question of boundary between coterimnous proprietors
of lands depending upon local laws."
The question involved m the present case turned largely
upon the provisions of ยง 3149, 2 Mills"Annotated Stats. of
Colorado, 1788, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of
that State construing the same, as shown by the case of Patterson v Hitchcock, .3 Colorado, 533, which limited the width of
11mng claims to 150 feet in width on each side of the centre
of the lode or vein at the surface. The controverted question
in the case at bar turned upon which direction the Monitor
lone properly ran south of the discovery shaft, and it being
found by the jury that the lode or vein did not bear westwardly toward the Annie lode, but southeastwardly and
across the western side line of the Monitor claim at a distance exceeding 150 feet from the centre of the Annie lode,
it followed that the claim of the plaintiff below was sustained,
VOL. CXLv r--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and the jury accordingly returned its verdict that the plaintiff
below was entitled to the possession thereof.
The question thus presented and decided involved no construction of any federal statute, nor did it become necessary
to determine the rights of the parties under the federal mining statutes.
In .Royv. Colekour, 146 U. S. 153, 159, Mr Justice Harlan,
speaking for the court, said " Our jurisdiction being invoked
upon the ground that a right or immunity, specially set up
dnd claimed under the Constitution or authority of the United
States, has been denied by the judgment sought to be reviewed, it must appear from the record of the case either that
the right, so set up and claimed, was expressly demed, or that
such was the necessary .effect m law of th -judgment."
Applying this rule to the case at bar, there is clearly presented no -federal question, for no right, immunity or authority
under the Constitution or laws of the United States was set
up by the plaintiffs m error, or denied by the Supreme Court
of Colorado, nor did the. judgment of that court necessarily
involve any such question, or the demal of any such right.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the motion to dismiss is
well made, and should be allowed, and. it is accordingly so
ordered.
Dmsssed.
M-R. Jusic, FrELD did not sit

decision.

in this case, or take part in its

