LONERGAN v BUFORD.
Syllabus.

It is said that a person who invokes the doctrine of subrogation
must come into court with clean hands. Sheldon on Subrogation, ยง 44, Railroad Co. v Soutter, 13 Wall. 517, Wilknsonr
v Babbitt, 4 Dillon, 207, Guokenhezmer v Angewne, 81 N. Y
394. They are unfortunately put in the position of claiming
through the judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee,
which held them liable for having participated in the alleged
misconduct of the Register of the Treasury As we hold that
tney are not entitled to invoke the doctrine of subrogation, it
becomes unnecessary for this court to determine as an independent question whether the Register acted within the scope
of his authority in cancelling and reissuing the bonds. The
opinion of the Supreme CoQurt of Tennessee would not be conclusive- upon that point, the government not having been a
party to that action.
Under no view that we have been able to take of this case
can we hold the government liable, and the judgment of the
Court of Claimsis, therefore,
Affirmed.

LONERGAN v. BUFORD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
No. 203. Submitted March 30;-1893.-Decided April10, 1893.

A-contract being entered into for the sale of extensive ranch privileges and
of all the cattle on the ranches except 2000 steers reserved in order to
fulfil a previous contract, it is competent, in an action founded upon it,
to show that the steers contracted by the previous contract to be sold
were to be of the age of two years and upwards; and, that being established, if there were not enough of that age to fulfil the previous contract,
the seller could not take animals of other ages from the rest of the herd
to make up the requisite number.
The contract further provided that payment of the larger part of the consideration money. was to be made in advance, and that delivery was to be,
made on the purchaser's making the final payment on a given day. On
the day named, having made the previous payment, he made the final one
under protest that, inasmuch as the seller declined to make any delivery

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
without receiying the contract price in full, he made it in order to obtain
delivery, and with the distinct avowal that it was not due. Held, that
this was not a voluntary payment, which could not be recovered back in
whole or in part.

ON December 10, 1886, the defendants in error commenced
suit in the District Court of the county of Salt Lake, Utah
'Territory, to recover from the defendants, now plaintiffs in
rror, the sum of $14,110 for breach of a contract of sale.
Defendants appeared and answered. A trial was had before
a jury, and on November 14, 1888, a verdict was returned in
favor of the plaintiffs for $6631.63, upon which verdict judgment was duly entered. An appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, by which court the judgment was
affirmed, and from that court the case has been biought here
on.error. The allegation in the complaint, was, that on July
17, 1886, the parties entered into a contract of which the
parts material to the questions presented are as follows
"This agreement made this seventeenth- day of July, A. D.
1886, by and between Simon Lonergan and William Burke, of
the city of Salt Lake, Teritory of Utah, parties of the first
part, and the Promontory Stock Ranch Company, a partnership composed of M. B. Buford, J W Taylor and George
Crocker, all of the State of California, parties of the second
part, witnesseth
1, Whereas said first parties are the owners of large herds of
cattle now ranging on their ranches in the counties of Oneida,
in Idaho, and Box Elder, in Utah, and have contracted and
agreed, as hereinafter set forth, to sell the same to said second
parties, the exact number of said cattle being unknown, and
whereas said first parties have heretofore sold two thousand
head of steers from said herds, one thousand head of which
have been separated therefrom, and delivered, and one thousand head thereof still remain to be delivered, and whereas
said second parties have agreed to purchase the said herds,
excepting said undelivered one thousand head of steers, -on the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth
"Now, therefore, the said parties do by these presents, in
consideration of ten thousand dollars to them in hand paid,

LONiERGA-

v. BUFORD.

Statement of the Case.

the receipt whereof- is hereby acknowledged, the same to be
credited on the first payment, as hereinafter set forth, contract
and agree to and with the said parties of the second part that.
they will sell, transfer, convey and deliver to said second parties"1. All- of the possessory right which said first parties have
heretofore held, enjoyed and possessed of, in, and to any and
all ranches or ranges in said county of Oneida, in, Idaho, and
in said county of Box Elder, Utah, with all water rights, fences
and improvements thereon or thereto belonging, and further
agree that they or eitherof them will not hereafter herd, keep
or drive any cattle thereon or in any way interfere with the
exclusive right, possession or occupation thereof by said second
parties.
"2. That they will sell, ;transfer and deliver, to said second
parties all of their sgid herds of cattle (excepting said reserved
and undelivered one thousand head of steers) now on said ranges
in said counties of -Oneida and Box Elder, said reserved one
thousand head of steers to be by first parties separated from
said herds andpdriven off of said ranches within ninety days
from July 15, 1886.
"The said. second parties agree and hereby contract to and
with said first parties to purchase the said- properties from
said first parties and to pay therefor, as full consideration for
the whole thereof, the sum of thirty dollars per bead of cattle
delivered, in sight draft on San Francisco, California, to be
promptly paid on presentation.
"And it is mutually agreed, that as a, basis of estimat7
ing the number of cattle sold and the amount to be paid
by said second parties said first parties have already this
year branded fifteen hundred calves, and shall continue to
brand the calves from said herds until they shall have
branded in all the number twenty-two hundred and fifty
head or until December 1, A. D. 1886, but shall brand no
calves after that date, and shall make delivery of all said
properties, to said seccnd parties. so soon as said Lonergan
and Burke shall have branded said twenty-two hundred and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

fifty calves, or in any event said delivery shall be made not
later than December 1, &. D. 186.
"And it is agreed that said herds shall be estimated to
contain three head of cattle for every calf so branded, or
three times the number of calves branded this season and
prior to December 1, 1886, but, in no event to exceed 2250
calves, including the fifteen hundred head now branded.
"The said second parties agree to pay the said first parties
as full consideration for all of said properties, including said
calves, a sum equal to thirty dollars per head of all cattle,
the number being ascertained by the number, of the calves
branded as aforesaid, the first payment on fifteen hundred
calves already branded representing 4500 head of cattle,
equal to $135,000, less the cash payment of $10,000 made at
the date hereof, on August 1, 1886, on all calves branded
over and above said fifteen hundred head, the third and last
payment at the same rate, so soon as said first parties shall
have finished their branding and shall have made delivery of
the entire property hereby contracted to be sold."
It further stated that the 2000 steers mentioned as reserved
and excepted were intended and understood by all the parties
to be steers' of two years old and upward, and not otherwise.
Full performance by the plaintiffs was alleged, and a failure
on the part of defendants to deliver, among other things, 422
head of yearling steers. The answer denied that the 2000
steers mentioned as reserved in the contract were understood
and intended to be of two years old and upward, but, on the
contrary, it was intended and understood by all ihe parties
that yearling steers, as well as others, were included. The
answer also denied the other allegations in the complaint,
except as to the making of the contract, and as to that alleged
full performance by the defendants. On the trial the plaintiffs introduced this contract
" CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, J'hn 29th, 1886.
"We have this day sold to William E. Hawkes, of the city
of Bennington, State of Vermont, one thousand (1000) head
of steers, four hundred (400) two years old, four hundred and

LONERGAIRT v. BUFORD.
Statement of the Case..

fifty (450) three years old, and one hundred and fifty (150)
four years old, branded E0 on the left side and M on the left
side. Said cattle are on our ranch in Box Elder County,
Utah, and Oneida County, Idaho, and are part of a large
herd. The sale is for the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars
(825,000) in cash, to be paid on delivery of the cattle, and
delivery to be made on the 15th day of 'July, 1886.
"And whereas the said Hawkes has purchased the said
cattle with the intention of transferring them to a corporation
to be formed by him
"Now, m consideration of the premises and one dollar to
us in hand paid by- the said Hawkes, we further agree to sell
to such company as soon as the same is incorporated and its
securities are negotiated and within not more than ninety
days from the date hereof and the said company shall then
purchase from us one thousand (1000) additional head of
steers, four hundred (400) two years old, four hundred and
fifty (450) three years old, and one hundred and fifty (150)
four years old, branded in-the like manner as above specified,
and being a part of the cattle now on our ranch as above
described, for the sum of thirty-five thousand dollars, ($35,000,)
delivery of the last-named one thousand (1000) head to be
made at Soda Springs, Idaho, and payment thereof to be
made on delivery
"(Signed)
LONERGAN & BuxXE.
"WM. E. IIAwKEs."
They, also offered the testimony. of certain witnessses to the
effect that Lonergan, one of the defendants, stated to one of
the plaintiffs, in conversations prior to the execution of the
contract sued on, that the steers which had been sold to
Hawkes, and were to be excepted out of the sale to plaintiffs,
were two years old and upwards. All this testimony was
objected to, on the ground that it tended to contradict or vary
the terms of the written agreement between the parties to the
suit, and was incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial. These
objections were overruled, the testimony admitted, and exceptions taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

On December 10, 1886, the very day on which this suit was
commenced, Taylor, one of the plaintiffs, made the final payment to the defendants, at the same time serving them with
this protest"To S. J Lonergan and Win. Burke, Esqs.
1GINTLEmEx You will please take notice that in payment
to you this date of $27,000 as the balance of the purchase
price of certain ranges and herds of cattle in pursuance of a
contract made by us with you on July 17, 1886, we do not
pay the whole thereof voluntarily From information possessed by us we are induced to believe that the entire number
of cattle and horses by the contract aforesaid contemplated to
be delivered to us on, the 1st day of December, A. D. 1886,
cannot be and is not by you so delivered -b . e. that four
hundred and twenty-two yearlings, forty cows, heifers, and
steers, and two buggy-horses, all of the value of $14,110, are
not delivered. %To*,therefore, inasmuch as you decline to
make any delivery under your contract. except upon the payment by us of the entire purchase price, and because we have
already paid you a larger proportion thereof, to wit, $175,500,
we do hereby pay $14,110 of said $27,000 under protest and
with the distinct avowal that the same is not due you.
" PR MONIbIY STOcx RA-wn Co.,

"By JOHN W TAYLOR.
"Salt Lake City, December 10, 1886."
It was ciaimed by the defendants that, notwithstanding
this protest, the payment was voluntary on the part of the
plaintiffs, and that, therefore, no money could be recovered
back.
..

ohkn A. _Marshall for plaintiffs in error.

I. The contract being plain, unambiguous, and susceptible
of legal construction, no evidence should have been admitted
to vary and control its terms, giving to it a different construc-

LONERGAI

v. BUFORD.

Argument for Plaintiffs in 'Error.

tion from that which its language imported. Wilsom v Deen,
74 N. Y 531, 7eazze v .For azth, 76 .Maine, 179, -Dow v
Hrumbert, 91 U. S. 294.
IL Attention is called first to the protest of payment to
the objection to its admission, and to the ninth assignment of
error as to such admission. The coercion or duress which will
render a payment involuntary must consist of some actual or
threatened exercise of power possessed, or believed to be possessed, by the party exacting or receiving the payment over
the person making the payment, from which the latter has no
means of immediate relief except by making payment. Bladwh v. Hutchsn, 95 U. S. 210, Brumagzm v Tillinghast, 18
California, 265, S. C. 79 Am. Dec. 176, .Xays v Cincmnati,
1 Ohio St. 268, Sillimam v United States, 101 U. S. 465, 469.
To entitle a party to recover back money paid under a claim
that it was a forced or compulsory payment, it must appear
that it was paid upon a wrongful claim or unjust demand,
under the pressure of an actual or threatened seizure, or interference with his property of serious import to him, and that
he could escape from or prevent the injury only by making
such payment. Ereamer v Deustermann, (Minn.,) 35 N. W
IRep. 276, Tapley v Tapley, 10 Minnesota, 448, S. C. 88 Am.
Dec. '76, Fargusom v TVinslow, 34 Minnesota, 381, .Emmons
v- Scudder, 115 Mass. 367, 1Ieysham' v. ]Dettre, 89 Penn. St.
506. See, also, .3illqr v Jfiller, 68 Penn. St. 486, Wofe v.
.XarshaZ,52 Missouri, 171, Peyser v .7fayor, '70 N. Y 497,
Silliman v United States, 101 U. S. 469.
The conduct of the parties and the evidence show that the
payment sought, to be recovered back by the defendants in
error was mader by them to plaintiffs in error while the title
to the property was in the plaintiffs in error, and with a full
knowledge on the part of defendants in error of all the facts
given in evidence, wherefore viewed and determined by the
rules as stated in the foregoing authorities, such payment was
voluntary and cannot be recovered back. In other words,
there being no duress of person, or property, or law, the defendants in error failed to make their case, and therefore were not
entitled to recover.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

fXr SamueZ A. 3ferritt for defendants in error.
Mr.

JUSTICE

Br.WER, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
There was no error in admitting in evidence the contract of
sale to Hawkes of the 2000 steers, that being, according to the
testimony, unquestionably the sale referred to in the exception
and reservation named in the contract in suit, nor the statements made by Lonergan, the defendant, in reference to the
ages of the steers which defendants had sold prior to such last
contract, and which they were to except therefrom. This was
not testimony varying or contradicting the terms of the writ-.
ten agreement between the parties, it only interpreted and
made certain those terms, it simply identified the property
which was to pass thereunder to plaintiffs. The exception
was not one by quantity, and simply of 2000 steer s-an
exception which might or might not give to the defendants
the right to select such. steers as they saw- fit - but it was an
exception by description, to wit, of steers that had been sold,
and it was necessary to prove what had been sold in order to
determine what could be and were included within the contract. Until the exception was made certain, that which was
conveyed could not be certain. Take a familiar illustration
A deed conveys a tract of land by metes and bounds, but in
terms excepts therefrom a portion thereof 4heretofore conveyed by the grantor; the former deed is referred to and
described, but the boundaries of the tract conveyed thereby
are not specified. Now, in order that what is conveyed by
the deed in question may be known, the land- excepted therefrom must be known, and for that the deed referred to containing the excepted land-must be produced. The production
of such prior deed is no contradiction, and involves no variance
of the terms of the latteri' but is necessary to make certain
that which is in fact conveyed thereby Or another illustration Suppose a written contract is made for the sale of a herd
of cattle at $30 a head, excepting- therefrom all yearling steers
-would
not parol testimony of the number of yearling steers

LONERGAN v. BUFORD.
Opinion of the Court.

in the herd be necessary in order to show the number of cattle sold, and the aggregate sum to be paid 2 Evidence that
the herd contained 1000 head would not end the question, and
parol testimony of the number of yearling steers would not be
evidence contradicting the contract, on the contrary, it would
be in support thereof, to make certain that which by the
terms of the instrument was not certain.
Again, it is objected that the plaintiffs were not injured by
the failure of the defendants to deliver the four hundred and
twenty-two yearling steers, the idea seeming to be that steers
two years old and upward were delivered instead of such
yearlings. Of this, however, there was no evidence, and the
court expressly charged the jury that "the plaintiffs are
entitled to recover from the defendants for such steers of
the age called for in the contract so failed to be delivered the
value thereof as the testimony and the admission in the
answer shall justify you to determine, provided that you do
not find that the defendants, in lieu of the steers under the
age set forth in the contract so taken away, not delivered, left
other steers of the age called for by the terms of the contract,
and, if so, then the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover for
any steers so left in the place of those taken away, provided
the value of the steers so left (if you find that to be the case)
was equal to the value of the steers-said to have been taken
away by the defendants Lonergan and Burke." The defendants paid for the cattle at an estimate of three head of cattle
for calves branded within a specified time. They were
entitle& to all the cattle belonging to defendants ranging in
the places named, excepting those specially reserved, and if
there were not enough of steers in those herds, of the kind
described, to satisfy the contract which they had made with
Eawkes, they could not make good the deficiency by taking
steerE of a different description, all of which they had sold to
plaintiffs before any attempt at delivery to Rawkes. There
was no error in the ruling in this respect.
Finally, it is objected that the last payment was voluntary,
and, therefore, cannot be recovered, either in whole or in part,
although it was in terms made under protest. It appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

from the, testimony that the defendants refused to deliver
any of the property without full payment. This was at the
commencement of the winter. The plaintiffs had already paid
$175,500, and without payment of the balance they could not
get possession of the property, and it might be exposed to
great loss unless properly cared for during the winter season.
Under those circumstances, we think the payment was one
under duress. It was apparently the only way in which possession could be obtained, except at the end of a lawsuit, and
in the meantime the property was in danger of loss or destruction. Thecase comes within the range of. the case of ]?adick
v Hlutchn , 95 U. S. 210, 213, in which the rule is thus stated
"To constitute the coercion .or duress which will be regarded
as sufficient to make the payment involuntary,
there
must be some actual or threatened exercise of power possessed,
or believed to be possessed, by the party exacting or receiving
the payment over the person or property of another, from which
the latter has no other means of immediate relief than by
making the payment. As stated by the Court of Appeals of
Maryland, the doctrine established, by the authorities is, that
'a payment is not to be regarded as compulsory, unless made
to emancipate the person or property from an actual and existing duress imposed upon it by the party to whom the money
is paid.' 3layor and City Council of Baltimore v. JLfferman,
4 Gill, (Md.,) 425 , Brumagzrm v Tillinghast, 18 Cal. 265 ,
-ays v. Cincmnnati, 1 Ohio St. 268."
In Stenton v Jerome, 541 N. Y 480, the defendants, who
were stockbrokers, held two United States bonds belonging
to the plaintiff, which they threatened to sell unless she paid
a balance claimed by them on account. On p. 485 the
court says "Great stress, however, is laid upon the payment
by the plaintiff of the b.lince shown by the account, as rendered, to be due from her. This payment was in one sense
voluntary, as she was not compelled by physical duress to pay
it. But the defendants held her two bonds, which they
threatened at once to sell unless she would pay this balance.
She had great need for the bonds and could not well. wait for
the slow process of the law to restore them to her, and she

