OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

JOHNSTON v. STANDARD MINING COM1PANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 133. Argued March 10, 1893. -- Decided March 27, 1893.

The mere institution of a suit does not of itself relieve a person from the
charge of laches; and if he fail in its diligent prosecution, the consequences are the same as though no action had been begun.
Where a question of laches is in issue the plaintiff is chargeable with such
knowledge as he might have obtained upon inquiry provided the facts
already known to him were such as. to put the duty of inquiry upon a
man of ordinary intelligence.
The duty of inquiry is all the medre peremptory when the thing in dispute is
mining property, which is of an uncertain character, and is liable to suddenly develop an enormous incrase in value.
In this case it is clear that the plaintiff did not make use of that "diligenae
which the circumstances of the case called for.

THIs was a bill in equity to establish the ownership of the
plaintiff in one-fourth of a mining claim, known as the " J. C.
Johnston lode," and for a decree that the defendant be required
to execute a deed of the same, and to account to plaintiff" for
one-fourth of the .net proceeds of the mine. The bill, which
was originally filed in the state court against the Standard
Mining Company, Isaac W Chatfield, and other defendants,
was subsequently removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States, upon the petition of the Standard Mining Company, as
a suit involving a separate controversy between itself and the
plaintiff Johnston.
The bill averred in substance that on September 14, 1880,
plaintiff, being then the owner and in possession of an undivided
half of the J C. Johnston lode mining claim, situated in the
Roaring Fork Mining District, Pitkii County, Colorado, executed a certain titlQ bond, -whereby he agreed .to sell and convey to the defendant Chatfield an undivided one-fourth interest
in such mining claim, with -other property, for a consideration
of $1200, that on October 12, 1880, plaintiff executed to Chatfield a deed of his entire interest in such mining claim for a
nominal consideration of $1200, that his interest at the time

JOHNSTON v. STANDARD XINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

was an undivided half, and that such conveyance was in pursuance of said bond as to a one-fourth interest covered by said
bond, and as to the remaining one-fourth interest, such conveyance was in trust that Chatfield, with Charles I. Thomson and
Daniel Sayre, who were his legal advisers and were also made
defendants, would defend Johnston's title to this claim against
another, known as the Smuggler claim No. 2, with which these
parties represented to him that it was in conflict, and would
perfect plaintiff's title to the J C. Johnston claimn'by obtainmg a patent therefor, and would thereupon convey to plaintiff
an undivided one-eighth interest in the property free and clear
of all costs and expenses of the patent proceedings and of the
threatened litigation with the Smuggler No. 2 claim, and of all
charges, incumbrances, and assessments, and would hold the
remaining one-eighth of said title for Thomson and Sayre as
compensation for their legal services and for the costs of litigation, "but it was expressly agreed and understood that, if said
services should not be necessary and should not be performed,
said Thomson and Sayre should receive nothing, and that the
said remaining one-eighth should be reconveyed to plaintiff."
The bill further averred that, upon the solicitation of these
parties, plaintiff was induced to employ Thomson and Sayre
upon these terms, and thereupon executed toe deed to Chatfield of all his interest in the claim, and in pursuance of such
agreement, a contract in writing was drawn up, and signed
by Chatfield and plaintiff, whereby the former agreed, upon
perfecting the title to the claim, to convey to plaintiff an
undivided one-eighth free and clear of all expenses and of the
proposed litigation, that plaintiff did not retain a copy of this
contract, but that the same was left in the possession of Thomson.and Sayre, who promised to have the same recorded, but
failed to do so.
The bill further averred that on December 14, 1880, Chatfield conveyed to the Fulton Mining Company, also made a
defendant, all his interest in such claim, that such conveya-nce was made before the incorporation of the Fulton Mining
Company, and, therefore, that it acquired no title by said conveyance; that the incorporators of said Fulton Mining Corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

pany were the defendants in this suit, including Chatfield,
Thomson and Sayre, and the same defendants were all directors of such company for the first year of its existence, and
that all of them had, before such conveyance uy Chatfield
to the company, full knowledge and actual notice of the uses
and trusts upon which Chatfield held plaintiff's title as aforesaid, that in February, 1881, the Fulton Minng Company
made application for letters patent for the J C. Johnston
mining claim, and that letters patent were issued to said
mining company, bearing date February 21, 188-, but that
plaintiff did not learn of the issuance of said patent until
February, 1885, that, upon learning of the same, plaintiff
immediately made demand upon Chatfield individually and
as manager of the Fulton Mining Company for a conveyance
of his interest in the property according to plantiff's contract
with Chatfield, winch demand was refused.
The bill further charged that, from time to time; after the
execution of his contract with Chatfieia, and until he learned
of the issuance of the letters patent to the Fulton Mining
Company, he frequently inquired of Chatfield as to the progress that was being made to perfect the title to the J C.
Johnston claim, and that Chatfield always answered such inquiries that the patent had not been received, but that application had been made therefor, and- that everything would be
all right, that he had implicit confidence in said Chatfield, and knowing also that the issuance of United States
patents for mining claims was usually attended with long
delays, plaintiff never suspected that anything was wrong
until he learned of the issuance of the patent and until his
demand was refused as aforesaid. It was further charged
that no bonc Jide suit or proceeding was ever brought or
threatened by the claimants of Smuggler No. 2 claim, as
was represented by Chatfield, Thomson and Sayre, that the
only such suit ever brought by any clainants of Smuggler
No. 2 was begun in the Circuit Court of the United States
in May, 1881, that a demurrer to the complaint was filed on
July 20, and no further proceedings were taken until December 18, 1882, when the cause was dismissed by stipulation of

JOHNSTON v. STANDARD MINING CO.
Statement of the Case.

the parties, but that such proceedings were taken without the
knowledge or consent of the plaintiff, that such suit was without foundation or merit, and that said Thomson and Sayre
caused the same to be brought only that they might appear
to defend the same, and thereby apparently perform the services for which they were to receive one-eighth share of said
Johnston claim. Plaintiff further averred that he did not discover the fraud practised upon him by the said Thomson and
Sayre until April, 1885, when he was informed of the same by
his attorney, who, at his request, investigated and reported the
facts in relation thereto.
The bill further averred that the Fulton Mining Company
conveyed the claim to one William J Anderson, who was
made a defendant, by deed dated July 5, 1886, for a consideration of $125,000; and that Anderson attempted to convey the
same to the Standard Mining Company, now the sole defendant, by deed dated June 17, 1887, for a consideration of
$2,500,000, but that all of said parties had full knowledge
and actual notice of the plaintiff's interest in the property,
and the trusts upon which Chatfield took title thereto, and
that such conveyances were fraudulent and void as to plaintiff,
and made with special intent to defraud and hinder him.
He further averred that the several defendants had mined
large quantities of ore from the claim,, and pra:yed that he
be adjudged to be the owner of one-fourth of such claim; that
the defendant be decreed to execute a deed of the same to
him, and be required to account to him for the proceeds of
the ore, and that, in case such relief could not be granted,
for a personal judgment against Chatfield for the value of
an undivided one-eighth of such mine, and against Thomson
and Sayre for the value of another one-eighth, and for an
accounting from them personally for the ores mined.
The Standard Mining Company filed its answer to this bill
in the Federal court, and upon the issue formed between the
parties testimony was taken, the case, heard by the.District
Judge, and on March 1, 1889, an interlocutory decree entered
substantially in accordance with the prayer of"the bill, u'nd' an
accounting ordered. The defendant immediately appliebd for

OCTOBER TERM. 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

a rehearing, and the case was reheard without reference to the
grounds relied upon in the petition for rehearing, which did
not raise the question of laches, and the case was again taken
under advisement, when the court delivered a second opinion,
dismissing the bill upon the ground of laches. Thereupon
plaintiff filed a petition for a rehearing upon this question,
which was denied by the court without argument. Plaintiff
thereupon appealed to this court.
YrM Hugh Butler, (with whom was

rMLeon
o 1. Geneate

on the brief,) for appellant.
.Mr
MR.

. S. Thomas for appellee.
JusTic

BiowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion, of the court.
The bill was dismissed in the court below upon the ground
of laches, and the correctness of its ruling in that particular is
the first question presented for our consideration.
The gist of the plaintiff's bill is the alleged fraud of Chatfield in failing to carry out his contract of October 12, 1880,
wherein he agreed, that in the event of succeeding in certain
legal proceedings to be instituted by him for vesting the legal
title to the Johnston claim in the plaintiff, he would convey
to plaintiff an undivided one-eighth interest in the lode free
and clear of all expenses incidental to the litigation, plaintiff
upon his part agreeing to pay an undivided one-eighth of the
expenses which should accrue in the developing and opening
of the lode. The lode in question had been located on the
preceding 4th of August by Johnston as owner of one-half,
Joseph W Adair as owner of one-fourth, and George A.
Orittenden as owner of the remaining fourth. It seems there
was a conflict between this and another mining claim known
as Smuggler No. 2, and the agreement with Chatfield was
made for the purpose of contesting this claim.
It also appeared that plaintiff was one of the parties who
had located the Smuggler No. 2 claim, that early in the year

JOI X$TON v. STANDARD, MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

1880 plaintiff had entered into what is known as a grub-stake
contract with one Acheson individually and as agent and
attorney-in-fact of Edward Dunscomb and James E. Seaver,
whereby plaintiff agreed to locate mining claims on behalf of
himself and these parties, in consideration of which they
agreed to furnish all the supplies and pay all the expenses
which should be required in prospecting, locating and developing such mining claims, that, in pursuance of such agreement, plaintiff found indications of a silver-bearing lode on
Smuggler Mountain, in the Roaring Fork Mining District,
and on April 15, 1880, located Smuggler No. 2 mining claim
upon this vein, that such location was made in the 3oint
names of plaintiff, owner of one-fourth, and .the wives of
Dunscomb and Seaver, each claiming three-eighths, that,
after such location and before the discovery of any vein within
the limits of the Smuggler claim, the other parties abandoned
such claim, failed to furnish the necessary supplies and money
to the plaintiff, who continued to develop and work the
ground on his own account and at his own expense, that, on
August 4, 1880, plaintiff discovered within the limits of said
Smuggler claim a vein or lode, and thereupon duly located
the same as the "J C. Johnston lode" mining claim for the
use of himself, Crittenden and Adair, as above stated, that,
upon learning of such discovery and location, Acheson, Dunscomb and Seaver negotiated with Crittenden and Adair for
the purdhase of their interests in the Johnston claim, and on
August 10, 1880, purchased the same for $1000, that at the
same time they negotiated with plaintiff and agreed to purchase his one-fourth interest, but failed to do so.
Plaintiff further contended that these facts respecting the
location of the two claims, and the negotiations with Acheson,
Dunscomb and Seaver, were known to Chatfield, Thomson
and Sayre, who still insisted that there were certain parties
who, as grantees of Dunscomb and Seaver, claimed title under
the Smuggler location adversely to plaintiff's interest in the
Johnston claim, and that legal proceedings had already been,
or were about to be, commenced to enforce said claims ' that
Chatfield, Thomson and Sayre represented that it was desirable

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

to perfect the title of the Johnston claim by obtaining a patent
therefor, and to this end they had secured or would secure a
conveyance from the owners of the other half of the Johnston
claim. They further represented to him that, for the better
management of the property, they proposed to organize a stock
company, and to that end they had secured the other half interest in the Johnston claim, and that the defendants were then
associated together, and had agreed to organize a stock company for that purpose, and that the Fulton Mining Company
was shortly thereafter incorporated by them. These conflicting claims with regard to'the ownership of the property within
the limits of these two claims were evidently the foundation of
the agreement of October 12. 1880, whereby Chatfieid agreed
to clear up the title to the property, and to convey one-eighth
to the plaintiff.
Most of the testimony was directed to the relative merits of
the Smuggler No. 2 and the J C. Johnston locations, apparently upon the assumption by the defendant that the plaintiff
was bound to prove that the owners of the Johnston lode had
the better title. Plaintiff, however, contends. that the contract
of October 12, 1880, and the other conveyances made about
the same time, when read in the light of the surrounding circumstances, are conclusive evidence of the following First,
that the interest actually purchased by Ohatfield in the Johnston mine was a quarter interest, and that the remaining fourth
of Johnston's interest in the property, which he deeded to
Chatfield, was in trust, second, that this fourth interest was
the interest referred to in the contract as being claimed
adversely to Ohatfield by certain persons, third, that the
defendants Thomson and Sayre were employed to institute the
"legal proceedings" mentioned in the contract, and were to
receive as a contingent fee-for their services in that behalf an
eighth of the Johnston mine, in case those proceedings were.
successful, fourth, that in such case Johnston was to receive
the remaining eighth of this contested quarter, fifth, that the
"legal proceedings" mentioned contemplated and included an
application for letters patent and the acquisition of the government title, as well as a suit of some kind.

JOHNSTON v. STANDARD MININlG CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the basis of the fifth and last prop'osition above stated
the plaintiff contends that- it' would follow that a cause of
action did not accrue to him until a patent had been i~sued by
the government, which did not take place until July,'1884, and
that as the plaintiff was not informed of this fact until some
time in 1885, and as he filed his firsf bill against Ohatfield in
the United States court on August I, 1885, he insists "that hi'e
fulfilled all the requirements of the law with respect to'diligence, and that the defence of laches is not sustained. We
think this position, however, is founded upon a somewhat
strained interpretation of the contract in question. It provides
that "in the event of the party of the first part," '(Chatfield,).
"prevailing and succeeding in certain legal proceedings about
to be instituted' and commenced by the party of the first part
for the vesting of the legal title in the party of the first part,
against persons who claim adversely to him an interest "n the
following-described property,
that the party of the
first part, upon so acquiring the title legal and equitable to
the said mine, by means of the legal proceedings so about to be
commenced, doth hereby covenant and agree to and with the
said party of the second part," (Johnston,) "t6 convey -6'the
said party of the second part an undivided one-eighth intrest "
in and to the said above-described' lod6, which sh'All be freed
and clear from all expense incidental to the litigation incident
to said contempl'--iii'A compliance with this contract
on Chatfield's part evidently requiret the commencement
within a reasonable time, and the diigent prosecution of, a.
suit for the establishment of his title to the property, since the
question of adverse claims could not be determined by th&
mere application for a patent without the institution ofa suit;
or the compromise of these conflicting claims. Thaft'lYis was
the construction put upon it by Chatfield himself is evident
from the fact that, three (lays after this contract was made; he
executed a quit-claim deed to Thomson and Sayre of an undivided oneeighth interest in the Johnston lode for a nominal
consideration-of a5OO. It is admitted, however, that no money
consideration was paid for this conveyance, and .Chatfrld tes
tifies that the actual consideration, for this deed to Thomson

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and Sayre was the legal services which they were to perform
in and about the "legal proceedings" mentioned in the contract, and he further testifies that those services were never
performed. This is all that Chatfield appears to have done at
this time in the performance of his contract. Whether, if suit
had been begun and prosecuted to successful termination, a
bill would have lain before the patent was issued it is not
necessary to decide, since it is clear that the failure of Chatfield to institute legal proceedings within a reasonable time
was a breach of his contract, and entitled plaintiff to treat it
as at an end.
There wdre also significant facts occurring thereafter which
should have put plaintiff upon inquiry, and stimulated him to
activity in asserting his rights. As he was one of the original
locators, both of the Smuggler No. 2 and the Johnston claims,
he must. have known that in any controversy between them,
he would have been an important witness, and the very fact
that he was not called upon indicated that the suit was not
being prosecuted, and -strengthened the inference, derivable
from all the testimony, that the claim was not then considered
of sufficient value to warrant the institution of a suit. That
he was accessible as a witness is evident from his own testimony that he was in Thomson and Sayre's office in 1881, and
was working at that timc for Chatfield on a sub-contract.
The incorporation of the Fulton Mining Company in 1880, and
the conveyTance by Chatfield, Crittenden and Adair of the
entire property to the mining company by deeds put upon
record, were wholly inconsistent with. the spirit, if not with
the letter, of the contract, and were circumstances calculated
to arouse suspicion, since they divested Chatfield of his interest
in the mine, disabled him from instituting legal proceedings in
his own name, and put the ownership of the mine in the shape
of capital stock, which was liable at any time to pass into the
hands of purchasers who might be entirely ignorant of the
plaintiff's interest. It is but 3ust, however, to say in this connection that plaintiff seems to have been apprised of the fact
that these parties were about to associate themselves together
in forming a stock company, and that the advantages of such a
-a

JOHNSTON v. STAN DARD MINING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation were urged upon him, and in his first bill he averred
that it was understood that the company would convey and
transfer to him stock in such company to the amount of his
interest in the lode, and that Chatfield would hold his interest
in trust for the plaintiff until his title to the location had been
established. If he assented to the formation of the corporation and to the transfer of the mine to it, he clearly waived
his right to reclaim an interest in the mine itself. It is also u
circumstance proper to be considered, as hearing .upon the
equities of this defence, that, at the time of the institution of
this suit, a large proportion, if not a majority, of the stock in
this company had passed into the hands of purchasers who had
not been connected .with the formation of the company, and
were entirely ignorant of the Johnston-Chatfield contract.
In May, 1881, plaintiff went to the office of Thomson and
Sayre, in Leadville, asked how the case was, and was informed
that it was compromised. He then told them he would like
to take the papers and copy them. They gave them to him.
He took them and looked them over, went down, to have
them copied, but found it would cost too much, and did not
have it done. These papers were the contracts between Chatfield and himself, Crittenden, Adair and himself, and the
original grub-stake contract between Dunscomb, Seaver and
himself. He must then have been informed of the fact that
the contract of October 12, 1880, had not been recorded,
although Thomson and Sayre promised him it should be.
In 1882 it seems that he spoke to Chatfield, and said that
he thought he ought to be entitled to his interest in the property , that they should -.have gone on and contested the case,
to which Chatfield replied that they had found that there was
"no shadow of a ghost to maintain his case." Even then he
did not act.
It was not until April, 1885, more than a year after the
Fulton Mining Company had obtained a patent to the7 property, that be made aformal demand upon Chatfield, and on
August 1, 1885, filed his first bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States to establish his title to a quarter interest in the
lode. This suit does not seem to have been prosecuted with
VOL. cxLvin-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opnion of the Court.

much diligence, since it was allowed to linger for nearly a
year, and was then dismissed, apparently, for a want of jurisdiction appearing -upon the face of the bill. It has been
frequently held that the mere institution of a suit does not of
itself relieve a person from the charge of laches, and that
if he fail in the diligent prosecution of the action, the consequences are the same as though no action had been begun.
Hawes v Orr, 10 Bush, 431, Erhman v. lfendrwk, 1 Met.
(Ky.) 146, 149, Watson v Wilson, 2 Dana, 406, Perrwr v
Buzzwk, 6 Iowa, 258, Bybee v Summers, 4 Oregon, 351, 361.
On the 19th of August, 1886, a second suit was brought in
the state cQurt, which, after some delay, caused in part by
the death of the plaintiff's counsel, was dismissed because of
a defective summons under the state practice.
While. there is no direct or positive testimony that plaintiff
had knowledge of what was taking place with respect to the
title or development of the property, the circumstances were
such as to put him upon inquiry, and the law is well settled
that, where the question of laches is in issue, the plaintiff is
chargeable with such knowledge as he might have obtained
upon inquiry, provided the facts already known by him were
such as to put upon a man of ordinary intelligence the duty
of- inquiry This principle was applied at the present term of
this court in Foster v .MansfFeld &c. Railway, 146 U. S. 88,
to a case where a stockholder in a railway company sought
to set aside a sale of the road which had taken place ten years
before, when the facts upon which he relied to vacate the sale
were of record and within easy reach. See also Wood v
Carpenter,101 U S. 135, 141, Kennedy v Green, 3 Myl. &
K. 699, 722, Bucener v Calcote, 28 Mississippi, 432; Cole v.
.JcGlathry, 9 Maine, 131, _MAKown v WTk'trnore, 31 Maine,
448.
The duty of inquiry was all the more peremptory in this
case from the fact that the property of itself was of uncertain
character, and was liable, as is most mining property, to suddenly develop an enormous increase in value. This is actually
what took place in this case. A property which, in October,
18.80, plaintiff sold to Chatfield upon the basis of $4800 for

JOHNSTON v. STANDARD MINING 00.
Opinion of the Court.

the whole mine is charged, in a bill filed October 21, 1887,
to be worth $1,000,000, exclusive of its accumulated profits.
Under such circumstances, where property has been developed by the courage and energy and at the expense of the
defendants, courts will look with disfavor upon the claims of
those who have lain idle while awaiting the results of this
development, and will requirenot only clear proof of fraud,
but prompt assertion of plaintiff's rights. Feli ; v Patzlk,
145 U. S. 317, 334, Hoyt v. Latham, 143 U S. 553, 567,
H~ammond v. Hopkmns, 143 U. S. 224, Great West .Min ng
Co. v Voodmas .Afin-ng Co., 14 Colorado, 90.
The language of Mr. Justice Miller in Tw ,Lwk Oil Company v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587, 592, with regard to the fluctuating value of oil wells, is equally applicable to mining lodes
"Property worth thousands to-day is worth nothing to-morrow, and that which to-day would sell for a thousand dollars
at its fair value, may, by the natural changes of a week, or
the energy and courage of desperate enterprise, in the, same
time be made to yield that much every dav The injustice,
therefore, is obvious of permitting one holding the right to
assert an ownership in such property to voluntarily await the
event, and then decide, when the danger which is over has been
at the risk of another, to come in and share the profit."
We think it is clear that the plaintiff did not make use of
that diligence which the circumstances of the case called for,
and the decree of the court below dismissing his bill is,
therefore,
Affrmed.

