SWAN LA.ND AND CATTLE CO. v. FRANK.

603

Syllabus.

ernment of the public schools in incorporated cities has been
in the hands of 'Boards of Education' since 1867. There has
been no legislation respecting Boards of Education of cities of
the first class since Topeka became a city of that class, except
that which regulates the number of members, and fixes their
terms. But it will hardly be contended that the corporate
powers lawfully conferred upon the Board of Education of the
city of Topeka, when said city was a city of the second class,
have been lost or destroyed by reason of the transition of the
city from a city of such class to a city of the first class. It
will, therefore, be considered, for the purposes of this case, that
the public schools of the city of Topeka are 'a body corporate
under the name and style of the Board of Education,' and
that, therefore, said chapter 56 of the Laws of 1885 is not
void for want of a proper body corporate to which it can apply"
That which was true of Topeka is of course true of Atchison,
and the Board of Education of the city of Atchison is a distinct corporation, and the proper one to be sued for the enforcement of a debt like this. Indeed, if it were not a corporate
entity, by what right does it come into court and carry on
this litigation 2
We think this is all that needs to be said in reference to the
questions presented. The defences interposed are purely technical, and, as we think, without foundation.
The judgment 3s affi'med.

SWAN LAND AND CATTLE COMPANY v. FRANK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 153. Argued March 21,1893.-Decided April 10,'1893.

A party having a claim for unliquidated damages against a corporation
which has not been dissolved, but has merely distributed its corporate
funds amongst its stockholders and ceased or suspended business, cannot maintain a suit on the-equity side of the United States Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opuilon of the Court.
against a portion of such stockholders, to reach and subject the assets so
received by them to the payment and satisfaction of his claim, without
first reducing such claim to judgment, and without making the corporation a defendant and bringing it before the court.
Corporations are indispensable parties to a bill which ahects corporate
rights or liabilities.
A claim purely legal, involving a trial at law before a jury, cannot, until reduced to judgment at law, be made the basis of relief in equity.
The general practice in this country and in England, when a bill in equity
is dismissed without a consideration of the merits, is for the court to
express in its decree that the dismissal is without prejudice.

TcE case is stated in the opinion.

.XP ]R kard-D Jones for appellant. .-& Tilliam IT Swzft
filed a brief for same.
.Mr J .M.Woolworth and .Xr L. Mayer for appellees.
Mr. JusTiCE JACKsoN delivered the opinion of the court:.
The appeal in this case presents for our consideration and
determination the question whether the Circuit Courts of the
United States can properly entertain jurisdiction of a suit in
equity which unites and seeks to enforce both legal and equitable demands, when the right to the equitable relief sought
rests and depends upon the legal claim being first ascertained
and established, and where the person against whom such legal
demand is asserted is not made a party defendant, or, stated ill
another form more directly applicable to the present case, can a
party having a claim for unliquidated damages against a corporation, which has not been dissolved, but has merely distributed its corporate funds amongst its stockholders, and ceased or
suspended business, maintain a suit on- the equity side of the
United States Circuit Court against a portion of such stockholders, to reach and subject the assets so received by them to
the payment and satisfaction of his claim, without first reducing such claim to judgment and without making the corpOranon a defendant and bringing it before the court? This
question, which hardly needs or requires more than its bare

SWAN LAND AND CATTLE CO. v. FRANK.

605

Opinion of the Court.
statement to indicate the answer that must be made thereto,
arises as follows
The appellant, the Swan Land and Cattle Company, Limited, a corporation organized under the Companies' jts
of
Great Britain ai being a citizen of that kingdom, filed its
bill in equity in the court below against the appellees, all of
whom are citizens of Illinois, except two who are citizens of
Wyoming, containing substantially the following material
averments That in November, 18S2, three Wyoming corporations, known, respectively, as the Swan and Frank Live Stock
Company, the National Cattle Company, and the Swan,
Frank and Anthony Cattle Company, being the owners of
large herds of cattle and other property in Wyoming, and engaged there m the business of raising and selling what are
known as range cattle, entered into an agreement in writing
with one James Wilson, of Edinburgh, Scotland, acting in his
own behalf and for others to be thereafter associated with him.
in a limited liability company to be formed under the Companies' Acts, of Great Britain, by the terms of which said
company, when organized, was to purchase of the Wyoming
corporations, for the sum of S2,553,825, "all and singular the
lands and tenements, water rights, improvements upon lands,
houses, barns, stables, corrals, and other improvements and
grazing privileges, also, all live stock, consisting of neat cattle, horses and mules belonging to the said three Wyoming
corporatons, or any or either of them, also, all live stock,
brands, tools, implements, wagons, harnesses, ranches, camps,
round-up outfits, and branding irons," belonging to said
Wyoming corporations, all of such property being particularly
enumerated and described in certain inventories annexed to
said agreement. In regard to all the property sold, except the
live stock, the agreement provided that the representations in
those inventories should be verified by a competent inspector
or inspectors to be named by the British company, prior to the
transfer of the title to such property, and that deficiencies, if
any, in such representations should be made good or supplied
by the Wyoming companies. The agreement then provided,
"as to all live stock mentioned and described in said inventorief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that said first parties [the Wyoming corporations] shall and
do hereby agree and guarantee 'to and with said second party
[the British corporation] that the herd-books of said first
parties, showing the acquisitions, increase, dispo*ition of, and
number of cattle now on hand of said first parties, respectively, have been truly and correctly kept", a copy of which
herd-books were required to be furnished to the party of the.
second part.
The bill then -averredthat, after the making and delivery
of this agreement, the vendor companies proceeded to make
the necessary arrangements for the turning over of their
property to the purchater, in accordance with the terms of
the agreement , and that, in pursuance of the agreement,
the said Wilson returned, to Scotland and organized a limited
liability company, completing its organization March 30,
1883. In effecting this organization Wil*on was aided in
inducing parties to-take stock in the new company by a certain report in relation to the properties that were the subject
of the negotiation, made by one Lawson in December, 1882,
who had previously visited and inspected said properties, and
who, it was averred, was acting in the interests of the vendor
corporations, and was in their employ, having received from
them the large sum of $12,000 for said report, and also by
Alexander H. Swan, the presidentl of each -of .the vendor
corporations, who, at that time, was in Scotland, and represented that the number of -cattle the vendors would turn-over,
under the agreement, was 89,167, as was shown by alleged
copies of the herd-books which he produced and also by
certain alleged inventories of the stock on the ranches, and
that any death losses in the herds would be more than made
good by the number of calves on the ranches 'that escaped
branding at the usual branding season, and.who also made
certain estimates as to the ,prospective increase in the, herds,
which representations and estimates were implicitly relied
upon by the parties forming the' new corporation. By a
supplemental agreement, also in writing, -between the contracting parties, it was provided, among-other things, that
Swan should become the general manager of the new com-

SWAN LAND ANXD CATTLE CO. v. FRANK.

607

Opinion of the Court.

pany at a salary of $10,000 a year, and he and the vendor
companies should subscribe for 10,000 shares of stock in the
new company, and the vendors then agreed that if the
number of calves branded in 1883 belonging to. the herds sold
should be fewer than 17,868, then they should be jointly and
severally bound to pay to the new company.-$31.68 for each
deficiency in that number:
The bill then averred that the vendors represented that it
would be impossible to count the cattle, upon the ranches,
and that the new -company would be obliged -to take possession of them, wherever they might be ranging, without any
count being made, and that, relying upon all these representations made by the vendors, and in their behalf, as above
set forth, the new-company received delivery of the property
so purchased by it and paid the purchaseprice it bad agreed
to pay, in the manner agreed upon, and did- and performed
all the things it was required -to do and perform by the terms
of the aforesaid, agreements.
The bill then averred that the representations made by the
vendors, and in-their behalf, as respects the number of cattle
on the ranches, and which were relied upon -by the parties
forming the new company, were grossly untrue, and known
at the time hy the vendor companies to be so, and that the
number of cattle -actually turned over to the new company,
under the agreement, was, at least, .30,000 less than was
represented by the vendors, whereby it had suffered loss and
damage in -the sum of, at least, $800,000.
The bill then proceeded as follows "Your orator further
showeth .that said vendors had no other business except the
managemet of. the herds sold to your orator,-and no other
assets, or substantially none, except the properties sold by
them to your orator, and your orator showeth that, after th6
sale of their said properties to your orator, and the receipt by
them of the purchase price, as aforesaid, said, three- vendors
paid whatever liabilities they had outstanding, except their
liability to your orator herein set forth, and distributed the
money and stock obtained from your orator as the proceeds
of said sale and all their other assets amongst their respective

OCTOBER TElMA. 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

shareholders, and the same were received by said shareholders,
and since that time said three corporations have not, nor has
either of them, made any use whatever of their franchises, but
they have abandoned the same, and neither of -said corporations has any officer or agent upon whom process can be
served, and they have not, nor has either of them, any assets
of any kind out of which any judgment at common law
against them, or either of them, could be satisfied. Your
orator further showeth that the assets 'of said corporation
were in the hands of said corporations a trust fund, held by
said corporataons in trust to satisfy the claim of your orator
herein set forth, before the shareholders of said corporations
were entitled to receive any portion of the same, and said
shareholders, in receiving said assets, did take and now hold
the same as trustees in place of said corporations, and subject
to the lien of your orator's aforesaid claim, and should account for the same to your orator, and apply the same, so far
as necessary, in satisfaction of your orator s claim herein set
forth."
The bill prayed that the several defendants be required to
answer certain mnterrogatories thereto attached, but not under
oath, and that whatever property each and every one of them
may have received from the vendor corporations, or any of
them, in the distribution of the assets aforesaid, be decreed to
have been taken and to be held by them in trust for the payment of the claim of the plaintiff, and "be applied, so far as
shall be necessary, in satisfaction of the damages which shall
be found due to your orator from the vendors aforesaid upon
final hearing hereof," and for other and further relief, etc.
The three vendor corporations were not made parties defendant to the suit. The two Wyoming defendants were not served
with process, ani did not appear in the case. The Illinois
defendants who were served with process entered a special
appearance, and demurred to the bill upon three grounds
(1) That the bill (lid not state a case within the equity jurisdiction of the court, or one entitling the complainant to any
discovery or equitable relief as prayed, (2) that the several
vendor corporations, and each of them, were necessary parties

SWAN L

D AND CATTLE CO. "v.FRANK.

609

OpmIon of the Court.

to the suit, and (3) that the averments of the bill are too general in their nature to charge th defendants or either of them
as a trustee of any portion of the assets of any one of the
vendor corporations.
The demurrer was sustained by the Circuit Court and the
bill dismissed, (39 Fed. Rep. 456,) and an appeal from that
decree brings the case here.
The grounds upon which the court below based its decision
and decree were (1) that the complainant had no standing in
a court of equity without first reducing its claim for damages
to a judgment, and (2) that even if that position be untenable, still the vendor corporations were necessary and indispensable parties to the suit.
The bill does not seek to .hold the defendants below personally liable for the alleged fraud committed by the vendor
corporations m which they were stockholders. There is no
averment or even intimation in the bill that the defendants in
any way participated in the fraudulent misrepresentations of
the vendor companies, on which it is charged the complainant
relied and acted to its injury They are, therefore, not personally responsible for any damage resulting to the complainant by reason of the alleged fraud.
The theory of the bill is, that the assets of the vendor corporations which have been distributed to and received by the
defendants as stockholders constitute a trust fund for the
payment- of all debts and demands against the companies, and
may, therefore, be followed in the hands of, and recovered
from, such stockholders, to the extent necessary to discharge
valid claims against the corporations from which they were
received. The funds sought to be reached are undoubtedly
applicable, under proper proceedings against all necessary
Vparties, to the payment, so far as may be needed, of outstand
ing indebtedness against the corporations which distributed
the same, but the difficulty here is that the complainant has
not adopted the requisite and necessary procedure to subject
said funds thereto. It has no judgment against the corporations by which it was defrauded, nor are such corporations
made parties defendant to the suit or brought before the
VOL. CXLVn-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1892. _
Opinion of the Court.

court. The stockholder defendants, who have been served
with process and entered their appearance, do not undertake
to represent, and cannot in any way represent, the corporations against whom the claim for damages is asserted. Bronson v La Crosse & -Milwaukee Railroad, 2 Wall. 283, 301,
302.
Now, it is too clear to admit of discussion that the various
corporations charged with the fraud which has resulted in
damage to the complainant are necessary and indispensable
parties to any suit to establish the alleged fraud and to determine the damages arising therefrom. Unless made parties
to the proceeding in which these matters are to be passed upon
and adjudicated, neither they nor their other stockholders
would be concluded by the decree. The defendants cannot
be required to litigate those questions which primarily and
directly involve issues with third parties not before the court.
As any decree rendered against them would not bind either
the corporations or their co-shareholders, it would manifestly
violate all rules of equity pleading and practice to pursue and
hold the defendants on an unliquidated demand for damages
against companies not before the court. The complainant's
right to follow the corporate funds in the hands of the defendants depends upon its having a valid claim for damages against
the vendor corporations. That demand is not only legal in
character, but can be settled and determined and the amount
thereof ascertained by some appropriate proceeding to which
the corporations against which it is made are parties and have
an opportunity to be heard. Stockholders cannot be required
to represent their corporations in litigation' involving such
questions and issues. The corporations themselves are indispensable parties to a bill which affects corporate rights or
liabilities. Thus, in Deerfield v iVims, 110 fass. 115, it was
held that the corporation was a necessary party in a bill by
a creditor of the corporation against its officers or stockholders
who had divided its assets among themselves. So, in Gaylords
v Kelshaw, 1 Wall. 81, 82, it was held by this court that in
a bill to set aside a conveyance as made without consideration
and in fraud of creditors, the alleged fraudulent grantor is

SWAN LALND AND CATTLE CO. v. FRANK.

611

Opinion of the Court.

a necessary defendant, because it was- his debtq that were
sought to be collected and his fraudulent conduct that required
investigation.
The general rule that suits in equity cannot be entertained
and decrees be rendered, when necessary or indispensable
parties, whether corporations or individuals, are not brought
before the court, is not affected by section I of the act of February 28, 1839, c. 36, re-enacted in section 737 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States, as this court has repeatedly held.
,Shelds v Barrow, 17 How 130, 141, Cotron et al. v I.illaudon, 19 Row. 113, 115, Ogilvte v Enox Ins. Co:, 22 How
380; Barney v. Baltimore, 6 Wall. 280, Davenport v Dows,
18 Wall. 626. The same rule is applied in respect to averments
as to citizenship of necessary parties to confer jurisdiction or
the right of removal. Thayer v Ltfe Assoczatzon of Amerea,
112 U: S. '717, 719, St. Iouts & San .Franczsco.Railway v
Wfilson, 114 U. S. 60, 62.
To take the present case out of the operation of the general
rule, it is argued on behalf of appellants that the bill discloses
such a practical abandonment of their franchises as to amount
to a dissolution of the vendor corporations. We cannot so
construe the bill. The dissolution of corporations is or may
be effected by expirations of their charters, by failure of any
essential part of the corporate organizations that cannot be
restored, by dissolution and surrender of their franchises with
the consent of the State, by legislative enactment within constitutional authority, by forfeiture of their franchises and
judgment- of dissolution declared in regular judicial proceedings, or by other lawful means. No such dissolution is alleged
in the bill. The averments that said corporations paid all
other liabilities, and thereafter distributed their remaining
assets amongst their respective stockholders, and have since
made no use of their franchises, and have no agent or officer
upon whom process can be served, and no assets out of which
any judgment against them could be satisfied, fall far short of
a dissolution such as would prevent a suit against the corporations or their trustees as provided by the laws of Wyoming,
to establish the validity and amount of the appellants' claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the\ Court.

for damages. (Sees. 506, 515.) The cases cited to the p6int
that, when the corporation is dissolved, the necessity for making it a party is dispensed with, need not, therefore, be
reviewed. They are not applicable to the present case. It
does not help the matter that complainant could not get the
vendor corporations before the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois. That fact in no way affects the question
of their being necessary parties, without whose presence no
decree could be rendered against the appellees. We do not
deem it necessary to refer to the Wyoming statutes further
than to say we think they provide the means by which the
vendor corporations could there have been sued.
We are also clearly of opinion that the court below was
correct in sustaining the demurrer to the bill upon the other
ground assigned, that the complainant had not previously
reduced its demand against the vendor corporations to judgment. That claim was purely legal, involving a trial at law
before a jury Until reduced to judgment at law, it could not
be made the basis of relief in equity This is well settled by
the decisions of this court in Taylor v. Bowker, 111 U S. 110,
.Natonal Tube Works Co. v Ballow, 146 U S. 517, 523, and
Scott v teely, 140 U. S. 106, 115. In this latter case the
subject is fully reviewed and the question settled so far as the
federal courts are concerned.
Our conclusion is that there is no error in the decree of the
Circuit Court sustaining the demurrer to the bill, but we are of
opinion that the bill, instead of being dismissed generally,
should have been dismissed without prejudice. In Durant v
Essex Cormpany, 7 Wall. 107, 113, it is said that the general
practice in this country and in England, when a bill in equity
is dismissed without a consideration of the merits, is for the
court to express in its decree that the dismissal is without
prejudice, and that the omission of that qualification in -a
proper case will be corrected by this court on appeal, in support of which numerous authorities are cited. In Kendig v.
Dean, 97 U. S. 423, 426, the same practice was adopted.
The decree must, therefore, be modifed at appellants' costs,
and the cause remanded with directions to dism2ss the bill
without prejudice, and qt s so ordered.

SWAN LAND AND CATTLE CO. v. FRANK.

613

Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

Mm. JUSTIC B.RowN dissenting.
I concur in the opinion of the court that the question involved in this case needs little more than its bare statement to
indicate the answer that should be made to it. But I do not
concur in the answer made by the court. Admitting to the
fullest extent the proposition that the mere discontinuance of
business by a corporation, the sale of its assets, the failure to
re-elect officers and the non-user of its franchise, do not, zvso
facto, work a dissolution of the corporation, it seems to me that
this is aside from the merits of the case. I agree, too, that
before resorting to the stockholders a judgment should, if possible, be obtained against the principal debtors, -whichin this
case are the three Wyoming corporations. But the law does not
compel that which is impossible, and if the facts alleged in
the bill show that no judgment can be obtained against the
corporations, and that it is useless to pursue them, the bare existence of such corporations ought not to defeat the recovery
of a just claim. I do not understand it to be denied that if
the corporations had been formally dissolved by the decree of
a competent court, the plaintiff might have maintained this
bill, and the fact that it had no judgment against the corporations would be no defence.
Now, the allegations of the bill in this case are such as to
show, not only that the Wyoming corporations are practically
dissolved, and exist only in name, but that it would be impossible to obtain a judgment against them in the jurisdiction
where they were organized. The Revised Statutes of Wyoming (see. 2431) provide that "A summons against a corporation may be served upon the president, mayor, chairman or
president of the board of directors or trustees, or other chief
officer, or if its chief officer be not found in the county, upon
its cashier, treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent, or
if none of the aforesaid officers can be .found, by a copy left
at the office or other place of business of said corporation,
with the person having charge thereof." In that connection
the allegation of the bill is, "that after the sale of their said
properties to your orator and the receipt by them of the pur-

OCTOBE9 TERM, 1892.
Dissenting Opinion. Brown, J.

chase price as aforesaid, said three vendors paid whatever
liabilities they had outstanding except their liability to your
orator herein set forth, and -distributed the money and stock
obtained from your orator as the proceeds of said sale and all
their other assets amongst their respective shareholders, and
the same were received by said. shareholders, and since that
'ime said three coyporatzons have not nor has either of them
made any use 'whatever of their franchises, but they have-abandoned the same, and neither of said coporatwns has any qificer
or agent upon whom process can be served, and they have not
nor has either of them any assets of any kind out of which
any judgment at common law against them or either of them
could be satisfied." Now, if there be no officer or agent of
a corporation upon whom process can be served, it follows
that there can be no office or other place of business of such
corporation within the meaing of section 2431, since the only
object of an office or place of business is for the accommodation
of an officer or agent. The act does not authorize service upon
a trustee, but only upon the president of the board of trustees
who would, of course, be an officer of the corporation. The
allegations of the bill in these particulars may be shown to be
untrue, but upon demurrer they must be taken as true.
• It is true that by section 2435 "service by publication mayin actions against a corporation incorporated
be had
under the laws of this Territory, which has failed to elect
officers, or to appoint an agent, upon whom service of sumand which has no place of doing
mons can be made,
business in this Territory"
But, while such service by publication might be effective so
far as to charge any property of the corporation within the
Territory, it would not create a general liability against the
corporation which would be available elsewhere. This court
has repeatedly held that a personal judgment is without any
-validity if it be rendered against a party served only by publication of a summons, but upon whom no personal service of
process within the State was made, and who did not appear.
Pennoye'r v _eff, 95 U S. 114, Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S.
47; St. (lair v Cox, 106 U. S. 350.

