OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

operator in bringing every part of the hat in contact with the
pouncing cylinder. He himself speaks of the presser pin as
"a peculiar and novel feature" of his machine, its operation
being as follows "The hat to be pounced can be caused to
be revolved about it as a centre by means of the pressure
exerted upon it, so that every part of the hat, except that
immediately under the presser pin, would, m its rotation, come
in contact with the pouncing cylinder, and by lessening the
pressure the hat would be drawn under the presser pin in any
desired direction, and that part of it which had formed the
centre of rotation would then be pounced." As either the
guard or presser pin, or both, are made an element in all
the claims of his patent but the fifth, it is quite evident that
this was his real invention, and that his fifth and last claim
was suggested by a desire to make his patent as sweeping as
possible.
It is true that the Taylor machine seems to be capable of
doing more work and at less expense for labor and pouncing
mateiial than the prior devices, which it appears to have
largely supplanted., but this consideration, while persuasive,
is by no means decisive, and is only available to turn the
scale in cases of grave doubt respecting the validity of the
invention.

The decree of the court below holding the fifth claim of
tns patent to have been anticipated by the second claim of
the Eickemeyer patent is, therefore,
.Afirred.

SMITE v. TOWNSEND.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

TERRITORY

OF

OKL4.HOMA.
No. 1173. Submitted March 6, 1893. -Decided

April 3, 1893.

An employ6 of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad, residing
within the Territory of Oklahoma before, up to and on the 22d day of
April, 1889, was thereby disabled- from making a homestead entry upon
the tract of land on which he was residing.

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Statement of the Case.

Ox April 30, 1891, the appellant filed his complaint m the
District Court of Oklahoma County, Territory of Oklahoma.
In this complaint he alleged his citizenship, and full qualification to enter public lands under the homestead laws of the
United States, that during the years 1888 and 1889 the Atchison, Topeka and Santa F6 Railroad Company was engaged.
m operating a railroad through the Indian Territory, having
a right of way therein, granted by treaty with the Indians,
and acts of Congress, that during those years he was employed as a section hand by said company, and resided in a
station-house belonging to it, on the right of way, at a place
known as Edmond Station, that he entered into the employment of the railroad company, and continued.m such employment, and commenced living at said Edmond Station without
any intent to take lands within the Indian Territory, but solely
to discharge his duties as an employe of the company, that
when the lands surrounding said station were open to settlement, under the acts of Congress of March 1 and 2, 1889, and
the proclamation of the President, of March 23, 1889, plaintiff
was at said Edmond Station, and on said right of way, and
soon after the hour of noon on April 22, 1889, went upon the
land in controversy and settled upon it as his homestead,.and
with the intention to occupy and enter it as his homestead
under the laws of the United States, that pursuant to such
intention he built a house thereon and btherwise unproved the
premises, and dwelt upon it as his home, and on April 23,
1889, duly made an entry at the proper land office at Guthrie,
Indian Territory, that on the 22d of June, 1889, the defendant filed in the local land office a contest, which contest was
heard in such land office on the following statement of facts
"Alexander F Smith had been for a long time prior to
March 2, 1889, in the employ of the A., T. & S. F R. R. Co.
as a section hand, and on January 30, 1889, came to Edmond,
Oklahoma Territory, in that capacity, bringing Ins family
with him. He did not enter the Territory with the expectation or intention of taking land in the Oklahoma Territory
He remained in the employ of the railroad company until
noon of April 22, 1889, Santa F . R. time, when he removed

OCTOBER TERMT,

1892.

Statement of the Case.

his tent to a point about one hundred and fifty yards distant
from the right of way of said railroad and on the land in controversy, where he put it up and moved into it. From January 30, 1889, Smith lived with Ins family in his tent on the
right of way of the A., T. & S. F R. R., where it passes
through the land in controversy Prior to April 22, 1889,
Smith had indicated his intention to take the land m controversy by stating the fact to his fellow-workmen, but had
done no act toward carrying out said intention. A. notice
was posted at the station of Edmond by A., T. & S. F R. IR. Co.,
warning all, employes that if they expected to take land they
must leave the Oklahoma country, and this fact was called to
Smith's notice. Smith has since noon of April 22, 1889, contmued to reside upon, cultivate and improve said land, in
good faith, as a homestead, and -now has improvements
thereon. Smith is a legally qualified homesteader unless excluded by reason of his being in the Oklahoma country prior
to April, 1889. Smith is at present in the employ of the A.,
T. & S. F R. R. Co., and has been most of the tune since
April 22, 1889."
That on the trial of said contest the local land officers
decided in plaintiff's favor; but on appeal to the Commissioner
of the Land Office, he reversed their decision, which ruling of
the Commissioner was subsequently affirmed by the Secretary
of th9 Interior, and on February 28, 1891, plaintiff's homestead entry was cancelled, and that the defendant, on March
12, 1891, made a homestead entry' of the land, which homestead entry was, on the 30th day of April, 1891, commuted,
the land paid for at a dollar and a quarter per acre, and a
final receipt issued therefor. Plaintiff clauns that there was
error of law in the ruling of the Commissioner of the Land
Office and of the Secretary -of the Interior, and prays that the
defendant be decreed to hold the legal title to the land in
trust for his use and benefit. To this bill of complaint a
demurrer was filed, which, on May 16, 1891, was sustained by
the District Court, and the complaint dismissed. From the
decree of dismissal an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which, on the first day of February, 1892,

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed the decision of the District Court. From that judgment of affirmance, the appellant has appealed to this court.
MAbr A. H. Garlandand _Mr E. J May for appellant.
Mr .Asswtant Attorney General Parker, Mr John F
Stone, .M{r CharlesA. Maxwell and Mr George S. Chase for
appellee.
M i.

JUSTICoE

BRxEwE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case turns on the construction to be given to the acts
of March 1 and 2, 1889, and the proclamation of the President
of March 23, 1889. The act of March 1, 1889, 25 Stat. 757,
759, c. 317, was an act ratifying and confirming an agreement
with the Muscogee (or Creek) Indians in the Indian Territory,
whereby a large body of their lands had been ceded to the
United States. The second section of the act was m these
words.
"That the lands acquired by the United States under said
agreement shall be a part of the public domain, but they
shall only be disposed of rn accordance with the laws regulatang homestead entries, and to the persons qualified to make
such homestead entries, not exceeding one hundred and sixty
acres to one qualified claimant. And the provisions, of section
twenty-three hundred and one of the Revised Statutes of the
United States shall not apply to any lands ;acquired under
said agreement. Any person who may enter upon any part
-of said lands in said. agreement mentioned prior to the tine
that the same are opened to settlement by act of- Congress
shall not be permitted to occupy or to make entry of such
lands or lay any claim thereto."
In the general Indian appropriation act, passed the next
day, March 2, 1889, 25 Stat.,980, 1005, c. 412, was contained
this provision applicable to these lands, as well as to lands
acquired from the Seminoles
"And provzdedfurther., .That each entry shall be-m square
form as nearly as practicable and no person be permitted to
enter more than one quarter section thereof, but until said

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

lands are opened for settlement by proclamation of the President, no person shall be permitted to enter upon and occupy
the same, and no person violating this provision shall ever be
permitted to enter any of said lands or acquire any right
thereto."
And the proclamation of the President of March 23, 1889,
contained this warning " Ifarning is hereby again expressly
given, that no person entering -uponand occupying said lands
before said hour of twelve o'clock, noon, of the twenty-second
day of April, A. D. eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, hereinbefore fixed, will ever be permitted to enter any of said lands
or acquire lany rights thereto, and that the officers of the
United States will be required to strictly enforce the provision of the act of Congress to the above effect." 26 Stat. 1546.
It is well settled that where the language of 'a statute is in
any manner ambiguous, or the meaning doubtful, resort may
be had to the surrounding circumstances, the history of the
times, and the defect or mischief which the statute was
intended to remedy Thus, in Reydo'.s Case, 3 Rep. 7 b, it is
stated that it was resolved by the Barons of the Exchequer as
follows
"For the sure and true interpretation of all statutes in
general, be they penal or beneficial, restrictive or enlarging
of the common law, four things are to be discerned and
considered
"First. What was the common law before the making of
the act.
"Second. What was the mischief and defect for which the
common law did not provide.
"Third. What remedy the Parliament bath resolved and
appointed to cure the disease of the commonwealth.
"Fourth. The true reason of the remedy"
And by this court, in United States v. Unwn Pacfic Railroad, 91 U. S. 72, 79, it was said that "courts, in construng a
statute, may with propriety recur to the history of the times
when it was passed, and this is frequently, necessary, in order
to ascertain the reason as well as the meamg of particular
provisions m it. Aldrzdge v 'filliams, 3 How 24, Preston

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Browder, 1 Wheat. 120." And in -Platt v. Unzon Pa.9lc
Railroad, 99 U. S. 48, 61, that "in endeavoring to ascertain
what the Congress of 1862 intended, we must, as far as possible,
place ourselves in the light that Congress enjoyed, look at
things as they appeared to it, and discover its purpose from
the language used in connection with the attending circumstances." Pursuing an inquiry along this line, it will be seen
that the Indian Territory lies between the State of Texas on
the south and the State of Kansas on the north, and it is a
matter of public history, of which we may take judicial notice,
that as these two States began to be filled up with settlers,
long-ong eyes were turned by many upon this body of land
lying between them, occupied only by Indians, and though
the Territory was reserved, by statute for the occupation of
the Indians, there was great difficulty in restraining settlers
from entering and occupying it. Repeated proclamations were
issued by successive Presidents, warning against such entry
and occupation. Thus, on April 26,. 1879;, President Hayes
issued a proclamation containing this warning
"Now, therefore, for the purpose of properly protecting the
interests of the Indian nations and tribes, as well as of the
United States in said Indian Territory, and of duly enforcing
the laws governing the same, I, Rutherford B. Hayes, President of the United States, do admomsh and warn all such persons so intending or preparing to remove upon said lands or
into said Territory, without permission of the proper agent of
the Indian Department, against any attempt to so remove
or settle upon any of the lands -of said Territory, and I do
further warn and notify any and ali such persons who may so
offend, that they will be speedily and immediately removed
therefrom by the agent according to the laws made and provided, and if necessary, the aid and assistance of the nrilitary
forces of the United States will be invoked to carry into
proper execution the laws of the United States herein referred
to." 21 Stat. *797.
A similar proclamation was issued on February 12, 1880,
(21 Stat. '798,) another by President Arthur, on July 1, 1884,
(23 Stat. 835,) and a fourth by President Cleveland, on M[arch

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

13, 1885 (23 Stat. 843). This latter proclamation recited a
fact, whilh is also a matter of public history, as follows "And,
whereas, it is further alleged that certain other persons or
associations within the territory and jurisdiction of the United
States have begun and set on foot preparations for an organized
and forcible,entry and settlement upon the aforesaid lands, and
are now threatening such entry and occupation." And the
urgency of the situation is disclosed by these closing words of
the proclamation
"-And if this admonition and warning
be not sufficient to effect the purposes and intentions of the
government as herein declared, the military power of the
United States will be invoked to abate all such unauthorized
possession, to prevent such threatened entry and occupation, and to remove all such intruders from the said Indianlands."
In addition to the fact disclosed by these proclamations, of
the long-continued and persistent efforts to force an entry into
this territory, it is well known that as the time drew near to
the opening of it for occupation under and by virtue of the
treaties with the Indian tribes, and in accordance with the
laws of Congress, there was a large gathering of persons along
the borders of this territory waiting the coming of the exact
moment at which it-would be lawful for them to move into
it and establish homestead and other settlements. Under such
circumstances as these, this legislation was passed, and what,
in view thereof was the intent of Congress? As disclosed on
the face of this legislation, evidently its purpose was to secure
equality'between all who desired to establish settlements in
that territory The language- is general and comprehensive
"Any person who may enter upon any part of said lands
prior to the time that the same are opened to settlemei t
shhll not b6 permitted to' occupy -or to make
entry of such lands or lay any claim thereto." "Until' said
lands are opened for settlement by proclamation of the Presi'dent, no person shall be permitted to enter upon and occupy
the same, and no person violating this provison shall 'ever be
permitted to enter any of said lands, or acquire any right
thereto." lNo exception is made from the general language

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

of these provisions, and it was evidently the expectation of
Oongress that they would be enforced in the spirit of equality
suggested by the generality of the language.
It is urged that there is a penal element in each of these
sections, and that, therefore, the statute must be strictly construed. This penal element is found in those clauses which
debar one violating the provisions of the 'sections from ever
entering any of the lands, or acquirmg any rights :therein.
But whatever of a penal element may be found in these, parts
of the sections, does not extend to those which are simply
declaratory of the conditions upon which entry and occupation may be made. Provisions of like character are frequently
found in statutes and constitutions. The general homestead
law gives a right of homestead to persons possessing certain
qualifications, but it is in no sense, therefore, a penal statute
as to those not possessing such qualifications. The Constitution of the United States restricts the.presidency to naturalborn citizens, and such as are thirty-five years of age, and
have been residents of the country for fourteen years, but
there is nothing in this of a penal nature as against those not
possessed of these qualifications. If Congress sees fit to impose a penalty on any individual who attempts to eiter a
homestead without possessing the statutory qualifications, the
clause imposing the penaltv may require a strict construction
in a proceeding against the alleged wrongdoer, but that does
not give to the residue of the statute, prescribing the qualifications, a penal character. That portion which describes the
qua ifications for entry is to be liberally construed,, m order
that no one be permitted to avail himself of the bounty of
Congress,, unless evidently of the classes Congress intended
should enjoy that bounty
This idea is expressed in 1 131.
Com. 88, in -these words.
"CStatutes against frauds are to be liberally and beneficially'
expounded. This may seem a Qontradiction to the last rule,
most statutes.against frauds being in their consequences penaL
But this difference is here to be taken where the statute acts
upon the offender, and inflicts a penalty, as the pillory or a
fine, it is then to be taken strictly, but when the statute acts
VOL. CXLVIH-32

OCTOBER TERM 1892.
Opnion of the Court.

upon the offence, by setting aside the fraudulent transaction,
here it is to be construed liberally"
Construing the statute in the light of these observations, it
will be noticed, fiist, that the provisions apply to the land
collectively The prohibition is against entering upon "any
part of said lands," meamng thereby the whole body of
lamds, and in this body was included the right of way of the
railroad company The company had simply an easement,
not a fee m the land. Its rights sprang from the act of
Congress of July 4, 1984, 23 Stat. 78, c. 179, granting the
right of way to the Southern Kansas Railway Company,
whose successor in interest was the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa F6 Railroad Company This act, by section 2, granted
a right of way, and also provided that the land taken therefor should be used only for the construction and operation of
railroad, telegraph and telephone lines, and that whenever
any portion thereof ceased to be .so used, it should revert to
the nation or tribe of Indians from which it was taken. The
act further provided, section 7,that the officers and employ s
might reside on the right of way, but subject to the provisions of the Indian intercourse laws, and such rules and
regulations as might be established by the Secretary of the
Interior m accordance therewith. And, by section 10,. the
grant was made conditioned that neither the company, nor
its successors or assigns, should aid, advise or assist in any
effort looking towards the change of the present tenure of
the Indians in their lands, or attempt to secure from the
Indian nations any further grant of lands or its occupancy
In other words, the entire body of lands still remained
Indian lands-the fee'continued in the Indians, and all that
the company received was a mere right of way So, when
the treaty of cession was ufade between the Creek Nation of
Indians and the government, it was a cession of all lands
lying west of a certain line, with no exceptions, and it was
this body of lands which- was declared by the act of ]March
1, 1889, to be a part of the public domain, and thereafter
subject to homestead entries_, and the proclamation of the
Presid nt, naming the exact hour at which the lands should

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Opinion of the Court.

be open to settlement, describes a body of land by metes and
bounds, and.makes no exception of the railroad right of way,
though it does of two acres, specially described and reserved
for governmental use and control. Doubtless whoever obtained title from the government to any quarter section of
land through which ran this right of way would acquire a
fee to the. whole tract subject to the easement of the company, and if ever the use of that right of way 'was abandoned by the railroad company the easement would cease, and
the full title to that right of way would vest in the patentee
of the land. But whether this be so or not, it is enough that
m the cession, in the acts of Congress, and in the proclamation of the President the land was dealt with as an entirety,
with certain metes and bounds, and it is that body of lands,
thus bounded, which all parties were forbidden to qnter upon
who desired thereafter to enter any portion as a homestead.
Counsel contend that the words "enter" and "entry"
have a techical meanmg in the land laws, that the disqualification in the act of March 1, from entering upon any-part
of said lands, was modified by the act of Mlarch 2, so as to
make it consist in entry and occupation, both being essential,
and, quoting from the brief, "this was done to relieve the
thousands of persons, or ' boomers,' as they were called, from
the disability they may have incurred by an entry alone, but
to keep them from selecting and occupyiig -that is, living
on any tract of land prior to the tune when the land should
be opened to settlement and entry under the proclamation
which the act of March 2 authorized the President to issue,the clause was inserted that Iany person entering upon and
occupying the same' should be disqualified."
Their idea seems to be, that parties might go wheresoever
they pleased through this body of lands, without subjecting
themselves to the disqualification of the statute, providing
only that before the date fixed for the opening of the lands
for settlement they did not commence an actual living upon
the particular tracts they desired to enter as homesteads.
Under such a construction anybody might go into the Territory - every quarter section might be occupied by a resident

OCTOBER TERIE, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

-and all that would be necessary to prevent the operation of
the statute would be that on noon of April 22 adjoining neighbors changed their residences. Thus it would be that each
party entering upon and occupying any particular tract, entered
upon and occupied it for the first time after noon of April 22,
and so was entitled to perfect his homestead entry But this
is simply to ematculate the statute. It treats the act of March
I as repealed by that of March 2, and repeals by implication
are not favored. It would destroy absolutely that equality
which -as evidently the intent of Congress in the legislation.
Two parties might rightfully, immediately after the acts of
Congress and the proclamation of the President, enter upon
and occupy two adjoining tracts, and then change at the
moment fixed, and thus create as to those respective tracts
thus changed a prior occupation, as against all parties not
reaching the Territory 'ntil April 22. "Enter" and " entry"
may be technical words in the statute, but the expressions
"enter upon" and "enter upon and occupy" are used in
the ordinary sense of the words, and have no technical significance m this statute. The evident intent of Congress was,
by this legislation, to put a wall around this entire Territory, and disqualify from the right to acquire, under the
homestead laws, any tract within its limits, every one who
was not oufslde of that wall on April 22. When the hour
came the -wall was thrown down, and it was a race between
all outside for the various tracts they might desire to take to
themselves as homesteads.
But it is said that the appellant was rightfully on the railroad company's tight of way, that he had the express sanction of Congress to be there, and that when the hour of noon
of April 22 arrived he had, as an American citizen, possessing
the qualifications named in the homestead laws, the right to
enter upon any tract within the Territory for the purpose of
making it is homestead. While he may have had all the
qualifications prescribed by the general homestead law, he did
not have the qualifications prescribed by this statute, and
there is nothing to prevent Congress, when it opens a particular tract for occupation, from placing additional qualifications

SMITH v. TOWNSEND.
Opmion of the Court.

on those who shall be permitted to take any portion thereof.
That is what Congress did m this case. It must be presumed
to have known the fact that on this right of way were many
persons properly and legally there, it must-also have known
that many other persons were rightfully-m the Territory Indian agents, deputy marshals, mail carriers and many
others, and if it intended that these parties, thus rightfully
within the Territory on the, day named, should have special
advantage in the entry of tracts they desired for occupancy,
it would have been -very easy to have said so. The general
language used in these sections indicates that it was the intent
to make the disqualifications universally absolute. It does
not say "any person who may wrongfully enter," etc., but
"any person who may enter" - "rightfully or wrongfully"
is inplied. There are special reasons why it must be believed
that Congress intended no relaxation of these disqualifications
on the part of those on the company's right of way, for it is
obvious that, when a railroad runs through unoccupied territory like-Oldahoma, which on a given day is opened for settlement, -numbers of settlers will immediately pour into it, and
large cities -will shortly grow up along the line of the road,
and it cannot be believed that Congress intended that they
who were on this right of way in the employ of the railroad
company should have a special advantage of selecting tracts,
just outside that right of way, and which would doubtless
soon become the sites of towns and cities.
It may be said that if this literal and comprehensive meaning is given to these words, it would follow that any one
who, after March 2 and before April 22, should chance to
step within the limits of the Territory, would be forever disqualified from taking a homestead therein. Doubtless he
would be within the letter of the statute, but if at the hour
of noon on April 22, when the legal barrier was by the President destroyed, he was in fact outside of the limits of the
Territory, it may perhaps be said that if within the letter he
was not within the spirit of the law, and, therefore, not disqualified from taking a homestead. Be that as it may, -and
it will be time enough to consider that question when it is

