MARTIN v. SNYDER.
Opinion of the Court.

MARTIN v. SNYDER.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERI

COURT OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 131. Argued and submitted March 9, 10, 1893. -Decided

April0, 1893.

A defendant residing within a State in which an action is commenced in a
court of the State, is not entitled, under the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
552, c. 373, to have the suit removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States.

THE

case -s stated m the opinion.

.Mr D I ]oorhees and MP Z. B. Hilles,(with whom was
.2r Reese H. Voor ees on the brief,) for appellants. _Mr
G IV .Yetzinger also filed a brief for appellants.
.Mr Allan C. Story for appellee.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE This was a bill of complaint fied by
Samuel F Engs, George Engs and Henry Snyder, Jr., of the
city, county and State of New York, against Morris T. Martin
and Carrie E. Martin, in the Circuit Court of Lake County m
the State of Illinois, on the 27th of October, 1887.
November 7, 1887, tle defendants preferred a petition for
the removal of the cause to the United States Circuit Court
within and for the Northern District of Illinois on the ground
of diverse citizenship, and the case was transferred accordingly
The petition stated "that the controversy in said suit is
between 6itizens -of different States, and that the petitioners
were at the time of the commencement of tins suit and still
are citizens of the State of Illinois, and that all the plaintiffs
were then and still are citizeng ut the State of New York."
Under the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 652,
c. 373, it is the defendant or defendants who are non-residents

OCTOBER TERe, 1892.
Names of Counsel.

of the State in which the action is pending, who may remove
the same into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district. The defendants here were not entitled to
such removal, and the decree, which was in favor of complainants and from which the defendants prosecuted this
appeal, must be reversed for want of jurisdiction, with costs
against the appellants, and the case remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to render a judgment against them for
costs m that court, and to remand the case to the state court.
Torrence v Shedd, 144 U. S. 527, 533.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded accordingly.

IVEXIA v. OLIVER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 182. Submitted March 23, 1893. -Decided

April 17, 1893.

In Texas, a married woman, who owns land in her own right, cannot convey
it by her husband, as her attorney, under a power of attorney from her
to him, without herself signing and acknowledging privily the deed,
although her husband joins in the deed individually.
Where a suit is brought in Texas by a married woman and her husband, to
recover possession of land, her separate property, and the petition is
endorsed with a notice that the action is brought as well to try title as for
damages, it is error to admit in evidence against the plaintiffls such a
power of attorney and deed, although there is an issue as to boundary
and acquiescence and ratification.
It does not appear beyond a doubt that such error could not prejudice the
rights of the plaintiffs.

THE case is stated m the opmon.

.fr 1Filliam, S. Fliypin and .fA&A. H. Evans for plaintiffs
m error.
_Mr S. L. Samuels and Xr A. C. Prendergastfor defendant
in error.

