OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

certain per centum of the active service pay of the grade held
by such officer at the time of his retirement. His active service pay at that time has always been taken as the basis in
ascertaining his future pay, and we are unable to discover in
the act in question any design to modify this persistent rule.
It would appear not only that Congress has manifested no
intention by the act of 1883 to change the laws governing the
pay of retired officers, but that it has, in at least one instance,
shown the contrary purpose. By a provision in the fifth section of the act of July 15, 1870, no officer promoted upon the
retired list "shall, in consequence of such promotion, be entitled to any increase of pay"
It can hardly be the intention of counsel to assume that the
amount of pay in question in this case should be calculated as
though Professor iRoget was retired in 1873 instead of in 1864.
The retirement of an officer is a proceeding that can only
take place in a prescribed manner, and it is not pretended
that such proceeding occurred, with reference to that officer,
more than once.
The Court of Claims was right in dismissing the petition of
the claimant, and the judgment of that court is
Ajfirmed.

MARX v. JIANTHORN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THF4

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 123. Argued January 19, 20, 1893.-Decided March 6,1893.

To make a tax sale valid, observance of every safeguard to the owner
created by statute is imperatively necessary.
When not modified by statute, the burden of proof is on the holder of a
tax deed to maintain his title, when questioned, by showing that the
provisions of the statute have been complied with.
It is competent for a legislature to declare that a tax deed shall be prima
facie evidence, not only of the regularity of the sale, but also of all prior
proceedings, and of title in the purchaser; but as the legislature cannot
deprive one of his property by making his adversary's claim to it conclu-

MARX v. HAITHORN.
Statement of the Case.
sive of its own validity, it cannot make a tax deed conclusive evidence
of the holder's title to the.land.
The reasonable meaning of the Oregon statutes regulating notices and sales
of property for taxes, (Gen. Laws, ed. 1874, 767 §§ 90,93, Hill's Ann.
Laws, 1309,) is that such notice and advertisement should give the correct names of those whose property is to be sold.
Notice in Oregon that the property of Ida J. Hawthorn was to be sold was
not only not notice that the property of Ida J. Hanthorn was to be-sold,
but was actually misleading, and such want of notice or misleading
notice vitiated the sale.

THIS action was brought by the plaintiff, a subject of the
Emperor of Germany, against the defendant, a citizen of
Oregon, to recover the possession of lots 3 and 4, in block
E, in the town of Portland.
The action was originally brought against B. Campbell, the
party in possession, who, having answered that he was in
possession as the tenant of Ida J. Hanthorn, the latter was
substituted for him as defendant.
It is alleged in the complaint that the plaintiff is the owner
of the premises, and that the defendant wrongfully withholds
from him the possession thereof.
The answer contains a denial of the allegations of, the complaint and aplea of title in the defendant, with a right to the
possession, and the replication denies the plea.
The defendant claims the premises under a deed of August
28, 1878, from W- W.. Chapman and Margaret F., his wife,
the latter being. the patentee of the United. States, under the
dbnation act of 1850, of a tract of ]and- including said block
E. The plaintiff claims under two deeds, one-from ex-Sheriff
Sears of July 29, and tlhe other from Sheriff Jordan of July
30, 1886, each purporting to be made in pursuance.of a sale of
the property for taxes by the former on June 30, 1881.
By a stipulation filed in the cause it is admitted that the
defendant was the owner in fee of the premises at the time
of the assessment and sale of the same for taxes, and that she
is still such owner, unless such sale and the conveyance thereon
had the effect to pass the title to the purchaser thereat, and
that the property is wofth -$6000.
The case was tried by the court without the intervention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

of a jury, and on the trial the proceedings, constituting the
assessment, levy of taxes, and the sale of the property and
the conveyance thereon, were received in evidence, subject
to objection for want of competency and materiality From
these it appears that on August 27, 1883, the premises were
listed by the assessor of Multnomah County, on the assessment-roll thereof, for taxation in that year as the property
of Ida F Hanthorn, and valued at $2200, that on October
17, 1883, the entry on the assessment-roll concerning said
property was transcribed on to the tax-roll of said county by
the clerk thereof, and on the same day the taxes for school,
state and county purposes, amounting to $34.32, were leviod
on said property and extended on said tax-roll by the county
court of said county, and the sheriff thereof commanded, by
a warrant endorsed thereon, signed by the county clerk and
sealed with the seal of said court, to collect said taxes by
demanding payment of the same and making sale of the
goods and chattels of the persons charged therewith, that
the sheriff, George 0. Sears, to whom said warrant was
directed, having returned that the tax levied on said property was unpaid and delinquent, the latter was, on April 22,
1884, entered on the delinquent tax-roll of said county by the
clerk thereof as the property of Ida F Hawthorne, and a warrant endorsed thereon, signed by said clerk and sealed with
the seal of said county, commanding said sheriff to levy on
the goods of the delinquent taxpayer, and in default thereof
on the real property mentioned in said tax-list, or sufficient
thereof to satisfy said taxes, charges and expenses, that
afterward said sheriff returned that he received said delinquent tax-list and warrant on April 22, 1884, and, in pursuance thereof and in default of personal property, he levied
on said lots three and four, and advertised and sold the same
on June 18, 1884, as the property of Ida J. Hawthorn, to J E.
Bennett for $37.51, the amount of said delinquent tax and
costs and expenses thereon, that on July 29, 1886, George C.
Sears, as ex-sheriff of said Multnomah County, executed and
delivered to said Bennett a deed for the premises, in which
the proceedings concerning the assessment of said property,

IARX v. HANTTHORN.
Statement-of the Case.

the levy of the taxes thereon, the non-payment and delinquency of the same, and the sale of the property therefor
were substantially recited, except that it does not thereby
appear that the premises were entered on the delinquent
tax-list or advertised or sold as the property of Ida F Hawthorn, but as that of Ida F Hanthorn, and that on July 30,
1886, Thomas A. Jordan, as sheriff of said Multnomah Couity,
by A. W Witherell, deputy, executed and delivered to said
Bennett a deed of the premises, containing the same recitals
as the one from Sears. Each deed was acknowledged on the
day of its execution and afterwards admitted to record. The
original Jordan deed was put in evidence and also a certified
copy of the record, but the execution of the original was not
otherwise proved, and it is contended that the acknowlecigment is not legal, and that therefore it cannot be read in evidence without direct proof of its execution.
On July 31, 1886, Bennett and his wife, Alvfra F., in consideration of $500, as recited in the deed, ,quitclaimed the
premises to the plaintiff.
The statute of the State of Oregon, in relation to the
validity and effect of tax deeds, provides as follows
"SEC. 90. After expiration of two years from the date of
such certificate, if no redemption shall have been made, the
sheriff shall execute to the purchaser, his heirs or assigns,
a deed of conveyance, reciting or stating a description of the
property sold, the amount bid, the year in which the tax was
levied, that the tax was unpaid at the time of the sale, and
that no redemption has been made, and such deed shall
operate to convey a legal.and equitable title to the purchaser,
sold in fee simple to the grantee named in the deed, and
upon the delivery of such deed all the proceedings required
or directed by law, in relation to the levy, assessment a-'d
collection of the taxes, and the sale of the property, shall be
presumed regular, and to have been had and done in accordance with law, and such deed shall be prmna facte evidence
of title in the grantee, and such presumption and such Prsma
facie shall not be disputed or avoided except by proof of
either (1) fraud in the assessment or -collection of the tax,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

(2) payment of the tax before sale or redemption after the
sale, (3) that the payment or redemption was prevented by
the fraud of the purchaser, (4)that the property was sold
for taxes for which the owner of the property at the time of
the sale was not liable, and that no part of the tax was levied
or assessed upon the property sold."
"SEo. 93. All sales made for delinquent taxes
must be made as is otherwise made in selling real estate upon
an execution, at the court-house door between the hours of
ten o'clock A.m. and four P.m., m the daytime, and notice of
such sale shall be given in some public newspaper, published
in the county where the property is situated, or in case no
paper is published in the county, then in the paper published
nearest the place of sale, and in genetal circulation in the
county, by advertisement for four consecutive weeks before
such sale, describing accurately the lots or lands to be sold,
and that they are to be sold for taxes due thereon." General
Laws of Oregon, c. 57, p. 767, ed. 1874.
On March 23, 1887, -the defendant, Ida J Hianthorn, commenced a suit in equity in the Circuit Court of the UnitedStates against E. Marx, the plaintiff in this suit, for the
purpose of determining his claim to the premises, alleging
that the tax deed under which the plaintiff claims title to the
same was void, for certain reasons, and brought into court
and tendered him the sum of $50.60 in payment of what was
due him thereon.
On February 21, 1887, after the present case had been
submitted to the court below for decision, the legislature of
Oregon amended said section 90 of the tax law so as to make
a tax deed only _'nna facze evidence of title in the grantee,
and requiring the party claiming to be the owner as against
the holder of the tax title to tender and pay into court, with
his answer, the amount of the taxes for which the land was
sold, with interest thereon: at the rate of 20 per cent per
annum from the sale to the date of the deed, together with
any taxes the purchaser may have paid, with interest thereon,
for the benefit of the holder of the tax deed, his heits or
.assigns, in case the same should be held invalid.

MARX. v. HANTHORN.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The court below found and adjudged that the alleged tax
sale was illegal and void, that the plaintiff was not entitled
to recover, that the defendant was the owner of the premises
and entitled to the possession thereof, 30 Fed. Rep. 579; and
from this judgment the plaintiff brought his writ of error to
this court.
.Mr pTohn H .Mithe l and Mr John -M. Gearn for plaintiff in error.
The names ":Hawthorn" and "Hanthorn" are so nearly
alike that the rule sdem sonans applies. This rule may be
thus stated. Absolute accuracy in spelling names is not
required in legal documents or proceedings, either civil or
criminal, but if the name as spelled in the document, though
different from the correct spelling thereof, conveys to the ear
when pronounced according to commonly accepted methods a
sound practically identical with the sound of the correct name
as commonly pronounced, the name as thus given is a sufficient
designation of the individual referred to, and no advantage
can be taken of the clerical error. State v Havely, 21 Missouri, 498, (Havely and Haverly), Robson v Thomas, 55
Missouri, 581, (Mathews and Mather), State v. Scurry, 3
Rich, (Law,) 68, (Anthorn and Antrum), MeLaughlin v
State, 52 Indiana, 47.6, (McLaughlin and McGloflin),

Wil-

liams v Ogle, 2 Strange, 889, (Segrave and Seagrave), Ward
v The State, 28 Alabama, 53, (Chambles and Chamb]ess),
State v Hutson, 15 Missouri, 512, (Hutson and Hudson),
Fletcher v Conly, 2 Greene, (Iowa,) 88, (Conly and Conolly),
Gahan v. The People, 58 Illinois, 160, (Danner and Dannaher), Colburn v Bancroft, 23 Pick. 57, (06burn and Colburn), Commonwealth v Jennsngs, 121 Mass. 47, (Gigger
and Jiger), Tibbetts v iah, 2 N. H. 557, (Kiah and Currier), The State v Timmens, 4 Minnesota,,325, (Fourai and
Forrest).
But conceding for the sake of .this argument that Hantl)orn
is not sufficiently like Hawthorn to warrant us in luvdiug
the rule of 'dem sonans, appellant insists that the error, if
VOL. cxLvin-12

OCTOBER TEIRMf, 1892Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

error there be, in the notice of sale is immaterial and does
not avoid the deed. The name of the owner or the person
against whom the tax is assessed is not a part of the statutory notice. The statute is complied with if the lots or lands
are accurately described. And, even if the statute had required that the name of the owner should be inserted in the
published notice, the failure to do so would not avoid the
sale. A statutory provision requiring notice of sale on execution to be given is directory If a defective notice is given
it does not affect the title of the purchaser.
Smith v Randall, 6 Califorma, 47, S. . 65 Am. Dec. 475,
Harvey v Fisk, 9 California, 93, *IFood v .ifoorelwuse,45
N. Y 368, HIudgens v Jackson, 51 Alabama, 514, 1enox v
Clarke, 52 Missouri, 115, Ilendr-ik v Davis, 27 Georgia, 167,
S. C. 73 Am. Dec. 726, Curd v .ackland, 49 -Missouri, 451,
Perkins v. Spaulding,2 Michigan, 157, Osgood v Blackmore,
59 Illinois, 261.; Jack-son v Spink,.59 Illinois, 404, MJcRlea v
Davneir 8 Oregon, 63.
Legslative acts intended to cure and preclude inquiry into
defective attempts to exercise the power of taxation have
been enacted in many of the States. The power to pass such
laws has been uniformly sustained. In lrilliams v Albany,
122 U. S. 154, -Mtattingly v .Dstrictqf Columbla, 97 U. S.
687, W7r ig/t v Young, 6 Oregon, 87, Mathews v Eddy, 4
Oregon, 225, Dollph v Barney, 5 Oregon, 191, Ml-ae v
Davnezr, 8 Oregon, 63.
The proceedings leading up to the tax sale in this case,
including the Sheriff's advertisement of the delinquent tax
list, were in all respects regular But even if they were irregular in the matter of the publication of the delinquent tax
list, the deed precluded inquiry into that fact, and the conelusive presumption provided for by statute operated in favor
of plaintiff in error.
The tax sale in this case took place July 18, 1884. The
tax deed was executed July 29, 1886. Complaint was filed
August 3, 1886, and the case tried October 22, 1886. The
decision of the Court was filed April 22, 1887.
On Ml[arch 23, 1887, the defendant in error began a suit in

MARX v. HANTHORT.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

equity in the court below against plaintiff in error, setting
up, this statute and seeking relief under it. That suit, as
appears from the opinion of the court in this case, was decided
adversely to defendant in error, and no appeal has ever been
taken from such decision. Judge Deady, in passing upon the
question, says: "I have considered whether this section 90,
as amended, is applicable as a rule of evidence to the case
under consideration. When the State sold these lots to Bennett it entered, into a contract with him the obligation of
which it cannot impair by any subsequent legislation."
If any claim should be made here that defendant in error is
benefited by the act of 1887, we answer that such cannot be
the case, for two reasons
(1) This act does not operate on plaintiff's tax deed. It
does not purport to, and cannot if it did, affect a deed made
before its passage. Von. flofman v Quncy, 4 Wall. 535,
.Murray v Charleston, 96 U. S. 432, Green v B-idde, .8
Wheat. 1, Ogden v Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, ]Fa7ker -t.
ztlehead, 16 Wall. 314, St urges v Crownznshield, 4 Wheat.
122, Edwards v Rearzey, 96 U S. 595, Green v Barr,
15 Wall. 610.
(2) But conceding that this law of 1887 is constitutionl
and applicable to the present case, of what benefit can it lie
to the defendant in error 9 It substitutes a przma face piesumption for a concluszve presumption. But a przma facze
presumption in the absence of attack is as good-as a conclusive
presumption. No attack was attempted to be made .upon the
regularity of these proceedings, except as to the publication
of the aname in the delinquent list-something not required
by the statute. The record is all here, and it is not pretended
that any irregularity can be shown but this. And the authorities hereinbefore referred'to conclusively show that this, even
if open to attack, would not vitiate the sale. On the record
a§ made we need no presumption,, either conclusive or prmn.
facme.

-Hr IV
N Do.pk, (with whom was .-1 George H Durhair.
on the brief,) for defendant-in -error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
As there must be express statutory authority for selling
lands for taxes, and as such sale is in the nature of an exa_parte
proceeding, there must be, in order to make out a valid title,
a substantial compliance with the provisions of the law
authorizing the sale. A statutory power, to be validly executed, must be executed according to the statutory directions.
It is, no doubt, true that there may be provisions in tax laws
the interest of the public, and which do not
that are made in"
concern the taxpayer, and a failure to punctiliously observe
them may furnish him with no just ground of complaint.
But the well established rule is, as above stated, that observance of every safeguard to the owner created by the statute
is imperatively necessary So, too, it is the rule, when not
modified by statute, that the burthen of proof is on the holder
of a tax deed to maintain his title by affirmatively showing
that the provisions of the law have been complied with.
We do not perceive that these generai rules have been
materially modified by the statutes of Oregon, to which our
attention has been called. It is true that, as to certain preliminary and directory conditions of tax sales, the Oregon
statute, dated December 18, 1865, and cited as section 90 of
the general laws, declares that upon delivery of a tax deed
"all the proceedings required or directed by law in relation to
the levy, assessment and collection of the taxes and the sale
of the property shall be presumed regular, and to have been
had and done in accordance with law, and such deed shall be
prnma facew evidence of title in the grantee, and such presumption and such pmma face shall not be disputed or
avoided, except by proof of either, (1) fraud in the assessment
or collection of the tax, (2) payment of the tax before sale,
or redemption after sale, (3) that the payment or redemption
was prevented by the fraud of the purchaser; (4)that the
property was sold for taxes for which the owner of the property at the time of the sale was not liable, and that no part of
the tax was levied or assessed upon the property sold." But

MARX v. HANTHORN.
Opinion of the Court.

by the amendatory act of February 21, 1887, (2 Hill's Annotated Laws, 1309, ed. 1892.) the provision respecting the
evidential effect of the deed was changed so as to read as
follows. "Upon the delivery of such deed all the proceedings
required or directed by law in relation to the levy, assessment
and collection of the taxes, and the sale of the property, shall
be presumed regular, and such deed shall be 2rzma fae
evidence of title in the grantee."
At the trial the plaintiff, the holder of the- tax deed, was
given the benefit of this legislation, as his deed was treated as
making out a prsma face right to recover, and the evidence
upon which the questions in the case arose was put in by the
defendant.
It was, indeed, contended- by the plaintiff in the court below
and likewise in this court, that the irregularities or disregard
of law which, in the opinion of that court, invalidated the tax
sale, had to do with proceedings which the act of 1865 protected from inquiry, and in respect to which it made the tax
deed absolute evidence, and that, therefore, the subsequent.
legislation declaring the effect of the tax deed, as evidence, to
be merelyyrzmafaie, was unconstitutional and ineffective- so
far as the plaintiff was concerned, he having received his
deed before the enactment of the latter law
Courts of high authority have held that. mere rules of
evidence do not form part of contracts entered into while
they are in force, and that it is competent for the legislature
to, from time to time, change the rules of evidence, and to
make .such change applicable to existing causes of action.
Rtch v Flanders,39 N. H. 304, -_Howar"d v Mfoot, 64 N. Y
.262,
endall v Kingston, 5 Mass. 524, Commonwealth v
Williams, 6 Gray, 1, Goshen v. R.Iahmond, 4 Allen, 458.
"It must be evident that a mght to have one's controverstes
determined by excsting rules of evzdence zs not a vested right.
These rules pertain to the remedies which the State provides
for its citizens, and, generally, in lhgal contemplation, they
neither enter into and constitute a part of any contract, nor
can be regarded as being of the essence of any right which a
party may seek to enforce. Like other rules affecting the

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

remedy, they must, therefore, at all times be subject to modification and control by the legislature, and the changes which are
enacted may lawfully be made applicable to existing causes of
action, even in those States in which retrospective laws are forbidden." Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 457, 4th ed. 1878.
But as the court below held that, if and so far as the legislature had the power to and did make the tax deed conclusive
evidence of title, the legislature hd no .power, as against a
purchaser under that law, to make the deed, by a subsequent
enactment, prm~nacte only, it is not necessary for this court
to consider wbether we can adopt that view of the question.
The court held that even if the act of 1887 could not constitutonally avail, as against the plaintiff, to change the evidential effect of the tax teed, yet that the act of 1865 could
not operate to preVent the defendant from showing that she
had no notice, actual or constructive, of the tax sale. .I'or.ster
v. Forster, 129 Alass. 559.
The view of the court was that notice of the sale was an
essential part of the proceedings, that the legislature did not
have the power to make the tax deed conclusive evidence of
the fact, that there must be an opportunity given for investigation and trial, and that the legislature cannot, under the
pretence of prescribing rules of evidence, preclude a party
from making proof of his right by arbitrarily and unreasonably declaring that on some particular circumstance being
shown by the other party the controversy is closed by a
conclusive presumption in favor of the latter.
Without going at length into the discussion of a subject
so often considered, we think the conclusion reached by the
courts generally may be stated as follows 'It is competent for
the legislature to declare that a tax deed shall be pnma fame
evidence not only of the regularity of the sale, but of all prior
proceedings, and of title in the purchaser, but that the legislature cannot deprive one of his property by making his adversary's claim to it, whatever that claim may be, conclusive
of its own validity, and it cannot, therefore, make the tax
deed conclusivep evidence of the holder's title to the land.
Mr. Cooley sums up his examination of the cases on this

MARX v. HANTHORN.
Opinion of the Court.

subject in the following statement. "That a tax deed can be
made conclusive evidence of title in the grantee we think is
more than doubtful. The attempt is a plain violation of the
great principle of Magna Charta, which has been incorporated
ia our bill of rights, and, if successful, would in many cases
dc.prive the citizen of his property by proceedings absolutely
without warrant of law or of justice, it is not in the power
of any American legislature to deprive one of his property
by making his adversary's claim to it, whatever that claim
may be, conclusive of its own validity It cannot, therefore,
make the tax deed conclusive evidence of the holder's title to
the land, or of the possible jurisdictional facts which would
make out title. But the legislature might doubtless make
the deed conclusive evidence of
everything except
the essentials." Cooley on Taxation, 521, 5th ed. 1886.
This brings us to a consideration of the matters put in
evidence by the defendant, going to overthrow the prima
face presumptions created by the tax deed. There were two.
The land in question was admitted to belong to Ida J Hanthorn, and that fact was found by the court below, but on
the delinquent tax roll the property is alleged to belong to
Ida F Hawthorne, and it further appears by the return of the
sheriff that the property was advertised and sold as the
property of Ida F Hawthorn.
It was the opinion of the court below that due and
reasonable notice of the sale of property for a delinquent tax
is necessary for the validity of such sale, and that the fair
meaning of the Oregon statutes regulating judicial sales and
sales for taxes is that the name of the owner of the lands to
be sold shall appear in the notice of sale, and the court was
further of the opinion that to give notice that the property
of Ida F Hawthorn was to be sold was not only not notice
that the property of Ida J Hanthorn was to be sold, but
was actually misleading, and that such want of notice or
misleading notice vitiated the sale.
It is contended, on behalf of the -plaintiff, that the statute
does not require that the notice should name the owner or
name him correctly; that it is sufficient to correctly describe

OCTOBER TERA, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the property which is to be sold, and that, at any rate, the
notice in the present case was sufficient within the meaning of
the rule of sdem sonans.
We agree with the court below in thinking that the
reasonable meaning of the statutes regulating notices and
sales of property for taxes, is that such notice and advertisement should give the correct names of those whose property
is to be sold. While the statutes do not in terms say that
the names of the owners should be published, yet such would
seem to be the fair presumption, and the present case shows
that such was the construction adopted by the officials, as
they did name, though incorrectly, an owner in the notice.
These questions have been determined, so far as the laws
and constitution of Oregon are concerned, by a recent decision
of the Supreme Court of that State in the case of Strode v
TVas9er, 17 Oregon, 50. In that case it is held that in an
action to determine the title to land claimed under a tax deed,
evidence can be received to show that the assessment claimed
to have been made was void, in that the property m dispute
had been assessed with other property not owned by the
defendants, and the value of all fixed at a gross sum, and that
it was error to exclude such evidence, even under a statute
making a tax deed evidence of the regularity of an assessment, and it was further held that the amendment of 1887,
changing that feature of the act of 1865 which made a tax
deed conclusive evidence of the regularity of the levy, assessment, collection of taxes, and sale of the property, did not
impair the obligation of contracts as to purchases made prior
to the amendment, but simply changed the rule of evidence.
This decision was not made till after the trial of the present
case in the Circuit Court of the United States, but, in the
absence of anycrevous decision by the Supreme Court of
Oregon to the contrary, we regard it as a conclusive construction of the meaning and effect of the state statutes in question.
We also concur with the court below in thinking that, by no
reasonable application of the rule of zdem sonans, can the name
of .Ida J Hawthorn be deemed equivalent to that of Ida J.
HIanthorn.

'MARX v. H ANTHORN.
Ornion of the Court.

Another particular in which, it is claimed on behalf of the
defendant, there was a disregard of law invalidating the sale,
is found in the assessment of the two lots 3 and 4 in block E
as one parcel. The statute prescribes that the assessor shall
set down in the assessment, in separate columns, "a description of each tract or parcel of land to be taxed, specifying,
under separate heads, the township, &c., or, if divided into
lots and blocks, then the number of the lot and block ," and
the contention is that grouping the lots and fixing the valuation in a gross sum yas not a valid assessment. Such a question was considered by the Supreme Court of Oregon in the
case of Strode v Washer, heretofore cited. There an assessment was held to be a nullity which included several lots of
land belonging to different owners in one valuation, and the
court said "what the effect would be where the lots so assessed
all belong to the same party, we express no opinion."
The effect of this irregularity does not seem to have been
considered by the court below, and in view of the expression
of the Supreme Court of the State, just quoted, withholding
any opinion as to the effect of this defective mo'de of assessment, we do not feeldisposed to base our decision upon it.
As, however, we think that the court below did not err in
permitting the defendant to inpugn the tax title by showing
that the name of the owner was wrongly given in the delinquent tax roll, and in the notice and publication, and in holding that the sale was thereby invalidated, it follows that its
judgment should be

.4ffirrned.

MR.JusTiCE BREwER

part in its decision.

did not sit in this case, nor take any

