MOELLE v. SHERWOOD.
Statement of the Case.

Lords held that, even for supplies furnished in an English
port to a foreign vessel, there was no lien, but a mere right
ie ZHenrwh Rjorn,
to seize her upon process in admiralty
10 P D. 44, and 11 App. Cas. 270.
No question as to the lien of the master, or as to the comparative rhnk of various maritime liens tnter sese, is presented
by this case, in which the only question certified by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, or within our jurisdiction to consider, as the case stands, is whether a claim arising under a
mortgage of the vessel is to be preferred to the claim for
supplies and necessaries furnished in her home port in the
State of Illinois since the mortgage was recorded. This
question must, for the reasons above stated, be
Answered sn tw negative.

MOELLE v. SHERWOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURlT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 103.

Submitted January 4,1893. -Decided

STATES FOR

March 6, 1893.

Where no appeal lies from a decree of a Circuit Court to this court, the
Circuit Court may, under the 88th rule in equity, allow a petition for a
rehearing, and may rehear the cause after the adjournment of the court
for the term in winch the original decree was rendered.
After such a petition is filed, and a hearing had on it in the court below, it
is too late to file affidavits and to claim that the amount in controversy
exceeded the jurisdictional sum, so tilat an appeal could have been
taken.
The receipt of a quit claim deed does not of itself prevent a party irom
becoming a bona fide holder; and the doctrine expressed in many cases
that the grantee in such a deed cannot be treated as abonafide purchaser
does not rest upon any sound principle.

Tins was a suit in equity, commenced in June, 1885, in the
Circuit Court of tne United States for the District of Nebraska,
to quiet the. title of the complainant to certain re-al property

OCTOBER rTERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

described in the bill as the southeast I of section No. 31,
township No.'3 north, of range 8 east, of the 6th principal
meridian, in Nuckclls County, State of Nebraska., to which
the defendant, a citizen of that State, claimed some adverse
interest and title. The bill alleged that the complainant was
a, citizen of New York, and that, at the commencement of -the
suit, and for a long time prior thereto, he was the owner in
fee simple, and entitled to the possession of the described
premises. His chain of title was as follows.
1. A patent of the land in controversy and of other land
from the United States, dated November 1, 1871, issued to
George L. Bittinger, and recorded in Nuckolls County, December 31, 1883.
2. A deed bearing date on the 22d of August, 1SS2, executed by Bittinger and his wife to L. P Dosh, of Scott County,
Iowa, reciting a consideration of one hundred dollars, by
which they sold, conveyed, and quitclaimed all their "right,
title and interest in and to" the premises in controversy
This deed was recorded September 19, 1882.
3. A warranty deed, dated October 27, 1882, of the premises, by L. F Dosh and his wife to J R. Dosh, of Guthrie
County, Iowa, reciting a consideration of $1513. This deed
was recorded November 20, 1882.
4. A warranty deed of the premises, dated June 30, 1883,
by J E. Dosh and his wife to the complainant, James K. 0.
Sherwood, reciting a consideration of $1800. This deed was
recorded April 24, 1885.
The bill alleged that the complainant purchased the premi es in question, that is, the southeast quarter of section 31 of
tue township named, at their full value, in the regular course
of business, but that the defendant claimed that, by some
secret and unrecorded deed from Bittenger, he had acquired
a superior title to the premises. which claim so affected the
title of the complainant as to r.Dnder its sale or dispositin
impossible, and disturbed him in his right of possession, but
of the nature of the claim, except as above stated, he was
ignorant. He therefore prayed that the defendant might
disclose the nature of his estate, interest and claim in the

MOELLE v. SHERWOOD.
Statement of the Case.

premises, that the title of the complainant therein might be
quieted, and that the defendant might be decreed to have no
estate or interest therein, and be enjoined from asserting any
The defendant in his answer denied that the complainant
had any estate in or title to the premises, and set up that on
the 23d day of June, 1870, George L. Bittinger, the patentee
of the United States, and his wife, by a warranty deed, conveyed the premises for a valuable consideration to one Guthrie
Probyne, that such deed was recorded August 20, 1883, that
on the 24th day of August, 1883, Probyne and wife, for a
valuable consideration, 4y a warranty deed, conveS'ed the
premises to the defendant, and that the same was recorded
August 28, 1883.
The defendant also, by leave of the court. filed a cross-bill
in which he alleged that, at the commencement of the suit
and a long time prior thereto, lie was the owner in fee simple
andin possession of the premises in controversy, and that his
ownership of the estate rested upon the following muniments
of title, namely The patent mentioned from the United
States of the described premises to Bittinger, dated November
1, 1871, the warranty deed of the premises by Bittinger and
wife to Guthrie Probyne, dated June 23, 1870, and the warranty deed of Probyne and wife to the defendant, Theodore
J Moelle. The cross-bill also referred to an alleged tax deed
of the premises by the treasurer of Nuckoi County, Nebraska,.
to one Ferdinand Faust, and a quitclaim from him to L. P
Dosh, but no notice is taken of the tax deed, as it is conceded
to be invalid. The praver in the cross-bill is that the title of
the complainant, the defendant in the original bill, may be
adjudged perfect and valid.
The answer to the cross-bill set up the various conveyances
under which the complainant in the original suit claimed title
to the premises, and, whilst admitting that the alleged deed
to Probyne" from Bittinger and wife, dated June 23, 1870, of
the land in controversy was placed on record August 20, 1883,
it charged that no such deed of the premises was ever signed,
acknowledged or delivered by the grantors named, but averred
that the deed- signed, acknowledged and delivered by their to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

him on the day designated conveyed different property from
the premises embraced in the deed recorded August'20, 1883,
being part of a different quarter section of the township, viz.,
the southwest quarter of section thirty-two and not the southeast quarter of section thirty-one, and was recorded June 3,
1871, with this different description. It alleged that subsequent to the record the deed was changed so as to read the
southeast quarter of section thirty-one instead of the southwest
quarter of section thirty-two, and in such changed condition
20, 1883.
was recorded August
The depositions taken in the case established the alteration
made in the deed- to Probyne as set forth in the answer to the
cross-bill. It is to be observed also that the date of the execution of the alleged deed to hin by the patentee is more than
a year prior to the issue of the patent. The testimony of the
complainant Sherwood was taken in the case, and was to the
effect that before purchasing the property he examined an
abstract of title to it, and found a regular chain of conveyances
from the United States to J R. Dosh, that he also found
from the records of certain tax sales a regular chain of conveyances from the grantee of the tax ded to the same party, that
no other instrument affecting the title appeared of record, and
that he was satisfied that the title was perfect. He then had
the land examined, and it was reported to hin to be a fair
quantity of wild prairie lying vacant and unoccupied, and
never had been occupied, and he paid eighteen hundred dollars cash for the property
In answer to a question he stated
that at the time he believed he was getting a good title, and
had no idea that any such controversy as now exists would
arise. The land was unoccupied, the price of the land a reasonable one, and he believed that lie was getting a valuable
piece of property, with a perfect title, for a fair onsideration.
The case was heard at the January term of the Circuit
Court, 1888, and on the 9th of IMfarch, which was in the same
term, a decree was rendered dismissing the bill. At the following term of the court, on the 18th of May, the complainant
made a motion for leave to file a petition for a rehearmng, representing to the court that, at the hearing of the cause and

MOELLE ,v. SHERWOOD.
Argument for Appellant.

when the decree was rendered, it was believed by'him that
the property in controversy was of sufficient value to give
jurisdiction to the Supreme Court of the United States, and
that an appeal would lie from the decree, but that since then
he had become assur id that no appeal would lie by reason of
the .fact that the premises in dispute were in value less than
five thousand dollars. The petition was accompanied by the
affidavit of one of the solicitors of the complainant that the
allegations were made after careful investigation, and believed
to be true. On the 29th of October, which was during the
May term, the cause was subiitted with the petition for a
rehearing, and both were decided on the same day, and a
decree rendered in favor of the complainant quieting his title
as prayed. 36 Fed. Rep. 478. From that decree the present
appeal was taken.
X2r _l S. Ilarwood and 31r John. H. Ames for appellant.
I. The Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to grant or entertam an applibation for a rehearing, or to vacate or set asicie
the decree of the 9th of March, 1888, after the lapse of-the
term at which it was signed and entered. Cameron v XeRoberts, 3 Wheat. 590, _3ffieken v Permn, 18 How 507.
II. A grantee in a quitclaim deed is not to be regarded as
a purchaser in any sense. Pleasants v Blodgett, 32 Nebraska, 427.
The quitclaim deed from.Bittenger and wife to L. P Dosh,
does not purport to convey the land, but only "all the right,
title and interest" of the grantor "in and to the same." And
it contains no covenants of warranty, even of that which it
purports to convey It purports upon its face to convey less
than the fee. What interest or title, if any, it did convey
was necessarily left to be ascertained by parol, or by other
nuniments of title. It would not even have prevented the
grantor, Bittenger, from acquiring the title of his former
grantee, Probyne, and setting it up adversely to his. own
grantee by quitclaim, L. P Dosh. This point was expressly
ruled by. this court in Hfanricl. v Patrick, 119' U. S. 156..

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of 'the Court.

See also W~tite v Brocaw, 14 Ohio St. 339, 343, Adams v Ross,
1 roomu, (30 'N. J Law,) 505, 509, S. C. 82 Am. Dec. 237,
Blanchardv Brooks, 12 Pick. 47, Brown v. Jackson, 3 Wheat.
449, 452, Oliver v Pwatt, 3 How 333, .May v Le Clasre, 11
Wall. 217.
X2r C.S. Montgomery for appellee.
MR.

JUSTICE

FILD,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The appellant asks for a reversal of the decree below on
two grounds" ftrst, that the petition for a rehearing was
allowed and a rehearing had after the adjournment of the
court for the term in which the original decree was rendered,
and second, that the decree as finally rendered was against
the settled law as to the effect of the quitclaim deed through
which the complainant claims.
As-a general thing, the jurisdiction of a court over its
decrees terminates with the close of the term at which they
were rendered. An exception to this doctrine is allowed by
the 88th rule in equity, in cases where no appeal lies from the
decree to the Supreme Court of the United States. It wag
on that ground that the motion was made for leave to file the
petition for a rehearing in this case, and the allegations of
the insufficiency of the amount involved, as the reason that
no appeal from the decree would lie,.does not appear to have
been controverted by the defendant, but to have been conceded as true. The petition was, therefore, properly allowed,
and, the case being submitted with such petition, there was
no error in the court's considering its merits on the legal
propositions presented. Although the appellant has by affidavits since filed shown that the amount involved exceeds
the sum of five thousand dollars, it is too late for him on that
account to object to the rehearing granted. His concession,
upon which the petition was heard, cannot now be recalled.
He should have shown that. the land in controversy was
sutcient at the time the motion was argued, instead of conceding its insufficiency as alleged.
Of the merits of the decree rendered m favor of the com-

MOELLE v. SHE-RWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

plainant and sustaining his title, we have no doubt. His title
is traced directly from the patentee of the United States, by
various intermediate conveyances. The quitclaim by him to
Dosh, bearing date on the 22d of August, 1882, was executed
while .the title still remained in him. The deed to Probyne,
bearing date, as it would seem, prior to the issue of the
patent, and ou which the defendant relies, does not cover the
premises in controversy, but only property situated in a
different section of the township. Even if it be conceded that
the parties intended that the conveyance should embrace the
premises in controversy, they did not carry out their intention,
and in its original condition the deed was placed on record
and there allowed to remain, giving notice to all parties interested in section thirty-one of township number three that
the conveyance 'to Probyne of Jrune 23, 1870, did not affect
them.. The change in the description of the property, made
after the delivery of the deed to the grantee and its record
in the register's office of the county, did not give operation
and force to the deed with the changed description as a conAn alteration inthe
veyance of the premises in controversy
deed,
so as to make
in
a
embraced
of
property
description
that originally
from
the instrument cover property different
embraced, whether or not it destroys the validity df the instrument as a conveyance of the property. originally described,
certainly does not give it validity as .a conveyance of the
property of which the new description is inserted. The old
execution and acknowledgment are not continued in existence
as to the new property To give effect to the deed as one of
the newly described property it should have been re~xecuted,
reacknowledged and redelivered. In other words, a new conveyance should have been made.
But if the deed as altered in its description of the property
conveyed be deemed valid as between the parties from the
time of the alteration, though not retxecuted, it could not
take. effect and be in force as to subsequent purchasers without notice, whose deeds were already recorded, but as to them,
by the statute of Nebraska, it was void. The statute of that
State -upon the"subject 'is as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"All deeds, mortgages and other instruments of writing
which'are required to be recorded, shall, take effect and be ii
force from and after the time of delivering the same to the
register of deeds for record, and not before, as to all creditors
and subsequent purchasers in good faith without notice, and
all such (leeds, mortgages and other instruments shall be
adjudged void as to all such creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice, whose deeds, mortgages and other
instruments shall be first recorded, Provided, That, such
deeds, mortgages or instruments shall be valid between the
parties.'" Sec. 16, c. 73, Compiled Stats. of :Neb. 1891, p. 647.
The form of the quitclain to Dosh on the 22d of August,
1882, did not, therefore, prevent the passing of the title of
Bittinger to the grantee. Until then the title was in him.
The deed previously executed to Probyne, if effectual for any
purpose when it was altered without re~xecution, was inoperative as against the grantee in the quitclaim by force of the
above statute.
The doctrine expressed in many cases that the grantee in a
quitclaim deed cannot be treated as a bona fXde purchaser
does not seem to rest upon any sound principle. It is asserted
upon the assumption that the form of the instrument, that
the grantor merely releases to the grantee his claim, whatever
it may be, without any warranty of its value, or only passes
whatever interest he may have at the time, indicates that
there may be other and outstanding claims or interests which
may possibly affect the title of the property, and, therefore,
it is said that the grantee, in accepting a conveyance of that
kind, cannot be a bonaXfde purchaser and entitled to protection
as such, and that he is in fact thus notified by his grantor
that there ma;- be some defect in his title and he must take it
at his risk. This assumption we do not think justified by the
language of such deeds or the general opinion of conveyancers.
There-may be many reasons why the holder of property may
refuse to accompany his conveyance of it with an express
warranty of the soundness of its title or its freedom from the
claims of others, or to execute a conveyance in such form as
to imply a warranty of any kind even when the title is known

MOELLE v. SHERWOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

to be perfect. He may hold the property only as a trustee or
in a corporate or official character, and be unwilling for that
reason to assume any personal responsibility as to its title or
freedom from liens, or he may be unwilling to do so from
notions peculiar to himself, and the purchaser may be unable
to secure a conveyance of the property desired in any other
form than one of quitclaim or of a simple transfer of the
grantor's interest., It would be unreasonable to hold that, for
his inability to secure any other form of conveyance, he should
be denied the position and character of a bona fide purchaser,
however free, in fact, his conduct in the purchase may have
been from any imputation of the want of good faith. In
many parts of the country a quitclaim or a simple conveyance
of the grantor's interest is the common form in which the
transfer of real estate is made. A deed in that form is, in
such cases, as effectual to divest and transfer a complete title
as any other form of conveyance. There is in this country no
difference in their efficacy and operative force between conveyances in the form of release and quitclaim and those in
the form of grant, bargain and sale. If the grantor in either
case at the time of the execution of his deed possesses any
claim to or interest in the property, it passes to the grantee.
In the one case, that of bargain and sale, he impliedly asserts
the possession of a claim to or interest in the property, for ;t
is the property itself which he sells and undertakes to convey
In the other case, that of quitclaim, the grantor affirms noth.
ing as to the ownership, and undertakes only a release of any
claim to or interest in the premises which he may possess
without asserting the ownership of either. If in eitJ-er case
the grantee takes the deed with notice of an outstanding
conveyance of the premises from the grantor, or of the execution by him of obligations to make such conveyance of the
premises, or to create a lien thereon, he takes the property
subject to the operation of such outstanding conveyance and
obligaL;on, and cannot claim protection against them as a
bona ftde purchaser. But in either case if the grantee takes
the deed without notice of such outstanding conveyance or
obligation respecting the property, or notice of facts which,

-OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

if. followed up, would lead to a knowledge of such outstanding
conveyance or equity, he is entitled to protection as a bona
fide purchaser, upon showing that the consideration stipulated
has been paid and that such consideration was a fair price
for the clann or interest designated. The mere fact that in
either case the conveyance is unaccompanied by any warranty
of title, and against incumbrances or liens, does not raise a
presumption of the want of bona ides on the part of the
purchaser in the transaction. Covenants of warranty do not
constitute any operative part of the instrument in transferring
the title. That passes independently of them. They are separate contracts, intended only as guaranties against future
contingencies. The character of bona ftde purchaser must
depend upon attending circumstances or proof as to the transaction. and does not arise, as often, though, we think, inadvertently, said, either from the form of the conveyance or the
presence or the absence of any accompanying warranty
Whether the grantee is to be treated as taking a mere speculative chance in the property, or a clear title. must depend
upon the character of the title of the grantor when he made
the conveyance and the opportunities afforded the grantee
of ascertaining this fact and the diligence with which he has
prosecuted them, will, besides the payment of a reasonable
consideration, determine the bma Jide nature of the transaction on his part.
In the present case every available means of ascertaining
the character of the .title acquired, bath at the. time of hIs
own purchase and at the time the purchases of his predecessors
in interest were made, were pursued by the complainant.
When he looked at the records of the county where the
property was situated, he saw that the only deed executed by
the patentee, the original source of, title, was for property
other than the premises in controversy NQ mere speculative
investment in .the chance of obtaining a good title could
therefore properly be imputed to him.
.Decree afflrmed.

