SCHURZ v. COOK.
Statement of the Case.

rendered, which -was the case here, we do not consider ourselves bound by such decision unless we regard it as mtrmsically sound. BEsfeld v Jordai, 119 U S. 680, Boles v.
Brwnjeld, 120 U. S. 159. Still, even in such a case, the construction put upon a state statute by the Supreme Court of
such State is entitled to our respectful consideration, and we
do not hesitate to adopt it as a true construction in the present
case, where we have reached the same conclusion upon an
independent reading of the statute.
Our conclusion, upon the whole case, is that the town of
Okolona had no power to issue the bonds in suit, and that the
judgment of the court below must be
.Affimed.

PEOPLE ex rel. SOHURZ v. COOK.
E-JOR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 139. Argued March 15, 1893. -Decided

April 3,1893.

The authority conferred by the act of the legislature of New York of iMay
11, 1874, c. 430, p. 547, as amended by the act of June 2, 1876, c. 446, p.
480, upon purchasers at a foreclosure sale of a railroad, to organize a corporation to receive and hold the purchased property, creates no contract
with the State.
The imposition, under the provisions of the act of the legislature of New
York of April 16, 1886, c. 143, of a tax upon a corporation so organized
after the passage of that act by purchasers who purchased at a foreclosure
sale made before its passage, for the privilege of becoming a corporation,
violates no contract of the State, and is no violation of the Constitution
of the United States.

Tnis writ of error was brought to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of New York, adopting and entering a decision of the Court of Appeals of said State m pursuance of a remittitur therefrom, on the ground that it gave
effect to and enforced a law of the State, which, in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, impairs the obligation of a contract. Whether there was a contract and whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

its obligation had been inpaired, as claimed by plaintiffs m
error, were questions which arose and were to be determined

upon the following state of facts

Several railroad corpora-

tions properly organized under the laws of New York and
Pennsylvania, after duly executing mortgages upon, their
respective properties and franchises to secure the },tyment
of bonds lawfully issued by them, were consolidated, under
legislative authority from those States, into one company,
which was incorporated February 14, 1883, under the name
of the Buffalo, New York and Philadelphia Railroad Company This new company, in pursuance of proper authority,
also execut ed a mortgage upon its properties and franchises
to secure the payment of bonds issued by it. Default was
made m the payment of the bonds issued under and secured
by each of these various mortgages, and foreclosure proceedings were instituted thereon, and the mortgages duly foreclosed, and the entire properties and franchises of all the
companies, constituent and consolidated, were' regularly sold
under such foreclosure proceedings and bid m by the plaintiffs
in error as the representatives of the security holders, in pursuance of a scheme of reorganization previously agreed upon.
The properties and franchises so sold and purchased were
duly conveyed to the purchasers September 28, 1887, who
thereupon adopted and executed articles of association under
and m -conformity with the provisions of the reorganization
acts of the State, (c. 430 of the Laws of 18'[4, as amended by c.
446 of the Laws of 1876,) and having prepared a certificate of
incorporation, as provided by said acts, setting forth, among
other things not material to be noticed, that they had associated themselves together as a corporation to be known as the
Western New York and Pennsylvania Railway Company,
with a maximum capitdr 9tock of $45,000,000, divided into
150,000 shares, they presented said certificate to Frederick
Cook, secretary of State, with the request to file the same in
his office, such filing being required before the parties forming the organization could become a body corporate. They
tendered, the secretary of State, at the tne of applying to
have thd'cedificate filed, the sum of $45 as the proper amount

SCHJURZ

. COOK.

Statement of the Case.

of fees for recording the same. The secretary refused to permit it to be filed, basing his refusal upon the provision of an
act of .the legislature known as chapter 148 of the Laws of 1886,
which provided that any corporation incorporated under any
general or special law of the State, having capital stock
divided into shares, should pay to the state treasurer for the useof the State a tax of one-eighth of one per centun upon the
amount of capital stock which the corporation was authorized
to have. The act further provided that " the said tax shall
be due and payable upon the incorporation of said corporation
or upon the increase of the capital stock thereof , and no such
corporation shall have or exercise any corporate power until
the said tax shall have been paid. And the secretary of State
and any county clerk shall not file any certificate of mcorporation or association until he is satisfied that the said tax has
been paid to the state treasurer. And no such company incorporated by any special act of the legislature shall go into
operation or exercise any corporate powers or privileges until
said tax has been paid as aforesaid." This act'took effect immediately upon its passage. When the plaintiffs in error presented their certificate of incorporation to the secretary of
State for filing, the tax imposed by this act, amounting to
$18,000, had not been paid or tendered to the state-treasurpr,
and for this reason tJe secretary refused to file the certificate.
Thereupon theplaintiffs in error applied to the Supreme Court
of the State of New York, at special term, for a peremptory
writ of mandamus, to compel the secretary of State to file
said certificate. The .petition set out in detail the foregoing
proceedings. In xesponpe to the order to show cause why the'
writ should not be granted, the secretary of State made
return, stating, among other objections not material to this
case, that the said Western New York and Pennsylvania
Railway Company of New York sought to be incorporated
as a corporation, had, neglected and refused to pay the incorporation tax imposed by the law of 1886, and that he could
not be required to file the certificate until said tax had been
paid. The special term denied the motion for a mandamus.
From this 'order the relators appealed to the general term of

OCTOBER TERr, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the Supreme Court, which affirmed the action of the special
term. 47 Hun, 467. The relators then appealed from the
decision of the 'general term to the Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the order of the former, 110 N. Y 443, and remitted
the cause to the Supreme Court of the State, where judgment
was entered m conformity with the decision of the Court of
Appeals.
1f2 George Zabriskie for plaintiffs in error.
The provisions of the Railroad Law of New York, enabling
the incorporated purchasers of railroads and franchises sold
under foreclosure to possess, exercise and enjoy the property
purchased, formed part of the mortgagor company's charter
and constituted a contract between the State and the mortgagQr company for the 'benefit of the bondholders and ultnately for the benefit of the purchasers. Fleteher v
Peek, 6 Oranch, 87, Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4
Whieat. 518, 547, Greenwood v Freight Company, 105 U. S.
13, 20, .New Orleans Gas Company v. Louistana1'ight Company, 115 U. S. 650, 660, Brooklyn Park Commissioners v
Armstrong, 45 N. Y 234.
The franchises which the corporation mortgages, and which
the State stipulates to confer upon the incorporated purchasers,
are rights or privileges which are essential to the operations
of the cofporation, and without which its road or works would
be of little value, such as the franchise to run cars, to take
tolls, to appropriate earth and gravel for the bed of its road,
or water for -its engines and the like. They are positive rights
and privileges without, the possession of which the road of
the company could not be successfully worked. Aforgan v
Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217, 223.
When there is a judicial sale under a mortgage authorized
by the State, covering franchises, those franchises which are
necessary for the use and enjoyment of the road pass, under
the legislation of New York, to the purchasers in the sense
indicated in MJemphts Railroad Co. v Commissioners, 112
'U S. 609, and purchasers under a foreclosure sale of mart-

SCHURZ v. COOK.
Argument for. Plaintiffs in Error.

gaged property derive their title (through the State, in the
case of franchises) from the mortgagee. The foreclosure cuts
off the equity remaining in the mortgagor, and leaves the title

conveyed by the mortgage absolute. Packer v. Roohester &
Syracuse Railroad, 17 N. Y 283, 287.
But the franchises being derived originally from the State,
are transferable from the mortgagee only to the extent, and
in the manner, and to the persons prescribed by the State.
The State has given express authority, and its own contrat,
to transfer them to the mortgagee, and it is needless to consider whether or not this grant would in the absence of further
express language imply a further agreement, quas&eo contractu, that if the mortgagee were obliged to resort to his
security for the collection of his debt,. and realize his security
in the usual way, by foreclosure of the mortgagor's equity,
and a sale, passing title to the purchasers, the State would
also grant to the purchasers the same franchises which had
been transferred to the mortgagee, and sold by judicial process;
because there is no room for an inplied covenant, since the
State has entered into an express covenant on this point by
those provisions of .the charter which relate to mortgaging and
the rights acquired by purchasers under foreclosare, by which
the State agrees to grant to the purchasers, when incorporated, the same franchises and other rights that belonged to
the corporation whic'I last owned the railroad.
These franchises and other rights, however, do not comprise
the power to act in a corporate capacity, which does not belong
to the corporation, but to the corporators. Southern Paq3jgo
Railroad v. Orton, 32 Fed. Rep. 457, .Memphs &c. Railroad
v. Commwsszoners, 112 U S. 609, "Peoplev Coney IslandRailway, 89 N. Y 75. But the State does exact that the purchasersshall become a corporation, and it is only to'such corporation,
and not to the purchasers themselves, that the State agrees to
grant the franchises.
When the mortgages, under which the plaintiffs in error
claim title, were made and the bonds were issued under them,
all'the emsting legislation of the State as to the title which
passed, under the mortgages, to the mortgagees, and their
voL. cxL-m-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for

lamtiffs in Error.

right to transfer it to the purchasers by foreclosure, and the
right of the incorporated purchasers to take, exercise and
enjoy the mortgaged franchises, as well as the other mortgaged property, constituted part of the contract.
The contract of the State of New York was not to grhnt to
natural persons the railroad franchises covered by the mortgages and sold under judicial process of foreclosure, but only
to grant those franchises to a corporation organized by, and
composed of, the purchasers and their associates or assigns.
The distinction between acquiring title to railroad franchises
and obtaining the power to exercise and enjoy them in operating the railroad is established) by judicial decisions of the
courts of I{ew York. People v. Railroal Co., 89 N. Y '75,
Fanntngv Osborne, 102 N. Y 441.
The policy of the State of New York, as gathered from its
legislation, is to confer railroad franchises only upon railroad
corporations and not upon individuals. It results from all
this that grants of corporate powers by the State of New York
for the operation of railroads are conferred by the State only
upon corporations, that there is no law authorizing natural
persons to exercise the corporate franchises which they may
purchase under foreclosure, that the State has always deemed
it necessary to make provision either by special act (prior to
1854) or'by general law (since 1854) whereby the purchasers
might, by turning themselves into a corporation, enable themselves to use and exercise the franchises of. which they had
become the owners, and that these provisions for mcorporation of the purchasers are inseparable from the terms of the
contract of the State with the corportion conferring power
to make mortgages upon railroad companies.
The contract ol the State being plainly to confer the franchises on. the corporation formed by the purchasers, there is
no implication of a grant to confer them upon the purchasers
individually The obligation is construed strictly. Avburm
d Cato Plank-road Co. v Douglass, 9 N. Y 444, United
States v. .4'redond4,6 Pet. 691, 738, Rice v Railroad Co., 1
Black, 358, 380.
The State having agreed unconditionally to give to the

SCIEURZ 9). COOK.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

incorporated purchasers the right to use for the operation of
the railroad the corporate franchises acquired under the mortgages, and to confer on them the corporate capacity necessary
for that purpose, violates its contract when either it refuses
absolutely to give the franchises or the corporate capacity or
imposes any conditions upon giving them, and its refusal or
its imposition of conditions is not justified by any power
reserved to -the State either by the Constitution of the State
or by the charter or acts of incorporation of the railroad compames.
The general railroad law of New York, c. 140, Laws of
1850, ยง 48, providbd that "the legislature may at any time
annul or dissolve any incorporation formed under this act, but
such dissolution shall not take away or impair any remedy
given against such corporation, its stockholders or officers for
any liability which shall have been previously incurred." The
effect of these reservations is to empower the legislature to
take the life of the corporation, but it does not authorize the
legislature to interfere with the property of the corporation
or to impair the obligation of any contract, and there is a
contract, within the meaning of the rule, whenever a mortgage
covering corporate franchises or other property is made and
bonds axe issued under it. Peope v O'Brzen, Ill N. Y. 1.
The power of the State to tax does not authorize the inposition of the tax provided in the act of 1886 upon the plaintiffs in.error. States cannot inpair the obligation of contracts
by means of taxation. The tax in question is, in reality, the
price exacted by the State for the grant of the power to be a
corporation, which it had previously contracted to grant without price. It is not assessed upon the value of the property,
but upon the nominal amount of capital stock without reference to its actual value. Bank qf Commerce v .Yew York, 2
Black; 620, 629. The payment in question is quite different
in principle from the annual tax. It is made once for all, and
not from year to year. It is payable only for the initial grant
of corporate capacity to a group of individuals, and of c6rporate franchises to such corporation, and not for the privilege
of exercising franchises after they have been acquired by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

corporation State v. Parker,32 N. J Law, (3 Vroom,) 426,
Chilvers -v. People, 11 Michigan, 43, People v Thurber, 13
fllinois, 554.
The Court of Appeals felt themselves controlled by the
authority of .3femphs &c. Railroad Co. v Commisswoners, 112
U. S. 609, but that case does not decide the question m this
suit.
However true the observations in that opinion are, with
reference to railroads in Arkansas or elsewhere, they are not
applicable to railroads in New York. In that State "the right
[to become incorporated] conferred under the general law, is
in the nature of a contract." Abbott v. Johnstown &c. Railroad,80 N. Y 27, 30.
Mr S. IF Rosendale, Attorney General of the State of
New York, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE JACKSON,

after -stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The present writ of error is prosecuted to renew and reverse
this judgnent, on the ground that the decision of the Court
of Appeals, in enforcing the provisions of the law of 1886
against the relators, plaintiffs in error, and requiring of them
the payment of one-eighth of one per centum upon the amount
of the capital stock of the company sought to be incorporated,
as a condition precedent to the filing of the certificate and
becoming a body politic and corporate under the name of the
Western .New York and Pennsylvama Railway Company of
New York, impaired the obligation of a contract made and
entered into between the State and the several corporations
and mortgagees thereof, to whose rights, properties and-franchises the plaintiffs in error, under the foreclosure proceedings
aforesaid, had succeeded. Their claim is that, under and by
virtue of the provisions of the laws of 1874, as amended in
1876, embodying the alleged contract with the State, they are
entitled to be incorporated, and cannot lawfully be required
to pay any tax to the State before becoming a corporation,

SCHURZ v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

and acquiring the right to exercise corporate functions and
franchises. The act of 1874, as amended in 1876, is by its
caption entitled "An act to facilitate the reorganization of
railroads sold under mortgage, and to provide for the formation of new compantes m. such cases." The provisions of the
statute, so far as material to this case, are the following
"In case the railroad and-property connected therewith, and
the rights, privileges and franchises of any corporation, except
a street railroad company, created under the general railroad
law of this State, or existing under any special or general act
or acts o the legislature thereof, shall be sold under or pursuant to the judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction made or given to execute the provisions [or] enforce the lien of any deed or deeds of trust or mortgage theretofore executed by any such company, the purchasers of such
railroad property and franchises, and such persons as they may
associate with themselves, their grantees or assignees, or a
majority of them, may become a body politic and corporate,
and as such may take, hold and possess the title and property
included in said sale, and shall have all the franchises, rights,
powers, privileges and immunities which were possessed before
such sale by the corporation whose property shall have been
sold as aforesaid, by and upon filing in the office of the secretary of State, a certificate, duly executed under their hands
and seals, and acknowledged before an officer authorized to
take the acknowledgment of deeds, in which certificate the
said persons shall describe by name and reference to the act
or acts of the legislature of this State under which it was
organized, the corporation whose property and franchises they
shall have acquired as aforesaid, and also the court by authority of which such sale shall have been made, giving the date
of the judgment or decree thereof, authorizing or directing the
same, together with a brief description of the property sold,
and shall also set forth the following particulars
"1. The name of the new corporation intended to be
formed by the filing of such certificate.
"2. The maximum amount -of its capital stock and the
number of shares into which the same is to be divided, speci-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

fymg how much of. the same shall be common and how
much preferred stock, and the classes thereof, and the rights
pertaining to each class.
"3. The number of directors by whom the affairs of the
said new corporation are to be managed, and the names and
residences of the persons selected to act as directors for the
first year after its organization.
"4. Any plan or agreement which may have been entered
into pursuant to the second section hereof.
"And upon the due execution of such certificate and the
filing of the same in the office of the secretary of State, the
persons executing such certificate and who shall have acqmred the title to the property and franchises sold as aforesaid, their associates, successors and assigns, shall become
and be a,body politic and corporate, by the name specified
in such certificate, and shall become and be vested with and
entitled to exercise and enjoy all the rights, privileges and
franchises which, at the tune of said sale, belonged to or
were vested in the corporation which last owned the property
so sold or its receiver."
Now it is contended by plaintiffs in error that the State
having, by and under these provisions of law, agreed to give
to the purchasers of railroad properties and franchises acquired under foreclosure proceedings, not merely the right
to hold, use and operate the same, but also to confer on them
the corporate cavacity necessary for that purpose, this latter
branch of the contract is violated when the State thereafter
either refuses to confer such corporate capacity, or imposes
any condition upon the purchasers' right to be and to become
a body politic and corporate. Upon this theory the claim is
made that the tax inposed by the law of 1886, which was
held by the state courts to apply to their case and to the
corporation they proposed to form, impaired the obligation of
the contract, and was, therefore, unconstitutional. This
claim was disposed of by the New York Court of Appeals,
speaking by PecKham, J., as follows
"We think it also plain that, under the reorganization acts
above mentioned, when the purchasers at the foreclosure sale

SCHURZ v. COOK.

407

Opinion of the Court.

undertake to reorganize under those acts, and for that purpose to file in the secretary's office a certificate, upon the
filing of which they become a body politic and corporate, the
corporation thus formed is a new and entirely different one
from that whose property and franchises the purchasers
may have bought under the foreclosure proceedings. It is
true that the corporation about to be formed by the filing of
the certificate has, by force of the statute, when formed, all
the rights, franchises, powers, privileges

and immunities

which were possessed before such sale- by the corporation
whose property was sold, but that does not make the corporation the same by any means. The- right to be a corpora
tion, which the old corporation had, was not mortgaged and
was not sold, and did not pass to the purchasers, and they
only obtain such a right upon filing the certificate mentioned,
and they then obtain it by direct grant from the State, and
not in any degree by the sale and purchase of the franchises,
etc., of the old corporation.
"The last ground argued by counsel is, we think, equally
untenable. There has been no violation of any contract.
These mortgages, it is true, were all executed and' the bonds
issued long prior to the passage of the tax act of 1886,
already mentioned. The franchises of the corporations were
duly mortgagedunder the provisions of state laws, by which
it was provided that purchasers at foreclosure- sales under
such mortgages could, upon compliance with the law, file
certificates and become incorporated bodies. But such acts
were in no sense contracts on the part of the State with
persons purchasing bonds secured by such mortgages, or with
future possible purchasers at foreclosure sales, that the provisions existing at the time of the mortgaging of the franchises for the incorporation of such purchasers' should remain
the same. I think this question has been decided in this
way by the Supreme Court of the United States and further
discussion of it is unnecessary XemlAss & Lite Rook Raiload v Commzsswners, 112 U. S. 609."
The principles and reasoning in the decisibn of this court in
.Aempli &c. Railroad Co. v Commwswners, 112 U. S. 609,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

are directly applicable to the present case. The attempt to
distinguish the two cases necessitates the drawing of distiactions too refined and theoretical to form the basis of sound
judicial determination. It was said by this court in that case,
(p. 621) "In many, if not in most, acts of incorporation,
however special in their nature, there are various provisions
which are matters of general law and not of contract, and are,
therefore, subject to modification or repeal. Such, in our
opinion, would be the character of the right in the mortgage
bondholders, or the purchasers at the sale under the mortgage, to organize as a corporation, after acquiring title to
the mortgaged property, by sale under the mortgage, if, in
the charter under consideration, it had teen conferred in
express terms, and particular provision had been made as to
the mode of procedure to effect the purpose. It would be
matter of law and not of contract. At least, it would be
construed as conferring only a right to organize as a corporation according to such laws as might be m force at the tine
when the actual organization should take place, and subject
to such limitations as they might impose. It cannot, we
think, be admitted that a statutory provision for becoming a
corporation tn futuro can become a contract, in that sense
of the clause of the Constitution of the United States which
prohibits state legislation impairing its obligation, until it
has become vested as a right by an actual organization under
it, and then it takes effect, as of that date and subject to
such laws as may then be in force.
The State does
not part with the franchise until it passes to the organized
corporation, and when it is thus imparted it must be what
the government is then authorized to grant and does actually
confer." It is further said therein that "the franchise of
nemng a corporation need not be implied as necessary to
secure to the mortgage bondholders, or the purchasers at a
foreclosure sale, the substantial rights intended to be secured.
They acquire the ownership of the railroad, and the property
incident to it, and the franchise of maintaining and operating
.it as such, and the corporate existence is not essential to its
use and en.loyment. All the franchises necessary or impor-

SOHURZ v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

tant to the beneficial use of the railroad could as well be
exercised by natural persons." p. 619.
But it is urged by plaintiffs m error that, under the decisions
of the highest court of New York, they cannot, as private
persons or as an association, so use, maintain and operate the
railroad which they have purchased. Without reviewing the
New York cases cited in support of this position, we doubt
whether they go to that extent; But if they so held under
any law of the State passed since the execution- of the mortgages under which plaintiffs in error have succeeded to the
properties and franchises of the railroad sold under foreclosure,
as already mentioned, then the question would be whether the
impairment of the obligation of the contract would not consist
in deny-ing the purchasers the right to use the property and
franchises so acquired. The fact, if it exists, that plaintiffs in
error are not allowed to c-perate the railroad and exercise the
franchises purchased without first obtaining corporate existence, in no way shows or tends to establish their contention,
that said act of 1874, as amenled in 1876, constituted a contract on the part of the State to confer corporate capacity
upon them without imposing any tax as a prerequisite to the
grant of corporate existence. Again, there is nothing in the
acts- of 1874 and 1876 which would or could have exempted
the railroad corporation, to whose rights, privileges and franchises the plaintiffs in error have succeeded, from the payment
of taxes such as the State by its legislation might thereafter
impose. If they were not in fact, they could constitutionally
have been made subject to the provisions of said act of 1886,
and been required to pay the tax of one-eighth of one per
centum upon the amount of their capital stock. The settled
rule of this court and of the courts of New York, requires
that exemption from taxation, so essential to the existence of
government, must be expressed in the clearest and most unambiguous language, and not be left to implication or inference.
lT icksburg, Sh'evepo't &o.Railroad v Denns,116 U S. 665,
Chucago, Burlingan &c.Railroadv Guffey, 120 U. S. 569;
Tilrn-ngton & TFeldon Railroadv Alsbrook, 146 U S. 279, 294-,
and People ex rel. Ins. Co. v Davenport, 91 N. Y 574, 586.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs in error acquired the properties and franclhses
of these corporations, which were subject to the taxng power
of the State, after the act of 1886 was passed and went into
effect. There is no provision of the law under which they
made their purchase requiring them to become incorporated,
but, desiring corporate capacity, they demanded the grant of
a new charter under which to exercise the franchises so
acquired, without compliance with the law of the State existing at the time their application for incorporation was made.
We are clearly of the opinion that the act of 1874, as amended
in 1876, set up and relied upon by them, does not sustain such
a claim. The provisions of that act do not constitute a contract on the part of the State with either the corporations, or
the mortgagees, bondholders or purchasers at foreclosure sale.
They are merely matters of law instead of contract, and the
right thereto conferred upon purchasers of the corporate
properties and franchises sold under foreclosure of mortgages
thereon, to reorganize and become a new corporation,is subject
to the laws of the State existing or iu force at the time of
such reorganization and the grant of a new charter of incorporation. .emphks &c.RailroadCo. v. Commsszoners, suyra.
There is another difficulty in the way of sustaining the claim
of the plaintiffs in error m this case. The Constitution of
,New York, providing for the formation of corporations under
general laws, reserves to the State the power to alter, change
or repeal all such general laws. The Revised Statutes of the
State, c. 18, title 3, see. 8, vol. 3. 8th ed., p. 1724, provides that
"the charter of every corporation that shall be granted by
the legislature shall be subject to alteration, suspension or
repeal in the discretion of the legislature" ,'and by the general railroad law of New York, c. 140, Laws of 1850, ยง 48;
it is provided that 11the legislature may, at any time, annul or
dissolve any corporation formed under this act, but such dissolution shall not take away or impair any remedy given
against such corporatiof, its stockholders or officers, for any
liability which shall have been previously incurred."
In the case of The People v O'Brten, 111 N. Y 1, cited by
counsel for-the plaintiffs in error, while the court held that it

SCHURZ v. COOK.
Opinion of the Court.

was not within the power of the legislature to destroy the
property rights of a corporation, it was not questioned that
the legislature could destroy the existence of the corporation.
In the still later case of The -Mayor &c. of the City of New
York v. The Twenty-thsrd Street Railroad Company, 113 N. Y
311, it was directly held 'that the right reserved to the legislature to alter or repeal-the charter of a corporation included
the right to tax a. corporation upon its franchises as such
instead of exacting license fees, as before prescribed. Earl, J.,
speaking for the court there, said "As it (the legislature)
has the power utterly to deprive the corporation of its franchise to be a corporation, it may prescribe the conditions and
terms upon which it may live and exercise such franchises.
It may enlarge or limit its powers, and it mayfincrease or
limit its burdens." This construction of the statutes of the
State by its highest court is of controlling authority Bucher
v. Cheshire Railroad, 125 U. S. 555, Gormley v. Clark, 134:
U. S. 338, and Stutsman County v. Wallace, 142 U. S. 293.
The right being thus reserved to the legislature, under the
power to alter or repeal the charter- of corporations, not only
to terminate their existence, but to impose upon them increased
burdens, it cannot be properly asserted that the act of 1886,
imposing the tax complained of, was unconstitutional, even
though the act of 1874 created a contract with corporations
and their mortgagees to whose right, properties and franchises plaintiffs in error have succeeded. The corporatins,.
mortgagees and bondholders under such circumstances acquire
their rights subject to the reserved power of the legislature to
enlarge or diminish the franchises conferred, and to increase
or reduce the burdens, thereon. Purchasers succeeding tp
properties and franchises of corporations thus situated canno
occupy any better position in respect to their application for"
a new charter of incorporation.
In Hamilton Gas -LightCo. v. Hamilton City, 146 U. S. 258,
270, it was said by this court, that "a legislative grant to a
corporation of special privileges, if not forbidden by the Constitution, may be a contract, but whdre one of the conditions
of the grant is that the legislature may alter or revoke it, a

