PRINEAS PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

691

Statement of the Case.

PHINEAS PAit-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.
POTTAWATOMIE INDIANS OF MICHIGAN AND
INDIANA v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COU1RT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 1125, 1133. Argued January 9, 10, 1893.-

fDecided April V, 1893.

The decision of the Court of Claims respecting the amount of money to be
awarded to the Indians in these cases is affirmed, and it is further suggested, as to the distribution of that amount among the several claimants
that it is a question of law, to be settled by the court; but as the facts
are not presented in an authoritative form, this court acquiesces in the
suggestion of the court below that it be dealt with by the authorities of
the government.

TEE questions involved in this case grow out of the stipulations of certain treaties entered into between the United
States and the Pottawatomie Indians within the period covered by the years 1795 to 1846, inclusive. In some of the
treaties various tribes united with the Pottawatomies, but the
tribes were recognized by the government as being distinct
from one another, and their respective rights and duties under
the treaties were therein defined and set forth. In others the
Pottawatomie Indians were included in the tribe designated
as the united nation of Chippewa, Ottawa and Pottawatomie
Indians, but the government seems to have dealt with the
united nation as though it were identical with the Pottawatomie tribe, and we shall so consider it in the present case.
By the various treaties the Indians ceded lands to the government, and received for the same other lands, money, etc., and
also pledges of specified annuities. By a treaty made on
September 26, 1833, the said united nation ceded to the
United States a tract of land on the western shore of lake
Michigan, containing 5,000,000 acres, and received as the consideration for the cession a reservation 5,000,000 acres in
extent, west of the Mississippi River, various sums of money,

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

and the promise from the government of $280,000, to be paid
in annuities of S11,000 a year for twenty years. It was provided by the treaty that a just proportion of the annuity
money named therein, as well as a just proportion of the
annuities stipulated for in the former treaties, should be paid
west of the M1ississippi to such portion of the nation as should
have removed thither within three years, and that after the
expiration of that time the whole amount of the annuities
should be paid at the reservation west. On the day following
the eiecution of that treaty an article supplementary thereto
was made on behalf of the chiefs and head men of the nation,
by which they ceded to the United States certain lands in the
Territory of Michigan, south of the Grand River, containing
about 164 sections. It was agreed that the Indians making
this cession should be considered as parties to the treaty of
the preceding day, and be entitled to participate in the benefits of the provisions therein contained, as part of the united
nation. To the supplemental article another provision wah
added, as follows
" On behalf of the chiefs and head men of the United Nation of Indians who signed the treaty to which these articles
are supplementary, we hereby, in evidence of our concurrence
therein, become parties thereto.
"And, as since the signing of the treaty a part of the band
residing on the reservations in the Territory of -Michigan have
requested, on account of their religious creed, permission to
remove to the northern part of the peninsula of Michigan, it
is agreed that in case of such removal the just proportion of
all annuities payable to them under former treaties and that
arising from the sale of the reservation on'which they now
reside shall be paid to them at l'Arbre Croche."
Upon the basis of provisions contained in the various
treaties, claims for. unpaid annuities have been presented to
Congress from time to time on behalf of Indians alleged to
represent the part of the band mentioned in the last provision
of the said supplemental article, and for the purpose, presumably, of having all questions connected with those claims
finally settled, Uongress passed an act, which was approved

PHINEAS PATI-TO-PEE v. UNITED 'STATES.

693

Statement of the Case.

March 19, 1890, 26 Stat. 24, c. 39, entitled "An act to ascertain the amount due the Pottawatomie Indians of M ichigan
and Indiana." The act is as follows
"Whereas representatives of the Pottawatomie Indians of
Michigan and Indiana, in behalf of all the Pottawatomie
Indians of said States, make claim against the United States
on account of various treaty provisions which, it is alleged,
have not been complied with Therefore,
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States of Aine-rca zn Con gress assembled, That
the Court of Claims is hereby authorized to take jurisdiction
of and try all questions of difference arising out of treaty
stipulations with the said Pottawatomie Indians of M ichigan
and Indiana, and to render judgment thereon, power is
hereby granted the said court to review the entire question of
difference de novo, and it shall not be estopped by the.joint
resolution of Congress approved twenty-eighth July, eighteen
hundred and sixty-six, entitled ' Joint resolution for the relief
of certain Chippewa, Ottawa and Pottawatomie Indians,' nor
by the receipt in full given by said Pottawatomies under the
provisions of said resolution, nor shall said receipt be evidence
of any fact except of payment of the amount of money mentioned in it, and the Attorney General is hereby directed to
appear in behalf of the Government, and- if the said court
shall decide against the United States the Attorney General
may, within thirty days from the rendition of the judgment,
appeal the cause to the Supreme Court of the United States,
and from any judgment that may be rendered the said Pottawatomie Indians may also appeal -to said Supreme Court
.Provzdedi That the appeal of said Pottawatomle Indians
shall be taken within sixty days after the rendition of said
judgment, and the said courts shall give such cause precedence.
"Sc. 2. That said action shall be commenced by a petition
stating the facts on which said Pottawatomie Indians claim
to recover, and the amount of their claims, and said petition
may be verified by a member of any ' Business Committee'
or authorized attorney of said Indians as to the existence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

such facts, and no other statements need be contained in said
petition or verification."
On behalf of the Pottawatonne Indians of Michigan and
Indiana, John Critcher filed a petition in the Court of Claims,
April 14, 1890, averring that he was the authorized attorney
of the said Indians, as, he stated, would appear by an agreement between himself and the business committee of the
Indians, dated September 29, 1887, and claiming certain
unpaid annuities under the said treaties. The claimants
exhibited a table showing by periods of five years, from 1836
to 1872, inclusive, an enumeration of the Indians in Michigan
and of those west of the M ississippi, from which it appeared
that the average number of the former during that time was
291, and of the latter 2812. The petition contains a statement
m detail of the various annuities claimed to be due, and asks
for a judgment against the United States in the sum of
$223,035.46, as being in the ratio of 291 to 2812 to the entire
amount alleged to have been pledged to all the Pottawatomie
Indians under the various treaties, plus the amount of $38,000,
the sum of the annuities for nineteen years under the treaty
of 1833. The latter sum was claimed on the assumption that
the claimants should receive, of the annuities arising from the
cession of their lands in southern Michigan, not a just proportion, but the whole amount. The claimants averred that the
main tribe of Indians moved to their reservation west of the
Mississippi, and that the part of the band which was to
remove to the north did so remove in obedience to the terms
of the provision supplementary to the treaty of 1833, that
they are the representatives of that part'of the band, and, as
sugh, are entitled to all the benefits secured by the said
supplemental provision.
On November 5, 1890, another petition was filed in the
name of Phineas Pam-to-pee and 1371 other Pottawatomie
Indians of Michigan and Indiana, by John B. Shipman, their
attorney, alleging that they were entitled to share in the
annuities secured to the Pottawatoie Indians by the said
treaties, that they were not represented in the petition first
filed, and that the attorney named in that petition had no

PRINEAS PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

695

Statement of the Case.
authority to act for them in the premises. This petition was
filed on behalf of ceitain Indians, citizens of the United States,
who were individually described by name and residence,
alleged to be all the Pottawatomie Indians, so far as could be
ascertained, resident in the said States, except not exceeding
250, from 91 of whom they alleged that the attorney named
in the first petition derived is authority to act. The claimants stated, however, that their petition was intended for the
benefit of all Indians included in the provisions of the act of
Congress who might choose to take part in the proceedings
in the said court. They averred that the Indians designated
in the act, or their ancestors, were parties to all the said
treaties, and entitled to share per capita in the annuities
secured thereby to the Pottawatonies, and that the conditions
inposed upon them by the treaties had been complied with.
The claimants alleged that they were entitled to a just proportion of all the annuities provided for by the treaties in
question. They interpreted the last provision of the treaty of
1833, as did the claimants in the flr~t petition, to be that the
Indians exempted from the requirement of removal west
should receive the entirety of the annuity stipulated for in
that provision. Un~ler the treaty of 1833 they, therefore,
claimed the sum of 838,000, being $2000 per year for the"
ineteen years the same remained unpaid. They also contended that the perpetual annuities provided for should be
capitalized and the amounts thereof, in the sum of $446,000,.
added to the sum of the past unpaid determinate and perpetual
annuities, namely, $2,021,200. Under a treaty made subsequently to 1g33, to wit, on June 17, 1846, with the said
Indians who emigrated west, the petitioners claimed that the
Indians who remained in Michigan were entitled to the sum
of $446,97-.80. It is averred that by that treaty the said
reservation west of the Mississippi was ceded to the United
States by the -said Indians, who were promised therefor, in
addition to a perpetual annuity of $300; the sum of $850,000,
less certain deductions provided for in the treaty, that after
making such deductions, the balance remaining was $613,000,
which was to be held by the government as a trust fund for

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

the Indians, and was to bear interest at 5 per cent, payable
annually for thirty years, and until the nation should be reduced below one thousand souls, that the first instalment of
int-rest became payable in 1849, that the total amount of
interest up to and including the year 1890 was $1,350,300,
and the value of the same as a capitalized annuity was $643,000,
making an aggregate of $1,993,300. The petitioners averred
that when the final provisions of the treaty of 1833 were
executed, the number, as nearly as they could ascertain, of
the Indians removing west of the Mississippi was 3840, and
the number of those remaimng in. Michigan was 1110. They,
therefore, alleged that the gross amounts stated, (with the
exception of the said amount of $38,000,) should be apportioned between the Indians who removed west and those who
remained m Michigan in the ratio of 3840 to 1110. They
deduct from the total of the amounts ascertained as above the
sum of $75,162.50, which they admit that the Indians remaining in Michigan received from the government under the
treaties of July 29, 1829, and September 26, 1833, and under
the act of Congress of July 28, 1866, leaving the sum of
$963,058.50. This is the amount alleged to be due the Indians
exempted from the requirement of removal west, upon the
assumption that their number has remained the same as it
was in 1833. The petitioners claimed to represent the Indians
only who went north, whose number they alleged to have
been the difference between 1110 and the number of those
who remained in southern Michigan, and, therefore, the petitioners asked for a judgment for themselves in the sum of
$804,383.80.
On January 8, 1891, the United States moved the Court of
Claims to consolidate the cases, and on January 19, 1891, made
a motion to dismiss the case presented by the last-named petition. The motions were reserved to be decided on the trial,
and the court ordered that the cases be tried together. Upon
the trial the motion to consolidate the cases was allowed,
and the motion to dismiss the second case overruled. The
court was of opinion that the purpose of the act of March 19,
1890, was to have all questions of difference arising from the

PHINEAS PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

697

Statement of the Case.

claims of the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana
settled in an authoritative and judicial form, and that any proceeding which would accomplish that purpose, irrespective of
technical rules of pleading, was proper under the act of Congress. It-was further observed by the court that in each case
it appeared that by special appointment the attorneys named
in the petitions represented some of the Pottawatomie Indians
who remained in the States of Michigan and Indiana, and that
the essential requirements of the statute were thus fulfilled.
After due proceedings were had in the consolidated case,
the Court of Claims, on M arch 28, 1892, 27 C. Cl. 403, found,
in substance, the following facts In obedience to the last
provision of the article supplementary to the treaty of September 26, 1833, a few of the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana removed to the northern part of the peninsula of Michigan, but the great body of them remained in
southern Mlichigan. To this failure to remove the government did not object, and did not force them to remove.
Within the period from 1843 to 1866, inclusive, the Indians
remaining in southern Michigan were there paid, by government agents, an aggregate amount of $75,162.50, $39,000 of
which was the amount provided for by the joint resolution of
Congress referred to. in the act giving the Court of Claims
jurisdiction in this case. The remaining amount, $36,162.50,
was paid to the Indians as their proportion of annuities secured
to them by the treaties of July 29, 1829, and the supplemental
provision of the treaty of 1833. During the said period, as
shownby a table in the office of the Second Auditor of the
Treasury, the average number of Indians in gouthern Michigan was 253, and of those west of the Mississippi, 2834, and
payments.were made to the Indians in Michigan in this ratio.
None of the Ihdians so paid permanently removed to the
northern part of Michigan. During the period from 1836 to
1872, the average number of Indians in Michigan who remained under the treaty of 1833 was 291, and the average
number west of the Mississippi was 2812. A number of other
Indians residing on the reservation in Michigan in 1833 remamed in the State of Michigan. Those Indians, and the 291

OCTOBER TERM, 1832.
Statement of the Case.

who stayed on account of their religious creed, numberedin all
1100. Many of the Indians who were in Michigan at the time
the treaty of 1833 was made were dissatisfied with the requirement that they should emigrate west with the main tribe, and
refused to go. It was necessary for the government to use
force to compel them to leave, and in the struggle caused by
this attempt to enforce the treaty many of the Indians, in
evading the officers and agents of the government, scattered
into different portions of the State, and many went to the
northern portion. Those Indians did not come within the
supplemental provisions of the said treaty, as construed by
the agents of the United States. What their number was cannot be ascertained, but they outnumbered the Indians who remained by consent of the government as coming within the
final provision of the treaty-of 1833. The United States never
made any tender to any Indians at l'Arbre Croche, nor in the
northern part of M ichigan. The agents of the government
did not insist upon the removal of the Indians as a condition
of their right of payment at any time.
Since 1835 the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana have received no payinents of annuities provided for by
the treaties of the following dates Augnst 3, 1795, 7 Stat.
49,. Art. 4, September 30, 1809, 7 Stat. 113, Art. 3, October 2, 1818, 7 Stat.l185, Art..., August 29, 1821, 7 Stat. 218,
Art. 4, September 20, 1828, 7 Stat. 317, Art. 2, October 20,
'1832, 7 Stat. 378, Art. 3, October 26, 1832, 7 Stat. 394, Art.
3. Of the annuities promised by the treaties of October 16,
1826, 7 Stat. 295, Art. 3, and June 17, 1846, 9 Stat. 853,
they have received no payments. The court also finds, specifically, that the sai - '-ians have not been paid any money of
an amnuity of "200tr-_,ier the treaty of October 16, 1826, for
the year f848, nor of an annuity of $1000 under the treaty
of Septemb~er 20, 1828, for the year 1848, nor of an annuity
of $15,000 under the treaty of October 20, 1832, for the years
from 1843 to 1852; inclusive, nor of an annuity of $20,000
under the treaty of October 26, 1832, for the year 1852, nor
of an annuity of $15,000 under the treaty of October 27,1832,
for the year 1844.

FHLNEAS PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

699

Opinion- of the Court.

The claimants in both cases included in the list of treaties
under which they requested the court to find annuities to be
due them for the tune subsequent to 1836, the last-named
treaty, to wit, that of October 27, 1832, but the court made
no finding with regard to payments made thereunder except
as to the year 1844.
Upon the foregoing facts the court determined, as a conclusion of law, that the Pottawatonue Indians of Michigan and
Indiana were entitled to recover the sum of $104,626, and
gave judgment for the said Pottawatonno Indians in that
amount. From that judgment the claimants in both petitions
appealed to this court.
MAr John B. Sktpman for Phlneas Pam-to-pee and others,
appellants in io. 1125.
.fA Jhn Crztcher and Xr George S. Boutwell for the
Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana, appellants in
No. 1133.
_31r Asszstant Attorney General Parkerfor appellees.
MR. JUsTIcE SHniAs delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of March 19, 1890, entitled "An act to ascertain the
amount due the Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan and Indiana," conferred jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims to "try
all questions of difference arising out. of treaty stipulations
with the said Pottawatone Indians of Michigan and Indiana.,
and to render-judgment thereon." The act granted power to
said court to "review the entire question of difference de novo,"
and provided for an appeal to this court by either party
In pursuance of the provisions of this statute, on the 14th
of April, 1890, a petition was filed in the Court of Claims by
the Pottawatomie Indians, by their agent and attorney, John
Oritcher, and on the 5th of November, 1890, another petition
by the Pottawatonie Indians, by their agent and attorney,
John B. Shipman.
The United States objected to the filing -of two petitions,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and the court below, overruling a motion to dismiss the later
petition, consolidated the causes, and dealt with them as one.
The two classes of claimants unite m the appeal to this
court.
They agree in complaining of the insufficiency of the sum
allowed the Indians by the decree of the court below, but
they disagree, as between themselves, in respect to the division
of the moneys awarded by the decree. The Indians represented by John Critcher claim the entire fund, those represented by John B. Shipman claim a right to participate m
the fund, and claim, likewise, as we understand them, that
only 91 Indians are really represented in the first petition.
We shall first consider the merits of the appeal as against the
United States, and afterwards deal with the question of distribution.
The first controverted question is as to whom is due the
annuity of $2000 for twenty years, granted by the last clause
of the supplemental treaty of September 27, 1833. The
petitioners claim the entire amount, $38,000. The United
States contend that this amount is distributable between the
Indians who went west under the provisions of the treaty of
September 26, 1833, and those who remained in Michigan
under the supplemental treaty of September 27, in proportion
to their respective numbers.
To answer this question, we must resort to the language of
the treaties. The 4th article of the treaty of September 26,
1833, is as follows
"A just proportion of the annuity money, secured as well
by former treaties as the present, shall be paid west of the
Mississippi to such portion of the nation as shall have removed
thither during the ensuing three years. After which time the
whole amount of the annuities shall be paid at their location
west of the Mississippi." 7 Stat. 431.
The articles supplementary, of September 27, provided as
follows, 7 Stat. 442
"Article 1st. The said chiefs and head-men cede to the
United States all their land situate in the Territory of Michigan south of Grand River, being the reservation at Notawa-

PHINEAS PAM-T0-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

701

Opinion of the Courf.

sepe, of 4 miles square, contained m the 3d clause of the 2d
article of the treaty miade at Chicago on the 29th day of
August, 1821, and the ninety-nine sections of land contained
in the treaty made at St. Joseph on the 19th day of Sept.,
1827, and also the tract of land on St. Joseph River opposite
the town of Niles, and extending to the line of the State of
Indiana, on which the villages of To-pe-ne-bee and Pokagon
are situated, supposed to contain about 49 sections.
"Article 2d. In consideration of the above cession it is
hereby agreed that the said chiefs and head-men and their
immediate tribes shall be considered as parties to the said
treaty to winch this is supplementary, and be entitled to
participate in all the provasions therein contained as a part of
the United Nation, and further, that there shall be paid by the
United States the sum of one hundred thousand dollars, to be
applied as follows " (Here follows a specific disposition of

$60,000 of it.)
And then this is added
"And forty thousand dollars to be paid in annuities of two
thousand dollars a year for twenty years, in addition to the
two hundred and eighty thousand dollars inserted in the
treaty, and divided into payments of fourteen- thousand
dollars a year.
"Article 3d. All the Indians residing on the said reservations in Michigan shall remove therefrom within three years
from this date, during which time they shall not be disturbed
in their possession, nor in hunting upon the lands as heretofore. In the meantime no interruption shall be offered to the
survey and sale of the same by the United States. In case,
however, the said Indians shall sooner remove the government
may take immediate possession thereof."
On page 445 appears the following, sigaed by eight Indians
but not signed by the commissioners
"On behalf of the Chiefs and Head-men or the United
Nation of Indians who signed the treaty to which these
articles are supplementary, we hereby, in evidence of our
concurrence therein, become parties thereto.
"And as since signing of the treaty a part of the band

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

residing on the reservations in the Territory of Michigan have
requested, on account of their religious creed, permission to
remove to the northern part of the peninsula of Michigan, it
is agreed that in case of such removal the just proportion of
all annuities payable to them under former treaties, and that
arising from the sale of the reservation on which they now
reside shall be paid to them at l'Arbre Oroche."
The court below held, with the United States, that under
these provisions these claamants were entitled, not to the
whole, but to "a just proportion" of this annuity provided
for in the supplemental articles of September 27, 1833, and
in this view we concur.
It was admitted that the one year's annuity, $2000, had
been paid, leaving to be paid $38,000, of which amourt the
court awarded in favor of the claimants, as "a just proportion
thereof," the sum of $3653.60. The court arrived at this
particular sum by taking the number of the Indians who went
west at 2812 and the number of those who were permitted to
remain east as 291.
It is claimed that the court below erred m this method of
computation, because it gives an interest to Indians who were
not entitled, under the supplemental treaty of September 27,
1833, to participate m this fund. An examination of that
treaty shows that the annuity of $2000 for twenty years was
in part consideration of the cession by the Indians who took
part in it of 49 sections of reservations on which they were
then settled, and it is claimed with considerable force that
the proceeds of the sale of such reservations, so far as this
annuity was concerned, should be distributed among the Indians on whose behalf the supplemental treaty was made, to
the exclusion of those who had made the treaty of the day
before.
However, we think the court below was right in refusing to
adopt this view of the case, ana in regarding the two treaties
as substantially one, and that, therefore, this annuity was
distributable among both classes, giving to those who were
permitted to remain east "a just proportion thereof."
The conclusion arrived at by the court below, in its 8th

PHINEAS PAM-TO-PE

v. UNITED STATES.

703

Opinion of the Court.

finding, was that, under the several treaties and upon the
entire account, there had accrued to the entire tribe, thoee
who had gone west and those who had remained in Michigan
and Indiana, the sum of $1,482,800, that the portion of this
that belonged to the petitioners was $134,368.26. To this is
to be added the proportion awarded the petitioner of the
$2000 annuity under the supplemental treaty of September
27, 1833, being, as we have already seen, $3653.60. The
court below further awarded the petitioners, as their proportionate share of the money due and unpaid of the perpetual
annuities under the treaties of September 26 and 27, 1833,
the sum of $41,626. As against these sums the court below
charged the petitioners with the sum of $75,162.50, which
amount it is admitted has -been received. The court below
was urged to decree that the perpetual annuities under said
treaties should be reduced to a cash basis, as of the present
time, and be now paid. Such a disposition of these annuities
would be a very convement one, and all. the claims of the
petitioners would thereby be finally closed. But the court
properly held that no power had been given it to convert the
perpetual annuities into a sum for present payment, and that
matter must be left to be hereafter dealt with by Congress.
As the United States. took no appeal, the several contentions on their behalf are not before us for consideration.
Accepting, as we must do, the facts of the case as found by
the court below, we perceive no error in its decree establishing the sum due to the petitioners.
How the moneys so awarded shall be distributed among
the several claimants it is not easy for us to say The findings
of the court below, and the contradictory statements of the
several briefs filed by the appellants, have left this part of
this subjectfm a very confused condition. The court says.
"The second section provides that said action shall be
commenced by petition, stating the facts, and that the same
may be verified by a ' Business Committee,' or authorized
attorney of said Indians. Each of the petitions in this proceeding" is verified by the affidavit of the attorney appearing
in each case, and in that particular are identical. In each

OCTOBER TERMN, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

case it appears that by special appointment the attorneys

represent some of the Pottawatonnes who remained in the
States of Indiana and Michigan, under the supplementary
article to the treaty of September 27, 1833. In this view of
the statute the court allows the motion of the defendants to
consolidate the cases, made on the 8th day of January, 1891,
and overrules the motion to dismiss cause No. 16,842, made
on the 19th of January, 1891.
"This brings the issue by both petitioners to the consideration of the court, to be disposed of upon one broad ground of
the right of all the Pottawatomies of Michigan and Indiana.
Congress have recognized by the very title of the act a
claimant designated as the ' Pottawatomie Indians of Michigan
and Indiana,' and under that generic head is to be determined
the aggregate right of such claimant, leaving the question
of distribution to that department of the government, which
by law has incumbent on it the administration of the trust
which in legal contemplation exists between the United States
and the different tribes of Indians."
On the other hand, it is contended, with great show of
reason, by the petitioners who are represented in case No.
1125, (16,842 in the court below,) that the question of what
Indians are entitled to participate, in the fund is one of law,
to be settled by the court, and should not be left to clerical
functionaries. Our difficulty, in disposing of this part of the
subject, is that we have neither findings nor concessions that
enable us to deal with it intelligently
It is to be observed that the court below found, as a fact,
(see finding 10,) that the average proportion between the
Indians who removed west and those who remained was as
2812 of the former to 291 of the latter, and the court used
that relative proportion of numbers as a factor in computing
the amount due the petitioners.
The petitioners, however, number 1371 in case No. 1125,
but the number'epresented in No. 1133 (16,473 in the court
below) is not precisely stated. It is .alleged in the brief
filed in behalf of petitioners in case No. 1125 that only 91
Indians are actually represented in case No. 1133, and that

PHINEAS PAM-TO-PEE v. UNITED STATES.

705

Opinion of the Court.

the other 200 Indians are among those represented m case
No. 1125.
Bat these facts are not found for us in any authoritative
form. Nor, indeed, would it seem that the court below was
furnished with information sufficient to enable it to define
what Indians or what number of Indians, entitled to distribution, are represented by,the respective attorneys or agents.
Unable as we are to safely adjudicate this question as
between these classes of claimants, we can do no better than
acquiesce in the suggestion of the court below, that it is one
to be dealt with bVy the authorities of the. government when
they come to, distribute the fund.
As these petitioners no longer have any tribal organization,
and as the statutes direct a division, of the annuities and
other sums payable, by the 'head, and as such has been the
practice of the government, perhaps the necessities of the
situation demand that the identification of each claimant
entitled to share in the distribution shall be left to the officers
who are the agents of the government in paying out the fund.
United States v. Old Settlers, ante, 427.
The decree of the court below is
Aflmed.
VOL. cxvvIII-45

