OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The decree of the Circuit Courtmust be reversed, and the case
be remanded to it wit a direction.to dimsa the pet ton
of the mtervenors.

ISAACS v. JONAS.
ER

oQ

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 142. Argued March 14, 15, 1892.-Decided April 10, 1592.

Cigarette paper, of suitable size and quality to be used in making cigarettes,
and pasteboard covers therefor, of corresponding size, imported separately and entered together with the intention to combine them with paste
into cigarette books for the use of smokers, are subject to a duty of
seventy per cent ad valorem as "smokers' articles" under schedule N,
and not to a duty of fifteen per cent ad valorem as "manufactures of
paper" under schedule Al, of the Tariff Act of March 3, 1883, c. 121.

THIS was an action brought December 17, 1885, by Isaacs
against the collector of the port of New Orleans, to recover
back an alleged excess of duties paid, under protest, upon
twenty-five cases of cigarette paper, and upon twenty-three
cases of pasteboard covers for cigarette paper, both imported
by the plaintiff in June, 1885, the paper at the port of New
Orleans, and the covers at the port of New York and thence
transferred in bond to New Orleans; and the two entered by
the plaintiff simultaneously at New Orleans for withdrawal for
consumption.
The collector, and the Secretary of the Treasurf on appeal,
held both Importations to be subject to li-" duty of seventy
per cent ad valorem, imposed by schedule N of the Tariff Act
of March 3, 1883, c. 121, on ".pipes, pipe bowls, and all smokers'
articles whatever, not specially enumerated or provided for in
this act." 22 Stat. 513.
The plaintiff contended that both importations were within
schedule .: of .the same act, imposing a duty of fifteen per cent
ad valorem on "paper, manufactures of, or of which paper-is a

ISAACS v. JONAS.
Statement of the Case.

component material, not specially enumerated or provided for
in this act." 22 Stat. 510.
At the trial. before a juryit was agreed by the parties, without contention, "that the paper, when imported, was cut into
small pieces of the size proper for making cigarettes, and was
put up in packages wrapped in paper, the packages being about
six or eight inches square, and that these packages were again
enclosed in large cases or boxes for sea transportation, that
the contents of each of the smaller packages referred to were
made up of said small pieces of paper, cut to the size proper
and of the proper character of paper for making cigarettes,
that said, cigarette paper, as imported, was in no manner
attached together in any form of binding, but was separated
into divisions of about 250 pieces of paper, by the interposition
of a piece of paper of a different color, cut of the same size, so
that it subdivided the paper into the divisions of the proper
size and number of leaves for the contents of the book of leaves
of -cigarette paper, of the ordinary size of such books as sold
in the markets."
The plaintiff introduced evidence "tending to show that the
paper of which the small cut papers were made was made of a
peculiar material, and by a process fitting it to be used as
wrappers for cigarettes, and that the paper was manufactured
in large sheets, and afterwards cut into the form of small
pieces of paper as imported, before importation, by machines
contrived for that purpose, that the paper was so cut to adapt
it to use as wrappers for cigarettes, that cigarettes, as manufactured, consist of a small quantity of disintegrated tobacco
leaves, wrapped about and held in place by the paper, and that
in consumption both the tobacco and the paper are set on fire
and both consumed or smoked by the smoker, that it was the
intention of the plaintiff, at the time of importation, and his
motive in making said importation in said form, to manufacture
the- said material into what are 'known as cigarette books,
that the process of such manufacture is to separate the paper,
as imported, where the colored leaves or subdivisions are located
in the paper as imported, and with a brush cover one edge of
the paper with flour paste, glue, or some adhesive cement

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

adapted to cement leaves together at one edge, and then
cement the paper into the covers as they are imported; that
as to and concerning this particular importation a large portion
thereof was so put up and cemented into books by the plaintiff
after the same came into his possession by withdrawal and
payment of duties, that this was done at the expense of about
,$400 for hire of workmen to do the work, that a portion of
the paper as imported was sold directly to manufacturers of
cigarettes, to be used m their factories in making cigarettes
for sale as a manufacture and article of commerce, that as to
this particular kind or manufacture of paper the plaintiff was
the sole importer thereof into the United States, by special
arrangement with the foreign manufacturers thereof, that as
an article of retail sale, or jobbing -and sale to the retail
dealers, the paper has always been sold in this country in the
form of books consisting of a certain number of leaves of the
paper, cemented together and to the cover, and that in use
thereof by the smoker the leaves are separately torn from the
book used in the manufacture of cigarettes by the smoker,
and when the leaves are all expended the cover is thrown
away as useless, that the function of the cover is simply to
protect the leaves from becoming scattered, or injured by being
handled or carried in the pockets of the smokers, and had
no other function or use." The plaintiff thereupon rested his
case.
The defendant called as a witness a person connected with
the office of the appraisers at the custom house in New Orleans,
who t~stified that for many years he had been a cigarette
smoker, rolling and making his own cigarettes by combining
the tobacco and paper himself, and who produced packages of
cigarette paper of another kind and greater stiffness than the
goods imported, bought at cigar shops in New Orleans, without
covers, and held in place as a package by a flexible band, and
was permitted by the court, against the plaintiff's objection and
exception, to testify that those packages could be- used by
smokers in the condition in which .they were produced, and
also that "it was possible to use. the paper in controversy in
this case in the form in which it was imported, without pasting

ISAACS v. JONAS.
Statement of the Case.

together the edge, or pasting or glumng the paper to connect
the cover to make a cigarette book."
The bill of exceptions set fortlA many instructions requested
by either party and given by the court with modifications, as
well as other instructions given to the jury, the substance of
all which sufficiently appears by the following instructions
given, to each of which the plaihtiff excepted
"If you find that the smoker himself, by simply placing the
package of small leaves of cigarette paper within the cover,
and placing the rubber band which adheres to the cover around
the cover and the package of small leaves of cigarette paper,
can use the book of cigarette paper for all the purposes to
which a book of cigarette paper is put by smokers, then the
jury should find for the defendant."
"To find that the things imported are smokers' articles, the
jury must find that they, are ordinarily and distinctively used
by smokers in or in connection with smoking, and that they
are ready to be so used."
"If the merely laying them together enables the smoker to
use them, and he did use them without any process except
that of laying them together, they would be smokers' articles, but if, on the other hand, there was a process of manufacture or combination beyond laying together, then they
would be materials for smokers' articles, and not smokers'
articles."
"If the jury find that the things separately imported are
imported separately as matter of business, and not as an evasive
device, then they are the materials for the articles, but not the
articles themselves, but if the jury find the things, though
imported separately, were designed, without any expenditure
beyond being put together, to be put and sold together, and
were imported separately, merely to escape a higher rate of
duty, and not from motives, of business, then the separate
things are to be classed as parts of a whole, and not simply as
materials."
The jury returned a verdict for the defendant, upon which
judgment was rendered, and on Mlay 16, 1889, the plaintiff
sued out this writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

.M "F Wickham Smith, (with whom were _Mr Charles
Curie and _Mnr D Ives _Mackm on the brief,) for plaintiff in
error.
.Xr Asststant Atorney General Parker for defendant in
error.
MR. JUSTiCE

Gr.AY, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Had there been any question in this case necessary for the
consideration and decision of a jury, the plaintiff would have
no just ground of exception to the admission of the testimony
of an habitual cigarette smoker, accustomed to roll his own
cigarettes, that other cigarette paper, sold in similar packages
but without covers, could be used by smokers in that condition,
and that the pieces of paper now in question could be so used
without being pasted together or into a cover, or to the
instructions under which the case was submitted to the jury
But the several exceptions taken become immaterial, because
upon the plaintiff's own case the jury might well have been
instructed, as matter of law, that the defendant was entitled
to a verdict.
The facts which were either admitted by both parties, or
which the evidence introduced in behalf of the plaintiff tended
to prove, were in substance as follows The importation of
cigarette paper consisted. of packages of separate pieces of a
paper made of a peculiar material and by a special process,
suitable to be used as wrappers for cigarettes, cut into the
propei\size, and separated into divisions of about 250 pieces by
the interposition of pieces of paper of the same size and of
different color. The other importation consisted of pasteboard
covers of corresponding size, to be used with the paper in
making cigarette books, by brushing one edge of each subdivision of .he paper with paste or other adhesive substance,
and then ceA enting the paper into the covers, from which the
leaves are torn by the smoker as desired, and then the cover
(which is useftil only to protect the papers) is thrown away

ISAACS v. JONAS.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff, by arrangement with the foreign manufacturers
of this paper, was the sole importer thereof into the United
States, his intention and motive in importing it were to make
it up into cigarette books; and that was the only form in which
such paper had been sold at retail. A large part of this importation was so made up into books by the plaintiff, at an
expense of about $400 for the hire of workmen, but a part of
it, as imported, was sold directly to manufacturers of cigarettes.
The question is, whether upon these facts the cigarette paper
and the pasteboard covers for it were "manufactures of paper,"
within schedule M, or were "smokers' articles," within schedule
N, of the Tariff Act of 1883.
Each of the two clauses containing the words "not -pecially
enumerated or provided for in this act," and the clause concerning smokers' articles being the more specifi& and.,definite,
this clause must of course prevail over the other la the case of
a subject falling within both descriptions.
It is manifestly not requisite, in order to bring an article
under this clause, that it should, of and by itself, be capable
of being used for smoking; for the clause includes not only
"pipes," which are ready to be filled and smoked, but "pipe
bowls," which cannot be smoked without putting stems to
them, "and all smokers' articles whatever."
In the case at bar, the cigarette papers, as well as the
covers to hold them, were made, adapted and intended to
be used by smokers in rolling and smoking cigarettes. The
plaintiff himself imported both the papers and the covers,
and entered and paid the duties upon the two simultaneously,
and his intention at the time of importing them, as well as
his motive in importing them in the form that he did, was to
combine them into cigarette books for the use of smokers.
The leaves of paper were fit for nothing else but to be made
into cigarettes, and smoked with the tobacco wrapped m
them, and they were used in the same way, whether never
put into a cover at all, or first pasted into a cover and afterwards torn out one by one. The covers were fit for nothing, except to hold and protect the papers until made by
the smoker into cigarettes. The mere pasting together of

