VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Statement of the Case.

The tax in question seems to me to indicate upon its face
that it was not imposed bonaflde for the privilege of using the
streets, but was intended either as a tax upon the franchise of
the company, or for the purpose of driving its wires beneath
the ground. While the latter object may be a perfectly legitimate one, I consider it a misuse of the taxing power to seek to
accomplish it in.'this way I am, therefore, constrained to
dissent from the opinion of the court.

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
ORIGINAL.

INo. 7. Original. Submitted January 30, 1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.
Under section 643 of the Revised Statutes, the jurisdiction of the state
court is not taken away, until a petition for removal is filed in the Circuit Court of the United States, and a writ of certiorarzor of habeas cor.Pus cum causa issued by the clerk of that court, and served upon the
state court or its clerk.
A prosecution of a crime against the laws of a State, which must be prosecuted by indictment, is not commenced, within the meaning of section
643 of the Revised Statutes, before an indictment is found, and cannot
be removed into the Circuit Court of the United States by a person
arrested on a warrant from a justice of the peace with a view to his
commitment to await the action of the grand jury.
Mandamus lies in behalf of a State to compel the remanding to one of its
courts of a criminal prosecution there commenced, and of which the
Circuit Court of the United States has assumed jurisdiction, at the
defendant's suggestion, without due proceedings for removal.
Mandamus does not lie to review an order on a writ of habeas coilus, under
sections 751-753 of the Revised Statutes, discharging a prisoner from
commitment under authority of a State, on the ground of his being in
custody for an act done in pursuance of a law of the United States.

Tnis was a petition by the Commonwealth of Virginia to
this court fbr a writ of mandamus to the Honorable John
Paul, District Judge of the Unitea States for the Western
District of Virginia, and holding the Circuit Court of the
United States for that district, to command him to remand

OCTOBER TEIRM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

to the county court of Smyth County in Virginia an indictment against Joseph IH. Carrico for the murder of James M.
Nelson, found by the grand jury of the county, and by them
returned into the county court, and of which the Circuit Court
of the United States had assumed jurisdiction, and also to
command him to restore the body of Carrico to W D. Wilmore, the jailor of the county, from whose custody he, had
been taken upon a writ of habeas corpus issued by said judge.
Annexed to the petition was a copy of the record of 'thbe
District Court of the United States in the proceedings for a
habeas co pus, as well as a copy of the record of the Circuit
Court of the United States in the proceedings concerning the
indictment.
The record of the District Court set forth the following
proceedings On December 18, 1891, in vacation, Carrico presented to Judge Paul a petition, addressed to him as "Judge
of the United States Circuit Court," alleging "that, on December 12, 1891, one Kirk, a justice of the peace of Smyth County,
Virginia, issued his warrant in the name of the Commonwealth
of Virginia, addressed to constable Scott of the said county,
commanding him to arrest your petitioner, and bring his body
before said justice for wilfully, premeditatedly and of malice
aforethought, killing and murdering one James If. Nelson, in
the said county of Smyth, on December 11, 1891, and upon
said warrant the said constable Scott did arrest your petitioner,
late on Saturday evening, December 12, 1891, and delivered
him to W D. Wilmore, the jailor of Smyth County, Virginia,
and your petitioner is now confined in the jail of Smyth
County, at Marion, awaiting a trial before said justice upon
the said charge of murder." The petition further alleged that
no murder was committed, but that the killing was done by
the petitioner in self-defence, in the performance of his duty
as a deputy of the marshal of the district, acting by and under
the authority of the internal revenue laws of the United States,
and iii attempting to arrest Nelson while violating those laws
by having in his possession and selling illicit ardent spirits.
"In view of these facts, under section 643 of the Revised Statutes of the United States," the petition prayed that "said

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Statement of the Case.

cause may be removed from the jurisdiction of the said Kirk,
justice of the peace of said county of Smyth, and from the
county court of said county, to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia, for trial ;" that a
writ of kabea~s corpus oun causa might be awarded, and a
duplicate thereof delivered to the clerk of the county court,
and that by virtue thereof the marshal of the district or one
of his deputies might take the body of the petitioner into his
custody, to be dealt with in the cause according to law, and
according to the order of the Circuit Court, or of a judge
thereof in vacation, and, "upon the removal of said prosecution, that a copy of the record and proceedings before said
justice and by said constable" might be brought into the Circuit Court. The petition was verified by the oath of the petitioner, taken before a United States commissioner on December
12, and annexed to it was a certificate of counsel of the same
date, in the form required by said section of the statutes.
Upon that petition, and on the same day, Judge Paul made
an order, entitled "In the District Court of the United States
for the Western District of Virginia, in vacation," and signed
by him as District Judge, granting a writ of habeas eorpus in
common form to the jailor, returnable before him on December
23, at Abmngdon.
On December 19, that petition was filed, and the order
granting the writ of habeas co pus recorded, jn the clerk's
office of the District Court, and the writ was issued accordingly, tested by Judge Paul as judge of the District Court,
and under its seal.
On December 22, the writ of habeas corpus, as appeared by
the marshal's return thereon, was executed by delivering copies
thereof to the jailor, and to the clerk of the county court.
On December 23, at a special term of the District Court,
held at Abmngdon, the jailor brought in the body of Carrico,
and returned that the causes of his detention were a warrant
of commitment, a copy of which, marked Exhibit A, was
annexed to and made part thereof, "and the proceedings of
the county court of Smyth and Commonwealth of Virginia,
marked Exhibit B, and made part and parcel of this return."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Tho only exhibit annexed to the jailor's return was marked
Exhibit A, and was as follows
"Virginia, Smyth County, to wit To William Scott, constable
of said county, and to the keeper of the jail of said county"These are to:command you, the said constable, in the name
of the Commonwealth of Virginia, forthwith to convey and
deliver into the custody of the keeper of said jail, together with
tthe warrant, the body of Joseph I. Carrico, charged before
me, John J Kirk, a justice of the said county, on the oath of
R. W Nelson, with a felony by him committed, in this, that the
said Joseph H. Carrico, on the 11th day of December, 1891,
in the said county, feloniously and of his malice did kill and
murder one James M. Nelson, and you, the said keeper of the
said jail, are hereby required to receive the said Joseph H.
Carrico-nto your jail and custody, that he may be examined
for the said offence by the county court of the said county,
and him there safely keep until he shall be discharged by due
course of law Given under my hand and seal this, the 14th.
day of December, 1891.
" JOu

J. KnIt , JT P"

The prisoner was thereupon admitted to bail with sureties
for his appearance on January 8, 1892, and the case was continued to that day, and again to January 9, when the jailor
was permitted by the court to amend his return by adding
Exhibit B, therein referred to, which was a transcript of an
indictment against Carrico for the murder of Nelson, returned
into the county. court by a grand jury of the county on December 21, and of an order made the same day by that court,
directing that Carrico, who had been removed to the jail of
another county for safekeeping, be conveyed by the sheriff to
the jail of Smyth County, that he might be tried in the county
court on the indictment. This transcript appeared to have
been certified by the county clerk cn January 7, and was
endorsed by the clerk of the District Court of the United
States as filed in that court on May 17, 1892.
The case was continued from January 9 to January 12,

-VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Statement of the Case.

when the District Court, held by Judge Paul, made the f6llowing order
"In this cause, the court having heard the testimony introduced on behalf of the petitioner, as well as that introduced
on behalf of the respondent, W D. Wilinore, sheriff of Smyth
County, Virginia, and the arguments of counsel for the petitioner and respondent, and it appearing to the court that the
petitioner is in custody for an act done in pursuance of a law
of the United States, and is held in custody contrary to law
by the jailor of Smyth County, Virginia, and that he has. a
right to have removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia the prosecution
pending against him in the county court of Smyth County,
Virginia It is therefore ordered that the petitioner be recognized in the sum of one thousand dollars for his appearance
before the Circuit Court for, this district on the first day
of the next regular term thereof, to answer the indictment
found against him by a grand jury of the county court of
Smyth County, Virginia." Thereupon Carrico entered into a
recognizance accordingly The record set forth the testimony
introduced at that hearing, as well as the opinion then delivered, and published in 51 Fed. Rep. 196.
On May 14, 1892, the jailor moved the District Court to
amend its order of January :12, so as to allow him an appeal
to this court, and tocertify that the question of the jurisdiction of the District Court to hear and determine the writ of
habeas corpus in the manner it did was alone-involved and to
be reviewed. The motion was granted, upon the grounds that
the order of January 12, taking the petitioner from the custody of the respondent, and holding him to answer to the
indictment in the United States Court, was a final order, from
which the respondent might appeal to this court, as if it had
been an order for the absolute discharge of the prisoner from
his custody, and that the writ of hfabeas corpus was not
merely ancillary to the petition for the removal, under sectioA
6443 of the Revised Statutes, of the prosecution of Carrico by
the State of Virginia, but was a distinct and different proceeding, in a different court, and under a different statute, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

was not issued by the clerk, as provided in that section-,-but by
the District Judge, and on December 18, 1891, " w hereas,"
the judge said, "the petition for removal, as shown by record
evidence used in the discussion of this motion, was not filed in
the clerk's office of the Circuit Court until December 19,
1891." His opinion on this motion is in the record, and is
published in 51 Fed. iRep. 200. The appeal from the order of
January 12 does not appear to have been prosecuted.
The copy of the record of the Circuit Court of the United
States, annexed to the petition for a mandamus, was of the
proceedings at the regular May term 1892 of that court, at
Abingdon, ield by Judge Paul, in the case entitled " Commonwealth of Virginia v. Joseph 11. Carrico, Indictment for murder from Smyth County court," and began, under date of
Saturday, May 14, with the following memorandum
"Be it remembered that heretofore the said Joseph H. Carrico presented a petition for the removal of the case aforesaid,
and herein charging him with the murder of James M. Nelson,
from the county Court of Smyth County, Virginia, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District of
Virginia, at Abingdon, Virginia, (and for a writ of habeas
corpus,) to the Judge of the District Court of the United
States for the Western District of Virginia, and upon return
of W D. Wilmore, jailor of Smyth County, Virginia, and upon
the hearing of the evidence and arguments of counsel, an order
was entered in the said District Court of the United States for
the Western District of Virginia, on January 12, 1892, removing the said prosecution of the Commonwealth of Virginia v.
Joseph I-I. Carrico into the Circuit Court of tne United States
for the Western District of Virginia, in the Fourth Circuit, at
Abingdon, Virginia, for further proceedings and trial, and
said indictment, with the endorsements thereon, is in the words
and figures following, viz
Then followed a copy of the indictment, with the endorsement "a true bill," by the foreman of the grand jury, and
also endorsed as " a transcript from the record," by the clerk
of the county court. The record of the Circuit Court further
showed that on May 14 the attorney general of Virginia and

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Counsel for Petitioner.

the county attorney came in, and that the prisoner appeared,
as required by his recognizance, was arraigned upon the indictment, pleaded not guilty, was tried by a jury, and on
Monday, May 16, found guilty of voluntary manslaughter,
and that on May 17 the court, upon his motion, set aside the
verdict and granted a new trial, continued the case to the next
term, and admitted him to bail upon his own recognizance.
Upon motion of the Commonwealth of Virginia on the first
day of this term, and before any further proceedings were had
in the Circuit Court, this court gave leave to file the petition
for a mandamus, and granted a rule to Judge Paul to show
cause why a writ of inandamus should not issue as prayed for.
The judge, in his return to the rule, referred 'to the petition
for removal and for a writ of habeas corpus, and the proceedings concerning the habeas corpus and those upon the indictment, as appearing in the copies of records annexed to the
petition for a mandamus; set forth the grounds of his action
substantially as in his opinions above mentioned, and specifically stated that the writ of habeas corpus was issued, not
under section 643 of the Revised Statutes, bu" under section
'153,which authorizes the writ when a prisoner "is in custody
for an act done or omitted in pursuance of a law of the United
States."
It was alleged in the petition for a.mandamus, and in the
brief for the petitioner, and was not denied in the judge'S
return, or in the brief of his counsel, that when the case of
the indictment was called for trial in the Circuit Court of the
United States, a motion was made by'the Commonwealth of
Virginia to remand the case to the county court, because the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction over the crime charged in the
indictment, and because the removal of the prosecution from
the county court was not authorized by law but was contrary
to the constitution and laws of Virginia, and to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and that this motion was
denied by the Circuit Court.
.MrR. Taylor Scott, Attorney General of the State of Virginia, for the petitioner.
VOL. cxLvm-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr Assistant Attorney General -Mauryopposing.
AIR. JUSTICE. GRiAY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The prosecution and punishment of crimes and offences
committed against one of the States of the Union appropriately belong to the courts and authorities of the State, and
can be interfered with by the Circuit Court of the United
States so far only as Congress, in order to maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and laws of the United States,
has expressly authorized either a removal of the prosecution
into the Circuir Court of the United States for trial, or a
discharge of the prisoner by writ of habeas corpus issued by
that court or by a judge thereof. Tennessee v Davis, 100
U. S.257, Virginia v Rives, 100 U. S.313, Davis v South
Carolina,107 U S.597, Tn re .leagle,135 U. S.1, Huntington v Attrill, 146 U S. 657, 672, 673.
In the case at bar, Joseph 1H. Carrico, having been arrested
under a warrant from a justice of the peace of the county of
Smyth on a charge of murder, was discharged by the District
Judge on writ of habeas corpus from the commitment under
state process; and having afterwards been indicted by the
grand jury of the county for that offence, and committed by
order of the county court for trial upon the indictment, the
prosecution against him was assumed to have been removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States for trial, and was
there tried.
The State of Virginia, by petition for a writ of mandamus,
questions the validity both of the removal and of the discharge,
and it will be convenient to consider the two separately, beginning with the removal.
It is-contended by the respondent that the prosecution was
rightly removed into the Circuit Court of the United States
under section 643 of the Revised Statutes, (the constitutionality of which was affirmed in Tennessee v Davis, and in
Davis v South Cdrolina,above cited,) authorizing the removal
into the Circuit Court of the United States for trial of "any

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

civil suit or criminal prosecution " "commenced in any court
of a State against any officer appointed under or acting by
authority of any revenue law of the United States, now or
hereafter enacted, or against any person acting under or by
authority of any such officer, on account of any act done
under color-of his office, or of any such law, or on account of
any right, title or authority claimed by such officer or other
person under any such law"
It is imnortant, therefore, to consider whether the conditions
of that section have been complied.with.
By that section, it is only when the suit or prosecution has
been "commenced in any court of a State," and "at any time
before the trial or final hearing thereof," that it "may be
removed for trial into the Circuit Court," "upon the petition
of such defendant to said Circuit Court, and in the following
manner " The petition must set forth the nature of the suit or
prosecution, and be verified by affidavit, and supported by
certificate of counsel. It "shall be presented to the said
Circuit Court, if in session, or if it be not, to the clerk thereof
at his office, and shall be filed in said office." "The cause
shall thereupon be entered on the docket of the Circuit Court,
and shall proceed as a cause originally commenced in that
court." The clerk of the Circuit Court is required, when the
case is commenced in the state court otherwise than by capias,
to issue a writ of certiorarz.to the state court for the record ;
and, when it ig commenced by capias, to "issue a writ of
habeas corpus cum causa, a duplicate of which shall be deliver.ed to the clerk of the state court or left at his office by the
marshal," "and thereupon it shall be the duty of the state
court to stay all further proceedings in the-cause, and the suit
or prosecution, upon delivery of such process, or leaving the
same as aforesaid, shall be held to be removed to the Circuit
Court, and any further proceedings, trial or judgment therein
in the state court shall be void."
The removal of the case out of. the jurisdiction of the state
court and into the exclusive jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the United States takes place, without any order of the Circuit
Court, as soon as the state court, by the service upon it, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

upon its clerk, of the appropriate process, whether certiorarn
or habeas corpus cum causa, has notice of the filing of the petition in the Circuit Court. But it is only after such formal
notice has been given, that the jurisdiction is transferred from
the state court to the national court. The proceedings under
this section differ from those under section 641, in which the
petition for removal is required to be filed in the state court,
and is of itself notice to that court, and therefore, "upon the
filing of such petition, all further proceedings in the state court
shall cease," and, if the petition shows a sufficient ground for
removal, the case is in legal effect removed. Virgznza v
1Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 316. But under either section the jurisdiction of the state court is not taken away until it has notice,
in one form or other, of the petition for removal, under section 641, by the petition filed in that court, under section 643,
by notice from the clerk of the Circuit Court of the petition
there filed.
The records of the District Court and of the Circuit Court,
copies of which are nnexed to the petition for a mandamus,
present a curious and complicated condition of things, in
which some of the confusion may be owing to the facts, that
not only is the District Judge a judge of either court, but that
in the Western District of Virgima both courts are held at
the same times and places and have the same clerk. IRev.
Stat. §§ 572, 609, 622, 658, Act of September 25, 1890, c.922,

26 Stat. 474.
The petition for removal, praying also for a writ of habeas

corpus cur causa, was evidently framed under section 6-3 of
the Revised Statutes, and was addressed to the District Judge
as "Judge of the United States Circuit Court," and it is
said, in his opilhion delivered on allowing an appeal to this
court from his order of 'January 12 upon the habeas corpas,
that "the petition for removal, as shown by record evidence
used in the discussion of this motion, was not filed in the
clerk's office of the Circuit. Court until December 19, 1891."
51 Fed. :Rep. 202.
But that record evidence, all of which is in the record now
before us, shows only that the petition was flied in the clQxk's

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

office of the District Court on that day, being the same day
on which the order granting the writ of habeas corpus was
recorded in, and the writ issued from, that office. Indeed,
the very ground assigned by the judge in his opinion, just
referred to, for allowing an appeal from his order on the
habeas corpus, was that the writ of habeas corpus issued by
him was not ancillary to the petition for a removal, nor issued
by the clerk of the Circuit Court as provided in that section,
his return to this petition for a mandamus expressly states
that it was not issued under section 643, but under section
753, and the memorandum, inserted at the beginning of the
-record of the proceedings in the Circuit Court on the indictinent, describes that order as an order of the District Court,
removing the prosecution of the Commonwealth of Virginia
against Carrico into the Circuit Court.
The single petition, addressed to Judge Paul as Judge of
the Circuit Court, and praying for a removal of the cause into
that court, and for a writ of habeas corus cum causa to complete the removal, (which,.so far as appears on the records of
either court, was the only petition, either for a removal or for
a habeas corpus,) appears to have been treated by the judge
as if it had been, or had included, two separate petitions, the
one a petition for an ordinary writ of habeas corpus, under
section 753, which might be granted by the District Court or
District Judge, the other a petition for a removal of the
cause, under section 643, which could only be addressed to
and filed in the Circuit Court.
If the petition for removal had been duly filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States, and a writ of habeas corpus cum
causa; had been duly issued by the clerk of that court, and
served on the clerk of the county court,, no order of removal
would have been necessary
If the petition was not so filed,
and neither such a writ of habeas corpus, nor a writ of certiorarz to bring in the record, was so issued and served, no order,
even of the Circuit Court. for the removal of the cause, could
have any effect. In any aspect, the District Court had-no
authority to order the prosecution to be removed info the
Circuit Court.

OCTOBER TER]AT 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The inference appears to be inevitable that the only foundation of the exerbise of jurisdiction by the Circuit Court over
this indictment was a petition filed in the District Court and
orders made and recorded in that court, and that no petition
for removal was ever filed in the clerk's office of the Circuit
Court, and no writ of eerthorari or habeas cwpus cum caus
was ever issued by the clerk, as clerk of that court, and served
on the state court, as required by section 643 of. the Revised
"Statutes,in order to take away the jurisdiction of the state
court.
But there is a more serious objection to the exercise of
jurisdiction by the Circuit Court of the United States over the
indictment found in the state court.
By the law of Virginia, murder or other felony must be
prosecuted by indictment found in the county court, and a
justice of the peace, upon a previous complaint, can dot no
more than to examine whether there is good cause for believing that the accused is guilty, and to commit-him for trial
before the court having jurisdiction of the offence. Virginia
Code of 1887, §§ 3990, 4016, 3955-3971.
The petition for removal, which was sworn to on December
12, 1891, alleged that Kirk, a justice of the peace of Smyth
County, had that day issued his warrant to a constable to
arrest the petitioner and bring imn before the justice on a
charge of the murder of Nelson, and that the petitioner had
been arrested by the constable on that warrant, and was now
confined in the county jail, as the petition alleged, "a w ait n g a
trial before said justice upon the said charge of murder," which
can only mean an examination before the justice with a view
to a commitment to await the action of the'grand jury, and
prayed that "said cause" might be removed from the jurisdiction of the justice and of the county court into the Circuit
Court of the United States for trial, and, "upon the removal
of said prosecution, that -a copy of the record and proceedings
before said justice and by said constable" might be brought,
into the-Circuit Court.
When that petition was signed and sworn to, there had been
no proceedings, except before the justice of the peace and by

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

the constable, there was no case pending in the county court,
and the justice had not even committed the prisoner to await
the action of that court, and no indictment was found, or
other action taken, in the county court, until after the petition
had been filed in the Federal court.
By the terms of section 643, it is only after" any civil suit or
criminal prosecution is commenced in any court of a State,"
and "before the trial or final hearing thereof," that it can "be
removed for trial into the Circuit Court next to be holden in
the district where the same is pending," and "shall proceed as
a cause originally commenced in that court."
Proceedings before a magistrate to commit a person to jail,
or to hold him to bail, in order to secure his appearance to answer for a crime or offence, which the magistrate has no jurisdiction himself to try, before the court in which he may be
prosecuted and tried, are but preliminary to the prosecution,
and are no more a commencement of the prosecution, than is
an arrest by an officer without a warrant for a felony committed in his presence.
We are aware that under this section the opposite view has
prevailed in some cases in the Circuit Courts.- Georgza v -Port,
4 Woods, 513, Georgta,v Bolton, 11 Fed. Rep. 217, .ATorth
Carolinav .irkpatrick, 42 Fed. Rep. 689. But the only
authorities there cited, which afford any color for that conclusion, were English decisions that the preliminary arrest upon
the warrant of a justice of the peace took a case-out of the
statute of limitations, defining the time after the commission
of the offence within which, "the prosecution shall be commenced." Rex v. Fillace, 1 East P C. 186, The Queen v
Brooks, 1 Denison, 217, S. 0. 2 Car. & K. 402. The question
whether the government has taken such action, as will stop
the running of a statute of limitations, is quite different from
the question when a prosecution can be deemed to be commenced, within the meaning of the acts of Congress authorizing removals from the state courts into the courts of the
United States for trial.
A grand jury, whether of the State or of the United States,
is empanelled and sworn to inquire into and present offences

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

against that government only, under whose authority it is
summoned. Story on the Constitution, § 1784. The grand
jury summoned and empanelled under the authority of a State
is the only appropriate body to inquire into any offence
against the State, and to find or to ignore an indictment
therefor. The duty of the grand jury attending a court of the
United States is limited to inquiring into and presenting offences against the laws of the United States, and its proper
advisers in matters of law are the court and the attorney of
the United States.
In a criminal case removed from the state court into the
Circuit Court of the United States after indictment found,
the Circuit Court of the United States tries the case upon the
accusation presented by a grand jury of the State, and framed
with the assistance of the law officers of the State. Tennessee
v. Davms, 100 U. S. 257, 271.
Vut if a person arrested to await the finding of an indictment may remove the case before an indictment is found, the
accusation is not framed and presented by the officers and the
grand jury of the State whose criminal law has been violated,
but by the officers and grand jury of another government,
and the Circuit Court of the United States has not only to try
the defendant, but also to charge its own grand jury as to the
accusation against him on behalf of the State, and this too in
a case in which the very ground of removal into the Circuit
Court is the defendant's suggestion that he needs the protection of the Constitution and laws of the United States against
the prosecution by the State.
We cannot believe that such was the intention of Congress
in the statutes enacted to secure a fair and impartial trial between the State seeking to vindicate its public justice, on the
one hand, and a defendant claiming the protection of the Constitution and laws of the United States, on the other.
In any case falling within the purview of the acts of Congress, the defendant is adequately protected against danger
of unlawful oppression from the courts or authorities of the
state, by the right to remove it into the Circuit Court of the
Urited States, as soon as a prosecution has been commenced

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

against him, and by the right to apply to any court or judge
of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus under sections
751-753, whenever he "is in custody for an act done or
omitted in pursuance of a law of the United States."
The true rule on this subject, as it appears to us, was forcibly and accurately expressed by Mr. Justice Grier, in a case
removed from the court of quarter sessions of Bucks County in
the State of Pennsylvania, before indictment found, into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, under the act of Congress of March 3, 1863, c.
81, § 5, (12 Stat. 756,) since incorporated in section 641 of the
Revised Statutes, and which, though differing from the statute
now in question in requiring the petition for removal to be
originally filed in the state court, yet, in substantial accord
with this statute, provides that, "if any suit or prosecution,
civil or criminal, has been or shall be commenced in any state
court against any officer, civil or military, or against any
other person," for any such act as is therein described, done
by virtue or under color of authority of the United States, the
defendant may file a petition "for the removal of the cause
for trial at the next Circuit Court of the United States to be
holden in the district where the suit is pending." Mr. Justice
Grier, after quoting these words, ordered the case to be remanded to the state court, for the following reasons "The
petition of the defendants brings their case fully within the
provisions ot this section, but the removal is premature. The
prosecution has not been commenced in the state court. A
warrant has been issued by a justice of the peace, and the
defendants have been arrested preparatory to the commencement of a prosecution in the state court, but the attorney for
the Commonwealth has not sent a bill to the grand jury We
do not know, therefore, whether the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania intends to prosecute the defendants for the alleged
offence, or whether the grand jury will find a bill, without
which the prosecution cannot be said to be 'commenced in the
state court.' The act contemplates the removal of a prosecution 'pending' that a Itrial' may be had in the Circuit Court.
If the attorney of the United States were required to send a

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

bill of indictment before a grand jury of the United States
court for a breach of the peace of the State, it would present a
truly anomalous proceeding. Yet without it there would be
no case to try in the Circuit Court. If a bill of indictment
had been found in the state court, it would have presented
such a case, out, until this is done, there is no case pending in
the court of Bucks County, which can be removed to this court
for trial." Commonwealth v Artman, 3 Grant, 436, S. C.
5 Phila. 30-1.
It appearing upon the face of the petition for removal, as
well, as by the copies of records laid before this court, that no
prosecution had been commenced in the state court, within
the meaning of section 643 of the Revised Statutes, when the
petition for removal was drawn up and sworn to, nor even
when it was filed in the Federal court, the prosecution subsequently commenced by the presentment of an indictment in
the state court was never lawfully removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States, for, mn all cases of removal from
the state courts, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States rests and depends upon the statements made in
the petition for removal, and verified by the oath of the petitioner. V"rgsnta v ]?ives, 100 U S. 313, 316, Crehore v
Ohzo & .Rijspi
-ailway, 131 U. S. 240; Graves v
(orbzn, 132 U S. 571, 590.
The result is that the Circuit Court of the United States
has, without authority of law, assumed jurisdiction of an indictment found in the courts of the State of Virginia for a
crime against the laws of the State, and that the State is entitled to have the prosecution remanded to its courts to be
there dealt with according to law For augh' that appears on
this record, the State is not bound to commence or to carry on
the prosecution in the courts of another government, but is entitled to resume its own rightful jurisdiction and authority,
and to try the offender in its own courts. If the case should
be allowed to proceed in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and should finally result in an acquittal of the' charge,
in whole or in part, the State could not have a writ of error
to review the judgment. "Unmted States v Sanges, 144 U. S.

VIRGINIA v. PAUL.
Opinion of the Court.

310. A stronger case for issuing a writ of mandamus can
hardly be imagined. The writ may be directed to the judge
who has unlawfully assumed jurisdiction of the prosecution,
and no previous motion to him to remand the case was necessary The case is governed in every particular by Firgintav.
Rives, 100 U S. 313, 316, 323, 324.
If any delay on the part of the State, in a case of this kind,
could justify a denial of the writ of mandamus, no unreasonable delay is here shown. So far as appears by the copies of
records submitted to us by both parties, the Circuit Court of
the United States first took jurisdiction of the indictment
on Saturday, May 14, 1892. It is alleged by the petitioner,
and not denied by the respondent, (although the fact does not
appear of record,) that on that day a motion to remand the
case to the state court was made by the State, and denied by
the Circuit Court. The accused was found guilty of voluntary
manslaughter on Monday, May 16, the very day on which
October term 1891 of this court was finally adjourned. On
the next day, the District Judge set aside the verdict, continued
the case to October term 1892 of the Circuit Court, and admitted the accused to bail on his own recognizance. On the
first day of the present term of this court, and before any
further rroceedings in the Circuit Court, the State applied to
this court for leave to file the petition for a mandamus.
The necessary conclusion is that the State of Virginia is
entitled to a writ of mandamus to compel the respondent to
remand the indictment and prosecution against Carrico to the
county court in which the indictment was found.
The matter of the discharge of the prisoner by the Distrct
Judge upon the writ of habeas coous may be more briefly
disposed of. If that' writ had been a writ of habeas coTus
eurem causa, issued by the clerk of the Circuit Court, as ancillary to a removal of the prosecution into that court, under
section 643,, the remanding of the cause would carry with it
the right to the custody of the prisoner. But being, as appears
by.the records annexed to the petition for a mandamus, as well
b;,y the return to the rule to show cause, an ordinary writ of
a corpus,
.
issued by the District Judge. upon the ground

