.262

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

HOHORST v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN PACKET
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. :134. Argued March 13, 1893. -Decided March 27,1893.

A bill pending in a Circuit Court of the L nited States against a foreign
corporation and: other defendants citizens of the United States, for the
infringement of letters patent, was dismissed as to the foreign corporation, and, so far as appeared from the record in the appeal from the
judgment of dismissal, was still pending and undetermined as to the
codefendants. Held, that the decree.in favor of the corporation was not
a final decree from Wilich an appeal could be taken to this court, and that
this appeal must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Salter S. Clark, for appellant, cited. E pac'te
p
SchoZlenberger, 96 U. S. 369, Jones v Andrews, 10 Wall. 327, St.
Louts & Sam -Franmsco Railway v -Mefrcde,141 U. S. 127,
Si aw v Qumny 1 'inzng Co., 145 U. S. 444, Graew v Palmer,
8 Wheat. 699, Atkins v Dzsintegrating Co., 18 Wall. 272,
Lb re -Loutsville Underwriters, 134 U. S. 488.
.Ar Walter D Edmonds, for appellees, cited Smith v
Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 319, I& re louisville U'iderwqnters, 134
U. S. 488, Shaw v Quwnoy 1inzng Co., 145 U S. 444, Lake
Coun y v Rollins, 130 U S. 662, Cary v Curtis, 3 How
236.
MR. OHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinon of the

court.
This was a bill filed by Friedrich iHohorst, a citizen of the
State of 1ew York, "against the Hamburg-American Packet
Company, a corporation organized and. existing under the laws
of the Kingdom of Hanover, Empire of Germany, and doing

business in the city of New York, Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr.,

IIOHORST v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN

PACKET C0.

263

Opinion of the Court.

Henry R. 1Kunhardt, Jr., George 1H. Diehl, citizens of the
United States and residents of the State of New York, and
Arend Behrens and William Koester, citizens of the United
States and residents of the State of New Jersey," for infringement of patent, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern Districi of New York, September 15, 1888.
September 11, the subpcena was served on Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr., as a defendant, and as general agent of the Hamburg Company
November 5, 1888, a general appearance for all the defendants was filed, and on December 18, 1888, a demurrer on
behalf of the Packet Company, assigning as grounds that the
causes of action against the several defendants were distinct
and unconnected, and hence that the bill was multifarious, and
A motion was made by complainant,
for want of equity
December 24, to amend, and on January 7,1889, a motion by
defendant to dismiss. On January 28,1889, leave to amend was
granted and the motion to dismiss denied, and, on February 2,
-1889, the amendments were made. These consisted in the insertion of the word "3ointly" in the allegation of the defendants'
infringement, and also of the following allegation. "Your orator
further states that all of the defendants above named are inhabitants of the city and county of NewYork, that the defendant,
the Hamburg-American Packet Company, has its principal business office in this country, located in the city and county of
New York, that the defendants Henry R. Kunhardt, Sr.,
Henry R. Kunhardt, Jr., George H. Diehl, Arend Behrens
and William Koester are, and during the time of the infringements above set forth were, copartners under the firm name of
Kunhardt & Co., and as such copartners are and were the
agents and managers of the business of the Hamburg-Amencan Packet Company in this country, and have their principal
business office, as such, located in the city and county of New
York, and that the said infringements were committed in the
prosecution of such business, and all the defendants have
coperated and participated in all the said acts and infringements."
On February 16, 1889, defendant Hamburg Company served

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

notice of final hearing upon the bill of complaint and demurrer,
and on February 21, a notice was given of a motion that the
appearance entered on behalf of the Hamburg Company be
changed from a general appearance into a special appearance,
and the service of subpoena made upon that defendant be
set aside, and the bill of complaint dismissed as against the
company because of lack of jurisdiction of the court over its
person.
In April, 1889, an order was granted that unless complainant withdrew his amended complaint as to the defendant
company, and stipulated to go to trial as to said defendant on
the original bill of complaint, the notice of appearance should
be, and was thereby, amended into a special appearance, and
the service of the subpcena set aside and the bill of complaint
dismissed as against said company 38 Fed. Rep. 273.
On April 11, 1889, the notice of .appearance was amended
accordingly, subpcena set aside and the bill of complaint dismissed as against the company, whereupon complainant appealed to this court.
So far as appears from the record, the suit is still pending
and undetermined as against the codefendants of the company
We are of opinion, therefore, that this appeal cannot be maintamed because the decree rendered in favor of the company
was not a final decree.
In United States v Girault, 11 How 22, 32, which was
a writ of error-to review a judgment rendered by the Circuit
Court of the United States in Mississippi in favor of some of
the defendants only,-in an action on a bond, leaving the suit
undisposed of as against one defendant, this court would not
reverse the judgment according to the practice in Mississippi,
but dismissed the writ of error, and Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering the opinion,, said. "The practice in this court, in case
the judgment or decree is not final, is to dismiss the wrfit of
error or appeal for want of jurisdiction, and remand it to the
court below to be further proceeded in." ._Metea;fe's Case, 11
Rep. 38, was cited, where it was. held that a record of the
common pleas could not be removed into the King's Bench,
before the whole matter was determined in the common pleas,

HOROItST v. HAMBURG-AMERICAN PACKET 00. 265
Opinion of the Court.

as it was entire and could not be in both courts at the same
time, and, also, Peet v. -fcGraw, 21 Wend. 667, wherein Mr.
Justice .Nelson,. then Chief Justice of New York, declared that
a case could not be sent up in fragments by a succession of
writs of error. Again, in Holcombe v .foRuswk, 20 How
552, 551, it was said "It is the settled practice of this court,
and the same in the King's Bench in England, that the writ
will not lie until the whole of the matters in controversy in
the suit below are disposed of. The writ itself i conditional,
and does not authorize the court below to send up the case,
unless all the matters between the parties to the record have
been determined."
The same rule is applicable to an appeal in admiralty, Dayton v. United States, 131 U. S. App. lxxx, and in equity,
Frow v De la "Vega,15 Wall. 552, 554. In the latter case. it
was held that a final decree on the merits cannot be made
separately against one of .several defendants upon a joint
charge against all; where the case is still pending as to the
others. It is true that there a default had been entered with
a decree vro confesso against one of several defendants, and a
final decree had been made absolute against him, whereupon
the court proceeddd to try the issues made by the answers of
the other defendants.and dismissed complainant's bill, but this
attitude of the case. illustrated and -required the application of
the general rule.
In Witlenbuy v. United States, 5 Wall. 81.9, it was decided
that where a decree in a prize cause disposed of the whole
matter in dispute upon a claim filed by particular parties
which was final as to them and their rights, and final also so
far as the claimants and their rights were concerned as to the
United States, it was final, while in Montqomery v Anderson,
21 How 386, where the District'Court of the United States,
sitting in admiralty, decreed that a sum of money was due, but
the amount to be paid was dependent upon other claims that
might be established, it was held that such a deci:ee was- not
final.
There are cases in equity in which a decree, disposing of
every ground of contention between the parties, except as to

