OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

me that in this opinion the court endorses the views expressed
by Mr. Justice'Field in that dissent, and then repudiated by a
majority of the court.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE BROWN agrees with
me in this dissent.

PASSAVANT v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM3

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE 'UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOU'THERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.1118.

Submitted March 6,1893. -Decided

March 20, 1893.

The act of June 10, 1890, "to simplify the laws in relation to the collection
of the revenue," 26 Stat. 131, c. 407, confers no 3urisdiction upon Circuit
Courts of the United States, on the application of dissatisfied importers,
to review and reverse a decision of a board of general appraisers ascertaining and fixing the dutiable value of imported goods, when such board
has acted in pursuance of law, and without fraud or other misconduct
from which bad faith could be implied.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr Edwzn B. Smsth for appellant.
.A

Asswtant Attorney General Paiker'for appellees.

MR.

JUSTICE

JACKSON

delivered the opinion of the court.

The principal question presented by the record in this case
is whether, -under the Customs Administrative Act of June
10, 1890, 26 .Stat. c. 407, p. 131, the Circuit Courts of the
United States have any jurisdict-n to entertain an appeal by
importers from a deoiion of the board of general appraisers,
as to the dutable value of imported merchandise, in other
words, whether the Circuit Courts of- the United States have,
under the provisions of said act, any. authority or jurisdiction,
on the application of dissatisfied importers, to review and

IASSAVANT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reverse a decision of a board of general appraisers, ascertaining and fixing the dutiable value of imported goods, when
such board has acted in pursuance of law, and without fraud,
or other misconduct, from which bad faith could be implied.
The material facts of the case on which this question arises
are the following- In November, 1890, and July, 1891, the
appellants, Passavant & Co., imported into New York from
]France gloves of different classes or grades, which were
entered by the importers at certain valuations. The collector
of the port of New York, under the authority conferred by
section 10 of said administrative act, caused the importedgoods to be appraised, and upon such appraisal their value
was advanced or increased by the appraiser to an amount
exceeding by more than 10 per cent the value thereof as
declared by the importers upon entry The importers being
dissatisfied with this advanced valuation, a reappraisement
was made by one of the general appraisers, and on further
objection by the importers to this valuation, the matter was
sent to the board of general appraisers, under and in accordance with the-provisions of section 13 of the Customs Administrative Act. This board after due notice, and examination
of the question submitted, sustained the increased valuation of
the merchandise. Thereupon the collector of the port levied
and assessed upon the imported goods a duty of 50 per cent
ad valorem, that being the rate of duty on the gloves under
paragraph 458 of the tariff act of October 1, 1890, and in
addition thereto a further sum equal to two (2) per cent of
the total appraised value for each 1 per cent that such
appraised value exceeded the value declared in the entry,
under and by virtue of section Tof said act of June 10, 1890,
which provides and directs that "if the appraised value of
any article of imported merchandise shall exceed by more
than ten per centum the value declared in the entry, there
shall be levied, collected and paid, in -addition to the duties
imposed by law on such merchandise, a further sum-equal to
two per centum of the total appraised value for each one per
centum that such appraised value exceeds the value declared
in the entry; and the additional duties shall only apply to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the particular article or articles in each invoice which are
undervalued."
The importers duly served upon the collector a protest
against his appraisement of duty for any and all excess above
50 per cent ad valorem, and upon any greater value than the
declared or entered value, for the alleged reasons that no
legal reappraisement had been made, that the board of
appraisers had declined to receive or entertain evidence offered
by them as to the true market value of the merchandise, that
the board had determined matters upon estimates or values
furnished by agents of the Treasury, that evidence of persons
who were not experts, and had no personal knowledge of the
value of gloves in the markets of France, had been taken and
acted on, that the importers were given no opportunity to
controvert evidence against them, that the original invoice
was correct, that the duties should not be assessed upon any
greater amount, and that the action of the board was in all
respects illegal. The collector duly transmitted this protest,
with the papers in the case, to the board of general appraisers,
who adhered to the increased valuation, affirmed the action
of the collector, and held that the decision of the board as to
such valuation was final and conclusive under section 13 of said
act of June 10, 1890, and could not be impeached or reviewed
upon protest. Thereupon and within due time the importers
filed their application in the United States Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York for a review of the case,
and a reversal of the decision of the board of appraisers and
the action of the collector in assessing the duties on the basis
of the increased -valuation placed upon the imported merchandise, and in imposing the additional duty asprovided by said
section

'T, above

referred to.

The petitioners in their application set forth and complained
of many alleged errors of law and fact on the part of the
board of general appraisers, which need not be specially
noticed, as they were manifestly not well founded and have
been abandoned. The board of general appraisers; in pursuance of the usual order in such cases, returned to the Circuit
Court the record and evidence taken by them, together with

PASSAVAlT v. UNITED STATES.
Opuuon of the Court.

a certified statement of the facts involved in the case, and
their decision thereon, etc. From this return it appeared that
the proceedings as to the appraisement of the merchandise
and the determination of their dutiable value were in all
respects regular, that the board of appraisers duly examined
and decided the case after fixing a day and giving reasonable
notice thereof to the importers, who were allowed the opportunity to introduce evidence, and to be heard on the matter
submitted. It is stated in the opinion of the board, which
forms part of said return, that "the appellants were served
with reasonable notice of these several hearings after a day
fixed therefor, and were cited to appear before this board, and
offer evidence to sustain the contentions of fact alleged as
the grounds of their protest. This they failed to do, and the
board accordingly adjudges all of said issues against them as
confessedly untrue. The decision of the collector in each case
is affirmed."
Upon the record ag thus presented the Assistant United
States Attorney moved the court to dismiss the application
or appeal for want of jurisdiction to entertain the same.
This motion was sustained, and the Circuit Court thereupon
certified to this court, under the fifth section of the act of
March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. c. 517, pp. 826, 827, the question
whether said court had any jurisdiction to enter upon, hear
and decide the issues sought to be raised by the allegations of
the petition, which are specially set out in the certificate, but
need not be here enumerated, as they are embraced in the two
general claims or propositions, hereinafter stated, which are
relied on by appellants before this court.
In addition to the certification of the question of jurisdiction, the Circuit Court upon dismissing the petition allowed
the importers an appeal from the order or judgment of disrdissal, which was taken. But this appeal, although general
inform, does not and could not bring up for review anything
more than the question of pi'sdiction certified by the lower
court. An ordinary appeal from the final judgrtent of the Circuit Court lieE!, since the act of March 3, 1891, to the Court of
Appeals, and not to this court. Ilubbard v Soky, 146 U. S.

OCTOBER TER I,

1892.

Opinion or the Court.

56. The certificate and the appeal, therefore, present substantially the samequestion, and need not, for that reason, be separately considered. It is not claimed or alleged in either the
protests made by the importers as to the appraisement of the
merchandise, or in their application to the Circuit Court to
review and reverse the decision of the board of general appraisers, that there was any wrongful or erroneous classificaton of the gloves, or improper rate of duty levied thereon
under the tariff act of October 1, 1890, but the substantial
complaint is that the dutwable value of the imported goods was
not greater than the value mentioned in the invoice and declared in the entry, and that the advanced appraisement was,
therefore, erroneous, and also that the merchandise was not
liable for any additional or penal duty such as the collector
levied and imposed thereon under section '[ of the act of June
10, 1890, by reason of the advanced or increased valuation
placed upon the same by the appraisers.
Can a complaint of this character be entertained and considered by the Circuit Courts of the United States in a case like
the present, where the board of general appraisers has, upon
the appeal of the importers, ascertained and decided that the
imported article actually possesses a value greater than that
stated in the-invoice or entry 2 Can the decision of the board
on the question of the dutiable value of the merchandise be
reviewed by the courts under the provisions of section 16 of
the Customs Administrative Act 9 This is the real question presented, and we are clearly of the opinion that no such jurisdiction is conferred by this statute or any other provision of law
It is provided by section 15 of the act "that if the owner,
importer, consignee or agent of any imported merchandise, or
the collector or the Secretary of the Treasury, shall be dissatisfied with the decision of the board of general appraisers,
as provided for in section 14 of this act, as to the construction
of the law and the facts respecting the classification of such
merchandise and the rate of duty imposed thereon under such
classification, they or either of them may, within thirty days
next after such decision, and not afterwards, apply to the Circuit Court: of the United States within the district in which

PASSAVANT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the matter arises, for a review 6f the- questions of law and
fact involved in such decision."
It was said by Mr. Justice Blatchford, -speaking for the
court in In re Fasseit, 142 U. S. 479, 487, that "the appeal
provided for in ยง 15- [of said act] brings up for review in court
only the decision of the board of general appraisers as to the
construction of the law, and the facts respecting the classification. of imported merchandise and the rate of duty imposed
thereon under such classification. It does not bring up for

review the question of whether an article is imported merchandise or not, nor under ยง 15 is the ascertainment of that
fact such a decision as is provided for. The decisions of the
collector from which appeals are provided for by ยง 14 are only
decisions as to ' the rate and amount' of duties charged upon
imported merchandise, and decisions as to dutiable costs and
charges, and decisions as to fees and exactions of whatever
character."
The appeal to the court in the present case seeks to review
no such decisions as are thus enumerated as falling within its
jurisdiction under said sections. On the contrary, the decision of the board- of general appraisers sought to be reviewed
and corrected by this application to the court relates to the
reappraisement of the imported goods. By section 13 of the
act the decision of the board on that matter is declared to "be
final and conclusive as to the dut2able value of such merchandise against all parties interested therein." On such valuation
the collector, or the person acting as such, is required to ascertain, fix and 'liquidate the rate and amount of duties to be
paid on such merchandise and the dutiable costs and charges
,thereon according to law
It was certainly competent for Congress to create this board
of general appraisers, called "legislative referees" in an early
case in this court, (Rankvvn v .H'oyt, 4 How 327, 335,) and
not, only invest them with authority to examine and decide
upon the valuation of imported goods, when that question
was properly submitted to them, but to declare- that their
decision "shall be final and conclusive as to the dutablo value
of such merchandise against alL parties interested therein."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In Hilton et al. v. ierritt,110 U. S. 97, it was held that
the valuation of merchandise made by the customs officers,
under the statutes, for the purpose of levying duties thereon,
was conclusive on the importer, in the absence of fraud on the
part of the officers. In this case several sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to customs duties,
were referred to, among them being section 2930, which prescribed the method of appraising imported merchandise, and
provided that "the appraisement thus determined shall be
final and deemed to be the true value, and the duties shall be
levied thereon accordingly"
Under that provision this court
held that the valuation of imported merchandise made by the
designated officials or appraisers was, in the absence of fraud
on the part of such appraisers, eonclhus v on the importer.
The same rule was reasserted in the recent case of Earnshaw
v Unted States, 146 U. S. 60, in which it was held that a reappraisement of imported merchandise under the provisions
of section 2930, Revised Statutes, when properly conducted,
was binding. The earlier decisions of this court cited and
referred to in Hilton v. .Aferrttt, and Earnskaw v UnitedStates,
establish the same general rule. The provisions of the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, as to the finality
and conclusiveness of the decision of the board of general
appraisers as to the valuation of imported merchandise, when
that question has been regularly submitted to and examined
by them, is expressed in clearer and more emphatic terms
than in former statutes. The language is so explicit as to
leave no room for construction. In the tariff legislation of
the government, congress has generally adopted means and
methods for a speedy and equitable adjustment of the question
as to the market value of imported articles, without allowing
an appeal to the courts to review the decision reached. If
dissatisfied importers, after exhausting the remedies provided
by the statute to ascertain and determine the fair dutiable
value of imported merchandise, could apply to the courts to
have a review of that subject, the prompt and regular collection of the government's revenues would be seriously
obstructed and interfered with. The statute authorizes no

PASSAVANT v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

such proceeding, and the Circuit Court can exercise no such
jurisdiction.

The appraised value of the merchandise having been conclusively ascertained in the manner provided by law, and
being found to exceed by more than ten per centum the value

declared in the entry, the collector, as a matter of mere computation, under the direction and aithority of section 7 of said
act, properly levied and collected, in addition to the ad valorem
duty imposed by law on such merchandise, a further sum
equal to two per centum of the total appraised value for each
one per centum that such appraised value exceeded the value
declared in the entry
Section 7 of said act is substantially similar to section 8 of
the act of Congress passed on the 30th of July, 1846, 9 Stat.
42, 43, c. 74, which declared that, if the appraised value of
imports which have actually been purchased should exceed by
ten per centum or more the value declared on the entry, then,
in addition to the duties imposed by law on the same, there
should be levied, collected and paid a duty of 20 per centum
ad valorem on such appraised value. In Sampson v. Peaslee,
20 How 571, that provision was sustained and enforced, except as to so much of the additional duty of 20 per centum
as was levied upon the charges and commzssons. The court
there say that the ruling of the lower court, in confining the
additional duty to the ajpprazsed value of the imports, was the
correct interpretation of the section.
As stated by :Mr. Justice Campbell, speaking for the court,
in Bartlett v. ZKane, 16 How 263, 274, such additional duties
"are the compensation for a violated law, and are designed to
operate as checks and restraints upon fraud." They are designed to discourage undervaluation upon imported merchandise and to prevent efforts to escape the legal rates of duty
It is wholly immaterial whether they are called additional
duties or penalties. Congress had the power to impose them
under either designation or character. When the dutiable
value of the merchandise is finally ascertained to be in excess
of the value declared in the entry by more than ten per centum
this extra duty or penalty attaches, and the collector is directed

