TOITHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. WALKER.

391

Opinion of the Court.

.Mr J,

. Beokwitht. for appellants, opposing.

THE CHIEF JusTiE
This appeal is dismissed upon the
authority of Bank,'v Peters,144 U. S. 570, ubbard v Soby,
146 U. S. 56, and cases cited.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
WALKER.

COMPANY

v.

OERTIFICATE FROM THE. UNITED STATES CIROUIT COURT OF APPEAIS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1124. Argued January 31, February 1, 1893.-

Decided April 3, 1893.

Following Walter v. Northeastern RailroadCompany, 147 U. S. -370, it is again
held that a Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction over a bill
in equity to enjoin the collection of taxes from a railroad company, when
distinct assessments, in separate counties, no one of which amounts to
$2000, and for which, in case of payment under protest, separate suits
must be brought to recover back the amounts paid, are joined in the bill
and make an aggregate of over $2000.
As, perhaps, by amendment this bill might be retained as to some one of the
defendants, this court declines to dismiss the bill, and reverses the judgment, and remands the cause to the court below for farther proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

THE case is stated m the opinion.
.1_Y Frederwk X. Dudley and Mr James M_faught for
appellant.
r S. Z. Glaspel , (with whom was .Mr Edgar-V
on the brief,) for appellees.
AMRp.
CmEF JusTicE

Camp

FULLER delivered-the opinion of the court.

This was a bill filed in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of North Dakota, November 21, 1890, by the

OCTOBER, TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Northern .Pacifio Railroad Company against the county auditors of twelve counties of that State, praying for a decree adjudging certain assessments and taxes levied upon lands in
each of said counties to be illegal and void and a cloud upon
complainant's title, and that defendants and each of them be
restrained from selling or attempting to sell said lands or any
portion thereof, or issuing any tax certificates therefor. The
case proceeded to a decree, dismissing the bill for want of
4quity, whereupon it was carried by appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
Certain questions or propositions of. law, concermng winch
that court desired the instruction of the Supreme Court for a
proper decision of the case, were certified to this court, and
argument having been had upon the certificate, we directed a
certzorarn to issue requiring the whole record and cause to be
sent up for consideration. This has been done, and we find
upon examination that the case comes directly within Walter
v. Northeastern Railroad,147 U. S. 370.
The record does not show that the amount of the assessments and taxes, forming the subject of the litigation, levied
in either or all of the counties, exceeded the sum of $2000,
and even if this had been so as to the aggregate, the defendants could not have been joined in a single suit, and the jurisdiction thus been sustained. Upon the face of the record,
therefore, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction, (act of
March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373, act of August 13, 1888,
25 Stat. 433, c. 866,) but as perhaps by amendment the bill
might be retained as to some one of the defendants, we will
not direct its dismssal.
In pursuance of section 10 of the Judiczary Act of .March 3,
1891, 26 Stat. 829, c. 517, the decree of the Circuit Court w reversed at the costs of the appellant,and the cause remanded.
to that court with a directionfor furtherproceedings in conformity with this opznn.

