OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

-finally determine, upon the report and recommendation of the
surveyor general, whether the claim is valid or invalid. The
petition to the surveyor general is the commencement of proceedings, which necessarily involve the validity of the grant
from the Mexican government under which the petitioners
claim title, the proceedings are pending until Congress has
acted, and while they are pending, the question of the title of
the petitioners cannot be contested in the ordinary courts of
justice.
Upon this short ground, without considering any other question, the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Arizona is

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BREwER concurred in the result.

UNITED STATES v. FLETCHER
FLETCHER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROMI THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Wos. 918,919. Submitted December 12,1892. -Decided March 0, 1S93.

The proceedings, findings and sentence of a military court-martial being
transmitted to the Secretary of War, that officer wrote upon the record
the following order, dating it from the "War Department," and signing
it with his name as " Secretary of War .... "-Inconformity with the
65th of the Rules and Articles of War, the proceedings of the general
court-martial in the foregoing case have been forwarded to the Secretary
of War for the action of the President. The proceedings, findings and
sentence are approved, and the sentence will be duly executed." Held,
that this was a sufficient authentication of the judgment of the President
and that there was no ground for treating the order as null and void for
\want of the requisite approval.
When a court-martial has jurisdiction, errors in its exercise cannot be
reviewed in an action against the United States by the officer courtmartialed to recover salary.
1Bunkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543, questioned upon the ground that the
report of that case shows that the circumstances were so exceptional as
to render it hardly a safe precedekt in any other.

UNITED STATES -v. FLETCHER.
Statement of the Case.

THE claimant filed an amended petition in the Court of
Claims, December 16, 1890, as a substitute for his original
petition filed December 11, 1889, seeking to recover from the
.United States a certain amount of money as arrears of pay
alleged to be due him. as captain on the retired list of the
army, to which the government filed a general traverse December 22, 1890. Thereupon due proceedings were had, and
the court, on June 8, 1891, found, in substance, the -following
facts
Bird L. Fletcher, the claimant, was, on December 27, 1859,
enlisted as a private in the general mounted service of the
United States Army After successive promotions, by which
he became corporal and second lieutenant, he was brevetted
first lieutenant on May 10, 1863, for gallant and meritorious
service in the cavalry action at Frankli'n Tennessee. He was
made first lieutenant on October 12, 1864, in which rank he
served until August 25, 1867, when he was promoted captain.
On June 19, 1868, lie was placed on the retired list of the
.army, by order of General Grant, upon the finding of a board
of examination that he was incapacitated for active service,
and that his incapacity was the result of sickness and exposure
incident to the service. The order retiring him directed that
his name be placed upon the list of retired officers of the class
provided for by the act of Congress of August 3, 1861,. in
which the disability results from long and faithful service, or
from some injury incident thereto.
A court-martial was held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
July 10, 1872, -before which Fletcher was brought for trial
upon a charge of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, and upon this charge, which was supported by the
averments of six specifications, he was tried. H-Te was not
represented by counsel on the trial, but conducted his case in
person, and to the charge and all the specifications pleaded
not guilty
The specifications related to the incurring and non-payment
of certain indebtedness, and Fletcher was found guilty of all of
them, some parts of the first, second and. fifth excepted, and
guilty of the charge, and sentenced to be dismissed the service.

OCTOBER TERMi, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

The proceedings, findings and sentence of the court-martial
were transmitted to the Secretary of War, who wrote upon
the record the following order
"WAP. DEPARTMENT, July 24th, 1872.
"In conformity with the 65th of the Rules and Articles of
War, the proceedings of the general court-martial m the foregoing case have been forwarded to the Secretary of War for
the action of the President.
"The proceedings, findings and sentence are approved, and
W.. W BELxNAP,
the sentence will be duly executed.
"Seretary of Irar

From the date of this order, July 2-, 1872, Fletcher received
no pay as an officer of the army

He did not dispute at the-War Department the validity of
the dismissal, in pursuance of the sentence of the court-martial, for the period of nearly sixteen years, but did promptly
petition Congress for -redress, and urge his restoration to the
retired list, and he anade application for pay to the accounting officers of the Treasury after IMarch 1, 1888. His complaint stated that March 27, 1888, he addressed a petition ;to
the President of the United States, and this resulted in a
report of the.judge advocate-general to the Secretary of.War,
April 17, 1888, that, in accordance with Punkle v United
States, 122 U S.543, there was no evidence that the proceed:ings in Fletoher's case had been laid before, or approved by,
the President, and that the case was still subject to the
President's action. The Secretary of War then transmitted
the report and the original record to the President, stating
that the proceedings of the court-martial awaited his action,
as it appeared from the facts in the report that Fletcher was
still undoubtedly an, officer of the army, and recommending
that tne sentence be approved. On July 5, 1888, the President made an order approving the proceedings, findings and
sentence of the court-martial.
In his amended petition in the Court of Clauns, thd claimant
alleged that the proceedings, -findings and sentence of the

UNITED STATES v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

court-martial, and the orders approving the same, were void,
for the reason that the charge and specifications upon which
he was tried and sentenced stated no offence within any of
the articles of war, and because -the-order-of the Secretary of
War, in 1872 was not the act of the President.
The Court of Claims held that the said charge and specifications stated an offence within the articles of war, but that the
sentence of the court-martial did not take effect until acted
upon by the President on July 5, 1888. The court therefore
allowed the claimant all pay claimed by him, except such as
was barred by the statute of limitations, up to the date of the
last order approving the, sentence of the court-martial, and
gave judgment for the claimant for $9654. 26 Ct. Cl. 54.1.
From this judgment both parties appealed.
MAlr Solicitor General and J-Mr Asszstant Attorney General
Parker for the United States.
.Mr George A. Kling for Fletcher.
MR. CHIEF JuswicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the Court.

The claimant's suit was for arrears of pay claimed to be
due him as a retired officer of the army of the United States,
accruing from December 1, 1883, to November 30, 1890, at
the rate of two thousand one hundred dollars per annum, and
amounting to the sum of fourteen thousand seven hundred
dollars. This claim was met by a finding and sentence of a
court-martial, held on the 10th of July, 1872, in the city of
Philadelphia, whereby Fletcher was found guilty of "conduct
unbecoming an officer and a gentleman," and sentenced to be
dismissed the service.
By Article 65 of the act of April 10, 1802, 2 Stat. 359, 367,
c. 20, establishing rules and regulations for the government
of the armies of the United States, it was provided that "no
sentence of a court-martial shall be carried into execution
until after the whole proceedings shall have been laid before

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the officer ordering the same, or the officer commanding the
troops for the'time being; neither shall any sentence of a
general court-martial, in time of peace, extending to the loss
of life, or the dismission of a commissioned officer, or which
shall, either in time of peace or war, respect a general officer,
be carried into execution until after the, whole proceedings
shall have been transmitted to the Secretary of War, to be
laid before the President of the United States for his confirmation or disapproval, and orders, in the case." And Article
83 read thus "Any commissioned officer convicted before a
general court-martial of conduct unbecoming an officer and a
gentleman, shall be dismissed the service."
These articles, and the provisions of the act of May 29,
1830, 4 Stat. 417, c. 179, amending the 65th Article, were carried forward into Articles 72 and 106 of section 1342 of the
Revised Statutes.
Upon the record of the proceedings, findings and sentence
of the court-martial which tried Captain Fletcher, the Secretary of War endorsed that "In conformity with the 65th of
the Rules and Articles of War, the proceedings of the general
court-martial in the foregoing case have been forwarded to the
Secretary of War for the action of the President. The proceedings, findings and sentence are approved, and the sentence
-will be duly executed."
Was this order void on the ground that it does not appear
that the President personally approved the proceedings and
directed the execution of the sentence?
By the first section of the act of August 7, 1789, 1 Stat. 49,
establishing an Executive Department to be denominated the
Department of War, now in substance section 216 of the
Revised Statutes, the Secretary of War is to perform and
execute such duties as shall be enjoined on, or entrusted to
him by the President, relative to the land or naval forces or
to such other matters respecting military or naval affairs as
the President shall assign to the department, and to conduct
the business of the department in such manner as the President shall -from time to time order or instruct. And we have
held that while the action required of the Presideht in respect

UNITED STATES'

i.

FLETCHER.

Opnon of the Court.

of the proceedings and sentences of courts-martial is judicial,
yet that such action need not be evidenced under his own
hand.
Under Article 65, the proceedings of this court-martial were
not forwarded to the Secretary of War for individual action
by him, but to enable him to lay them before the President,
so that the latter might take action as prescribed. There is
nothing to indicate that the Secretary of War assumed to
confirm or disapprove, or issue orders in the case, and as his
endorsement siowed that he was proceeding under that article,
and that he had received the record for the purpose of being
,acted on by the President, the approval and the direction for
the execution of the sentence were manifestly the acts of- the
President. The presumption is that the Secretary and the
President performed the duties devolved upon them respectively, and it would be unreasonable to construe the Secretary's
endorsement as meaning that he had received the proceedings
for the action of the President in conformity with Article 65,
and had approved them himself and ordered execution of the
sentence in contravention of the article.
As we said in Unmted States v Page, 137 U. S.673, 678,
680" "Undoubtedly -the action required of the President under
this article is judicial action. lie decides personally, and the
judgment is his own personal judgment, and not an official act,
presumptively is. But that judgment need not be attested by
his sign manual in order to be effectual." There the endorsement read that the proceedings had been forwarded to the
Secretary of War, and by him submitted to the President,
and we inquired. "By what process of reasoning can the conclusion be justified that, although these proceedings were laid
before the President for his confirmation or disapproval, yet
the findings and sentence were approved by some one else,
who had noauthority to act in-the premises " While in the
case in hand it is not said that the proceedings were submitted
to the President, it is stated that they had been forwarded to
the Secretary of War for the action of the President, and as that
is followed by an approval and the direction of the execution
of the sentence, which approval and sentence could only ema-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

nate from the President, the conclusion follows that the action
taken was the ation of the President.
The views of the Judge Advocate General, and the action
of the Secretary in 188 upon a reference of the subject in
answer to the petition of Captain Fletcher, presented to the
President, March 27 of that year, were induced by the case of
inkle v United- States, 122 U S. 543, and the present decision of the Court of Claims was based upon it. Reference to
the report of that case shows that the circumstances were so
exceptional as to render it hardly a safe precedent in any
ther.

It appeared therein that the proceedings, findings and sentence of the court-martial were transmitted to the Secretary
of War, who, on January 16, 1873, wrote upon the record an
order approving the proceedings, with certain exceptions, and
the findings and sentence, together with the further statement
that in view of the unanimous recommendation by the mem"bers of the court that the accused should receive executive
clemency, and other facts, the President was pleased to remit
all of the sentence except so muclf as directed cashiering, and
that, thereupon, the Secretary issued a general order announc
ing the sentence, as thus modified. It further appeared that
thereafter, and on the same day, Major Runkle presented to
President Grant a petition insisting that the proceedings had
not been approved by him as required by law, that the conviction was unjust, that the record was insufficient to warrant
the issuing of the order, and asking its revocation.and annulment, whereupon, in pursuance of the petition, the record of
the official action theretofore had was, by direction of the
President, referred to the Judge Advocate General for review
and report, that this report was subsequently made, and with
the petition was found by President Hayes awaiting further
and final action thereon, and being taken-up by him as unfinished business, the conviction and sentence were disapproved,
and the order of January 16, 1873, revoked.
This court was of opinion that the order was capable of
division into two separate parts, one relating to the approval

of theproceedings and sentence, and the other to the execu-

UNITED- STATES v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

tive clemency which was invoked and exercised, and that
under the circumstances, which are recapitulated, it could not
be gaid that it positively and distinctly appeared that the proceedings had ever, in fact, been approved or confirmed by the
President as required by the articles of war
The facts that -there was no reference to Article 65 in the
Secretary's endorsement, that the objection that President
Grant had not personally examined and approved of the proceedings, was taken and urged upon President Grant himself
inmediately upon the promulgation of the sentence, and that
he entertained the objection, thereby recognizing the contention, seemed to make it a matter of argument whether he had
personally acted in the premises.
If it had been affirmatively stated that the proceedings were
submitted, perhaps the action of President Grant m the matter of the application might have been ascribed to some other
ground than doubt as to his examination of the proceedings,
but as-:the record stood, this court apparently thought that the
presumptions conflicted, and, therefore, felt constrained to the
conclusion announced.
We regard the certificate of the Secretary in this case, in
1872,. as a sufficient authentication of the judgment of the
President, and perceive no ground upon which the order of
that date can be treated as null and void for want of the
required approval.
It is insisted, however, on behalf of the claimant that the
court-martial had no jurisdiction to try and convict Captain
Fletcher, because the charge and specifications stated no
offence whatever "within any Rules and Articles of W4r,
or known to the military law and custom of the United
V
States." We do not feel called upon to set forth the speck(
fications on which the court-martial acted. They related to
the incurring by the accused of certain indebtedness and the
non-payment thereof, and while it is argued that the non-payment of debts does not justify convibtion of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, we think that the specifications
went .farther than that, and contained the element that the
circumstances under which the debts were contracted and not

