OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
byllabus.

AMERICAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. JACKSONVILLE, TAMPA AND KEY WEST
RAILWAY COMPANY.
SAME v. PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY FOR INSURANCES ON LIVES AND GRANTING ANNUITIES.
ORIGINAL.
Nos. 14,15, original. Argued March 6,7, 1893.-Decided March 27,1893.

A writ of mandamus does not lie to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals to review, or to the Circuit Court of the United States to disregard, a decree of the Circuit Cour; of Appeals. made on appeal from an
interlocutory order of the Circuit Court, and alleged to be in excess of
its powers on such an appeal, but which might be made on appeal from
the final decree, when rendered.
Under the act of March 3. 1891, c. 517 § 6, this court has power, in a case
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals, although no questiqn of law
has been certified by that court to this, to issue a writ of certiorar to
review a decree of that, court on appeal from an interlocutory order of
the Circuit Court, biat will not exercise this power, unless it is necessary
to prevent extraordinary inconvenience and embarrassment in the conduct
of the cause.
This court will not issue a writ of certforan to review a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, by which, on appeal from an interlocutory order
of the Circuit Court, granting an injunction, appointing a receiver of a
railway company, and authorizing him to issue receiver's notes, the injunction has not only been modified, but -the order hasbeen reversed in
other respects.
A decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, by which, on appeal from an
interlocutory order of the Circuit Court, vacating an order appointing a
receiver, the order appealed from has been reversed, the receivership
restored and the case remanded to the Circuit Coifrt to determine who
should be receiver, vill not be reviewed by this court by writ of certiorar, either because no appeit lies from such an interlocutory order, or
because the order appointing the receiver was made by a Circuit Judge
when outside of his circuit.
A Circuit Judge having taken part in a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals on an appeal from an interlocutory order setting aside a previous order of his in the case, this court granted a rule to show cause
why a writ of certiorari should not Issue to the Circuit Court otAppeals
to bring up and quash its decree-because he was prohibited by the act of
March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 3, from sitting at the hearing.

AER. COINST. CO. v. JACKSO NLVILLE RAILWAY.

373

Statement of the Case.

THESE were two petitions to this court, each praying, in the
alternative, for a writ of mandamus, or a; writ of certbralrz, to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals forthe Fifth Circuit.
In the first case, No. 14, it appeared that the following
proceedings were-hadin the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Florida.
On July 6, 1892, the American Construction Company, a
-corporation of Illinois, and a stockholder in the Jacksonville,
Tampa and Key West Railway Company, a corporation of
Florida, engaged in operating a railroad in that State, filed a
bill in equity, in behalf of itself and of such other stockholders
as might come in, against the railway company, and against
its president and directors, citizens of other States; alleging
that they had made a contract in its behalf, which was illegal
and void, and unjust to its stockholders, and had declined to
have an account taken, and praying for an account, a receiver
and an injunction.
On the filing of the bill, Judge Swayne, the District Judge,
made a restraining order, by which, until the plaintiff's motion
for an injunction and for the appointment of a receiver could
be heard and determined, the railway company and its officers
and agents were enjoined and restrained from remitting, sending or removing any of its income, tolls and revenues from
the juritdiction of the court, and from selling, disposing of,.
hypothecating or pledging any of its bonds of a certain issue
at less than their par value.
On August 4, 1892, Judge Swayne, after a hearing of -the
parties, made an order, appointing Mason Young receiver of
all the property of the railway company, enjoining the railway company, its officers and agents, and all porsons in
possession of its property, from interfering with the possession,
control, management and operation of the property, and from
obstructing'the exercise of the receiver's rights and powers, or
the performance of his duties, and continuing the restraining
order of July 6, until the further order of the court.
On August 5, Judge Swayne, on a petition of the receiver,
ind after hearing him and the parties, made an order, author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

izing him to. pay certain interest and obligations of the railway company out of the income and money coming into his
hands as receiver, or, if those should be insufficient for that
purpose, to issue receiver's notes in payment of such interest
and obligations, or, at his discretion, to borrow money on such
receiver's notes for that -purpose, the amount of such notes,
outstanding at one time, not to exceed $125,000.
On August 27, the railway company prayed and was allowed
an appeal from the orders of August 4 and August 5 to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
and-gave bond to prosecute the appeal.
On 'November 18, the construction company moved, the
Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss the appeal, because that
court had no- jurisdiction to review the action of the Circuit
Court i'n making those orders or either of them.
-On January 16, 1893, the Circuit Court of Appeals, held by
Circuit Judges Pardee and McCormick and District Judge
Locke, denied the motion to dismiss the appeal, and entered
a decree, reversing and setting aside the orders appealed from,
except as to the injunction, modifying the injunction so as to
permit the railway company to send away money for the
payment of its bonds which had been regularly sold, and for
the purchase of necessary equipment and supplies, and to
restrain it from disposing of, at less than their par value,
such only of the bonds of the issue mentioned, as remained
the property of the company,, and instructing the Circuit
Court to modify accordingly the restraining order of July 6,
continued by the order of August 4, and to vacate the order
of August 4, appointing-a receiver, to discharge the receiver,
and to restore the property of the company-to its officers.
On January 23, the construction company filed a petition
for a rehearing, upon the grounds, among others, that the Circuit Court of Appeals had no jurisdiction to review an order
appointing a receiver, and that its decree did not allow the
receiver time to settle his accounts, nor provide for the payment of his notes in the hands of bonajide holders for value.
On January 30, the Circuit Court of Appeals denied -a
rehearing, and -ent down a mandate in accordance with its

AMER. CON1ST. CO._v. JACKS0TTLLE RAILWAY.

375

Statement of the-Case.

decree, and on February 1, the mandate was filed in the
Circuit Court.
On February 2, the construction company moved this court
for leave to file a petition, for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss so much of the appeal of the
railway company as undertook to bring before that court the
action of the Circuit Court in appointing a receiver, and in
authorizing him to borrow money -upon receiver's notes, or,
to the Circuit Court
in the alternative, for a writ of certiorar?&
of Appeals to bring up its decree-for review by this court.
In the second case, No. 15,, beside the facts above stated,
the following facts appeared:
On July 23,1892, the-Pennsylvania Company for Insurances
on Lives and Granting Annuities, & corporation of Pennsylvania, as trustee under a mortgage of the property of the railway company to secure the payment of its bonds of the issue
aforesaid, presented to Judge Pardee a bill in equity, addressed
to the same Circuit Court, against the railway company, praying for a foreclosure of the mortgage, for the appointment of
a receiver, and for an injunction
On the same day, upon this bill, and with the consent of
the railway company, Judge Pardee signed an order; appointing Robert B. Cable receiver of all its property, and declaring
that the appointment was provisional, to the extent that any
one having an interest in the property of the railway company
might show cause within thirty days why the appointment
should not be confirmed, and that the -appointment should
not "affect or forestall any action the court or any of its
judges may hereafter see proper to take on any bill heretofore
filed in this- court against said railroad company, wherein a
receivership has also been prayed for." This bill and order
were directed by Judge Pardke to be filed of July 23, 1892,
and were filed by the clerk as of that day
On July 29, the construction company filed in the Circuit
Court a petition of intervention, setting forth the previous
proceedings in the first case, and praying that the order
appointing Cable receiver might be set aside and vacated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

On August 4, on this petition, Judge Swayne, holding the
Circuit Court, made an order, setting aside and vacating the
order appointing Cable receiver, and staying all further proceedings in the cause until the further order of the court.
On August 23, the Pennsylvania Company prayed and was
allowed an appeal from that order of Judge Swayne to the
United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit,
and gave bond to prosecute its appeal.
On November 18, the construction company moved to dismiss this appeal, because the Circuit Court of Appeals had no
juridiction of an appeal from that order, and because it appeared by the pleadings and papers on file that the suit was a,
collusive one between the appellant and the railway company
On January 16, 1893, the Circuit Court of Appeals, held by
Circuit Judges Pardee and McCormick and District Judge
Locke, denied the motion to dismiss the appeal, and entered
a decree, by which that order was reversed, "the stay of proceedings dissolved, the receivership restored," and the cause
remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructions to proceed
therein in accordance with the opinion rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals, by which it was "left with the Circuit
Court to determine what person is the proper one to execute
the office of receiver in this case, and to continue receiver
Cable, or to appoint a more suitable person in his place, as the
relations of the parties and the character'and condition of the
property may, in the judgment of that court, require."
On January 23, the construction company filed a petition
for a rehearing, upon the following grounds
1st. That the order appealed from was pureiy in the discretion of the Circuit Court, and not subject to appeal.
2d. That the order of July 23, 1892, appointing Cable
receiver, was a nullity, because made by Judge Pardee in the
State of Ohio, outside of his circuitf and while the Circuit
Court was in session in the district where the suit was pending.
3d. That, this order being a nullity, there was no receivership to be restored, and -hat the Circuit Court of Appeals
had no power or jurisdiction to vacate the order of the Circuit
Court apponting or refusing to appoint a receiver.

AMER. CONST. CO. v. JACKSO NVILLE RAILWAY.

371

Statement of the Case.

4th. That, if the order of July'23, 1892, was valia, the
Circuit Judge who made it could not sit in the Circuit Court
of.Appeals at the hearing of the cause, and was.expressly prohibited from so doing by the-following provision in the act
creating that court "Provided that no justice or judge, before
whom a cause or question may have been tried or heard in
the District Court or existing Circuit Court, shall sit on the
trial or hearing of such cause or question in the Circuit Court
of Appeals." Act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, § 3, 26 Stat. 827.
5th. That it should be left open to the Circuit Court to
inquire whether the suit was collusive, and thereupon either
to appoint a receiver. or to dismiss the bill.
On January 30, the Circuit Court of Appeals denied a
rehearing, and sent down a mandate in accordance with its
decree, and on February 1, this mandate was filed in the
Circuit Court.
On February 2, the construction company moved this court
for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus to the
Circuit Court of Appeals to dismiss so much of the appeal of
the Pennsylvania Company as undertook to bring before that
court the action of the Circuit Court in vacating and setting
aside the order for the appointment of a receiver, or, ii the
alternative, for a writ of certorar ' to the Circuit Court of
Appeals to bring up its decree for review by this court.
This court gave leave to file both petitions of the American
Construction Company, stayed proceedings under the mandates
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, and ordered notice to the
railway company and to the Pennsylvania Company of a
renewal of the motions for writs of mandamus or writs of
certiorars returnable March 6.
The petitioner gave notice to those companies that on that
day it would move accordingly for writs of mandamus or certimoarz to the Circuit Court of Appeals, as prayed for in the
petitions, and would also, in the alternative, move for a writ
of mandamus to the Circuit Court to disregard the mandates
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, except so far as they affirmed,
modified or reversed the injunction orders of the Circuit Court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
opinion of the Court.

and especially to-disregard the parts of those mandates which
undertook to modify or reverse any order appointing or refusing to appoint a receiver.
At the time so appointed, the parties appeared, and the
motions were argued.
.kr Willian B. Hornblower and M1r Eugene Stevenson,
(with whom was .11r William Pennngton on the brief,) for
the petitioner in both cases
Mir John G Johnson and _3fr Thomas Thacher opposing
in No. 14.
Mr C. -. Cooper, (with whom was Xfr J C. Cooperon the
brief,) opposing in No. 15.
M.

JUsTmcE GRAY, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
]3y the Constitution of the United States, m cases to which
the judicial power of the United States extends, and of which
original jurisdiction is not conferred on this court, "the Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction, with such exceptions and under such regulations as the Congress shall make."
Constitution, art. 3, sec. 2. This court, therefore, as it has
always held, can exercise-no appellate jurisdiction, except in
the cases, and in the manner and form, defined and prescribed
by Congress. Wiscart v. Dauchy, 3 Dall. 321, 227, Durousseau v United States, 6 Cranch, 307, 314, Barry v ffereenn,
5 How 103, 119, United States v Young, 94 U. S.258, The
Francms Wrtght, 105 U S. 3"81, Nfational Eixhange Bank v
Peters, 144 U S.570, 572.
Under the Judiciary Act of 1789 and other acts embodied
in the Revised Statutes, the appellate jurisdiction of this court
from the Circuit Court of the United States was limited to
final judgments at law, and final decrees m equity or admiralty Acts of September 24, 1789, c. 20, §§ 13, 22, 1 Stat. 81,
84, March 3, 1803, c. 40, 2 Stat. 244, Rev Stat. §§ 691, 692.
No appeal, therefore, lay to this court from an order of the
Circuit Court, granting or refusing an injunction, or appoint-

AM:ER. CONST. CO. v. JACKSONVILLE RAILWAY.

379

Opinion of the Court.

ing or declining to appoint a receiver2pendente lite, or other
interlocutory order; until after final decree. Hentig v. Page,
102 U S. 219, fKeystone Co. v. .Martin,132 U. S. 91, Lodge
v. T'well, 135 U.S. 232.
By the same -statutes, this court is empowered to issue writs
of mandamus, "in cases warranted by the '-principles and
usages of law, to any courts appointed under the authority of
the United States." Act of September 24, 1789., c. 20; § 13,
1 Stat. 81, Rev. Stat. § 688.
But a writ of mandamus cannot be used to perform the
office of an appeal or writ of error, to review the judicial
action of an inferior court. E parte Thitney, 13 Pet. 401,
Ex, parte Schwab, 98 U. S. 240, Em parte Perry, 102 U. S.
183, PEmparte .Zkorgan, 114 U S. 174. It does not, therefore,
lie to review a final judgment or decree of the 6 ircuit Court,
sustaining a plea to the jurisdiction, even if no appeal or writ
of error is given -by law
i parte .Yewman, 14 Wall. 152,
Eo parte,Baltimore & New Railroad,108 U. S. 566, In reBurdett, 127 U. S. '771,In re Pennsylvansa Co., 137 U. S.
451, 453.
Least of all, can a writ of mandamus be granted to review
a ruling or interlocutory order made in the progress of a
cause for, -as observed by Chief Justice Marshall, to do this
"would be a plain evasion of the provision of the act of Congress that final judgments only should be brought before this
court for refxamination," would "introduce the supervising
power of this court into a cause while depending in an inferior
court, and prematurely to decide it;" would allow an appeal
or writ of error upon the same question to be "repeated' to
the great oppression of -he parties," and "wo u l d subvert our
whole system of jurisprudence." Banko of Columbza v Sweeny,
1 Pet. 567, 569, Life & FireIns. Co. v Adams, 9 Pet. 573, 602.
This court, and the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States, have also been empowered by Congress "to issue all
writs, not specifically provided for by statute, which may be
necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the usages and principles of law"
Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 14, 1 Stat. 81, Rev Stat. § 716.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

Under this provision, the court might doubtless issue writs
of certsorar, in proper cases. But the writ of certwraz has
not been issued as freely by this court as by the Court of
Queen's Bench in England. Ex parte Vallandigham,1 Wall.
243, 249. It was never issued to bring up from an inferior
court of the United States for trial a case within the exclusive
jurisdiction of a higher court. Fowler v Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411,
413, Patterson v United States, 2 Wheat. 221, 225, 226, Ex
parte Hitz, 111 U S.766. It was used by this court as an
auxiliary process only, to supply imperfections in the record of
a case already before it, and not, like a writ of error, to
review the judgment of an inferior court. Barton v Petit,
7 Cranch, 288, Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black, 503, United States
v Adams, 9 Wall. 661 , Unted States v Young, 94 U S.
258, Luxton v. -Horth
1?,ver Bsdge, 147 U. S. 337, 841.
There is, therefore, no ground for issuing either a writ of
mandamus, or a writ of certiorart,as prayed for in these petitions, unless it be found in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517,
entitled "An act to establish Circuit Courts of Appeals, and to
define and regulate in certain cases the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States, and for other purposes." 26
Stat. 826.
By section 4 of this act, "the review, by appeal, by writ of
error or otherwise, from the existing Circuit Courts shall be
had only in the Supreme Court of the United States, or in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals hereby established, according to the
provisions of this act, regulating the same," and by section
14, "all acts and parts of acts, relating to appeals or writs
of error, inconsistent with the provisions for review by appeals or writs of error in the preceding sections five and six of
this act, .are hereby repealed."
By section 5, appeals or writs of error may be taken from
the Circuit Court directly to this court in cases where the
jurisdiction of the court below is in issue, (the question of
jurisdiction alone being brought up,) in prize causes, in cases
of convictions of capital or otherwise infamous crimes, and in
cases involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, or the constitutionalitv of a law

AMER. CONST. 00. v. JACKSONTVILLE RAILWAY.

381

Opinion of the Court.

of the United States, or the validity-or construction of a
treaty, or where the constitution or law of a State is claimed
to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
By section 6, the appellate jurisdiction from final decisions
of the Circuit Court, in all cases other than those provided for
in section 6, is conferred upon the Circuit Court of Appeals,
"unless otherwise provided by law," dnd its jhdgments or
decrees "shall be final" in all cases in which the jurisdiction
depends entirely on thQ citizenship of the parties, as well as in
cases arising under the patent laws, the revenue laws, or the
criminal laws, and in admiralty cases.
By the same section, however, the Circuit Court of Appeals
"in any such subject within its appellate jurisdiction" may, at
any time, certify to this court questions or propositions of law,
and this court may thereupon either instruct it 4n such questions, or may require the whole case to be sent up for decision,
and any case "made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals"
may be required by this court, by certiorar?,or otherwise, to
be certified "for its review and determination, with the same
power and authority in the case" as if it had been brought up
by appeal or writ of error.
By a further provision in the same section, (which has no
special bearing on these cases,) an appeal or writ of error or
review by this court is given as of, right in all cases not made
final in the Circuit Court of Appeals, wherein the matter in
controversy exceeds $1000.
The only provision in the act, authorizing appeals from
interlocutory orders or decrees of the Circuit Courts, is in section 't, which provides that where, upon a hearing in equity,
"an injunQtion shall be -granted or continued by an interlocu
tory order or decree, in a cause in which an appeal from a final
decree may be taken under the provisions of this act to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, an appeal may be taken from such
interlocutory order or decree granting or continuing such
injunction to the Circuit Court of Appeals;" "and the proceedings in other respects in the court below shall not be
stayed, unless otherwise ordered- by that court, during the pendency of such appeal."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

By section 12, the Circuit Court of Appeals has the powers
specified in section 716 of the Revised Statutes, that is to say,
to issue all writs, not specifically provided for by statute, which
may be necessary for the exercise of its jurisdiction,, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law
The effect of these provisions is that, in any case in which
the jurnsdiction of the Circuit Court depends entirely on the
citizenship of the parties, (as in the cases now before us,) and,
in which the jurisdiction of that court is not in issue, the
appeal given from its judgments and decrees, whether final or
interlocutory, lies to the Circuit Court of Appeals only, and
the judgments of the latter court are final, unless either that
court certifies questions or propositions of law to this court, or
else this court, by certhorarzor otherwise, orders the whole case
to be sent up for its review and determination.
The primary object of this act, well known as a matter of
public history, manifest on the face of the act, and judicially
declared in the leading cases under it, was to relieve this court
of the overburden of cases and controversies; arising from the
rapid growth of the country, and the steady increase of litigation, and, for the accomplishment of this object, to transfer a
large part of its appellate jurisdiction to the Circuit Court-, of
Appeals thereby established in each judicial circuit, and to
distribute between this court and those, according to the
scheme of the act, the entire appellate jurisdiction from the
Circuit and District Courts of the United States. .McLzsh v
1- ?o, 141 U. S. 661, 666-; Lau Ow Bew's Case, 141 U. S. 583,
and 144 U. S. 47.
The act has uniformly been so construed and applied by this
court as to promote its general purpose of lessening the burden of litigation in th3s court, transferring the appellate jurisdiction in large classes of cases to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and making the judgments of that court final, except in extraordinary cases.
It has accordingly been adjudged that a writ of error or
appeal directly to this court under section 5, in a case concerning the jurisdiction of the Circuit .Court, does not lie until after
final judgment, and cannot, therefore, be taken from an order

AMER. CONST. CO. v. JACKSONVILLE RAILWAY.

383

Opirnon,.of the Court,

of the Circuit Court remanding a case to a state court, there
being, as said by. Mr. Justice lamar, speaking for this court,
"no provision in the act, which can be construed into so radical
a change.in all the existing statutes and settled rules of practice and procedure of Federal courts, as to extend-the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to the review of jurisdictional cases
in advance of the final judgments upon them." _Me1Ls4 v
Rof, above cited-, Cheago &c. Railway v Roberts, 141
UT.
S. 690.
It has also been determined that, in the grant of the appellate jurisdiction to the Circuit Court of -Appeals, by section 6,
in all cases other than those in which this court has direct
appellate jurisdiction. under section 5, the exception "unless
otherwise provided by law" .looks only to provisions of the
same act, or to contemporaneous or subsequent acts expressly
providing otherwise, and.does not include provisions of earlier
statutes. Lau Ow Bew v United States, 144 U. S. 47, 57,
Hubbard v. Soby, 146 U. S.56.,
In the same spirit, the authority conferred on thiscourt by
the yery provision on which the petitioners mainly rely, by
which it is-enacted- that- "in any such ease as is herembefore
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals, it shall be competent for the Supreme Court -tq require, by certiorarz or otherwise, any such caseto, be certified to the Supreme Court for its
review and deterimntion, with the same power and authority
an the case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme-Court," has been held to be a branch of
its jurisdiction which should. be exercised sparingly and with
great caution, and onl* in cases of peculiar gravity and general
importance, or in order to secure uniformity of decision. Lau
Ow Bew's"Case, 1,4 U S.583; and 144 U. S.47, In re Woods,
143 U. S. 202. Accordingly, while there, have been many
applications to this-court for writs of ecvttorar to the Circuit
Court .of Appealsunder this provision, two only have been,
granted the one in Lau Ow. Bew's Case, above cited, which
involved a grave question of public international law, affecting
the relations between the United States and a foreign country
the other in 1Fabre,-Petitzoner,No. 1237 of the present term,

OCTOBER -TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

an admiralty case, which presented an important question as
to the rules of navigation, and in which the decree of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed a decree
of the District Judge, and was dissented from by one of the
three Circuit Judges, and in each of those cases the Circuit
Court of Appeals had declined to certify the question to this
court.
There are much stronger reasons against the interposition of
this court to review a decree made by the Circuit Court of
Appeals on appeal from an interlocutory order, than in the
case of a final decree. Before the act of 1891, as has been
seen, no interlocutory order was subject to appeal, except as
ihvolved in an appeal from a final decree. The only appeal
from an interlocutory order under the act of 1891 is that
allowed by section 7 to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the same
court to which an appeal lies from the final decree. The question whether a decree is an interlocutory or a final one is often
nice and difficult, as appears by the cases collected in Keysone
Co. v fartin, 132 U. S. 91, and, in AfGourkey v Toledo &
0kw Central Railway, 146 U. S. 536. Whether an interlocutory order may be separately reviewed by the appellate court
in the progress of the suit, or only after and together with the
final decree, is matter of' procedure rather than of substantial
right, and many orders made in the progress of a suit become
quite unimportant by reason of the final result, or of intervening matters. Clearly, therefore, this court should not issue
a writ of certiorar?,to review a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals on appeal from an interlocutory order, unless it is
necessary to prevent extraordinary inconvenience and embarrassment in the conduct of the cause.
In such an exceptional case, the power and the duty of this
court to require, by certwrar? or otherwise, the. case to be
sent up for review and determination, cannot well be denied,
as will appear if the provision now in question is considered
in connection with the preceding provisions for the interposition of this court in cases brought before the Circuit Court
of Appeals. In the first place, the Circuit Court of Appeals
is authorized, "in every such subject within its appellate juris-

ADUR. COTST. CO. v. JACKSONVILLE IAILWAY.

385

Opinion of the Court.

diction," and " at any time," to certify to this court "any
questions or propositions of law," concerning which it desires
the instruction of this court for its proper decision. In the
next place, this court, at whatever stage of the case such questions or propositions are certified to it, may either give its
instruction thereon, or may require the whole record and
cause to be sent up for its consideration and decision. Then
follows the -provision in question, conferring, upon this court
authority "Im any such case as is herembefore made final in
the Circuit Court of Appeals," to require, by certiorarz or
otherwise, the case to be certified to this court .for its review
and determination. There is nothing in tho act to preclude
this court from ordering the-whole case to be sent up, when
no distinct questions of law have been certified to it by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, at as early a stage ag when such
questions have been so certified. The only restriction upon
the exercise of the power of this court, independently of any
action of the Circuit Court of Appeals, in this regard, is to
cages "made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals," that is to
say, to cases in which the-statute makes the judgment of that
court final, not to cases in which that court has rendered a
final judgment. Doubtless, this- power would seldom be ex-,
ercised before finaljudgment in the Circuit Court of Appeals,
and very rarely indeed before the case was ready for decision
upon the merits in that court. But the question at what stage
of the proceedings, and under what circumstances, the case
should be required; by certwrarqi or otherwise, to be sent up
for review, is left to the discretion of this court, as the exigencies of each case may require.
In the first of the cases-now before us, the appeal was clearly
well taken from the order of the Circuit Court, so far, at least,
as the injunction was concerned. If the Circuit Court of
Appeals, on the hearing of that appeal, erred in going beyond a modification of the injunction, and in setting aside so
much of -the orders appealed from as appointed a receiver
and permitted him to issue receiver's notes, the error was one
in the judicial deterniination of a case within the jurisdiction
of that court, and neither so important in its immediate effect.,
VOL. cxLyvn-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion

tne Court.

nor so far-reaching in its consequences, as to warrant this court
in undertaking to control the cause at, this stage of the
proceedings.
In the first case, therefore, the writ of certiorarzprayed for
under the
is denied, because no reason is-shown for issmng -it,
circumstances of the case.
Nor do those circumstances make a case for issuing a writ
of mandamus, either to the Circuit Court of Appeals or -to
the Circuit Court. The decisions of this court upon applications for writs of mandamus since the act of 1891 affirm the
principles established in the earlier decisions, before cited. In
re .Morrmorn,I47 U. S. 14, 26, In re Hawkvns, 14'7 U. S. 486,
.I re Haberman Manvf Co., 147 U. S. 525, Virginia v.
Paul,ante, 107, 124.
In the first case, therefore, the writs of mandamus, as well
as the writ of certzorarz, must be denied.
The second case is governed by the same considerations as
the first, except in the following respects
1st. It is contended that the order of Judge Swayne, setting
aside and vacating the order of Judge Pardee appointing
Cable receiver, was not such an interlocutory order as an
appeal lies from to -the Circuit Court of Appeals under section
7 of the act of 1891. 26 Stat. 828. But if that order could
not be the subject of a separate appeal, it might clearly, so
far as material, be brought before the Circuit Court of Appeals
on appeal from the final decree, when rendered. If that court
decided erroneously in determining the matter on an interlocutory appeal, that affords no ground for the extraordinary
interposition of this court by certiorartor mandamus.
2d. It is contended that the original order of Judge Pardee
was a nullity, because made by him outside of .his circuit, and
while the Circuit Court was in sessiou in the district where
the suit was pending. But that fact does not appear of
record, and if it were proved, the question whether Judge
Pardee's order was invalid for that reason (though in itself
a question of interest and importance) does not appear to
have a material bearing, in any aspect of the case, for
whether that order, or the subsequent decree of the Circuit

AMEER. CONST. CO. v. JACKSONVILLE RAILWAY.

387

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals, was valid or invalid, the question who
should be appointed receiver remained within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court.
3d. The more important suggestion is that the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is void, because Judge Pardee
took part in the hearing and decision in that court, though
disqualified from so doing by section 3 of the Judiciary Act
of 1891, which -provides that "no justice or judge, before
whom a cause or question may have been tried or heard" in
the Circuit Court. "shall sit on the trial or hearing of such
cause or question in the Circuit Court of Appeals." 26 Stat.
827. The question whether this provision prohibited Judge
Pardee from sitting in an appeal which -was not from his own
order, but from an order setting aside his order, is a novel
and important one, deeply affecting the administration of
justice in the Circuit Court of Appeals. If the statute made
him incompetent to sit at the hearing, the decree in which he
took part was unlawful, and perhaps absolutely void, and
should certainly be set aside or quashed by any court having
authority to review it by appeal, erroror certiorar?. United
States v LTancaster, 5 Wheat. 431, Lrwted States v. Emholt,
105 U. S. 414, The Queen v Justices of Hertfordshsre,6 Q.
B. 753, Oakley v Aspinwall,-3 N. Y 547, Tolland v County
Conimtsoners,13 Gray, 12.
The writ of certsorarz, authorized by the act of 1891, and
-prayed for in this case, being in the nature of a writ of error
to bring up for review the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the question Whether the writ should be -granted
rests m the discretion of this court, but when the writ has
been granted, and the record certified in obedience to it, the
questions arising upon that record must be determined according to fixed rules of law Harrs-v. Barber, 129 U S.*366,.
369.
For the reasons above stated, this court is of opinion that
the writ of certorarn prayed for in the second case.should not
be granted, unless Judge Pardee was disqualified by the act of
1891 to sit at the hearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals;
but that, if he was so disqualified, the writ should be granted,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purpose of' bringing up and quashing the decree of
court., that there should, therefore, be *a rule to show cause
why a writ of certiwran should notissue on this ground and
for this purpose only, and that the question whether the
decree of. the Circuit Court of Appeals was void, by reason
of Judge Pardee's having taken part in it, can more fitly be
determined on further argument upon the return of that
court to the rule to show cause. Ecparte Dugan, 2 Wall. 134:.
'If the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is void, because one of -the judges who took part in the decision was
forbidden by law to sit at the hearing, a writ of certwram to
that -court to bring up and quash its decree is manifestly a
more decorous, as well as a more appropriate, form of proceeding than a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court to disregard
the mandate of the appellate court.
The following orders, therefore, will be entered in these two
cases

In N"o. 14, writs of mandamus and certiorarz denzed, -and
petitwn dismsssed.
In N-o. 15, writs of mandamus dented, and ule granted
to show cause why a writ of certioram should not wssue to
brng up and quash the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE was not present at the argument of
these cases, and took no part in,their decision.

On April 3, the petitioner moved this court to continue in force
the stay of proceedings in No. 14 until the final disposition of
No. 15. The court denied the motion. Thereupon the petitioner
moved, and was permitted by the court, to dismiss the petition in
No. 15.

