WOLFE v. HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of 'the Court.

WOLFE v. HARTFORID LIFE AND ANNUITY
INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 162. Submitted March 23, 1893.-Decided March 27,1893.

A complaint which avers that the plaintiff was, at the several times named
therein, "and ever since has been and still is a resident of the city,
county and State of New York," is not sufficient to give the Circuit
Court of that circuit jurisdiction on the ground of citizenship of the
parties, when the record nowhere discloses the plaintiff's citizenship.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
r -Robert S. Green and Air Henry Thompson for the
plaintiff in error.
-Ur Herman.

obbe for defendant in error.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE: The complaint in this case avers that
the plaintiff was at the several times mentioned therein, "and
ever since has been and still is, a resident of the city, county
and State of New York," but his citizenship is nowhere disclosed by the record.
It is essential in cases where the jurisdiction depends upon
the citizenship 9 f. the parties that such citizenship, or the facts
which in legal intendment constitute it, should be distinctly
and positively averred in the pleadings, or should appear with
equal distinctness in other parts of the record. It is not sufficient that jurisdictin may be inferred argumentatively from
the averments. Brown v Eeene, 8 Pet. 112, 115, Continental Ins. (Co.v Rhoads, 119 U. S. 237, .fenard v Goggan,
121 U. S. 253. "
Judgment reversed at the cost of plantif n error and the
cause remandedforfurther proceedinas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Appellee.

OGDEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 1184.

Submitted Mareb 26, 1893.-Decided March 27, 1893.

The appeal in this case from a decree of the Circuit Court in a suit against
the United States brought under the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505,
c. 359, not having been taken until August 9, 1892, is dismissed.

THE appellant brought this suit against the United States
under the act of Ma[arch 3, 1887, 2- Stat. 505, c. 359. The
amount claimed exceeded the sum necessary to give this court
jurisdiction on appeal
The bill was dismissed June 27,
1892. The application for appeal was made August 9, 1892.
On behalf of the appellee the following motion was made
"And now, March .20, 1893, comes the Solicitor General, on
behalf of the appellee, and moves the court to dismiss the
appeal herein -for that such appeal is not authorized, by the
act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, entitled Ian act to establish
Circuit Courts of appeals,' and so forth, and because such
appeal is without the-authority of law, and this court, therefore, is without jurisdiction of said appeal -" and with this
motion was also submitted a statement of the appellants'
counsel in which, acknowledging notice of the mot( u,he said
"I am anxious that the question shall be determined, the
time you give me, however, is too short to prepare or file a
brief. I accept your communication of the 13th as notice and
waive any other, asking you in making the motion to state
to the court that, so far as appellant is concerned, the case is
submitted for construction of the statute conferring jurisdiction
on the Circuit Courts in actions against the government, and
whether that act conferring special jurisdiction with special
procedure is affected by the general act creating the Circuit
Courts of appeal."
-Mr Solicitor General for appellee in support of the motion.

