GRANT v. WALTER.
Opinion of the Court.

such condition or reqmrement upon the State. Our conclusion
is that, upon a fugitive's surrender to the State demanding his
return in pursuance of national law, he may be tried in the
State to which he is returned for any other offence than that
specified in the requisition for his rendition, and that in so
trying him against his objection no right, privilege or immunity
secured to him by the Constitution and laws of the United
States is thereby denied.
It follows, therefore, that the judgment in the present case
should be
Afflrmed.
GRANT v. WALTER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 187. Argued March 28,1893.-Decided April 10, 1893.
Letters patent, No. 267,192,'issued November 7, 1882, to James Al. Grant
for "certain new and useful improvements in the art of reeling and
winding silk and other thread" are void for want of patentable novelty,
the alleged discovery being only that of a new use for the old device of
a cross-reeled and laced skein; and while the fact that the patented
article has gone into general use may be evidence of its utility, it cannot control the language of the statute, which limits the benefit of' the
patent laws to things which are new, as well as useful.
Features in a patented invention which are not covered by the claims are
not protected by the letters patent.

Iw EQUITY, to restrain the infringement of letters patent.
Decree dismissing the bill, from which the plaintiff appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr William

. Simonds for appellaijt.

X1'. Henry Grasefor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JAoxsoN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, in the usual form, for the alleged
infringement of letters patent No. 267,192, issued 'to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

appellant, James IA. Grant, on the 7th of November, 1882, for
"certain new and useful improvements in the art of reeling
and winding silk and other thread." The bill averred that
the defendant had infringed the patent by making, using,
vending and putting in practice, without complainant's license,
improvements described and claimed in the patent. The
prayer was for an injunction and for an account of profits and
damages. The answer set up, amongst other defences not
necessary to be noticed, a denial that Grant was the original
inventor of the improvements described in the patent, that
there was a want of novelty in the invention, and a prior use
of the improvements clanned as patentable by various designated parties. Replication was duly filed, proof taken, and
the court below, upon the hearing of the cause, found in favor
of the defendant, and accordingly dismissed the bill. 38 Fed.
Rep. 59-4. From this decree the present appeal is prosecuted,
and the appellant assigns for error the lower court's "denial
of patentability to the skein which Grant claims, while awardmg it to the process which he does not claim." The court,
.however, did not decide that it was a valid process-patent,
but suggested that if the improvement was a valid invention
it was in the process and not in the product.
The material parts of the specification and the claims based
thereon are as follbws
"N[y invention relates to a novel manner of winding silk or
other thread upon the reels in a reeling-machine preparatory
to its being dyed.
"The object of my invention is to provide an improved
skein of silk whereby a greater quantity can be reeled upon
the same machine m a given time, and to provide at the same
time for making these skeins in a proper form to receive the
dye in the best manner, and be ready after the dyeing to be
placed upon the swift for unwinding upon bobbins in. the customary manner.
"In the present method of manufacturing silk the thread,
previous to dyeing, is wound into, skeins upon a reelingmachine, in which some twenty or more small skeins containing generally one thousand yards, or less, are wound upon

GRANT v. WALTER.
Opinion of the Court.

a set -of parallel bars set around an axis forming a long reel.
Each skein is tied up by itself, and the reel is taken down or
collapses to release the separate skeins. These small skeins
are then dyed and then placed separately upon swifts to again
unwind them. Larger skeins than above named have been
found inconvenient, if not impracticable, on account of becoming tangled in the dyeing and difficult to unwind. By means
of my improvement I am enabled to wind skeins of twentyfour thousand yards, or more, in each separate skein upon the
reels, thus saving a great amount of labor in taking down the
reels to remove the skeins, and the larger skeins wound in my
improved manner can be placed at once upon the swifts and
unwound without difficulty
"My improvement consists in winding the silk or other
thread upon the reel in the form of a wide band, in which the
thread crosses from side to side as it is wound, somewhat in
the manner now employed, but so arranged as not to form
single skeins by passing one layer over the other. I prefer to
have the thread cross in five-sixths of one revolution of the
reel, although other proportions will answer. When the
required quantity has been wound, I lace the skein or band,
before it is removed from the reel, in one or more places,
generally on opposite sides of the reel, so as to divide it into
a number of parts and hold it in its flat or band-like condition.
This lacing constitutes the chief point of my invention, and is
what preserves the skein in its shape, and prevents its becoming entangled in the process of dyeing. After lacing, the skein
is removed from the reel, and passes into the bands of the
dyer. After winding in the manner above described the skein
is so laid, one thread crossing the other, that its texture is
more open even than the small skeins wound in the ordinary
manner, andl although much larger the dye easily penetrates
to every part and insures a uniform color. The several
threads cannot become matted together, as with the ordinary
skein wound in the customary manner.
"By means of my invention a great saving is made in the
expense of manufacture, the waste of silk is greatly.reduced,
and less skill is required in the winding after the dyeing,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby dispensing with the high-priced skilled operatives now
employed upon this work.
"What I claim as my invention is:
"(1.) A skein of silk, or other thread, wound upon a reel
diagonally from side to side, in the manner described, and
laced back and forth across its width to preserve its form, substantially as set forth.
"(2.) The combination of the lacing B with a wide skein of
silk or other thread in which the strands are diagonally crossed,
substantially as described."
At the hearing of the case a disclaimer was filed in the
Patent Office by the appellant "to so much of said claim as
does or might make such claim apply to a skein which by
reason of being coated with gum, or by reason of the manner
of its lacing, or for any other reason, is not in condition for
dyeing for ordinary manufacturing purposes." By stipulation of
the parties it was provided" that this disclaimer may be made a
part of the record in this suit, nunc pro tune, as of the date of
hearing thereof, as if the same had been filed on that date, to
indicate the willingness of the complainant to limit his patent
by said disclaimer, and as an aid in the construction of his
patent, but without prejudice to the rights of this defendant
on the question of delay in filing said disclaimer."
The Circuit Court held that the claims of the patent covered
a product and not a process, and that the patent was void for
want of patentable novelty, for the reason that the form of
skein described in the specification and covered by the claims
was well known and in use long prior to Grant's invention,
which consisted in the method of dyeing and winding silk by
the use of such well-known form of skein and not in the skein
itself, and if valid to any extent, it was only upon the process.
The court further held that the disclaimer could neither
operate to give validity to the patent for the skein, nor change
it into one for the process, and accordingly dismissed the bill.
As found by the Circuit Court, the evidence fully and clearly
established the fact that skeins of silk diagonally reeled and
laced across the width, so as to separate the skein into two or
more sections, were in use and well known to the silk trade

GRANT v. WALTER.
Opmion of the Court.

long prior to Grant's improvement. The form of such skeins
was substantially the same as that adopted by Grant. These
anticipating skeins were in their construction similar to the
construction of the skeins of the patent. They were produced
in the same manner by the horizontal to-and-fro motion of'a
guide-bar for carrying the thread in front of the reel as the
latter revolved, thus causing the diagonal or cross-reeling in
the formation of the skein. They were laced into two or
three sections across their width. The object and purpose of
this diagonal reeling and lacing was to preserve the form of
the skein and to prevent entanglement and snarling in the
handling and future winding of the silk. These old skeins
were made of raw silk, that is, silk coated with or carrying the
silkworm's gum, and were smaller in size, and more tightly
laced across their width than the Grant skeins in question.
The diagonal reeling was somewhat wider in the skein of the
patent than in the old skeins. The raw silk having a more
delicate thread and much more liable in handling to become
entangled, and therefore less easily wound than when the silk
had been brought to a condition of thread, necessitated this
cross-reeling and lacing to preserve the form of the skein and
to facilitate the transportation and future handling of the silk
in its further development in the process of manufacturing.
Nor could the raw silk be dyed, because the filaments would
separate, the gum which holds them together would be dissolved out, so that they would become snarled or entangled
without this cross-reeling and lacing in the process of ungumming, and could not be subsequently wound without great
difficulty and loss. It had to be first "boiled off," as it is
called, or the gum removed, by being immersed for some
period in soap and water or other liquid.
The process of manufacturing silk thread is thus described
by a witness for the complainant
"The silk in the shape in which it is formed by the silkworm exists in the shape of cocoons. These cocoons in the
countries in which silk is grown are soaked in a suitable bath,
and the filaments of-, silk that compose the cocoons are
unwound from the cocoons and formed in skeins on reels or

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

swifts. In this shape it forms the raw silk of commerce and
is imported into America in large quantities, mostly from
Europe and Asia. The skeins of raw silk are treated by the
manufacturer of silk thread (I do not mean by this term
'thread' sewing silks and braids-only, but rather that known
as tram and organzme that is used in making textile fabrics)
usually as follows The raw silk is ungummed, it is dried to
a sufficient degree, and is then, in skein form, put on swifts,
from which it is wound on to spools or bobbins. The silk,
according to the use to which it is to be put, is further doubled,
in which operation it goes from spool to spool, is twisted, in
which operation it goes from spool to spool, and when of sufficient size as to number of threads and of condition as to twisting it is reeled from the spool or bobbin into skein form. In
this skein form it is dyed, and with the old form of skeins is
then parted to separate the several small skeins -that compose
the larger skein, such as I now produce, and is then put on
'risers,' so called, and wound on to bobbins, in which shape
the silk is used usually in the manufacture of textile fabrics.
I will state that the ' risers,' as used in this old process of manufacture that I am describing, consisted of two,small drums or
pulleys, usually of about five or six inches in diameter, and
that the skein was wound from these 'risers.'
"In this art the term ' winding' means the changing of the
silk from the skein form to its form on a bobbin or spool, and
by 'reeling' is meant the putting of the silk into the skein
form."

The contention of the appellant is that the skein of the patent should be considered in connection with the specification
and knowledge of the art possessed by the persons to whom
the specification is addressed, and if the prior art requires limitations in order to leave validity in the patent, then it is right
and proper for the court to read such limitations into the
claims by construction, and on the basis of this proposition it
is urged that Grant's skein differed from the earlier skeins
shown by the testimony in at least two particulars First,
that the earlier skeins were gummed, and Grant's skeins are
ungummed, which prevented the former from being dyed,

GRANT v. WALTER.

,553

Opinion of the Court.

while the latter can be, and, secondly, that the earlier skeins
were laced tightly for the purposes of transportation and handling, while Grant's skeins are laced loosely so that they are in
a condition for dyeing. The Grant skein is shown to be an
improvement over the earlier skeins for the purposes of dyeing,
but neither the specification nor the claims of the patent limit
it to that purpose. The disclaimer undertakes so to do, or
rather to limit it to a condition m which the skein may be
dyed.
The court below properly held that the disclaimer did not
give any increased validity to the patent for the skein, or
ahangeit into one for a process. And the simple question presented is whether Grant's skein possesses features of patentable
novelty over the-earlier skeins shown by the testimony The
cross-reeling and lacing in the skein of the patent perform substantially the same function in substantially the same way as
in the earlier skeins, but at a later and different stage or condition of the silk thread forming the skein. It is perfectly
manifest that if a patent had existed on the earlier skein, the
skein of the patent would be an infringement thereof, as being
simply for a double or analogous use. Such analogous use,
under the authorities, is not patentable. Brown v P-iper, 91
U. S. 37, Pennylvanta Railroad v Locomotive, Truck Co.,
110 U. S. 491, XJiller v .Force, 116 U. S. 22, Dreyfus v
Searle, 124 U. S. 60. And the same result must follow,
although the earlier skein is not patented, if it embodies substantially the same form, and for a like use.
The function and purpose of the prior skein and the patented
device were exactly analogous, operated in the same way, and
were serviceable in both cases to preserve the skein from
entanglement, the patented skein being applicable to a later
stage of the thread. This, within the principle announced in
Smith v _3Yiohols, 21 Wall. 112, would constitute simply a
mere carrying forward or extended application of the original
device with the change only in degree, but doing substantially
the same thing in the same way by substantially the same
means with some better results, and would not, therefore, be
patentable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The difference insisted upon in support of the patent, that
the looser lacing of the skein across the band to preserve its
form and.keep it in condition suitable for dyeing the thread,
is clearly a matter of mechanical skill which does not involve
invention. It is said by one of complainant's witnesses that
such loose lacing, as is insisted upon as a requisite for effective
dyeing, is neither shown in the drawings, nor in the specification nor claims, but that it should be read into the patent,
because " a man that understands his business must know that
it must be laced loosely or that the silk would be spoiled in
dyeing," and that, if this were not noticed or not known, it
would be taught him by the first experiment. It is perfectly
evident that it would readily occur to any one skilled in the
art that, as the skeins are increased in size or width of band,
the necessity for lacing in order to preserve the form and keep
the skein in a condition for dyeing would be correspondingly
increased, and that 'the looser the lacing the more perfect
would be the dyeing. Such changes in degree, merely, would
not constitute an invention. 1stey v Burdcftt, 109 U. S. 633.
It is settled that distinct and formal claims are necessary to
ascertain the scope of the invention. Merrill v Yeomans, 94
U. S. 568, lfestern Electrz Co. v Ansonta Brass & Copper
Co., 114 U. S. 447.
If, therefore, the elements of "boiling off,' or ungumming
the silk, or the dyeing there)f, and of improving the winding
facility, were patentable, in view of the prior skeins, they
should have been covered by the claims of the patent. James
v Campbell, 104: U. S.356, and authorities cited above.
The disclaimer takes away nothing from the claims except
what is not in condition for dyeing, and no silk thread is in
condition for dyeing by simply being cross-reeled and laced.
The patent, notwithstanding the disclaimer, is still for an old
device of a cross-reeled and laced skein for whatever purpose
it may be designed, and is void for want of patentable novelty
The counsel for the appellant, while claiming the benefit of his
disclaimer, and insisting that Grant's skein is distinguishable
from the earlier anticipating skeins, for the reason that the latter
were coated with gum and were not loosely laced, states that

GRAIT v. WALTER.
Opinion of the Court.

"Grant's specification addresses its direction wholly to the skeinmaker, never to the dyer. It says 'My invention relates to a
novel manner of winding silk or other thread upon the reels in a
'My
reeling machine preparatory to its being dyed.'
iuprovement consists in winding the silk or other thread
'When
upon the reel in the form of a wide 'baand.'
the required quantity has been wound, I lace the skein or
so as to divide it into a number of parts and
band
hold it in its flat or band-like condition.' Grant had a clear
idea of the real nub of his invention. He says ' This lacing
constitutes the chief point of my invention, and is what preserves the skein in its shape and prevents its becoming entangled in the process of dyeing.' Grant gives no instruction to
the dyer or the winder, for the simple reason that in dyeing his
skein and afterwards winding it upon bobbins the procedure is
identical with the procedure of the old' art. All that w novel
sfound sn the ken, and that answers the question, Is Grant's
improvement a skein or a process 2 That answer is Grant's
improvement is a new skein." So that the whole invention
must be tested by the simple question whether the looser lacing for the purpose of dyeing, over the more tightly laced
skeins for the purpose of preserving their form and winding
qualities, while being ,"boiled off" or ungmmed, constitutes
a patentable invention. Considering'the purpose for which
it is now claimed, it cannot be anything more than a mere
application of an old process to a new use, which does not rise
to the dignity of invention, the looser lacing for the purposes
of dyeing being perfectly apparent to any one skilled in the
art of silk manufacture, or in the preparation of thread for
that purpose. But while it is thus claimed that the Grant
specification addresses itself to the direction wholly of the
skein-maker, and never to the dyer, the disclaimer undertakes
to confine such direction solely to the dyer, rather than to the
skein-maker, as the effect -of the disclaimer is intended to
exclude skeins "which, by reason of being coated with gum
or by reason of the manner of its lacing or for-any other reason, is not in condition for dyeing for ordinary manufacturing
purposes." So that, under the operation .of the disclaimer,

