LEHNE2N v. DICKSON.
Names of CounseL

simply took measures- for their own -protection. It being
conceded, as it is, that the debts from Rich to May and
fde, the transaction amounted, to.this,. and
Hirsch were.,orwj
this only that the debtor used his property- to prefer-certain
bona de creditors.,. This, the laws cf Oolorado allowed, and
therefore it cannot be avoided at the lnstance.-of -the unpreferred creditors.
The decree.of thie Circuit Court -s--reversed, and the case

'emanded, with 4nstr'ucttons to dismes the bill.

1 LEHNEN v. DIOKSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR THE

-,EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
INo. 125. Argued February 2, 3, 1893.-Decided March 6, 1893.

When the recordishows that the case was tried below-by.the-court without
a jury, and there is no special finding of facts, and-no agreed statement
of facts, but only a general finding, this court must accept that- finding
as conclusive, and limit its inquiry to the sufficiency of the complaint
and of the rulings, if any be preserved, on quelstiiii of law arising
during the tril.
No mere recital of the testimony whether in the opinon of the court or in
a bill of exceptions, can, be deemed a special finding of facts. within the
scope of the statute.
In Missouri in an action of unlawful detamer, the defendaut put in evidence
a lease of the property by the then owner, who had slihce died, which-had
been assigned to him. The plaintiff offered evidence of' a judgment
cancelling and, setting aside that lease, which was admitted.. under.
objection, and the admission excepted to. Eeld, that the ruling was
right.

TuE case is stated inthe opinion.
-Mr D 1;.Dyer, (with whom was Hi;..amhvd "GolZsnziton
the brief,) for plaintiff iherror.

-r

James 0. Broadheadfor, defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

:N[r. JusTE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
On February 6, 1886, defendant in error commenced an
action of unlawful detainer, before a justice 'of the peace in
Montgomery County, Missouri. The complaint charged an
unlawful detention by the defendant, since January 2, 18S6, of
a.tract of land of 800 acres situated in that county By certwrar?,, under the provisions of the state statute, the case was
removed to the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, and
thereafter, upon application of the defendant, on the ground
of diverse citizenship, from that to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri. There the
case was tried without the intervention of a jury, and, on January 30, 1889, a judgment was entered in favor of the plaintiff
for the restitution of the premises, for double damages, amounting to $5940, and for $220 per month, double rent, from and
after the entry of judgment. The opinion of Judge Thayer is
found in 37 Fed. Rep. 319. To reverse such judgment the defendant sued out a writ of error from this court.
The first matter to be considered is, whether the record is in
such shape as to present any question for determination. The
case was tried by the court without a jury)and the journal
entry shows simply a general finding that the defendant is
guilty in manner and form as charged in the complaint, the
amount of damages sustained by the plaintiff, and the value of
the mpnthly rents and pro ?, and thereon the judgment for
restitution of the premises, double damages and double rent.
There is no special finding of facts, and no agreed statement
of facts. Obviously, therefore, inquiry in th s. court must be
limited to the sufficiency of the complaint and the rulings, if
any be preserved, onquestions of law arising during the trial.
Sections 648 and 649 of the Revised Statutes, while committing generally the trial of issues of fact to a jury, authorize
parties to waive a jury and submit such trial to the court,
adding that "the finding of the court upon the facts, which
may be either general or special, shall have the same iffect as
the verdict of a jury" But the verdict of a jury settles all
questions of fact. As said by Mr. Justice Blatchford, in lan-

LEHNEN v. DICKSON.
Opimon of the Court.

caster v Collins, 115 U. S. 222, 225 "This court cannot review the weight of the. evidence, and can look into it only to
see whether there was error. in not directing a verdict for the
plaintiff on the question of variance, or because there was no
evidence to sustain the verdict rendered." The finding of the
court, to have the same effect, must be equally conclusive and
equally remove from examination.-in this court the testimony
given on the trial. Insurance Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 23i,
Cooper v Omohundro, 19 Wall. 65. Further, section 700
provides that "when an issue of fact in any civil cause in a
Circuit Court is tried and determined by the court without the
intervention of a jury, according to section six hundred and
forty-nine, the rulings of the court in the progress of the trial
of the cause, if excepted to at the time, and duly presented by
a bill of exceptions, mnay be reviewed by the Supreme Court
upon a writ of error or upon appeal, and.when the finding is
special, the review may extend to the sufficiency of the facts
found to support the judgment." Under that, the rulings of
the court in the trial, if properly preserved, can be reviewed
here, and we may also determine whether the facts as specially
found support the judgment, but if there be no special findings, there can be no inquiry as to whether the judgment is
thus supported. We must accept the general finding as conclusive upon all matters of fact, precisely as the verdict of a
jury .Martintom v. Farbanks,112 U. S. 670.
It is true, if there be an agreed statement of facts submitted
to the trial court and upon which its judgment is founded, such
agreed statement will be taken as the equivalent of a special
finding of facts. Sapervmsors v. .ennmott, 103 U. S. 554.
Doubtless, also, cases may arise in which, without a formal
special finding of facts, there is presented a ruling of the court,
which is distinctly a ruling npon a matter of law, and in no
manner a determination of facts, or of inferences from facts,
in which this court ought to and will review the ruling. Thus,
in Insurance Company v Tweed, I Wall. 44, where..on the
argument in this court counsel agreed that certain recitals of
fact made by the trial court in its opinion or "reasons for
judgment," as it was called, were the facts in the case, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

might be accepted as facts found by the court, it was held
that, as they could have made such agreement in the court
below, it would be accepted and acted upon here, and the
facts thus assented to would be regarded as the facts found
or agreed to upon which the judgment was based, and upon
an examination it was further held that they did not support
the judgment, and it was reversed. But still, as was ruled in
Flanders v. Tweed, 9 Wall. 425, this court is disposed to hold
parties to a reasonably strict conformity to the provisions of
the statute prescribing the proceedings in the case of a trial
by the court without a jury, and no mere recital of the testimony, whether in the opinion of the court or in a bill of
exceptions, can be deemed a special finding of facts within its
scope. ZVorrzs v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125. See also the case of
The City of _New York, 14:7 U. S. 72, in which the rule, as
applicable to suits in admiralty, was reviewed and similar, conclusiont were reached.
-Beyond the ordinary matters of the record, which, for the
reasons above stated, present no matter for consideration here,
there was duly prepared and allowed a bill of exceptions,
which recites all the testimony given at the trial, certain
requests for declarations of law and the action of the court
thereon, the opinion filed in deciding the case, the motion for
a new trial, and the opinion on the overruling of such motion.
By this bill of exceptions one ruling, in respect to the admission'of testimony, is clearly preserved. In order to filly understand the question, a brief recital of the transactions as
shown by the testimony is necessary
On September 24, 1877, Edwin I. Farnsworth, the owner
of the premises, made a written lease thereof to Thomas R.
Summers, for a term of eight years, commending January 1,
1878,q and ending- January 1, 1886. The lessee transferred
this lease, with the approval of the lessor, to Godfrey Lehnen,
the 'father of the defendant. The defendant took possession
during the running of this lease, with the consent of 'his
father. Farnsworth died on April'-27, 1879, having devised
this property to his only child, the 'wife of the plaintiff. The
lease havibb- expired the fist of 'January, 1886, on the 23ii-of.

LEHNEN v. DICKSONT.
Opinion of the Court.
January, in that year, plaintiff served notice upon the defendant that he demanded the possession of the premises, and on
the 6th of February the suit was brought. The defendant, to
justify his holding over the 1st of January, 1886, introduced
in evidence what purported to be a copy of a lease made by
Farnsworth, April 7,1879, twenty days before his death, to
Sarah A. Kempinski, for a term of ten years, commencing
January 1, 1886, and a lease from Kempiuski to the defendant
Lehnen and his father, dated October 15, 1885, for a term of
fourteen months, also commencing January 1, 1886. In rebuttal, plaintiff offered a certified copy of the record of a suit
commenced in the Circuit Court of Montgomery County, Missouri, by Barbara Dickson and Newton Dickson, her husband,
against Sarah A. Kempinski and A. Kempinski, her husband,
in which suit there was a decree of 'the Circuit'Court ordering
and adjudging that the lease made by Farnsworth to Sarah
A. Kempinski be cancelled, set aside, and held for naught,
which decree, on review by the Supreme Court of the State,
was affirmed. To the admission of this testimony the defendant objected, on the ground that it was incompetent, irrelevant and immaterial, which objection was overruled, and exceptions were taken. This objection was based upon this
section of the forcible entry and detainer statute "The
merits of the title shall in nowise be inquired into, on any
complaint which shall be exhibited by virtue of the provisions
of this chapter." Rev. Stat. 1879, sec. 2143, 2d Rev Stat,
1889, sec. 5111.
But if the lease is competent evidence to defeat the landlord's right of recovery, testimony tending to show that that
lease is of no validity ought surely to be-competent in rebut,
tal. And it .has been held in Missouri that the tenant may
defeat an action" for unlawful detainer brought by the ]and
lord after the expiration of the lease, by proof that the title
since the execution of the lease has passed away from the
landlord to some other party to whom the tenant has attorned.
Thus in _Pentz v.. Xuester, 41 Missouri, 447, 449, the court ruled
that, "though the tenaiit could not dispute the title of the
landlord, -nor set up a paramount title or an adverse possession

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

against either the grantor or grantee, nor the court inquire
into the matter of title in general, it was still competent for
the defendant, under the statute, to show that the plaintiff's
title and right of possession had been transferred to himself
since the demise." The same doctrine was affirmed in Gunn
v Sinclatr, 52 Missouri, 327, .ingman v Abzngton, 56 Missouri, 46, Higgmns v. Turner, 61 Missouri, 249. N~ot only
are these decisions in point, but, turning to the f6rcible entry
and detainer statute, we find, after sections giving to heirs,
devisees, grantees, assigns, executors and administrators the
same remedies as the ancestor, devisor, grantor, assignor or
intestate was entitled to by virtue of the statute, this section
"Evidence for proof of rights under derivative titles, provided
for by this chapter, shall be admissible in actions instituted
Rev Stat. 1879, ยง 2457, 2d Rev
under this chapter."
Stat. 1859, ยง 5123. In other words, these various persons
can, in an action of unlawful detainer, offer evidence to
establish their derivative titles from the original lessor. On
the same principle, these decisions referred to permit the
tenant who has attorned to parties claiming such a derivative
title to introduce evidence of the transfer and attornment to
defeat an action brought by the original landlord, and,
surely, if he may offer testimony to prove a transfer of title
away from the landlord, the latter may introduce testimony
to show that the alleged transfer was of no validity, a mere
pretence. Suppose, after the execution of a lease, the landlord
dies, and at the termination of the lease his only son and heir
at law should bring an action of unlawful detainer, -and the
tenant in defence should introduce what purported to be a
will made by the landlord, devising the real estate to some
third party, and the record of the proper court probating that
will, together with an attornment to such devisee-within
the cases cited such testimony would be competent. Would
it not also be clearly competent for the heir, in rebuttal, to
introduce a final decree from a competent court, in a suit
between himself and the devisee, adjudging that will a
forgery, and setting aside its probate 2 None of this testimony impeaches the lease, or challenges any rights created

LE2NEN v. DICKSON.
Opinion of the Cour

by or under it. It is simply "evidence for proof of rights
under a derivative title," evidence which in terms is authorized

by the section last quoted.

There was no error in admitting

this testimony
To obviate the objection that there is no finding of facts, or
agreed statement thereof, counsel for plaintiff in error insist
that there is really no dispute as to the facts, no conflict in the
testimony as to any substantial question, the only difference
being as to a subordinate and unimportant matter, and that,
therefore, it is the same as though the facts had been agreed
upon or found. Further, they suggest that in the opinioi
delivered by the trial judge there is a narration of the facts
we have heretofore recited, together with others, and then this
statement preliminary to the discussion of the legal questions
"Thayer, District Judge, after stating the facts as above," and
claim that such statement is equivalent to a finding of the
facts as previously recited.
But the burden of the statute is not thrown off simply
because the witnesses do not contradict each other, and there
is no conflict in the testimony It may be an easy thing in
one case for this court, when the testimony consists simply
of deeds, mortgages or other written instruments, to make a
satisfactory finding of the facts, and in.another it may be difficult when the testimony is largely in paro], and the witnesses
diectlv contradict each other. But the rule of the statute is
of universal application. It is not relaxed in one case because
of the ease in determining the facts, or rigorously enforced in
another, because of the difficulty in such determination. The
duty of finding the facts is placed upon the trial court. We
have no authority to examine the testimony in any case, and
from it make a finding of the ultimate facts. Neither in this
case can -that be said to be wholly an inconsequential matter
upon which the witnesses differ. It may not be of controlling
importance, yet it bears largely on the question of the good
faith of Lehnen in taking the lease from Kempinski. With
reference to the language of Judge Thayer, it is obvious that
no such significance as is claimed can be given to the words
"after stating the facts as above." Reading the prior state-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, it would seem to be only a succinct recital of the material
testimony in the case. Norrts v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125.
But even if we waive all these objections, and take this
statement as intended for and equivalent to a special finding
of facts, or regard the declaration of law asked by the defendant, that the court declares the law to be that under the evidence the plaintiff is not entitled to recover, as bringing
properly before us the question whether there was any evidence to sustain the general finding for the plaintiff, and thus
enter into an examination of the testimony, still we see no
error in the conclusion of the court based thereon. The
decree of 'the state circuit court, affirmed as it was by the
Supreme Court, conclusively establishes the nullity of the
lease from Farnsworth to Kempiskhi, at least, as between
the plaintiff and Kempinski. It will be noticed, from the
allegations in the complaint, that the lease was not set aside
and cancelled by reason of anything transpiring since its execution. The defects existed in the inception of the instrument,
defects which rendered it void from the beginning, and which,
when presented to the court, compelled an adjudication of its
invalidity The charge in the complaint was "that the said
Farnsworth at the time of the execution of said agreement
was not capable of entering.into said contract or any contract,
and was incapable of transacting his ordinary business or
managing, his property by reason of weakness and imbecility
of mind produced by disease and old age, and that defendant,
A. Kempinski, fraudulently took advantage of the imbecilitv
and helpless mental condition of said Farnsworth, and induced
and procured him to execute the said lease to his (the said
Kempinski's) wife."
-And the conclusion of the Supreme Court was, that the
lease was "either the product of a mind incapable of comprehending its force and meaning, or of a weak one imposed
upon." - It is true, the last alternative stated by the court suggests an instrument only voidable, but in view of the charge
in the complaint, and the testimony as disclosed in the opinion
of the Supreme Court, it cannot be held that there was any
error in the conclusion reached by Judge Thayer, that the

LEHNEN v. DICKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

"lease in question never was a valid instrument." Being in
itself invalid, a nullity from the beginning, it could not be a
foundation-for a right in Lehnen, the defendant, as against his
landlord. Nor can it be held that, because the decree in the
Circuit Court was appealed to the Supreme Court, and a
supersedeas bond given, pending such appeal, the lease to
Xempinsk had force and vitality Whatever effect the
appeal and supersedeas may have had upon the decree, they
did not give validity to a void instrument. Though in form
a lease, the writing was in fact no contract. That was its
condition before the suit was begun, and there never has been
a tune when it had any life and force. The decree did not
create, it only established the fact of its invalidity, and the
affirmance of the decree reached back to the very inception of
the instrument, and was a final adjudication that from the first
it was not binding.
Neither can the contention of the plaintiff in error be sustained, that he was holding over under the bonajide belief that
be had a right to do so, and, therefore, that such holding over
was not wilful, wihlim the meaning of the statute, for there is
no finding or suggestibn in the opinion of the trial court to
the effect that Lehnen was acting in good faith in what he did.
On the contrary, the testimony tends to show that he was cognizant of the fraud perpetrated by K mpinski, for lie was a
witness on the trial in the state Circuit Court, and that lie
knowingly took the lease with the view of assisting in the
accomplishment of the intended wrong. Certainly, in the
absence of a finding to the.contrary, we should not feel warranted, from an examination of the testimony, in coming to
the conclusion that the acts of Lehnen, the defendant, were
characterized by good faith, nor are we satisfied that good
faith would take the case out of the scope of the Missouri,
statute, for by section 24-33, Rev Stat. 1879, section 5102, 4
Rev Stat. 1889, it is provided that "the complainant shall not
be compelled to make further proof of the forcible entry 6r
detainer than that be was lawfully possessed of the premises,
and that the defendant unlawfully entered into and detained,
or unlawfully detained the same." And that would seem to

