OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

law altering or revoking, or which has the effect to alter or
revoke, the exclusive character of such privileges, cannot
be regarded as one impairing the obligation of the contract.
The corporation, by accepting the grant subject to the
legislative power so reserved by the Constitutioni must be
held to have assented to such reservation," citing, m support
of those views, Greenwood v _rezght Co., 105 U. S. 13, 17.
This principle should be especially maintained and applied in
cases like the present, where the taxing power of the State is
involved.
We do not deem it necessary to consider other points made
m the briefs of counsel. They are of minor importance, and
do not affect or control the principal question presented.
Our conclusion is that there is no error in the judgment complained of, and that the same should be
.4ffirmed.

MANHATTAN COIMPANY v. BLAKE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 163. Submitted M!arc& 23, 1893.-Decided April 3,1893.

Under § 110 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat. 277, afterwards embodied in § 3408 of the Revised Statutes, imposing a tax of !?., of 1 per
cent each month "upon the average amount of the deposits of money,
subject to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates of
deposit or otherwise, whether payable on demand or at some future day
with any person, bank, association, company or corporation, engaged in
the business of banking," moneys deposited by the treasurer of the State
of New York, in the bank of the Manhattan Company, in the city of
New York, intended to satisfy the interest or principal of stocks of that
State, and credited to said treasurer, and then drawn for by him by
drafts payable to the order of the cashier of the bank, and then paid out
by the bank for such interest or principal, are subject to such tax.
The bank received a salary from the State for rendering such services, and
did not charge any of the tax to the State.

MANHATTAN COMPANY v. BLAKE:
Statement of the Case.
Such tax was not a tax on the revenues of the State in the hands of a disbursing agent.
Nor was a trust created in favor of each creditor of the State as to the deposit in the hands of the bank.

Tins was an action at law, brought January 31, 1883, by
the president And directors of the Manhattan Company, a
New York corporation, possessing banking powers and carrying on the business of banking in the city of New York,
against Marshall B.'Blake, in the Supreme Court of the State
of New York, and removed, by the defendant, by ceriwrart,
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, on the ground that the smt was
brought against him on account of acts done by him under
the revenue laws of the United States, and as collector of
internal revenue for the second collection district of the State
of New York.
The complaint in the suit, which- was put in in the state
court, contained six paragraphs, setting forth (1) the status of
the plaintiff, (2) the status of the defendant, and an allegation
that the banking house of the plaintiff was situated, and its
business was carried on, in said second collection district, (3)
that, on December 24, 1881, the plaintiff received from the
defendant a notice stating that the tax assessed against it,
from July 1, 1864, to May 31, 1881, amounting to $121,215.34,
was due and payable on or before the last day of December,
1881, and that, unless it was paid by that time, it would
become Ins duty to collect it, with a penalty of five per cent
additional, and interest at one per cent per month, the tax
being one upon deposits, (4)that the plaintiff, apprehending
that if it did not pay the tax on or before December 31, 1881,
the defendant would levy upon its property to satisfy the tax,
paid to him on thit day the sum of $113,085.62, being the
amount of the tax without including any penalty, but that,
before paying. such amount, the plaintiff delivered to the
defendant a written protest against the payment of the tax
on deposits during the period from July 1, 1864, to November
30, 1879, because a portion of that tax was assessed upon
moneys transmittea to the plaintiff by the treasurer of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

State of New York, for the payment of debts of the State,
and which were not "deposits," within the meaning of the
statute of the United States, and because the remainder of
such tax was assessed upon moneys deposited with the plaintiff by the United States Trust Company of New York, on
which the latter company had already paid to the United
States a tax as upon deposits, but that the defendant, notwithstanding such protest, insisted upon the payment of the
tax and required the plaintiff to pay it, (5) that said tax was
in part unlawfully assessed against the plaintiff, and it was not
legally liable to pay the same, for the reason that $31,021.25
of said tax was assessed against it on account of moneys
transmitted to it by the treasurer of the State of New York,
and received by the plaintiff as the agent of the State, to be
applied by the plaintiff to the payment of the debts of the
State, and the moneys were not "deposits," within the meaning of the revenue laws of the United States, and for the
further reason that $64,518.73 of said tax was assessed against
the plaintiff on account of moneys received by it from the
United States Trust Company of New York, upon which the
latter company paid to the United States a tax as deposits,
and (6) that, before the commencement of the suit, the plaintiff appealed to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of the
United States, and claimed that $95,539.98 of said tax was
erroneously assessed and paid, for the reasons before mentioned, and that the plaintiff was entitled to have that sum
refunded, and that said commissioner rejected said appeal and
claim, for the reason, as stated by him that the amount was
legally assessed and collected. The complaint prayed judgment for $95,539.98, with interest from December 31, 1881.
The answer of the defendant,"which was put in in the Circuit Court of the United States, admitted the allegations contained in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the complaint, and
put in issue the allegations of paragraph 5, and averred that
the $113,085.62 had been paid to the defendant, as collector
of internal, revenue, as a tax on the deposits of money with
the plaintiff, subject to payment by check or draft or represented by certificate of deposit or- otherwise that that sum

MANH:ATTAN COMPANY v. BLAKE.
Statement of the Case.

was justly due as such tax, and that he had long sinceovered
the same into the Treasury of the United States.
The case was tried before Judge Lacombe and a jury, on
the 22d of October, 1888. There was a bill of exceptions,
which stated that the evidence of the respective parties was
set forth in the following agreed statement of facts
"First. The first, second, third, fourth and sixth articles of
the complaint, the same being, admitted by the answer.
"Second. That plaintiff has for more than forty yearsg maintamed a transfer office within its banking house in 40 Wall
street, in New York, as provided .by a contract made by the
commissioners of the canal fund and the canal board with
the Manhattan Company and pursuant to an act passed by the
legislature of the State of New York authorizing such contract,
passed May 13, 1840. (See Session Laws of 1840, p. 229.)
Said agreement or contract is contained in document 5 of
Assembly Reports of the State of New York for the year
1841, and said act and said contract as contained in said
volumes may be referred to by either party herein and are
admitted to be in evidence for the purpose of this action. It
has also, during the period above mentioned and long prior
thereto, acted as a depositary of moneys of the State of New
York committed to its keeping by the treasurer of the State
of New York under the authority vested in that officer by
the statute of this State. Title 4, c. 8, part 1, of the Revised
Statutes, (1 Edmonds, 177,) Exhibit B, yost, and any and all
acts in reference to the relations of the plaintiff to the State
as a depositary of moneys of the State may be referred to by
either party herein and are admitted to be evidence for all
the purposes of this action.
"Third., That in pursuance of the provisions of the said
contract contained in assembly document No. 5, and between
the years 1864 and 1882, the plaintiff maintained such transfer
office and paid out to various creditors of the State large sums
of money received from the treasurer of the State of New
York to be applied to the payment of the -interest accruing
from tame to time on various stocks of the State of New'York,
and more particularly stock of the canal loan and volunteer

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

bounty loan, and also for the payment of the .pricipal of the
same as the same from time to time became due and payable,
and gave receipts and vouchers for the same, as were required
by the State, in accordance with the provisions of the act and
agreement hereinbefore referred to, that such money so sent
to the bank, so far as the same was to be applied to the extinguishment of the canal loan or volunteer bounty loan debts,
was to be applied to the extinguishment of debts incurred by
the State in the exercise of its sovereign and reserved powers.
"Fourth. That the tax assessed against the plaintiff, as
stated in the third article of the complaint herein, was assessed
upon deposits in plaintiff's bank, which included the amounts
so received by the plaintiff from the treasurer of the State of
New York to satisfy the interest or principal of said stocks,
that the tax upon the amounts so received from the treasurer
of the State of New York by the plaintiff was the sum of
$31,021.25, that the course of business between the plaintiff
and the treasurer of the State of New York in reference to the
money so transmitted by him, for the purpose aforesaid, to
the plaintiff was as follows The interest upon said canal loan
and volunteer bounty loan and the principal thereof falls due
upon the first day of certain specified months. At some time
during the week preceding the first day of the month when
such principal or interest would fall due, the treasurer of the
State would remit by mail to plaintiff drafts drawn by various
country banks upon their respective correspondents in the city
of New York to, an amount equal to the payments to be made
on the first of the ensuing month, the receipt of which drafts
would be acknowledged by mail in a letter addressed by the
plaintiff to the treasurer. Upon the receipt of these drafts,
the amount thereof was at once credited to an account upon
plaintiff's books entitled 'Treasurer of the State of New York,
account of canal fund,' so far as the proceeds of said drafts
were to be applied for payments on account of the canal
indebtedness, and to an account entitled 'Treasurer of the
State of New York,' so far as the proceeds of said drafts were
to be applied to the bounty indebtedness. These drafts were
collected by the plaintiff through the New York clearing house

XI&HATTAW COM£PANY v. BLAKE.
Statement of the Case.

and their proceeds nxed with the general deposits of the
plaintiff. Plaintiff had on hand at the close of each day's
business sufficient deposits to meet all claims of the State.
Upon the receipt by the treasurer of the State of a notification
from plaintiff that such drafts had been received by it the
treasurer has drawn drafts upon the plaintiff to the order of
the cashier of the plaintiff, enclosed and mailed in a letter
addressed to the plaintiff, in which was indicated, the purpose
to which the funds were to be applied. The draft relating to
canal loan, upon its receipt by plaintiff, was charged against
the account entitled 'Treasurer of the State of New York,
account of canal fund,' and credited to a new account called
'Interest New York State stocks, canal loan, July 2, 1881.'
The draft relating to bounty loans was in like man er charged
against the account entitled 'Treasurer of the State of New
York,' and credited to a new account entitled 'Interest loan
for payment of bounties to volunteers due January 1, 1877.1
"The mode in which the money was actually paid out by
plaintiff was as follows The book containing the names of
the parties entitled to be paid with receipts for them to sign
was placed in the hands of the transfer clerk of the plaintiff
at its banking house, and to him the parties were directed in
the first instance to apply The. transfer clerk, upon being
satisfed of their identity and obtaining their signatures to the
receipts, gave them each a paper m the following form signed
by him
"'Regwtered StocA .
"'N. Y State stock.
N w YoR ,18"'No. "'Manhattan Company
,18--,
"'Charge interest New York State stock,.
-dollars.

"'Transfer Officer'
"The money was sent down in the same way, but when
the principal became due the parties came with their certifiVoL.

xvm-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

cates of stock and surrendered them and gave an assigmment,
and .then they received 'from the transfer clerk a sort of a
paper in this form
"'State of New York, Transfer Office of the Manhattan
Company
dollars.
"'Pay to the order of
"'Reimbursement of loan to provide for deficiences in the
sinking fund of July 1, 1881.
"R'egistered stock.
"'Transfer office.
"' Tranfer Clerk.'
"The papers, of which the above is a copy, were presented
to the plaintiff's paying teller by the person entitled to receive
the interest or principal, and the money was paid him by such
teller. The amount paid upon each was charged either to the
account 'Interest New York State stock, canal loan, July 2,
1881,' or to the account 'Interest loan for payment of bounties to volunteers due January 1, 1877,' according to the fact
in eaeh case, until said accounts were balanced.
"Fifth. The claim of plaintiff in this action, so far as it
relates to the sum of $64,518.73, being the sum assessed and
collected on amounts upon which taxes have theretofore been
paid by the United States Trust Company, is hereby waived
and withdrawn."
The contract mentioned in paragraph 2 of the agreed statement of facts was made July 13, 1840, between "The People
of the State of New York, by their agents, the commissioners
of the canal fund of the said State, of the first part," and "the
President and Directors of the Manhattan Company, in the
city of New York, of the second part." The material parts
of the contract were as follows
"In consideration of the agreements and undertakings hereinafter contained on the part of the said party of the second
part, the said party of the first part hereby agrees to establish
an office in the bank of the said party of the second part in
the city of New York for the issue and transfer of certificates

MANHATTAN

COMPANY v. BLARE.

Statement of the Case.

of any stock authorized by the laws of -the State of New York
for any loans made in its behalf by the comptroller or the
commissioners of the canal fund, which office shall be continued and maintained in the said bank .during the pleasure of
the commissioners of the canal fund of -the said State.
"For rendering the services contemplated by this agreement the party of the first part will pay to the said party of
the second part, so long as the said transfer office shall, be
continued in the said bank, a compensation at the rate of
twelve hundred and fifty dollars annually, aid .to be paid
quarterly, in lieu of all expenses and charges of every description, except the expense of ledgers and transfer books.
"In consideration of the aforesaid agreements the said party
of the second part hereby agree and engage to maintain an.
office m their said: bank for the issue and transfer of certificates of stock for any loan made in behalf of the people of the
said State l1y the comptroller or by the commissioners of the
canal fund, which certificates shall be issued and which transfers shall be made as hereinbeforedeclared, and for all transfers made and certificates issued contrary to the provisions of
this agreement hereinbefore contained, the said party of the
second part shall be immediately liable to the said party of
the first part for -the nominal amount of all certificates so
transferred or.issued.
"And the said party of the second part further agree that
they will pay and redeem such certificates of stock issued
under the direction of the commissioners of the canal fund
14 behalf of the State of New York, as shall from tne to
tine be directed by the said commissioners, from the- funds
to be provided by them, at such rates as they shall prescribe,
and will also pay and redeem such certificates of stock issued
under the directions of the comptroller, as he shall direct,
out of funds to be provided by hun, at such-rates as he shall
prescribe, and in such payments will conform to such regula-.
tions as may be prescribed by the said commissioners or the
comptroller m regard to such, certificates respectively, and
will render accounts of such payments and vouchers for the
same as shall be prescribed in such regulations.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

"And the said party of the second part further agree that
they will from time to time pay the interest on all loans
made by the commissioners of the canal fund in behalf of
the State of New York, out of funds to be provided for that
purpose, on such vouchers and proofs as the said commissioners shall prescribe, and will render accounts of such payments, with such vouchers, within such time, and in such
form as they shall direct, and in like manner will pay the
interest on loans made by the comptroller from funds to be
provided by him, at such times and on such vouchers as he
shall prescribe, and will render an account to him of such
payments, with the vouchers therefor, within such time and
in such form as he shall direct."
The provisions of the statute of New York, referred to
in paragraph 2 of the agreed statement of facts as Exhibit
B, Title 4, chapter 8, part 1, of the Revised Statutes of the
State, were as follows
"§ 7. The treasurer shall deposit all moneys that shall
come to his hands on account of this State, except such as
belong to the canal fund, within, three days after receiving
the same, in such bank or banks in the city of Albany, as in the
opinion of the comptroller and treasurer, shall be secure, and
pay the highest rate of interest to the State for such deposit.
"§ 8. All moneys directed by law to be deposited in the
Manhattan bank, in the city of New York, to the credit of
the treasurer, shall remain in said bank, subject to be drawn
for as the same may be required.
"§ 9. The comptroller may transfer the deposits in the
Manhattan bank from time to time to the bank or banks in
the city of Albany, in which the moneys belonging to this
State shall be deposited pursuant to the foregoing seventh
section of this Title, so often as it will be for the interest of
the State to transfer such deposits, but the comptroller
may continue such deposits in the Manhattan bank, if the
said bank shall pay a rate of interest to the State for such
deposits, equal to that paid by the bank or banks in Albany,
in which the state deposits shall be made.
"§ 10. The moneys so deposited shall be placed to the.

MA HATTAN .COMPANY v. BLAKE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

account of the treasurer, and he shall keep a bank book, in
which shall be entered his account of deposits in, and moneys
drawn from, the banks in which such deposits shall be made.",
At the trial, the foregoing being all the evidence on. both
sides, the court directed a verdict for the defendant, tc
which direction the plaintiff excepted. The verdict having
been rendered, a judgment was entered thereon against the
plaintiff, and for costs. The plaintiff sued out a writ of
error from this court.
Mr Augustus . Hutchins and Mr John TV Buttejfleld
for plaintiff in error.
I. The contract, under the provisions of which the money
in question was sent by the state treasurer to the bank,
and the manner in which the money was credited and disbursed by the bank, show plainly that the ordinary relation
of banker and depositor never arose, and that Congress could
never have contemplated the inclusion of. such moneys for
purposes of taxation under the general title of "deposits" as
used in the act. On the contrary, it seems that the bank,
as to the funds in dispute, was merely the salaried disbursing
agent of the State and a trustee for the State's creditors.
.7ecwhncs' Bank v. .Merchants' Bank, 6 Met. (Mass.) 13,
Libby v. .Hopkzns, '-ff U. S. 303, Sharpless v .elsh, 4 Dall.
279, Zoeomce. ve Worb v Helley, 88 N. Y 234, Peop1e v
City Bank, 96 N. Y 32, NYational Bank v. Insurance Co.,
104: 1U. S. 51:, Vran Alm v Amemcanr Bank, 52 . Y 1,
Pennell v -Defell, 4 De G., M. & G. 372, FrAth v Cartlandt, 21Hem. & Mill. 417, .Martinv .Funk,75 N. Y 134.
II. In construing a statute, it is always permissible to consider the motives which actuated the law makers and the
object for which the act was passed.
It seems quite inconceivable that Congress intended to
charge with taxation such deposits as those in question, which
were sent to the bank, not to remain indefinitely and to be
loaned out at usury by the bank, for its own profit, but to be
immediately paid out to certain specified creditors of the

OCTOBER TERBf, 1892.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

State. The authorities in this, as, indeed, in all courts, have
held, from tnne inmemorial, that the intent of the law makers
must be looked for and followed in the construction of the
statute, though it limit or even contradict the literal wording
of the statute, and that if the language will admit of it, a construction must be given conformable to reason, justice 0and
the public convenience and welfare. Brewer v Blougher, 14
Pet. 178, Minnesota v Barber, 136 U. S. 313, .Xaillardv.
Lawrence, 16 How 251, Chase v ffr T Central Railroad,
26 N. Y 523, Beebe v Grdfl,ng, 14 N. Y (4 Kernan) 235,
Donaldson v 1Food, 22 Wend. 395, Untted States v. Fisher,
2 Oranch, 358, McKay v Detroit Plank Road Co., 2 IMichigan, 138, King v. fodnett, 1 T. IR. 9C, Edwards v Dick,
4 B. & Ald. 212, .Murray,v Baker, 3 Wheat. 541, Pearse v
.orrzs, 2 Ad. & El. 84, Green v. Kemp, 13 Mass. 515, S. C.
7 Am. Dec. f69, Commonwealth v Weiher, 3 Met. 445, Jackson v. Collins, 3 Cowen, 89, .. fargate P2er Co. v. iHannan, 3
B. & Ald. 266, Atkznson v. Fell, 5 M. & S. 240.
Il. The money so paid by plaintiff in error, and the recovery of which is now sought, was the proceeds of a tax collected
by the agent of the government of the United States, and levied upon all the moneys then in the bank, including money of
the State of New York then in the possession of an agent of
the State of New York, and held for immediate disbursement
to the State's creditors by such agent, who was receiving a
salary to effect such disbursement, and such tax was, to that
extent, m effect a tax upon the revenues of the State in the
hands of its disbursing agent. Such moneys could not be constitutionally included in the term "deposits" as used in the
act of 1863. Collector v Day, 11 Wall. 113, .MeCulloch v.
_Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, People v. Commmsswners of Taxes,
90 N. Y 63, Bank v. Nrew York, 2 Black, 620, United
States v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, rational Bank v.
United States, 101 U. S. 1, WVeston v. Charleston,2 Pet. 249,
Dobbins v Conmissonersof Ere County, 16 Pet. 435, Veazw
Bank v -Fenno,8 Wall. 533.
.Mr Asststant Attorney General.aury fordefendant in error.

MANHATTAN

COMPANY v. BLAKE.

Opinion of the Court.

Miz.

JUSTiCE BLATcHFoRD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The statute of the United States linder winch the tax was.
assessed was § 110 of the act of June 30, 1864, c. 173, 13
Stat. 277, afterwards- embodied in § 308 of the Revised
Statutes, winch latter section reads as follows "There shall
be levied, collected and paid, as hereinafter provided First.
A tax of one twenty-fourth of one per centum each month
upon the average amount of the deposits of money, subject
to payment by check or draft, or represented by certificates
of deposit or otherwise, whether payable on demand or at
some future day, with any person, bank, association, company or corporation, engaged m the business of banking."
Although this tax on deposits in banks was repealed by the act
of Congress of March 3, 1883, c. 121,.22 Stat. 488, yet the
latter act expressly excepted "such taxes as are now due and
payable."
It was contended for the plaintiff (1) that the contract before
set forth, made July 13, 1840, under the provisions of which
tha <poney in question was sent by the treasurer of the State
td the- plaintiff, and the manner in whinch that money was
credited and disbursed by the plaintiff, show that the ordinary
relation of banker and depositor never arose, that Congress
did not contemplate the including of such money for purposes
-used in
of taxation, under the general title of "deposits"
§ 3408, and that the bank, as to the funds in question, wamerely the salaried disbursing agent of-the State and a trusteb
for the creditors of the State, (2) that the money paid by the
plaintiff, winch it now seeks to recover, was the proceeds of
a tax collected by the agent of the United States and levied
upon all the money in the hands of the plaintiff, including
money of the State of New York, then m the possession of
an agent of that State and held for innmediate disbursement
by that agent to the creditors of the State, such agent receiving a salary to effect such disbursement; that such tax was,
to that extent, a tax upon the revenues of the State in the
hands of its disbursing agent, and that such money could not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be included constitutionally in the term "deposits," as used
in the statute of the United States.
The money in question was deposited with the plaintiff by
the treasurer of the State of New York, to be afterward disbursed by the plaintiff, as agent of the State, for certain purposes designated in the statute of the State and in the contract
of July 13, 1840. 'The money, when so deposited, became the
property of the plaintiff, and was credited by it to the treasurer of the State in account, and was thereafter drawn for by
drafts made by the treasurer of the State and sent to the
plaintiff. If such money had been lost or stolen while in the
hands of the plaintiff, the plaintiff, and not the State, would
have borne the-loss. The identical money received by the
plaintiff from the treasurer of the State was not to be returned
to the treasurer, or paid to his drawee, or kept distinct from
the other funds of the plaintiff. It was not only a deposit of
money, but was subject to payment by check or draft, and
was payable either on demand or at some future day, all
within the terms of the 'taxing statute of the United States.
That statute covered general deposits, and not special deposits.
There is no foundation for the contention on the part of the
plaintiff that a trust was created in its hands in favor of each
creditor of the State intended to be paid through the plaintiff,
as a consequence resulting from each deposit of money made
by the treasurer of the State with the plaintiff. The money
so deposited was not placed, by the mere fact of the deposit,
irrevocably beyond the control of the State. Neither the
money credited to the account called "Interest New York
State stocks, canal loan," nor that credited to the account entitled "Interest loan for payment of bounties to volunteers,"
became, by such respective credits, the property of the holders
of the securities for the respective loans, so as to create'a title
in them to the money as interest money If the money had
been withdrawn by the State from the plaintiff, the latter
could not have been liable therefor to the creditors holding
such securities.
By the contract of July 13, 1840, the plaintiff agreed to act
as agent of the State in paying out from the deposits made

MANHATTAN CM01IPANY v. BLAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

with it by the State sums of money in favor of the holders of
the obligations of the State, to pay such holders the interest
on such obligations. The plaintiff occupied two relations to
the State, one that of debtor as a bank -for the money deposited with it by the State, and the other that of agent of the
State to pay out from the money deposited, if it remained on
deposit, money for certain specified purposes. The tax was
assessed on deposits of money "subject to payment by check
or draft, or represented by certificates of deposit or otherwise,
whether payable on demand or at some future day"', and the
clear purpose of the statute was to tax deposits of money in
the situation of those in question. There is nothing in the
contract of July 1.3, 1840, to relieve the plaintiff from its liability as a bank for the money deposited with it by the State.
The plaintiff did not hold the money as an, agent of the State,
but was such agent only to disburse the money The theory
that the plaintiff was a trustee of the money deposited, for
certain cestus que trust, on the ground that the right to the
money had become vested, by the mere fact of the deposit, in
the creditors of the State, would make it necessary that it
should be impossible for the State to withdraw the deposit,
which was not the fact.
We see nothing to affect these views m the cases cited by
the plaintiff, of 2lMeckantcs' Bank v AfXerc ants' Bank, 6 Met.
(Mass.) 13, Skarpless v Welsh, 4 Dall. 279, Tan Alen v
.Amrerzcan Bank, 52 N. Y 1, .rartt v Funk, 75 N. Y 134,
_ocomotive Works v REelley, 88 N. Y 234, People v. City
Bank-, 96 N. Y 32, -ational Bank v Isurance Co., 1041
U. S. 54, -Libby v Hopkin.s, 104 U S. 303, Pennell v _Defellt,
4 De G., M. & G. 372, Frith v. Cartlacnd, 2 Hem. & Mill.
417.
It is distinctly provided by § 8 of Title 4, chapter 8, part 1,
of the Revised Statutes of New York, that "all moneys
directed by law to be deposited m the Manhattan bank, in the
city of New York, to the credit of the treasurer, shall remain
in said bank, subject to be drawn for as the same may be
required." This shows clearly that the money put into the
plaintiff's bank by the State is "deposited" there, and is to lie

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

there, to the credit of the treasurer of the State, and may be
drawn at ny time when required by the State. Section 9
also shows that the money so deposited is considered by the
State as "deposits." It thus becomes "deposits of money,
subject to payment by check or draft," wi'thm the meaning of
the statute of the United States imposing the tax.
Nor dq we perceive any soundness in the view that the
imoney on which the tax in question was assessed was a part
of 'the revenue of the State in the hands of its agent for immediate disbursement, and so not liable for the tax. We cannot
regard the money in question as the money of the State in the
hands of its agent. After it was deposited with the plaintiff
it was the money of the plaintiff, and no tax was put upon the
plaintiff as respected its function as agent of the State. It
might as well be said that a tax upon the business of the plaintiff would have been invalid because such business embraced
transactions with the State. Even regarding the tax as a tax
upon the plaintiff as a bank, it was not a tax upon it as agent
of the State, but as a bank receiving deposits. The account of
the State was not charged by the plaintiff, with the amount
of the tax, nor was that amount deducted from the deposits
made by the treasurer of the State with the plaintiff. So the
tax did not fall upon the State in any way
The contention is, however, that if the tax was not on the
function of the plaintiff as agent of the State, it was on the
revenue of the State. It might as well be contended that a
federal tax assessed on, and collected from, the money of a
citizen of -NewYork, who was in arrears to the State in respect
of his taxes, was laid on the revenues of the State, and, therefore, illegal. The cases cited by the plaintiff in this connection, of -ikCulloc v -Maryland,4 Wheat. 316, TFestom v
City of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, Dob5 ns v. Commzsszoners qf
EPe County, 16 Pet. 435., Veazze Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533, Collector v -Day, 11 Wall. 113, United States v. Railroad Company, 17 Wall. 322, Bank- of Commerce v New
York City, 2 Black, 620., .2ational.Bank v. UTited States,
10t U. S. 1, and People v Commsszoners of Taxes, 90 N. Y
63, have no application to the case in hand. The plaintiff in

