OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

that the prisoner was in custody for an act done in pursuance
of a law of the United States, the question whether good cause
was shown for his discharge was to be judicially determined
by the judge, in the exercise of the jurisdiction vested in him
by sections 751-753 of the Revised Statutes. His determination might have been reviewed, on the facts as -well as the
law, by appeal. IRev. Stat. §§ 763-766, Acts of March 3, 1885,
c. 353, 23 Stat. 437, March 3, 1891, c. 517, §§ 5, 6, 26 Stat.
827, 828, In re .Neagle,135 U. S. 1, HYorner v. United States,
143 U S. 570, 576. But it cannot be reviewed or controlled
by writ of mandamus. Ew parte Schwab, 98 U. S. 240, Ex
yarte Perry,102 U. S. 183, Exyarte -Morgan,114 U. S. 174,
Exyarte 3Morrison., 147 U. S. 14, 26.
It follows that, as to the discharge on the writ of habeas
corpus, no order can properly be made upon this petition, but
that, for the reasons above stated, there must be a
TVmr2t of mandamus to remand the indictment andyrosecuton of the Comronwealth of Firginiaagainst Joseph IT.
Crrico to the county court of Smyth County.

UNITED STATES v. POST.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1061.

Submitted March 6,1893.-Decided March 13,1893.

Under the act of May 24, 1888, c. 308, (25 Stat. 157,) which provides "that
hereafter eight hours shall constitute a day's work for letter-carriers
in cities or postal districts connected therewith, for which they shall
receive, the same pay as is now paid as for a day's work of a greater
number of hours. If any letter-carrier is employed a greater number of
hours per day than eight lie shall be paid extra for the same in proportion to the salary now fixed by law," reference is not had only to
letter-carrier service, and a claimant is not required to show not only
that he has. performed more than eight hours of service in a day, but
also that such eight hours of service related exclusively to the free distribution and collection of mail matter, and that the extra service for
which he claims compensation was of the same character.

INITED STATES v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.
Under § 647 of the Regulations of the Post-office Department, of 1887, and
the act of 1888, a claim for extra service and pay may include an employment of the letter-carrier not only in the delivery and collection of
mail matter, but also in the post-office, during the intervals between his
trips, in such manner as the postmaster directs, but not as a clerk.
Such extra service is not an extra service within the meaning of §§ 1764
and 1765 of the Revised Statutes, payment for which is not authorized
by law.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr"Henry .3f.Foote and _Mr Attorney General for appellant.
.31 Charles King, .Mr George A. Zing and 2r
B. King for appellee.

Tilliam

XM JUSTICE BLATCHFOED delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought in the Court of Claims, by Aaron S.
Post against the United States, by an original petition filed
March 26, 1891. A traverse of the petition was filed May 23,
1891, and an amended petition January 11, 1892. In the
latter it is set forth that the claimant was, from May 24, 1888,
to December 31, 1889, a letter-carrier in the post office at the
city of Salt Lake City, in the Territory of Utah, of the class
entitled to a salary of $850 a year, that, during that period,
he was, from time to time, actually and necessarily employed
in excess of eight hours a day in the performance of the duties
assigned to him as such carrier, aggregating an excess-of a
specified number of hours, that by the act of Congress of Vay
24, 1888, c. 308, (25 Stat. :157,) entitled "An act to limit fhe
hours that letter-carriers in cities shal be employed per dayk"
he became entitled to extra pay for all the time during which
he was so employed in excess of eight hours a day, and that he
had applied to the Post Office Department for payment of the
same, and it had not been paid, and lie claimed judgment for
a specified amount and costs. A traverse of the amended petition was filed February 21, 1892. Eight other cases were
before the Court of Claims and tried at the same time, with

OCTOBER TERII, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

petitions in the same form and claiming various amounts, the
claimants serving for various periods, and their classes and
salaries being various.
The Court of Claims found that Post was a letter-carrier at
the post-office at Salt Lake City, between May 24, 1888, and
December 21, 1889, of the second class, at a salary of $850 a
year. The other findings were as follows
"2. During their aforesaid terms of service said claimants
were actually employed in the performance of their duties
more than eight hours a day, the excess over such eight hours
being shown in the following finding
"3. The manner, time and nature of their employment was
generally as follows
"They were required to report for duty at the post-office at
7 A.m. From 7 to 7.30 they were employed within the postoffice in the distribution of mail matter, that is to say, in
taking letters and papers from newly-arrived pouches, assorting them, and placing them in the boxes for box and general
delivery
"From 7.30 to 8 they were severally engaged in arranging
their own mail matter for carrier delivery by streets and numbers, and where the residence of a person wa not expressed in
the direction of a letter and was not known or remembered, in
looking it up in the directory
"From 8 to 11 they were occupied on their routes in delivermig and collecting mail matter.
"From 11 to 11.30 they were engaged within the post-office
building in making returns of persons not found and other
things connected with their route delivery
"From 11.30 to 1 they were employed within the post-office
in the general distribution of mail matter.
"From 1 to 2 they were absent and off duty
"From 2 to 3.30 they were again employed on the postoffice work of distributing general mail matter.
"From 3.30 to 4 they were severally engaged in arranging
their own mail matter for delivery
"From 4 to 6 they were again occupied on their routes in delivering and collecting mail matter and in making their returns.

TNITED STATES v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.

From 6 to 7 they were again absent and off duty
"From 7 to 8 they were again employed on the post-office
work of- distributing general mail matter.
"The above statement represents an ordinary or average
day's employment. The time of going out and the time of
being out on the routes in fact varied with the size of the mail,
as did the time of their being relieved from duty at night.
But their reporting for duty at 7 in' the morning, at 2 in the
afternoon, and at 7 in the evening 'was constant.
'"The above statement does not apply to Sundays. On Sundays the carriers made no deliveries. 'They were employed,
however, in the office, but the time of employment did not
exceed eight hours. During the time covered by this claim
there were 9 carriers and 3 clerks employed in said post-office.
"4. The carriers, by one of their number, remonstrated
against the performance of work- not connected with their
duties as carriers. The postmaster, however, held that ' under
the regulations the postmaster could use them in that service.'
He therefore required them to perform it.
"5. During the time embraced within the present claims the
following regulations of the Post Office Department were in
force, all under the general title, "Free-Delivery Service.' Postal Laws and Regulations, 1887, pp. 259, 261, 266, 268, 269
"'SEa. 628. 'Postmasters to supervise carrier service.Postmasters will supervise their carrier service, and are
specially enjoined "' 1. To see that superintendents, carriers and clerks connected -with this service are fully informed as to their responsibilities and duties.
"' 3. To frequently visit the stations and'see that the regulations are there observed and proper order and discipline
1
maintained.
"'4. To issue all necessary orders and instructions necessary
to carry out the regulations and promote the efficiency of the
service.
"' 5. To reprimand- the carriers for itregularities or 'report
them for removal to the Superintendent of Free Delivery, as
the nature of the offence may require. See section 642.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"'Ssc. 642. Reprimand, suspension and removal. - The due
performance of theii duty by carriers, and the observance of
law, regulations and orders prescribed for their conduct, will
be enforced by reprnmand for slight offences, by suspension
with loss of pay for more serious ones, not, however, to exceed
tLhirty days; and by suspension and recommendations for
removal for grave offences, or persistent disregard of the rules
herein prescribed, or of the orders of the postmaster not inconsistent herewith. In all other cases of recommendation for
removal, carriers should not be suspended, but postmasters
should await the action of the Department.'
"All the following are under the sub-title, ' General Duties
of Carriers.'

"' SEc. 64:7. -Dutiesgenerally. - Carriers shall be employed
in the delivery and collection of mail matter, and during the
intervals between their trips may be employed in the post
office in such manner as the postmaster may direct, but not as
clerks.
"' The delivery and collection by them must be frequently
tested at irregular intervals, to determine-their efficiency
"' SEc. 648. Delivery of matter - The mails must be assorted and the carriers started on their first daily trip as early
as practicable. They must proceed to their routes with expedition and by the most direct way A schedule of the order
of delivery of each route should be made in a legible hand by
names of streets and numbers of houses, and the mail delivered according to such schedule. Mail matter directed to box
numbers must be delivered through the boxes. Mail matter
addressed to street and number must be delivered by carriers
unless otherwise directed. Mail matter addressed neither to a
box-holder nor to a street and nuinber must be delivered by
carrier if its address is known or can be ascertained from the
city directory, otherwise, at the general delivery
"' SEc. 64:9. Care sn delivery of mail.-

Carriers will exer-

cise great care in the delivery of mail to the persons for whom
it is intended, or to some one known to them to be authorized
to receive it. They will, in case of doubt, make respectful
inquiry with the view to ascertain the owner. Failing in this,

UNITED STATES v. POST.

Opinion of the Court.

they will return the mail to the office, to be disposed of as the
postmaster may direct.'
"'SEc. 651. D'rectory to be used to ascertam addresses.Where a directory is published it must be used when necessary.
to ascertain the address of persons to whom letters are directed, and it should also be used in the case of transient
newspapers and other matter of the third and fourth classes,
where the error in or omission of street address is evidently
the result of ignorance or inadvertence, but when circulars,
printed postal cards, or other matter, except letters, shall
arrive at any post office in large quantities, apparently all
sent by the same person or firm, and from which the street
addresses have been purposely omitted, the directory need not
be used to supply such omission, and all of such circulars, etc.,
which cannot readily be delivered through boxes or by carriers, shall be sent to the general delivery to await call.'
"6. In the case of Aaron S. Post, the claimant, between
the 24th day of May, 1888, and the 31st day of December,
1889, was employed by order of the postmaster in excess of
eight hours a day, as follows:
"Before 7 A. x., the regular hour when the carriers reported

for duty, he arrived at the office and -opened the eastern mail,
which came at about 5 in the morning, in order to prepare the
same for the southern mail. This was done so that it would
not have to lie over twenty-four hours. The time thus employed was two hundred and forty-six and one-half hours.
"During intervals between 7 A. m., when carriers reported
for duty, and 6 P.m., when their work as carriers ended, he
was emplbyed in the office in opening the mail, stamping it,
and distributing the same as hereinbefore stated, in excess of
eight hours, nine hundred and eighty-six hours.
"'After his- last trip and his returns as carrier were mad1e q. e., after -7F m. -he

was employed on the post office work

of distributing general mail. matter in the office four hundred
ninety-three hours."
On such findings of fact, the court found as a conclusion of
law that Post was entitled to recover .for 17251 hours of extra
work, amounting, at the rate of 29.1 cents per hour, to -$502.12.
VOL. CXLVII-9

OCTOBER TERf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The opinion of the court in the nine cases, including that of
Post, is found in 27 Ct. C1. 214. A judgmeat was entered in
favor of Post, on March 10, 1892, for $502.12, from which
judgment the United States appealed to this court.
The act of Mlay 24, 1888, reads as follows: "That hereafter
eight hours shall constitute a day's work for letter-carriers in
cities or postal districts connected therewith, for -hich they
shall receive the same pay as is now paid as for a day's work
of a greater number of hours. If any letter-carrier is -employed a greater number of hours per day than eight he shall
be paid extra for the same in proportion to the salary now
fixed by law"
The contention of the United States is, that the statute has
reference only to letter-carrier service, and that the claimant,
to bring hinself within its provisions, must show not only
that he has performed more than eight hours of service in a
day, but also that such eight hours of service related exclusively to the free distribution and collection of mail matter,
and that the extra service for which he claims compensation
was of the same character.
In this connection, reference is made to §§ 1764 and 1765 of
the Revised Statutes. Section 1764 provides as follows "No
allowance or compensation shall be made to any officer or
clerk, by reason of the discharge of duties which belong to
any other officer or clerk in the same or any other Department. and no allowance or compensat~on shall be made for
any extra services whatever, which any officer or clerk may
be required to perform, unless expressly authorized by law"
Section 1765 provides as follows: "No officer in any branch
of the public service, or any other person whose salary, pay
or emoluments are fixed by law or regulation, shall receive
any additional pay, extra allowance or compensation, in any
form whatever, for the disbursement of public money, or for
any other service or duty whatever, unless the same is authorized by law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly
states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or
compensation."
Referring to § 647 of thei Postal Laws and Regulations of

UNITED STATES v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.

1887, which were in force during the time embraced within
the claim in question, under the head of "Free-Delivery Service," (and which § 647 is set forth in finding 5 of the Court
of Claims,) under the sub-title "General Duties of Carriers,"
it providing as follows "Carriers shall be employed in the
delivery and collection of mail matter, and, during tho intervals between their trips, may be employed in the post office
in -such manner as the postmaster may direct, but not as
clerks," it is contended for the'United States that the duties
of letter-carriers are a necessary incident to the creation of the
free-delivery service, that the statute necessarily defines their
services to be a distribution and collection of mail, and such
other duties as are necessarily incident thereto, such as receiving the mail allotted to them by clerks in the post
office, arranging it for distribution, and making a proper disposition of it, when -not delivered, upon their return to the
post office, and that any other service which a carrier may
perform is not contemplated by the act of May 21, 1888, and
is an extra service within the meaning of §§ 1764 and 1765 of
the Revised Statutes, payment for which is not authorized by.
law
For the claimant, it is contended that; under § 647 of the
regulations of the Department, as set forth in finding 5 of
the Court of Claims, the extra service for which the claim is
made was an employment of the letter-carrier, not only in the
delivery and collection of mail matter, but also in the post
office, during the intervals- between his trips, in such manner
as the postmaster directed, but not as a clerk.
It is not stated in the findings that the claimant was so
employed as a clerk, nor does it appear what the duties of a
clerk in the post office in question were, but merely that, during the time covered by the cjaim, there -were nine carriers
and three clerks employed mn that post office. It is also found,
.byfinding 4, that the carriers remonstrated against the performance of work not connected with their duties as carriers,
but that the postmaster held that, under the regulatins, he
could use them in that service, and therefore required them to
perform it. This, in view of the provision of § 617 of the

OCTOBERl

TERM, 1892.

Opinion of the Court.

regulations, is substantially a finding that they were not employed as clerks.
The whole contention on the part of the United States
amounts to this, that the Court of Claims has substantially
found that none of the extra work for which compensation is
claimed was incident to the general duties of the claimant as a
letter-carrier, and that the statute in regard to extra service
relates exclusiv~ly to that which is connected with the general
duties of the claimant as a letter-carrier, and not to compensation for extra-service, when he is not employed for eight hours
a day in the performance of his general duties as a lettercarrier.
The statute of 1888 provides that eight hours shall constitute a day's work "for letter-carriers" in cities or postal districts connected therewith. It does not state what duties the
letter-carriers shall perform during such day's work, but merely
that they shall receive for such day's work of eight hours the
same pay that was then paid for a day's work of a greater
number of hours. It further provides that, if a letter-carrier
is employed a greater numbei- of hours per day than eight, he
shall be paid extra for such greater number of hours in proportion to the salary fixed by law for 'his compensation. This
extra pay is given to him by the statute distinctly for his
being employed a greater number of hours per day than eight.
The statute does not say how he must be employed, or of what
such employment is to consist. It is necessary only that he
should be a letter-carrier, and be lawfully employed in work
that is not inconsistent with his general business under his
employment as a letter-carrier. The employment authorized
by § 647 of the regulations is defined to be an employment in
the post office in such manner as the postmaster may direct,
during the intervals between the carrier's trips in delivering
and collecting mail matter, provided that he be not employed
in the post office as a clerk therein.
The Court of Claims, in its opinion, arrived at the following
conclusions. (1) That the letter-carriers were entitled to recover, not only for all work done by them on the street, in
delivering and collecting mail matter, but also for all work

UNITED STATES v. POST.
Opinion of the Court.

done in the post office, in receiving and arranging the letters
of their routes, (2) that, as to the distribution of mail matter
for the boxes and general delivery, as found .n finding 3, during the times intervening between one trip and another in the
same day, the regulations of the Departmeiit, set forth in
finding 5, could properly be construed as permitting such services, and (3) that, as to the services of the same character
rendered after the termination of the last 'trip for the day of
the carrier in delivering and collecting mail matter, they
were services fairly within the power of the- postmaster to
prescribe.
We are of opinion that, in respect of all such services, the
letter-carrier, if employed therein a greater number of hours
than eight per day, was entitled to be paid extra. To hold
otherwise, would be to say that the carrier was employed contrary to. the regulations of the Department, when it clearly
appears that he was employed in accordance with such regulations. The statute was manifestly one for the benefit of the
carriers, and it does not lie in the mouth of the government to
contend that the employment in question was not extra service,
and to be paid for as such, when it appears that the United
States, in accordance with the regulations of the Post Office
Department, actually employed the letter-carriers the extra
number of hours per day, and it is not found that they were
so employed as clerks. The postmaster was the agent of the
United States to direct the employment, and if the letter-carriers had not obeyed the orders of the postmaster, they could
have been dismissed. They did not lose their legal rights
under the statute by obeying such orders.
Judgment afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKsON took no part

case.

in the decision of this

