LASCELLES v. GEORGIA.
Statement of the Case.

LASCELLES v. GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 1262. Argued March 16,1893. -Decided April 3, 1893.
A fugitive from justice who has been surrendered by one State of the
Union to another State, upon requisition charging him with the commission of -a specific crime, has, under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, no right, privilege or immunity to be exempt from indictment and trial, in the State to which he is returned, for any other or
different offence from that designated in the requisition, without first
having an opportunity to return to the State from which he was extradited.

THIS case was brought here by writ of error to the Supreme
Court of the State of Georgia. The single federal question
presented by the record, and relied on to confer upon this
court the jurisdiction to review the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Georgia, complained of by the plaintiff in error, was
whether a fugitive from justice who has been surrendered by
one State of the Union to another State thereof upon requisition, charging him with the commission of a specific crime,
has, under the Constitution and laws of the United States, a
right, privilege or immunity to be exempt from indictment
and trial m the State to which he is returned, for any other-or
different offence than that designated and described in the
requisition proceedings, under which he was demanded by and
restored to such State, without first having an opportunity to
return to the State from which he was extradited.
The facts of the case on which this question is raised were
briefly these In July, 1891, two indictments were regularly
found by the grand jury of the county of Floyd, State of
Georgia, against the plaintiff in error under the name of
Walter S. Beresford, which respectively charged him with the
offence "of being a common cheat and swindler," and with
the crime of "larceny after trust delegated," both being criminal acts by the laws of Georgia, and alleged to have been
committed in the county of Floyd. At the time these indict-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ments were found the plaintiff in error was residing in the
State of New York. In September, 1891, the governor of the
State of Georgia made a requisition -on the governor of the
State of New York for the arrest and surrender of the plaintiff in error to designated officials of the former State, naming
him, as he was named in the indictment, Walter S. Beresford.
In the requisition, as well as in the warrant for his arrest, the
offences for which his rendition was demanded were stated and
designated as charged in the indictment. After being arrested,
in pursuance of the warrant, he was duly delivered to the
agent of the State of Georgia, was brought to the county of
Floyd m said State, and there delivered to the sheriff of the
county, by whom he was detained in the county jail. While
so held, and before trial upon either of the indictments on
which the requisition proceedings were based, the grand jury
of the county, on October 6, 1891, found a new indictment
against him for the crime of forgery, naming him therein as
Sidney Lascelles, which was his true and proper name. Thereafter he was put upon his trial in the Superior Court of the
county of Floyd upon this last indictment. Before arraignment
he moved the court to quash said indictment "on the ground
that he was being tried for a separate and different offence
from that for which he was extradited from the State of New
York to the State of Georgia withoutfirst being allowed a
reasonable opportunity to return to the. State. of New York."
This motion was overruled and he was put upon trial. Thereupon he filed a special plea setting forth the foregoing facts,
and averring that he could not be lawfully tried for a separate
and different crime from that for which he was extradited.
This pea was overruled, and, having, been put upon his trial
under iUhe indictment, he was found guilty of the offence
charged. His motion, for a new tiial being overruled and
refused, he, filed a bill of exceptions, and carried the case to
the Supreme Court of Georgia, the court of highest and- last
resort in that State, before which he again asserted his exemption from trial updn the indictment, upon the grounds
stated in his motion to quash and in his special plea, but the
Supreme Court of Georgia sustained the action of the lower

LASCELLES v. GEORGIA.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

court therein, and infall respects affirmed the judgment of the
Superior Court.
.MJ~r TF IF Vandiver, (with whom: was IU" L. A. Dean on
the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
There is no natural or inherent right in one State to demand
of another a fugitive from justice. The power to extradite
a person for crime is purely statutory, and what is not
authorized or required by a fair construction of the statute,
cannot be presumed. Without the provisions of the Constitution of the United States for delivering up fugitives from justice, and the enactments of Congress in furtherance thereof,
the State would be powerless to recover her fugitive criminals
from other States whence they had fled. Each State of the
Union. is an asylum to its citizens and inhabitants against the
demands of all other States or countries except to meet the
provisions of the Constitution of the United States, the laws
enacted thereunder, and the treaties with other nations.
Without strict compliance with the provisions of law, no
person can be delivered over to another State for trial for a
crime committed in such other State. Section 5278, Rev.
Stat., requires that before a fugitive is delivered up, a copy of
the indictment or affidavit charging the party demanded with
having committed treason, felony or other crime shall be certified by the governor of thedemanding State and presented
to the governor upon whom the demand is made. The Constitution of the United States, Article 4, Section 2, provides
that "upon demand," etc., the fugitive shall "be delivered up
to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime."
Thus considering the Constitution and the statute together, it
seems clear that before extradition can be had a particular
crime must be set forth as a basis for such extradition. In
support of this contention the following authorities are confidently referred to Spear on Extradition, (1st. ed.,) 349, Ex
josrte .MeoYnsght, 48 Ohio St. 588, Kansas v H7all, 40 Kansas,
338, In 'e Canon, 47 Michigan, 481, Compton v Wildem, 40
Ohio St. 130; Commonwealth v Hawes, 13 Bush, 697, -Unitea

OCTOBER TERMif, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

States v Rausher, 119 U. S. 407, In
471.

Pe

Fitton, 45 Fed. Rep.

_Mr D B. IlItrmilton and ilr J . Terrell filed a brief
for defendant in error; but the court declined to hear them.
IMRm. JUSTICE JACKSoN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error prosecutes the present writ of error to
review and reverse this decision of the Supreme Court of
Georgia, claiming that in its rendition a right, privilege
or immunity secured to him under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, specially set up and insisted on, was
denied. The particular right claimed to have been denied is
the alleged exemption from indictment and trial except for
the specific offences on which he had been surrendered.
The question presented for our consideration and determination is whether the Constitution and laws of the United States
impose any such limitation or restriction upon the power and
authority of a State to indict and try persons charged with
offences against its laws, who are brought within its jurisdiction under interstate rendition proceedings. While cases
involving questions of international extradition and interstate
rendition of fugitives from justice have frequently been before
this court for decision, this court has not passed upon the
precise point here presented. The second clause of Section
2, Article 4 of the Constitution of the United States declares that "a person charged in any State with treason,
felony or other crime, who shall flee from justice and be
found in another State, shall, on demand of the executive
authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to
be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime."
To carry this provision into effect Congress passed the act of
February 12, 1793, 1 Stat. 392, c. 7, the first and second
sections of which have been re-enacted and embodied in sections 5278 and 5279 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, prescribing the methods of procedure on the part of

LASC

LIJES v. GEORGIA.

Opinion of the Court.

the State demanding the surrender of the fugitive, and providing that "it shall be the duty of the executive authority of
the State or Territory to which such person has fled to cause
him to be arrested and secured, and cause notice of the arrest
to be given to the executive authority making such demand,
or to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the
fugitive, and to cause the fugitive to be delivered to such
agent when he shall appear," and providing further that the
agent "so appointed, who shall receive the fugitive into his
custody, shall be empowered to transport him to the State or
Territory from which he has fled."
Upon these provisions of the organic and statutory law of
the United States rest exclusively the right of one State to
demand, and the obligation of the other State upon which the
demand is made to surrender, a fugitive from justice. Now,
the proposition advanced on behalf of the plaintiff in error in
support of the federal right claimed to have been denied him
is, that, inasmuch as interstate rendition can only be effected
when the person demanded as a fugitive from justice is duly
charged with some particular offence, or offences, his surrender
upon such demand carries with it the implied condition that
he is to be tried alone for the designated crime, and that in
respect to all offences other than those specified in the demand
for his surrender, he has the same right of exemption as a
fugitive from justice extradited from a foreign nation. This
proposition assumes, as is broadly claimed, that the States of
the Union are independent governments, having the full
prerogatives and powers of nations, except what have beeti"
conferred upon the general government, and not only have.
the right to grant, but do, in fact, afford to all persons within,
their boundaries an asylum as broad and secure as that which
independent nations extend over their citizens and inhabitants.
Having reached, upon this assumption or by this process of
reasoning, the conclusion that the same rule should be recognized and applied in interstate rendition as in foreign extradition of fugitives from justice, the decision of this court in
Untted State&v. .Rauscer, 119 U. S. 407 et seg., is invoked
as a controlling authority on the question under consideration.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

If the premises on which this argument is based were sound,
the conclusion might be correct. But the fallacy of the argument lies in the assumption that the States of the Union
occupy towards each other, in respect to fugitives from justice,
the relation of foreign nations, in the same sense in which the
general government stands towards independent sovereignties
on that subject, and in the further assumption that a fugitive
from justice acquires in the State to which he may flee some
state or personal right of protection, improperly called a right
of asylum, which secures to him exemption from trial and
punishment for a crime committed in another State, unless
such crime is made the special object or ground of his rendition. This latter position is only a restatement, in another
form, of the question presented for our determination. The
sole object of the provision of the Constitution and the act of
Congress to carry it into effect is to secure the surrender of
persons accused of crime, who have fled from the justice of a
State, whose laws they are charged with violating. N~either
the Constitution, nor the act of Congress providing for the
rendition of fugitives upon proper requisition being made,
confers, either expressly or by implication, any right or privilege upon such fugitives under and by virtue of. which they
can assert, in the State to which they are returned, exemption
from trial for any criminal act done therein. No purpose or
intention is manifested to afford them any immunity or protection from trial and punishment for any offences committed
in the State from which they flee. On the contrary, the
provision of both the Constitution and the statutes extends to
all crimes and offences punishable by the laws of the State
where the act is done. .Kentu&cky v Den nison, 24 How 66,
101, 102, Eopa'wrte Reggel, 114 U S. 642.
The case of Unted States v Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407, has
no application to the question under consideration, because
it proceeded upon the ground of a right given "impliedly by
the terms of a: treaty between the United States and Great
Britain, as well as expressly by the acts of Congress in the
case of a fugitive surrendered to the United States by a
foreign nation. That treaty, which specified the offences

LASCELLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

that were extraditable, and the statutes of the United States
passed to carry it and other like treaties into effect, constituted
the supreme law of the land, and were construed to exempt
the extradited fugitive from trial for any other offence than
that mentioned in the demand for his surrender. There is
nothing in the Constitution or statutes of the United States
in reference to interstate rendition of fugitives from justice
which can be regarded as establishing any compact between
the States of the Union, such as the Ashburton treaty contains, limiting their operation to particular or designated
offences. On the contrary, the provisions of the organic and
statutory law embrace crimes and offences of every character
and description punishable by the laws of the State where
the forbidden acts are committed. It is questionable whether
the States could constitutionally enter into any agreement
or stipulation with each other for the purpose of defining or
limiting the offences for which fugitives would or should be
surrendered. But it is settled by the decisions of this court
that, except in the case of a fugitive surrendered by a foreign
government, there is nothing in the Constitution, treaties or
laws of the United States which exempts an offender, brought
before the courts of a State for an offence against its laws,
from trial and punishment, even though brougit from another State by unlawful violence, or by abuse of legal process. Eer v Illinos, 119 U. S. 436, 444, -Mahon v Justice,
127 U. S. 700, 707, 708, 71W- "715, Cook v 7acrt, 146 U S.
183, 190, 192.
In the case of )ifahom v. dst-tice, 127 U. S. '(00,a fugitive
from the justice of Kentucky was kidnapped in West Virginia
and forcibly carried back to Kentucky, where he was held
for trial on a criminal charge. The governor of West Virginia demanded his restoration to the jurisdiction of that
State, which, being refused, his release was sought by habeas
cor~pus, and it was there- contended that, under the Constitution and laws of the United States, the fugitive had a right
of asylum in the. State to which he fled, which the courts
of the United States should recognize and enforce, except
when removed in accordance with regular proceedings author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ized by law Instead of acceding to this proposition, this
court said "But the plain answer to this contention is that
the laws of the United States do not recognize any such right
of asylum as is here claimed, on the part of* the fugitive
from justice in any State to which he has fled, nor have
they, as already stated, made any provision for the return of
parties, who, by violence and without lawful authority, have
been abducted from a State." And the court further said
"As to the removal from the State of the fugitive from
justice in a way other than that which is provided by the
second section of the fourth article of the Constitution, which
declares that 'a person charged in any State with treason,
felony or other crime, who shall flee from justice, and be
found in another State, shall, on demand of the executive
authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up
to be removed to the State having jurisdiction of the crime,'
and the laws passed by Congress to carry the same into
effect-it is not perceived how that fact can affect his detention upon a warrant for the commission of a crime within
the State to which he is carried. The jurisdiction of the
court in which the indictment is found is not impaired by
the manner in which the accused is brought before it. There
are many adjudications to this purport cited by counsel on
the argument, to some of which we will refer." (pp. 707,
708.) After reviewing a number of cases on this question,
the court proceeded " Other cases might be cited from the
same courts holding similar views. There is, indeed, an
entire concurrence of opinion as to the ground upon which
a release of the appellant in the present case is asked, namely,
that his forcible abduction from another State, and conveyance within the jurisdiction of the court holding him, is no
objection to the detention and trial for tue offence charged.
They all proceed upon the obvious ground that the offender
against the law of the State is not relieved from liability
because of personal injuries received from private parties, or
because of indignities committed against another State. It
would indeed be a strange conclusion, if a party charged
with a criminal offence could be excused from answering to

LASOELLES v. GEORGIA.
Opinion of the Court.

the government whose laws he had violated, because other
parties had done violence to him, and also committed an
offence against the laws of another State." (p. '12.)
The
same principle was applied in the case of Her v. Zllinos,
119 U. S. 436.
If a fugitive may be kidnapped or unlawfully abducted
from the State or country of refuge, and be, thereafter, tried
in the State to which he is forcibly carried, without violating any right or immunity secured to him by the Constitution and laws of the United States, it is difficult to understand upon what sound principle can be rested the denial
of a State's authority or jurisdiction to try him for another
or different offence than that for which he was surrendered.
If the fugitive be regarded as not lawfully within the limits
of the State in respect to any other crnne than the one on
which his surrender was effected, still that fact does not defeat the jurisdiction of its courts to try him for other offences,
anymore than if'he -had been brought within such jurisdiction forcibly and without any legal process whatever.
We are not called upon in the present case to consider what,
if any, authority the surrendering State has over the subject
of the fugitive's rendition, beyond ascertaining that he is
charged with crime in the State from which he has fled, nor
whether the States have any jurisdiction to legislate upon the
subject, and we express no opinion- on these questions. To
apply the rule of international or foreign extradition, as announced in United States v 1auseclw, 119 U S. 407, to interstate rendition involves the confusion of two essentially
different things, which rest upon entirely different principles.
In the former the extradition depends upon treaty contract or
stipulation, which rests upon good faith, and in respect to
which the sovereign upon whom the demand is made can
exercise discretion, as well as investigate the charge on which
the surrender is demanded, there being no rule of comity under
and by virtue of which independent nations are required or
expected to withhold from fugitives within their jurisdiction
the right of asylum. In the matter of interstate rendition,
however, there is the binding force and obligation, not of
VOL. CXLVnI-35

OCTOBER TERMf 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

contract, but of the supreme law of the land, which imposes
no conditions or limitations upon the jurisdiction and authority
of the State to which the fugitive is returned.
There are decisions in the state courts and in some of the
lower federal courts which have applied the rule laid down in
United States v ]2auscher, supra, to interstate rendition of
fugitives under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
but in our opinion they do not rest upon sound principle, and
are not supported by the weight of judicial authority
The cases holding the other and sounder view, that a fugitive from justice surrendered by one State upon the demand
of another, is not protected from prosecution for offences other
than that for which he was rendered up, but may, after being
restored to the demanding State, be lawfully tried and punished for any and all crimes committed within its territorial
jurisdiction, either before or after extradition, are the followm
In re .Aoyes, 17 Albany L. J 407, Harm v. The State,
[Texas,] 4 Tex. App. 645, State ex rel. Brown v Stewart, 60
Wisconsin, 587, Post v. Cross, 135 N. Y 536, Commonwealth
v Frzght, [Sup. Court of Mass.,] 33 N. E. Rep. 82, and In re
1!iles, 52 Vermont, 609.
These authorities are followed by the Supreme Court of
Georgia in the clear opinion pronounced by Lumpkin, Justice,
in the present case.
The highest courts of the, two States immediately or more
directly interested in the case under consideration hold the
same rule on this subject. The plaintiff in error does not bear
n his person the alleged sovereignty of the State of New
York, from which he was remanded, Dow's Case, 18 Penn. St.
37, but if he did, that State properly recognizes the jurisdictiqn of the State of Georgia to try and punish him for any
and all crimes committed within its territory But aside from
this, it would be a useless and idle procedure to require the
State having custody of the alleged criminal to return him to
the State by which he was rendered up in order to go through
the formality of again demanding his extradition for the new
or additional offences on which it desired to prosecute him.
The Constitution and laws of the United States impose no

