OCTOBER TERIV, 1892.
Syllabus.

the ascertainment of an amount in a matter separable from the
other subjects of controversy, and relating only to some of
the defendants, may be treated as final, though retained for
the determination of such severable matter. Hill v Chseago
&, -Evanston .Rail'oad,140 U S. 52. But .this case presents
no such aspect. Complainant msiste&, by his amended bill,
that the alleged liability was joint, and that "all the defendalts have co6perated and participated in all the said acts and
infringements."
In Shaw v :Qusncy .Mintng Co., 145 U. S.444, a bill was
filed against the mining company and others in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, and service of subpona was made upon the secretary of
the company The company appeared specially and moved
for an order to set aside the service, which was granted, whereupon complainant applied to this court by petition for writ of
mandamus to the judges of the Circuit Court to command
them to take jurisdiction against the company upon the
bill. The ground on which our jurisdiction was invoked was
the inadequacy of any other remedy, and it was argued that
as the cause could proceed as to the other defendants, no final
judgment could be entered upon the order of the Circuit Court,
and no appeal taken therefrom.
Under the circumstances
Thvi appeal must be dismwsedfor want ofjurtsdietwn, and
st s so order'ed.

COLUMBUS WATCH COMPANY v. ROBBINS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1242.

Submitted March 7,1893.-Decided March 27, 1893.

In order to give this court jurisdiction over questions or propositions of law
sent up by a Circuit Court of Appeals for decision, it is necessary that
the questions or propositions should be clearly and distinctly certi-

COLUMBUS WATCH COMPANY v. ROBBINS.

267

Opinion of the Court.
fled, and should show that the instruction of this court is desired in the
particular case as to their proper decision.
A statement that one Circuit Court of Appeals has arrived at a different conclusion from another Circuit Court of Appeals on a question or proposition, is not equivalent to the expression of a desire for instruction as to
the proper decision of a specific question, requiring determination in the
proper disposition of the particular case.
The fact that a Circuit Court of Appeals for one Circuit has rendered a
different 3udgment from that of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
another Circuit, under the same conditions, may furnish ground for a
certiorarton proper application.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-Hr X. .D Leggett and -Hr James Watson for appellants.
.MXr ZusanderHill and Xr George S. Przndle for appellees.
XPtr Fredene7 P Fish and ,M1, TV -. -Richardson also filed
a brief for appellees.
MR. C=EF JusTICE FULL,
court.

delivered the opinion of the

The record in this case consists of the following certificate,
signed on the 10th day of October, 1892, by the judges then
holding the Circuit Court of -Appealsfor the Sixth Circuit
"This cause comes before this court; by an appeal from the
decree of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern Division of the Southern District of Ohio sustaining
the letters patent of the appellees and declaring that the
appellants have infringed said letters patent and directing
the issue of a perpetual injunctIon and ordering the statement
of an account of profits and damages.
"The transcript presented to this court shows that the
appeal was taken immediately from said decree before
accounting was had. Both parties desire that this court
should give a full hearing on the merits of said decree, so far
as relate to the validity of the patent and infringement, and
should enter a final decree in this court thereon, the parties
agreeing between themselves to suspend accounting. until the
decision of this court can be had. This court, however, can-

OCTOBER TERIM, 1892.
Opnon of the Court.

not find that they have, under the 7th section of the act creating U. S.'Circuit Appellate Courts, jurisdiction to grant such
a hearing and enter such a final decree as is asked, because
said decree of the Circuit Court is only an interlocutory
decree and presents on appeal, under section 7, only the
question whether the decree for an injunction, interlocutory
in fact, however final in form, was improvidently granted in
the legal discretion of the court and involves only incidentally
the question of the validity of the patent and the infringement
complained of. The Circuit Court of Appeals fcr the Fifth
Circuit under similar circumstances, after listening to adverse
argument, in Jones v Xfunger c. Co., 50 Fed. Rep. 785,
held that said section 7 gave jurisdiction to the court, on
agreement of parties, to render a final decree on the merits
of the validity and infringement of the patent involved. As
the judgment of this court differs from. that of a co5rdinate
court, the instruction of the Supreme Court is respectfully
requested upon the question.
"It is therefore ordered that a copy hereof, certified under
the seal of the court, be transmitted to the clerk of the
Supreme Court of the United States."
By section sixth of the Judiciary Act of. March 3, 1891,
establishing Circuit Courts of Appeals, (26 Stat. 826, c. 517,)
it is provided that the judgments or decrees of those courts
shall be final in certain enumerated classes of cases, and,
among them, in all cases arising under the patent laws, but
that, in such cases, the Circuit Court of Appeals may certify
to "the Supreme Court of the United States any questions or
propositions of law concerning which it desires the instruction
of that court for its proper decision. And, thereupon, the
Supreme Court may either give its instruction on the questions and propositions certified to it, which shall be binding
upon the Circuit Court of Appeals in such case, or it may
require that the whole record and cause may be sent up to it
for its consideration, and thereupon shall decide the whole
matter in controversy in the same manner as if it had been
brought there for review by writ of error or appeal."
And it is also provided, in respect of cases in which the judg-

COLUMBUS WATCH COMPANY v. ROBBINS.

269

Opinion-of the Court.

ments and decrees of the Circuit Courts of Appeals are made
final, that "it shall be .competent for the Supreme Court to
require, by certiorar?,or otherwise, any such case to be certifie'd to the Supreme Court for its revision and determination,
with the same power and authority in the case as if it had
been carried by appeal or writ of error to the Supreme Court."
Thus, in the interest of jurisprudence and uniformity of de6ision, the supervision of this court, by way of advice or direct
revision, is secured.. In re TFoods, Pethtoner,143 U. S. 202;
-Lau"Ow Pew, Petitioner,141 U. S. 583, 144 U. S. 47, 58.
In order, however, to invoke the exercise of our jurisdiction
in the instruction of the Circuit Courts of Appeals as to the
proper decision of questions or propositions of law arising in
the classes of cases mentioned, it is necessary that such questions or propositions should be clearly and distinctly certified,
and that the certificate should show that the instruction of
this court as to their proper decision is desired.
It was long ago settled, under the statutes authorizing
questions upon which two judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion to be certified to this court,. that each
question so certified must be a distinct point or proposition of
law, clearly stated, so that it could be definitely answered,
Perknns v. Hart, 11 Wheat. 237, Sadler v Boover, 7 Hlow646, Jewell v Znight, 123 U. S. 426,432; .Fire Ins. Assoc.
v
iekham, 128 U. $. 426, and that if it appeared upon the
record that no division of opinion actually existed among the
judges of the Circuit Court, this court would not consider a
question as certified even though it were certified in form.
Railroad Co. v 1TIzte, -401 U. S. 98, Webster v Coopler, 10
How 54, _Ysmith, v Sheldon, 6 How 41.
We regard the certificate before us as essentially defective.
It does not specifically set forth the question or questions to
be answered, and, apart from that, it does not state that
instruction is desired for the proper decision of such question
or questions. On the contrary, it appears therefrom that the
court had arrived at a conclusion, nothing doubting, (for
reasons, we may remark, given in its opinion reported in 52
Fed. Rep. 337,) but that, because the Circuit Court of Appeals

