OAIMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

CAMVERON v. UNITED STATES.
APP-EAL FROm THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRrTORY OF
ARIZONA.
No.42.

Argued November 14,15,1892. Dismissed December 19, 1892. Reinstated
February 6, 1893. Submitted March 6, 1893. Decided March 27,1893.

A suit under the act of February 25, 1885, 23 Stat. 321, c. 149, to prevent
the unlawful occupancy of public lands, is a summary proceeding in the
nature of a suit in equity, which may be tried by the court without
the intervention of a jury, and is not governed by Rev. Stat. ยง 649.
The provisions of the said act of 1885 do not operate upon persons who
have taken possession of land under a bonafide claim or color of title.
Color of title exists wherever there is a reasonable doubt regarding the
validity of an apparent title, whether such doubt arises from the circumstances under which the land is held, the identity of the land conveyed,
or the construction of the instrument under which the party in possession claims title.
On the facts in this case, as detailed in the opinion of the court, znfra, pp.
305-307, -Held,
(1) That the lands in question were not public lands of the United States,
within the meaning of that term as used in the -acts of Congress
respecting the disposition of public lands;
(2) That the defendant held them under claim or color of title, under
an e pediente of the Mexican government;
(3) That in thus holding the court intimates no opinion as to the
validity of the defcndants title.

Tins case was originally instituted by the filing of a complaint by the United States in the District Court of the First
Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona, to compel the
removal by the defendant Cameron of a wire fence, by which
it was alleged he had enclosed about 800 acres of public lands
"without any title or claim or color of title, acquired in good
faith thereto, and without having first made applicatin to

acquire title thereto, or any part thereof, according to law"
The proceeding was taken under an act of Congress of February 25, 1885, 23 Stat. 321, c. 149, to prevent the unlawful
occupancy of public lands. The first section of the act reads
as follows "All inclosures of any public lands in any State
or Territory of the United States, heretofore or to be here-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

after made, erected or constructed by any person

to

any of which land included -within the enclosure the person
making or controlling the enclosure had no claim or
color of title made or acquired in good faith, or an asserted
right thereto by or under claim, made in good faith, with
a view to entry thereof at the proper land office under the
general laws of tue United States at. the time any such
enclosure was or shall be made, are hereby declared to be
unlawful, and the maintenance, erection, construction or control of any such enclosure is hereby forbidden and prohibited,
and the assertion of a right to the exclusive use or occupancy
of any parA of the public lands of the United States in any
State or any of the Territories of the Uhited States without
claim, color of title or asserted right as above specified as to
enclosure, is likewise declared unlawful, and hereby prohibited
In his answer the defendant denied in general terms the
allegations of the complaint and, in an amendment thereto,
set up a Mexican grant of May 15, 1825, to one Romero and
other citizens of Santa Oruz, the death of Romero in 1873,
the purchase by Alfred A. Green of the interest of his heirs
in the grant, the sale by Green to one Rollin R. Richardson
of an undivided nine-tenths of Green's interest upon certain
terms and conditions expressed in the contract ; the entry by
Richardson upon the land, claiming the right to the possession
thereof, the sale by Richardson to the defendant Cameron of
all his interest in the land, and the assignment of his contract
with Green, whereby the defendant, became the equitable
owner of the said undivided nine-tenths interest, and "is in
the possession thereof and entitled to be in possession thereof."
The answer further averred that an application was then
pending before Congress-for the confirmation of this grant;
that the same had been examined by the surveyor general of
Arizona, who had reported it to be a valid grant, and recommended that it be confirmed to the representatives of Romero
and his associates to the extent of four square leagues, but
defendant claimed that it should be confirmed to the exterior
boundaries thereof, as set forth and described in the original

CAMERON v. 'JNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the Court.

expediente. Upon the trial, the. court found the issues in favDri
of the United States, decreed the enclosure to be of public
lands, and therefore unlawful, and rendered a special judgment, in the terms of the act, that the fence be removed by
the defendant within five days, and, in default of his so doing,
that the same be des royed by the 'United States marshal.
Defendant thereupon appealed to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, by which the judgment was affirmed. Defendant
was then allowed an appeal to this court.
2Mr Rochester Ford and _Yr James C. Carterfor appellant.
2Mr Solicitor General for appellee.
Mr W H. Barnes filed a brief for appellee.
MR. Jusnic
BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case was originally dismissed upon the ground that the
question at issue between the parties being the fact whether
defendant had claim or color of title to the lands in question,:
acquired in good faith, there was no evidence of the value .of
such claim or color oT title, even if the same were capable of
pecuniary estimation) of which the court expressed a doubt.
146 U. S. 533.
The case was subsequently reinstated upon its being made to
appear that the enclosed tract contained 1200 acres; that
defendant had been engaged since 1883 in the business of
grazing cattle upon this grant and the lands adjacent thereto;
that his fence enclosed and controlled the only unappropriated
water in a section of grazing country embracing not less than
100 square miles, that without such fence the use and control
of the enclosed land and water would be of no use to him,
that if he had not the ability to maintain the fence, the land
and water would be at once seized and appropriated by other
persons, and defendant's cattle driven and kept away, that
he would be unable to conduct his cattle .business in. this sec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, and that the possession, use and occupation of such
enclosure exceeds the value of $10,000. These facts make a
wholly different shQwing, and the case is therefore properly
before us on its merits.
1. A preliminary objection is made by the appellee to the
consideration of the case upon the ground that the proceeding
is in the nature of a common law action, that it was tried
without the intervention of a jury, and without a stipulation
waiving a trial by jury, that the Supreme Court of Arizona
could not properly consider any of the matters raised by the
bill of exceptions, nor can this court do so, that all the Supreme Court could do was to affirm the judgment of the
District Court, and that all this court can do is to affirm the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Arizona. By section 2 of
the act of February 25, 1885, under which this prosecution
was commenced, the district attorney was given authority
"to institute a civil suit in the proper
Territorial
District Court in the name of the United States, and against
the parties named or described who shall be in charge of or
controlling the enclosure complained of as defendants, and
jurisdiction is also hereby conferred on any
Territorial District Court having jurisdiction over the locality where
the land enclosed, or any part thereof, shall be situated to hear
and determine proceedings in equity, by writ of injunction, to
restrain violations of the provisions of this act.
In
any case, if the enclosure shall be found to be unlawful, the
court shall make the proper order, judgment or decree for
the destruction of the .enclosure in a summary way, unless
the enclosure shall be removed by the defendant within five
days after the order of the court."
It is a spifficient answer to this objection of the Government
to say that this is not a coinihon law action, but a summary
prooceeding more in the nature of a suit in equity, and that the
decree provided by the act for the abatement of the enclosure
is unknown to an action at common law as administered in
this country Proceedings by assize of nutsance and by writ
quod permittatprosternerehave been abolished by statute in
England, and are now obsolete, if ever used, in this country

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Opmim of the Court.

3 Bi. Com. 221. In cases like the present the only common
law remedy available to the United States would be an action
of ejectment or trespass to oust the intruders. The proceeding contemplated by this act is more nearly analogous to the
summary remedies provided for the enforcement of mechanics'
liens considered by this court in Idaho and Oregon Land Co. v
Bradbunry, 132 U. S. 509, or the special proceedings under the
territorial statutes of Utah discussed in Strtngfellow v Cazn,
99 U S. 610, Cannon v _Pratt, 99 U. S. 619, _reslin v. 1Iells,
104: U. S. 428, Gray v JHowe,. 108 U. S. 12, and in Ely v.
Tew -Y.exwo &c.Rail'road Co., 129 U. S. 291, appealed. from
the Supreme Court of Arizona. In these cases the validity of
special statutory proceedings of this description was sustained,
and in Hecht v. Boughton, 105 U. S. 235, it was held that
underthe act of April 7, 1874, 18 Stat. 27, c. 80, an appeal was
the only proceeding by which this court could review the judgment or decree of a territorial court in a case where there was
not a trial by jury
The practice pursued in this case conformed to the territorial statutes of Arizona, which provide for a waiver by oral
consent n open court of a trial by jury, in actions arising upon
contract, and with the assent of the court, in other cases. The
case is not governed by section 6,9 of the Revised Statutes.
2. The act of Congress which forms the basis of this
proceeding was pasqed in view of a practice which had
become common in the Western Territories of enclosing large
areas of lands of the United States by associations of cattle
raisers, who were mere trespassers, without shadow of title to
such lands, and surrounding them by barbed wire fences, by
which persons desiring to become settlers upon such lands -were
driven or frightened away, in some cases by threats or violence.
The law was, however, never intended to operate upon persons
who had taken possession under a bona fide claim or color of
title; nor was it intended that, in a proceeding to abate a fence
erected in good faith, the legal validity of the defendant's title
to the land should be put in issue. It is a sufficient defence to
such a proceeding to show that the lands enclosed were not
public lands of the United States, or that defendant had claim
VOL. oXL

m-20

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

or color of title, made or acquired in good faith, or an assorted
right thereto, by or under claim made in good faith, with a view
to entry thereof at the proper land office under the general
laws of the United States. As the question whether the lands
enclosed by the defendant in this case -were public lands of the
United States depends upon the question whether lie had claun
or color of title to them, the two questions may be properly
considered together.
Defendant justified under an expediente of the Mexican
Government which appears to have been obtained in the
following manner On. July 19, 1821, Don Manuel Bustillo
applied to the governor intendente of Sonora and Sinaloa, to
purchase at auction four square leagues of land for the raising
of stock at the place named-de Ia Zanja, "three square leagues
of land (tres sihtos de tierra)in the same pre9dio in which I
reside and outside of the boundaries thereof and on the side of
the north, and one square more (um sto mas) for an 'estanczaI
in the place of the 'cajoncito' on the side of the east", -and
prayed for a measurement of the lands by the proper officers,
and for a valuation of the same. Upon this petition the
intendente ordered a measurement of the lands, summoning
the adjacent land owners, and appointing appraisers for the
valuation of the land, publication to be made for thirty days
for the.purpose of soliciting bidders. The measurements were
made (the details of which are fully set forth) from a central
point named San Rafael, two leagues in each direction, s.e. to
the four points of the 'compass, and monuments were put up on
the four 6orners of the square as well as -in the centre of the
four exterior lines. All these monuments were placed at the
time the lands were measured under the authority of the Government. The monuments included four leagues square, or
sixteen square leagues.
Upon the completion of this survey, the lands were valued
at $60 each for the three square leagues, for the reason that
they contained permanent water, and the remaining square
league at $30, for the reason that it contained no water except
such as was furnished by wells. The land was thereupon put
up at auction, and after some spirited bidding between Bus-

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tillo and Romero was struck off to the latter at $1200, and
the grant made to hin by the proper officer inthe name 6f
the Mexican- Republic, in which the land is described as four
square leagues for the raising of cattle, (cuatrositios de terra
para ocza dc ganado mayor,) included ii the place called "San
Rafael de la Zanja," situated in the jurisdiction of the Pnesdzio
of Santa Cruz, to Don- Ramon Romero and 6ther citizens
(vectnos) interested. The grantees were also required to confine themselves within their respective limits, "which are to
be designated by landmarks of stone and mortar," (mooneras
de cal y canto,) and were guaranteed the free enjoyment and
quiet and peaceful possession of said lands.
A petition fo the surveyor general of the Territory of
Arizona was filed February 28, 1880, by the heirs of Romero
for the confirmation of this grant, under an, act of Congress
of July 22, 1854-, 10 Stat. 308, c. 103, as marked by the-survey
and monuments. See also act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 291,
304, c. 292. The surveyor general reported that the grant
should be confirmed to the extent of four square leagues and
no more.
The court found that the fence maintained by the defendant
was within the exterior boundaries of the grant, as said boundaries were recited as measured in the expjediente, and outside
the four square leagues measured by the -surveyor general,
that the defendant had succeeded to all the rights of Romero
in the .grant, and was and had been in: possession..of all the
buildings on the four square leagues surveyed by the surveyor
general and claimed, and had always claimed title to the
possession of all the land within the exterior - boundaries as
measured in the exopediente, claiming title thereto, "that the
report of the said surveyor general upon said grant has never
been finally acted upon by Congress, and that said claim and
said report are still pending before Congress."
Upon probf of the foregoing facts, we think it clear that
defendant established a color of title to the lands in question.
In WT'ght v. .Mattison, 18 Heow 50, 56, it was said by Mi.
Justice Daniel "The courts have concurred, it is believed,
without an exception, in defining 'color of title' to be that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

which in appearance is title, but which in reality is no title.
They have equ'lly concurred in attaching no exclusive or
peculiar character or importance to the ground of the invalidity
of an apparent or colorable title, the inquiry with them has
been whether there was an apparent or colorable title, under
which an entry or a claim has been made in good faith.
A claim to property, under a conveyance, however inadequate
to carry the true title to such property, and howeyer incompetent might have been the power of the grantor in such
conveyance to pass a title to the subject thereof, yet a claim
asserted under the provisions of such a deed is strictly a claim
under color of title." In that case a tax deed was held to
convey a colorable title. And in Gregg v Sayre, 8 Pet. 244,
a deed purporting to convey a title in fee, which was fraudulent as to the grantor, but which the grantee had accepted in
good faith, was held to have the same effect. In Bryw&v
Forsyth, 19 How 334, it was held that under an act of Con.
gress making a general grant of land to the inhabitants of a
village, when the survey was made and approved, by which
the limits of the lot were designated, the title was such as to
sustain an action of ejectment even before a patent was issued.
To the same effect *are Pillow v Roberts, 13 How 472,
X_.ehanr v Forsyth, 24 How 175, Gregg v Forsyth, 24 How
179, fall v -Law, 102 U. S. 461, Deffeback v. fawk , 115
U. S. 392, 407.
It is true there are cases to the effect that color of title by
deed cannot exist as to lands beyond what the deed purports
to convey, but where the deed is fairly open to construction
as to what it does purport to convey, and at the time it was
executed the land was officially surveyed 'according to the
theory of the party claiming under such deed, it is manifest
these authorities have no application. Color of title exists
wherever there is a reasonable doubt regarding the validity of
an apparent title, whether such doubt arises from the circumstances under which the land is held, the identity of the land
conveyed or the construction of the instrument under which
the party in possession claims his title.
While a grart of four square leagues of land in the place

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

called San Rafael de la Zanja, standing alone, would appear
to have been a grant of a certain quantity of land, when it
appears by the same instrument that the limits of the grant
were to be designated by landmarks of stone and mortar; that
such designation was actually made, and that juridical possession of the land was delivered in pursuance thereof, it is at
least open to doubt whether it does not fall within the class
of concessions by specific boundaries, as these grants are distinguished in United States v 3McLaug Un, 127 U. S. 428.
Under the view taken by the court below, that the grant was
of only four square leagues of land, it was evidently a mere
float, and defendant would have no color of title to any specific
land until the same was designated, and would have no anthority to maintain a fence around any part of the tract. In
the case of JFremont v Untted States, 17 How 542, a grant
of a tract of land known as Mviariposas, to the extent of ten
square leagues within the limits of the Sierra Nevada and
certain rivers, was held to convey a present and immediate
interest to so much land to be afterwards laid off by official
authority As no survey in fhat case was made, it was held
to be a grant of quantity only The same ruling was made
with regard to the Moquelamos grant, which was described
as "bounded on the east by the .adjacent sierra." United
States v .leaugldin, 127 U. S.428. See also United States
v Armijo, 5 Wall. 444, Higueras v. United States, 5 Wall.
827, AZvzso v United States, 8 Wall. 337, Hornsby v. United
States, 10 Wall. 224.
It is evident that the lands in question were not public lands
of the United States within the meaning of that term as used
in the acts of Congress respecting the disposition of public
lands. As early as 1839 it was held by this court, in lfileox
v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498, that whenever a tract of land had
once been legally appropriated to any purpose, it became from
that moment severed from the mass of public lands. In that
case there was a reservation of lands for a military post, for
an Indian agency, and for the erection of a light-house, and
it was held that the lands so reserved were not subject to
entry at the land office. So in Leavenworth, Lawrence &c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opi mon of the Court.

lailway v rntted tates, 92 U. S. 733, the doctrine of the
former case wasreaffirmed and held to apply to Indian reservations. And m .rewhall v Sanger, 92 U. S. 761, lands
within the boundaries of an alleged Mexican or Spanish grant,
which were subjudie at the time the Secretary of the Interior ordered a withdrawal of the lands along the road of a
certain railroad, were held not to be embraced in a grant to
the company Speaking of such claims, it was said by Mr.
Justice Davis, "that claims, whether grounded upon an
inchoate or a perfected title, were to be ascertained and
adequately protected. This duty, enjoined by a sense of natural justice and by treaty obligations, could only be discharged
by pronibiting intrusion upon the claimed lands until the
opportunity was afforded the parties in interest for a judicial
hearing and determination. It was to be expected that unfounded and fraudulent claims would be presented for confirmation. There was, in the opinion of Congress, no mode of
separating them from those which were valid without investigation by a competent tribunal, and our legislation was so
shaped that no title could be initiated under the laws of the
United States to lands covered by a Mexican or Spanish claim,
until it was barred by lapse of time or rejected." It was
urged in that case that the reservation could only be of lands
"lawfully" claimed, but it was said expressly that there was
no authority to import the word "lawful" into the statute in
order to change its meaning, and that the act in question
expressly excluded from preemption and sale all lands covered
by any foreign grant or title. In Doolan v. Carp, 125 U. S.
618, it was held that, if the grant was of a specific quantity
within designated outboundaries containing, a greater area,
only so much land within the outboundaries as was necessary
to cover the specific quantity granted was excluded from the
grant to the railroad companies. Indeed, the cases in which
these rules have been applied to lands reserved for any purpose whatever are too nun~erous even to require citation. In
this case there is an express finding that the report of the
surveyor general limiting the grant to four square leagues has
jiev.er been finally acted upon by Congress, and that the claim

CAMERON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and report are still pending before Congress, in other words,
that the claim is subjudice.
It is true that in the act of July 22, 185-1, 10 Stat. 308, c.
103, establishing the office of surveyor general for New Mexico,
(then including Arizona,) there is a pro-ision which is omitted
in the act of July 11, 1870, 16 Stat. 230, c. 246, establishing
the same office for Arizona, that "until the final action of
Congress on such claims, all lands covered thereby shall be
reserved from sale or other disposal by the Government, and
shall not be subject to the donations granted by the previous
provisions of this act", but as the sundry civil appropriation
act of that year (16 Stat. 291) provides that the surveyor
general of Arizona shall have all the powers and perform all
the duties enjoined upon the surveyor general of New Mexico,
there could have been no intention to change the settled policy
of tue Government in this particular.
We do not wish to be understood as intimating an opinion
as to the validity of defendant's title. There is an apparent
discrepancy between the terms of the grant and the survey
that was made in pursuance of it which may perhaps be
susceptible of elucidation.
But we think that defendant has shown color of title to the
land enclosed, and
IYXe judgment of the Suzpreme Court of Arzona muvt,"
therefore, be reversed, and the ease be remanded.with direetions to dismiss the yetitton.
MR. CrIEr JusTici.
judgment.

FuLLn dissented from the opinion and

