SImS

v.

EVERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

and the holders of the old bonds could agree on terms and the
people gave their assent. In this way the holders of old bonds
might avail themselves of the special tax winch the law of
1872 required should be levied to meet the obligation of all
registered bonds but the city was not prevented from borrowing money to pay old bonds if it saw fit to do so, or if it could
not agree on the terms of exchange.
The judgment below was right, and it is consequently
Affirmed.

SIMvs v. EVERHARDT.
1. An infantfei e cover, to whom lands in Indiana were conveyed, executed with
her husband, May 20,1847, a deed in fee therefor, for a valuable consideration paid by the grantee to him. She was, on her petition, divorced from
him, Feb. 14, 1870. Within less than two months thereafter she gave due
notice of her disaffirmance of the deed, and demanded possession of the
lands, which was refused. She thereupon brought suit. Held, that, as she
did nothing during her coverture to confirm the deed, her notice and suit
avoided it.
2. An estoppel in pais not being applicable to an infant, she was not estopped
from alleging her infancy, by any declaration which, at the time of executing the deed, she made in regard to her age.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
This case shows that the complainant was married July 14,
1844, to John B. Sims. She was then a minor less than seventeen years old, having been born Sept. 25, 1828. Her father,
April 3, 1845, conveyed to her in fee the tract of land in controversy, and, May 28, 1847, she, joining with her husband,
executed a deed therefor to Magdalena Everhardt. The deed,
subscribed by her and her husband in the presence of a magistrate, was acknowledged in due form, and the purchase-money
paid. Mrs. Everhardt went into immediate possession, paid
a mortgage upon the property, paid taxes, continued in possession, and made improvements until her death in 1871. The
defendants are her devisees.

Oct. 1880.]

S is

v. EVERHARDT.

When the deed was made, some doubts appear to have been
entertained upon the question w]ether the complainant was
then of full age, and to remove them she signed the following
statement, which was written on the deed "The above-mentioned Ann M. Sims, before the delivery of the
above deed, and before the payment of the above money or any
part thereof, voluntarily, and as an inducement to the said Everhardt to consummate the bargain, accept the deed, &c., states and
declares that she was twenty-one years of age on the twenty-fifth
day of September, A.D. 1846. Signed May 28, 1847, in presence
of Sam'l E. Williams.
"'Ax MNI.
Sims."
There is evidence that early in her married life,'before the
deed was made, she received very ill treatment from her husband, that he insisted upon her selling the place, that he
employed threats, that she became afraid of him;, that a look
from him would make her do almost anything, and that she
knew nothing of any arrangement to sell the property until
the deed was brought for her to sign in her own house.
On the fourteenth day of February, 1870, the complainant
was divorced from her husband, for his own fault. In the
month of March next following, or early in April, she disaffirmed her deed to Mrs. Everhardt and demanded possession
of the land. Her demand not having been complied with, this
suit was brought to set aside the deed, and for an account of
the rents and profits of the land, as well as of the amount she
is in duty bound to pay to the defendants on account of the
purchase-money paid by the grantee, and the mortgage aforesaid.
The other facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court, upon a final hearing, dismissed the bill.
The complainant appealed.
When the deed was executed, the Revised Statutes of 1843
were in force in Indiana. Art'. 2, c. 28, contains the following provisions "SECT. 1. Every citizen of the United States is capable, of holding lands within this State, and of talUng the same by descent,
devise, or purchase.

SIM9 v. EVERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

"SEcT. 2. Every person capable of holding lands, who may be
seised of or entitled to any estate or interest in lands, except idiots,
persons of unsound mind and infants, may alien such estate or
interest at his pleasure, with the effect and subject to the restrictions and regulations provided by law "
"SECT. 17. The joint deed of the husband and wife, upon complying with the provisions of the fortieth section of this chapter,
shall be sufficient to convey and pass the real estate of the wife,
but not to bind her to any covenant or estoppel therein."
"SEcT. 40. The acknowledgment of the execution of any deed
or conveyance by which a married woman releases and relinquishes
her dower in any lands conveyed, granted, or assigned by her
husband, or by which the husband and wife convey the real estate
of the wife, may be taken before any officer herein authorized to
take the acknowledgment of deeds, but such acknowledgment
shall not be taken by such officer unless he shall first make known
to her the contents or purport of such deed or conveyance, and she
acknowledge, on a private examination, separate and apart from,
and without the hearing of, her husband, that she executed such
deed or conveyance of her own free will and accord, and without
any coercion or compulsion from her husband, all of which shall
be certified by such officer in his certificate of such acknowledgment.
"SECT. 41. Any married woman over the age of eighteen' years,
and under the age of twenty-one years, may release and relinqush
her right to dower in any lands of her husband, sold and conveyed
by him, by executing, and acknowledging the execution of, such
conveyance, as provided in the last preceding section, if the father
or guardian of such married woman shall declare, before the officer
taking such acknowledgment, that he believes that such release and
relinquishment of dower is for the benefit of such married woman,
and that it would be prejudicial to her and her husband to be prevented from disposing of the lands thus conveyed, which declaration, with the name of such father or guardian, shall be inserted 'as
a part of the certificate of the officer taking such acknowledgment."
3Mr William H. C0al4cns and Mr Edwin B. Smith in support
of the decree below
1. The deed of an infant is merely voidable, and not void,
although the grantor be a feme covert. This is the rule at
common law Zouch v Parsons, 3 Burr. 1794. It has been
recognized in this court and in the several States. Tucker v

Oct. 1880.]

SIMS V. EVERHARDT.

Moreland, 10 Pet. 58, Irvine v Irvine, 9 Wall. 617, 3 Washburn on Real Prop. 559, note 6, citing Phillips v Green,
3 A. K. Mar. (Ky) 11, Webb v H1all, 35 Me. 386, and many
other cases. It has been repeatedly so declared by the Supreme Court of Indiana. -Doe v Abernathy, 7 Blackf. (Ind.)
442, JHartmanv Kendall, 4 Ind. 403, Pitcher v Laycock, 7 id.
398, Johnson v Rockwell, 12 id. 77, Chapman v Chapman,
13 id. 396, Miles v Lingerman, 24 id. 385, Law v Long, 41
id. 586, and Scranton v Stewart et al., 52 id. 68. The last
case fully disposes of every issue in this record, and led to the
decree from which this appeal was taken. It has not been
overruled or qualified by any later case.
In the absence of any decision by that court, we should suppose the deed of an infantfeme covert, in which her husband
joined, to be good and effective. By marriage, guardianship
is terminated. This common-law rule has been declared expressly by statute in Indiana. The Revised Statutes of 1843,
sect. 102, c. 35, enact that "the marriage of any female, under
guardianship as a minor, to any person of full age, shall operate as a legal discharge of her guardianship, in like manner
as if she had arrived at full age." The act of June 9, 1852,
sect. 12, c. 4, omits the words italicized, and adds "And her
guardian shall account to the husband of the ward in the same
manner as if she had arrived at full age." The Supreme Court
of Indiana holds that the guardianship being thus terminated,
an infant married to a man of full age can have no guardian.
State v Joest, 46 Ind. 235, Ex parte Post, 47 id. 142. The
husband takes the place of the guardian, and the Revised Statutes of 1843, sect. 17, c. 28, art. 2, would seem to empower
a married woman of any age to unite witli him in making title.
It has, however, been held that the section merely authorizes
a minor wife to join in a conveyance which might be avoided
by her within a reasonable time after attaining her majority
Scranton v Stewart et al., supra.
2. The deed being only voidable, Mrs. Sims, if she desired
to avoid it, was bound to do so, within a reasonable time
after becoming of age, and a period of twenty-one years is
not a reasonable time. JHartman v Kendall, 4 id. 403, Law v.
Long, 41 id. 599, citing numerous cases, especially Bool v fix,

SIMS V. EVERtIARDT.

[Sup. 0t.

17 Wend. (N. Y) 119, Scranton v Stewart et al., supra, and
cases there cited. Some positive act of disaffirmance is required, silence is affirmance. See above cases, and also Doe v
Abernathiy, 7 Blackf. (Ind.) 442, Babcock v Bowman. 8 Ind.
110, Dearborn v Eastnman, 4 N. I-1. 441, Robbins v Eaton,
10 id. 561, Ernm ons v Xurray, 16 id. 385, TJWallace v. Lewis,
4 Harr. (Del.) 75, Hfastings v Dollarhde, 24 Cal. 195.
These cases held that such act of disaffirmance must be done
within a reasonable time. Irvine v Irvine (9 Wall. 617) calls
four years a long time. That period was held sufficient evidence of ratification in Wallace v Lewzs, supra, so was six
years in New Hampshire, 10 N It. 561, 16 N H. 385, and
nine years in New York, 11 Johns. (N. Y) 539, Richardson v Boright, 9 Vt. 368, 371, Mine v Beebe, 6 Conn. 494,
Wlieaton v East, 5 Yerg. (Tenn.) 41. Hfartman v Kendall (4
Ind. 403) declares thirteen years to be an unreasonable delay
These decisions also declare that the question as to what constitutes reasonable time must be determined by the peculiar
circumstances of each case.
In tns connection we rely upon the statement of Mkirs. Sims,
subjoined to the deed.

We never supposed that she could

make her deed effective by merely averring capacity, but the
deliberate averment of a fact known to her, but not to her
grantee, must operate to shorten the period within which it
would be reasonable to permit her to avoid her deed by proof
of a different state of things from that so averred. The fact
that after 1852 she night have brought suit without joining her
husband is also an element to be considered. Even if not bound
to sue while covert, she was bound to disaffirm. Disaffirmance
is a preliminary act a fact vital to be proved and to be seasonably performed. The.tiie for its performance will not be
extended by delaying the suit. Bool v Mix, supra. As the
consideration was obtained by her false pretences, it might
well be held that she would be barred by an acquiescence
extending throughout the- time within which she would have
been liable to indictment therefor. Neither in civil nor criminal procedure is it a conclusive presumption that a woman
acts under the coercion of her husband. The facts in this case
rebut that presumption.

Oct. 1880.]

SIMS V. EVERHARDT.

The fact of coverture does not excuse an act of positive
fraud, such as her signing the false statement appended to the
deed. While the -law of Indiana gives to married women
rights superior to those which they enjoy in some of the other
States, it does not release them from the obligations of good
faith and common honesty In Litchenberger v Graham (50
Ind. 290), the silence of a woman was held to be a ratification
of her husband's sale of her personal property A fortiori,
then, will active participation in his fraud greatly shorten
the time for disaffirmance, if it does not estop her altogether
from repudiating the contract. Gatling v .Rodman, 6 id. 289',
Barnes v iHfcKay, 7 id. 301.
8. This is a bill in chancery, brought upon the assumption
that the deed was void ab nitzo. Assuming that the title is and
always has been in the complainant, it seeks merely to remove
therefrom a cloud caused by an ,alleged fraudulent conspiracy
against her, in which the deceased grantee was a participant.
Such is the equity which she sets out to establish. It finds
no support in the evidence nor warrant in the law as it is
expounded and enforced in Indiana.
Since 1852, a married woman's real estate in Inldiana has
been her separate property
Mrs. Sims was thereafter, if not before, empowered to file her
bill in the Federal or the State court, and make her husband
a defendant. This is in addition to and entirely distinct from
the right to sue at law given by the State statute. It is incident to chancery jurisdiction, and her failure to resort to it
in due time is such laches as will bar her recovery now
4. Though the chancery power of the Federal courts cannot
be conferred or restrained by State legislation, yet in exercising it this court will recognize the rules of property established
by such legislation, and construe a contract accordingly Tarfield v County of Gallatin, 100 U. S. 47
Under the statute of Indiana the deed in question was
neither void nor absolutely and unconditionally voidable. It
passed the present title upon delivery, and became unimpeachable, unless avoided within a reasonable time. Though Mrs.
Sims's declaration could not operate to bar a seasonable action
of ejectment, it may be held an estoppel in these proceedings.
VOL. XlI.

20

SIIS v.

EvERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

Bispham, Principles of Equity, 293, 2 Story, Eq. Jur., c. 44,
especially sect. 1545, and cases there cited.
11r Arthur D Rich, contra.
Mr. JUSTiCE STRONG, after stating the case, delivered the
opimon of the court.
Assuming, as we think it must be assumed, and as it is certainly held in Indiana, that the deed of Mrs. Sims, in which her
husband joined, though made during her minority, was not void
as against her, but only voidable, and hence that it was incumbent upon her to disaffirm it within a reasonable time after she
came of age, the inquiry is still to be met, What was a reasonable time under the circumstances of the case 9 She gave notice
of her disaffirmance almost immediately after she became discovert, - certainly within less than two months. This was,
however, a little more than twenty years after she attained her
majority
The Circuit Court dismissed the complainant's bill for the
reason that it did not appear she had disaffirmed the deed of
May 28, 1847, within a reasonable time after the attainment
of her majority, being of opinion that the rule was established
in Indiana she must have so disaffirmed it, notwithstanding
her coverture, that is, m the same time as if she had been
discovert.
We find no decision of the Indiana courts that ought to
be regarded as establishing that rule. The case relied upon
by the appellees in support of the judgment of the Circuit
Court is Scranton v Stewart, 52 Ind. 68. The facts of that
case, it must be admitted, were in some respects like those of
the present, though in others essentially different. The plaintiff was at the time of her marriage an infant, aged sixteen.
She was then selsed in fee-simple of a tract of land, containing
forty-five acres, and also of an undivided interest in another
tract. On the second day of March, 1864, when she was in
the nineteenth year of her age, she and her husband conveyed
the lands to one George W Stewart, for a consideration of
$2,500, a considerable part of which was paid. Mrs. Scranton
came of age on the 12th of January, 1867, gave notice to
Stewart of her disaffirmance of the deed on the 22d of July,

Oct. 1880.]

SIAIS v. EVERHARDT.

1870, and shortly after brought her action to recover the land.
This was more than three years and a half after she had attamed her majority The Supreme Court held that her disaffirmance was in time. It was all the case required. But the
judge went on to declare that a married woman who has made
a deed of her lands during her infancy and coverture must
disaffirm it within a reasonable time after she arrives at, age,
notwithstanding her coverture, and that the fact of the continued coverture would not extend the time for the disaffirmance. All this was obiter It had nothing to do with the
case before the court. Nothing in the facts or the judgment
required the assertion of such a rule. And it is observable
that it was said in a case in which it appeared the married
woman was seised of her land before her marriage, and that
she was married in 1864, after the statutes of the State had
greatly enlarged the power of afeme covert over her property
Those statutes had given her the rights of afeme sole in regard
to her lands, and empowered her to sue as such without joining
her husband. They had denied to a husband the rights which
at common law he acquired in the wife's property by the marriage. They had made her lands and the profits of them her
separate property, as fully as if she was unmarried, with the
single exception that she could not incumber or convey them
except by deed in which her husband should join. The effect
of the State statute, touching the marriage relation and the liabilities incident thereto, was in part considered in Miles v. Lzngermans (24 id. 885), where it was said by the Supreme Court
of the State " Under our present statute the wife may bring
her action in regard to her own estate as though she were a
feme sole. Still our legislature has seen proper to continue the
protection formerly accorded to her as a feme covert, although
as to her power to disaffirm her contracts made during minority
her legal disability has been removed. She has the legal power
to disaffirm her contracts made during infancy, and to bring her
action without the assent, and even against the will, of her husband." This language, if not a positive assertion of its converse,
contains at least a strong implication that her power to disaffirm
a conveyance made by her during infancy did not exist at common law, or before the statutes of 1847 and 1852 were enacted.

SUR S V. EVERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

We find nothing in any prior decision of the Indiana courts
that sustains what was said obiter in Scranton v Stewart. Law
v Long (41 Ind. 586), to which reference has been made, decided that the deed of a minor, conveying her land for a valuable consideration, is voidable only and not void, and that the
right to avoid it on coming of age is a personal privilege of
the minor and her heirs. It also decided that when the act
of an infant is executed, as when a deed has been made and
delivered, the infant must, on attaining full age, do some act to
disaffirm the contract, and that such act must precede the cornmencement of an action. But the case did not define what is
a reasonable time, or rule that if the wife came of age during
coverture she was bound to disaffirm the contract notwithstanding her coverture, as if she was aferne sole. In that case the
conveyance was made by the wife and her husband before the
act of 1852 was passed. He died in 1852. She married again
in 1858, and came of age in 1854. Her second husband died
in 1864, and she married a third time in 1868. It was not
until after her third marriage that her suit was brought. She
had been diseovert during more than four years after her deed
was made, and after she bad' reached her majority, and yet she
bad taken no step or done any act to disaffirm the deed prior
to the institution of her suit. No intination is given in the
case that she was bound to disaffirm or could disaffirm during
her coverture. Nothing, therefore, in Law v Long supports
what was said, but not decided, in Scranton v Stewart.
But if the law was accurately stated in the opinion given by
the court in Scranton,v Stewart, as applicable to a deed of her
lands made by an infant ferns covert after the statute of 1852,
it by no means follows that it should rule the present case.
There is a radical difference in the facts of the two cases.
Mrs. Sims was married before the act of 1852 or that of 1847
was passed, and while the common law relative to the marriage relation existed. By the marriage her husband acquired
a vested freehold interest in her lands, and became entitled to
the rents and profits. His control over the usufruct thereof
became absolute. His interest extended during their joint
lives, or at least as long as the marriage relation continued.
It was an interest capable of sale. When, therefore, the deed

Oct. 1880.]

SIMS V. EVERHARDT.

was made to Mrs. Everhardt in 1846, it gave to the grantee
the wife's right, subject to disaffirmance, and the husband's
right to the possession and enjoyment of the profits absolutely.
When the wife subsequently came of age, she continued powerless to disturb the possession of the grantee, as long as her coverture lasted, for the grantee held not only her right, but that
also of her husband. The most she could have done was to
give notice that she would not be bound by her deed. Was
she required to do that
To answer the question it is important to keep in mind her condition at common law The land
was not her separate estate, such as the wife had in Scranton v
Stewart. In regard to it she was sub potestate vzrz, incapable
of suing or making any contract without her husband's assent.
She could not even receive a grant of land if her husband dissented. Her disability during her coverture was even greater
than that of an infant, and it is settled that an infant cannot
disaffirm his deed while his infancy continues. Zouch v Parsons, 3 Burr. 1794, -Roofv Stafford, 7 Cow (N Y.) 179. The
reason is that a disaffirmance works a reinvestiture of the estate
in the infant, and he is presumed not to have sufficient discretion for that. Why should not the greater disability of coverture be attended with the same consequences? If a wife
cannot contract about any land which is not her separate property, how can she, without the concurrence of her husband, do
any act, the effect of which is to transfer the title to land from
another to herself'?
We are not, however, called upon by the exigencies of this
case to decide that a wife cannot, during her coverture, disaffirm a deed which she made-during her infancy The question
now is, whether Mrs. Sims did disaffirm her deed within a reasonable time after she attained her majority What is a reasonable time is nowhere determined in such a manner as to
furnish a rule applicable to all cases. The question 'must
always be answered in view of the peculiar circumstances of
each case. State v Plasted, 43 N. H. 413, Jenkins v Jenkins, 12 Iowa, 195, and numerous other cases. It must be
admitted that generally the disaffirmance must be within the
period limited by the Statute of Limitations for bringing an
action of ejectment. A much less time has in some cases been

SmNIS v. EVERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

held unreasonable. It is obvious that delay in some cases
could have no justification, while in others it would be quite
reasonable.
Now, in this case, though there was no disaffirmance for
nearly twenty-one years after Mrs. Sims attained her majority,
there were very remarkable reasons for the delay, sufficient, in
our opinion, to excuse it. When the deed was made she was
laboring under a double disability, -infancy and coverture.
Even if her deed and that of her husband had not conveyed
his marital right to the possession and enjoyment of the land,
she would have been under no obligation, imposed by the
Statute of Limitations, to sue until both the disabilities had
ceased that is, until after 1870. It is an acknowledged rule
that when there are two or more coexisting disabilities in the
same person when his right of action accrues, he is not obliged
to act until the last is removed. 2 Sugden, Vendors, 103,
482, llereer's Lessee v Selden, 1 IHow 37 This is the rule
under the Statute of Limitations. But Mrs. Sims could not
-sue until after her divorce, and until the right the husband
acquired by his marriage terminated. And had she given
notice during her coverture of disaffirmance of her deed, it was
in the power of her husband to disaffirm her disaffirmance.
2 Bishop, Married Women, sect. 392. Giving notice, therefore, which was all she could do, would have been a vain
thing The law does not compel the performance of things
that are vain. Mr. Bishop, in his work to which we have
referred, says that if an infant, who is also a married woman,
makes an instrument voidable because of her infancy, the disability of coverture enables her to postpone the act of avoidance to a reasonable time after the coverture is ended. Sect.
516. In support of this he refers to Dodd v Benthal, 4 Hemsk.
(Tenn.) 601, and ltatherson v Davms, 2 Coldw (Tenn.) 443.
These cases certainly sustain the rule stated in the text. In
the former it was decided that an infant, who is also a married
woman, has the option to dissent from her deed within a reasonable time after her discoverture, though her coverture may
continue more than twenty years. And if this were not so,
the disability of coverture, instead of being a protection to the
wife, as the law intends it, would be the contrary We have

Oct. 1880.]

SIMS V. EVERHARDT.

found no decision that is in conflict with this doctrine, and
no dicta even, except those in Scranton v Stewart. And why
should the rule not be thus? The person who takes a deed
from an infant feine covert knows that she is not suz )uris. and
that she will be under the control of her husband while the
coverture lasts. He is bound to know, also, that she has the
disability of infancy- He assumes, therefore, the risk attending both those disabilities.
But the continued coverture of Mrs. Sims, after she attained
full age, is not the only circumstance of importance to the inquiry whether she disaffirmed her deed within a reasonable
time. The circumstances under which the deed was made are
to be considered. There is evidence that she was constrained
by her husband to execute the deed, that his conduct toward
her was abusive, violent, and threatening, in order to induce
her to consent to the sale, that she was intimidated by him,
that a look from him would make her do almost anything, and
that she was in a weak and nervous condition. It is not
strange that a woman bound to such a husband should delay
during her coverture disaffirming a contract which he had
forced her to make.
Add to this, that she had very little opportunity to disaffirm
until after her divorce. Before she had reached her majority
she removed to another State, and never returned to the neighborhood of the property to reside. Between 1848 or 1849 and
1870 she made but two visits to Laporte, both on account of
sickness or the death of a relative, and neither visit was prolonged beyond three days. It is not a case, therefore, of standing by after she came of age and seeing her property in the
enjoyment of another.
And again, she never did any act after her deed was made
and after she came of age expressive of her consent to it or
implying an affirmance of the contract. The most that is
alleged against her is that she was silent during her coverture.
But silence is not necessarily acquiescence.
We are aware that the decisions respecting the disaffirmance of an infant's deed are not in entire harmony with each
other. While it is generally agreed that the infant to avoid
it must disaffirm it within a reasonable time after his major-

SIMS V. EV1ERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

ity is attained, they differ as to what constitutes disaffirmance
and as to the effect of mere silence. Where there is nothing more than silence, many cases hold that an infant's deed
may be avoided at any time after his reaching majority until
he is barred by the Statute of Limitations, and that silent
acquiescence for any period less than the period of limitation is not a bar. Such was in effect the ruling in Irvine v
Irvne, 9 Wall. 617 See also Prout v Wiley (28 Mich. 164),
a well-considered case, and Lessee of Drake v Ramsey, 5 Ohio,
251. But, on the other hand, there appears to be a greater
number of cases which hold that silence during a much less
period of time will be held to be a confirmation of the voidable
deed. But they either rely upon Holmes v. Blogy (8 Taunt.
35), which was not a case of an infant's deed, or subsequent
cases decided on its authority, or they rest in part upon other
circumstances than mere silent acquiescence, such as standing by without speaking while the grantee has made valuable improvements, or making use of the consideration for the
deed. We think the preponderance of authority is that, in
deeds executed by infants, mere inertness or silence, continued
for a period less than that prescribed by the Statute of Limitations, unless accompanied by affirmative acts, manifesting an
intention to assent to the conveyance, will not bar the infant s
right to avoid the deed. And those confirmatory acts must be
voluntary As we have said, one who is under a disability to
make a contract cannot confirm one that is voidable, or, what
is the same thing, cannot disaffirm it. An .affirmance or a disaffirmance is in its nature a mental assent, and necessarily
implies the action of a free mind, exempt from all constraint
or disability
In view of these considerations, our conclusion is that Mrs.
Sims, the complainant, having been a feme covert until 1870,
and never having done, during her coverture, any act to confirm the deed which she made during her infancy, could effectively disaffirm it in 1870, when she became a free agent, and
that her notice of disaffirmance and her suit avoided her deed
made in 1847
The remaining question is whether she is estopped by anything which she has done from asserting her right to the land

Oct. 1880.]

SIMS v. "JVERHARDT.

m controversy.. In regard to thi very little need be said. It
is not insisted that she did anything since she attained her
majority which can work an estoppel. All that is claimed is
that when she made her deed she asserted that she was of age
and competent to convey We are not, therefore, required to
consider how far a married woman can be estopped by her acts
when she has the single disability of coverture. The question
is, whether acts and declarations of an infant during infancy
can estop him from asserting the invalidity of his deed after he
has A~tained his majority In regard to this there can be no
doubt, founded either upon reason or authority
Without
spending time to look at the reason, the authorities are all one
way An estoppel n pass is not applicable to infants, and a
fraudulent representation of capacity cannot be an equivalent
for actual capacity
Brown v 211Clune, 5 Sandf. (N. Y ) 224,
Keen v Coleman, 39 Pa. St. 299. A conveyance by an infant
is an assertion of his right to convey A contemporaneous
declaration of his right or of his age adds nothing to what is
implied in his deed. An assertion of an estoppel against him
is but a claim that he has assented or contracted. But he can
no more do that effectively than he can make the contract
alleged to be confirmed.
It is, however, 'unnecessary to dilate upon this branch of the
case. The judgment of the Circuit Court was not rested upon
any estoppel of the complainant.
Our conclusion upon the whole matter is that the complainant was entitled to the decree for which she asked. The
decree will be reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to enter a decree in accordance with this opinion, and
it is
So ordered.

