WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ot.

WILLIAms v. BRUFFY.
1. This court, in fartin v. Hunter'sLessee (1 Wheat. 85), affirmed the constitutionality of sect. 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (1 Stat. 85, re-enacted in sect.
709, Rev. Stat.), which, in certain cases therein mentioned, confers on this
court jurisdiction to re-examine upon a writ of error the final judgment or
decree in any suit m the highest court of a State in which a decision in
the suit could be had. The doctrine then asserted, and ever since maintained, cannot he questioned here.
2. That jurisdiction attaches whenever the highest court of a State, by any
decision which involves a Federal question, affirms or denies the validity of
the judgment of an inferior court, over which it can by law exercise appellate authority, whether the decision, after an examination of the record of
that judgment, be expressed by refusing a writ of error or supersedeas, or
by dismissing a writ previously allowed.
3. This court, when it has once acquired jurisdiction, may, in order to enforce
its judgment, send its process to either the appellate, or the inferior,
court.

Hr Enoch Totten presented the petition of the plaintiffs
in error, in Williams v Bruffy (96 U. S. 176), in error to the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, for such

proceedings as will render effectual the 3udgment of this
court.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court of Appeals of Virginia declines to enforce the
mandate of this court issued in this case, and the petition of
the plaintiffs in error is that this court will take such proceeedings as will render its judgment effectual.
The plaintiffs in error are citizens of the State of Penn-

sylvania, and in 1866 they instituted an action in the Circuit Court of Rockingham County, Virginia, against the
administrator of the estate of one George Bruffy, deceased,
who, at the time of his death, was a citizen of Virginia, for
the value of certain goods sold by them to him in March,

1861.
The administrator appeared to the action and pleaded the
general issue, and certain special pleas, the substance of which
was that Pennsylvania was one of the United States, and

Oct. 1880.]

WILLIAMS V. BRUFFY.

that Virginia was one of the States which had formed a confederation known as the Confederate States, that from some
time in 1861 until some time m 1865 the government of the
United States was at war with the government of the Confederate States, and that by a law of the Confederate States
debts to alien enemies were sequestered, that the intestate had
paid over the amount claimed in this action to a receiver in
those States appointed under that law, and was thus discharged
from the debt to the plaintiffs.
To these pleas the plaintiffs demurred, but the demurrers
were overruled. The case was then submitted to the court
upon certain depositions and an agreed statement of facts.
They established the sale and delivery of the goods for which
the action was brought, the residence of the plaintiffs in
Pennsylvania and of the deceased in Virginia, during the
war; the payment by the latter of the debt claimed to the
sequestrator of the Confederate government under a judgment
of a Confederate court. The Circuit Court of Rockingham
County, therefore, gave judgment for the defendant, and the
plaintiffs applied to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the
State for a writ of supersedeas to bring the case before it
for review
In the courts of other States, a supersedeas is merely an
auxiliary process designed to supersede the enforcement of
the judgment of the court below brought up by writ of error
for review *But in Virginia it serves a different purpose.
"There," says Robinson, in his treatise on the practice in the
courts of that State, "the writ of error is never used as a
means of removing the judgment of an inferior court before
a superior tribunal, except in those cases in which security
is dispensed with. In practice, the supersedeas is .a substitute for the writ of error in all cases in which it is designed
that the judgment of the court below shall be superseded."
Vol. i. p. 660, W-ite v Jones, 1 Wash. (Va.) 118, Burwell
v Anderson, 2 id. 194, Tingfield v Crenshaw, 3 Hen. & M.
(Va.) 245.
By the law of that State, when application is made to the
Supreme Court of Appeals for a writ of supersedeas, the court
looks into the record of the case, and only allows the writ

WILLIAMS V. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

-when of opinion that the decision complained of ought to be
reviewed. Its action upon the record is in effect a determination whether or not it presents a sufficient question for the
consideration of the court. If it deem the judgment of the
court below "plainly right," and reject the application on that
ground, and its order of rejection so state, no further application for the writ can be presented, the judgment of the
court below is thenceforth irreversible. So, in effect, its refusal of the writ on that ground is equivalent to an affirmance of the judgment, for the reason that the record discloses
no error.
In the present case, the Supreme Court of Appeals denied
the writ, stating in its order that it was of opinion that the
judgment of the court of Rockingham County was "plainly
right." To review this action of the Court of Appeals, - this
determination as to the character of the judgment rendered
in the Circuit Court, - a writ of error was prosecuted from this
court. It was issued to the Court of Appeals, and was returned
with a transcript of the record on file in the office of its clerk,
properly certified, and the case was elaborately argued here by
counsel. We came to the conclusion unanimously that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Rockingham County was erroneous, that the demurrers to the special pleas should have been
sustained, and that the plaintiffs should have had judgment
upon the agreed statement of facts for the amount of their
claim, with interest from its maturity, deducting in the computation of time the period during which the war continued.
We accordingly directed that the action of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, in refusing a supersedeas of the judgment of
the Circuit Court, should be reversed, and that the cause
should be remanded to it for further proceedings in accordance with our opinion. The judgment of this court was accordingly certified to that court, and presented to it in April,
1879. In April of the present year that court declined to
take action upon our mandate, for reasons embodied in its
opinion, at the time entered in its records. That opinion is
as follows

-

Oct. 1880.]

WILLrAMS V. BRUFFY.

" VIRGUqIA..

"In the Supreme Court of Appeals, held at the State Court House,
in the city of Richmond, on Saturday, the twenty-fourth day of
April, 1880.
"CHARLES B. WILAs and J Aas D.
ARNEST, partners under the firm name
of WILLIAMS & ARNEST, Plaintiffs,

against
N. BRuFry, Administrator of
GEORGE BRUFFY, deceased, Defend-

JASON

Upon a mandate from

the Supreme Court of
the United States.

ant.

"This court, having maturely considered the mandate of the
Supreme Court of the United States, is of' opinion that, according
to the true intent and meaning of said mandate, this court is required to grant a writ of error or superseieas to the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Rockingham County.
"This court, at a former term, held at Staunton, Virginia, had
refused such writ in the same case, being of opinion that the ' said
judgment is plainly right.' By such refusal the said judgment of
the Circuit Court of Rockingham had become irreversible, and
placed beyond the control and jurisdiction of this court. It was at
one time a pending cause in this court. There is no mode by
which the decision of an inferior court can be reversed here, except
upon an appeal allowed or writ of error granted and duly perfected
m conformity with the statutes made and provided. If, therefore,
the mandate of the Supreme Court of the United States shall be
entered on the records of this court, it must be inoperative and
of no effect, unless this -court shall now grant a wit of error, or
writ of error and supersedeas, to the said judgment of the Circuit
Court of Rockingham County. That judgment was rendered on
the 18th of April, 1871. The seventeenth section of chapter 178,
Code of 1873, provides that no process shall issue upon an appeal,
writ of error, or supersedeas to or from a final judgment or decree,
if, when the record is delivered to the clerk of the appellate court,
there shall have elapsed two years since the date of such final
judgment, decree, or order, but the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall be dismissed whenever it appears that two years have
elapsed since the said date, before the record is delivered to such
clerk. So that, if the court should now grant the writ of error and
psuersedeas, no process could issue thereon, and if such process

WILLIAMS V. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

should issue, the writ of error or supersedeas must hereafter be dismissed by the express mandate of the statute. It is further provided, except in certain enumerated cases, that a writ of error or
supersedeas shall not take effect until bond is given by the petitioner in a penalty, and with certain conditions prescribed, and if
two years elapse from the date of such final judgment or decree
before such bond is given, the appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas,
shall be dismissed. See sects. 13 and 17, c. 178, Code of 1873.
In the present case, the record has not been delivered to the clerk
of this court, nor has any such bond been given as is required of
the petitioner, nor indeed can be. These considerations are sufficient to show that no writ of error or siersedeas can now be
granted, or, if granted, it must be dismissed, unless this court is
authorized to disregard the plain letter of the statute under which
it exercises its appellate jurisdiction. It may be further added,
that when this court deems the decision of the inferior court plainly,
right, and rejects the application for appeal on that ground, no
other appeal, writ of error, or supersedeascan afterwards be granted
by this court in the said case. See sect. 10, c. 178, Code of 1873.
"For these reasons, this court, with the highest respect and consideration for the Supreme Court of the United States, must decline to take any further action with respect to the mandate of
said court.
"This entry is made on the record book of this court in conformity with the request and at the suggestion of the counsel for
the petitioners.
"A copy. - Teste.
Go. K. TAxYon, C. C."
The petitioners accordingly pray that this court will take
such action as may be proper and needful in the premises to
give efficacy to its judgment.
We do not understand that the Court of Appeals intends by
its refusal to deny or question the appellate power of this tribunal in cases arising in the State court where the validity of a
statute of, or of an authority exercised under, the State is drawn
in question, on the ground of its repugnancy to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor
of its validity Its appellate jurisdiction over the judgments of
the State courts in such cases, and other cases mentioned in
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 (re-enacted
in the Revised Statutes), passed beyond the region of discus-

O0A. 1880.]

WILLIAMIS

v.

BRUFFY.

sion in this court more than half a century ago. As early as
1816, in the celebrated case of Martinv Tnter's Lessee, this
court, in an opinion of unanswerable resoning, from the general language of the Constitution, asserted its appellate jurisdiction over the State courts in the cases mentioned in the act.
It also showed that the jurisdiction had been sustained in a
great variety of cases, and that the doctrine had been acquiesced in by enlightened State courts without a judicial doubt
being breathed until that case arose. No doctrine of this court
rests upon more solid foundations, or is more fully valued and
cherished, than that which sustains its appellate power over
State courts where the Constitution, laws, and treaties of the
United States are drawn in question, and their authority is
denied or evaded, or where any right is asserted under a State
law or authority in conflict with them. And in no class of
cases could that jurisdiction be more properly invoked than
when, by enactments of a revolutionary organization against
the government of the United States, the property or the rights
of citizens of the loyal States are attempted to be destroyed or
impaired because of their loyalty to the Union.
The main reason assigned by the Court of Appeals f6r declining to act upon our mandate, as seen by its opinion, is the
lapse of over two years from the date of the rendition of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Rockingham County, and the delivery of the record to that court. The judgment was rendered
on the 18th of April, 1871, and the petition for the supersedeas
with the record was not presented to the court and delivered
to its clerk until the 12th of September, 1874. The Court of
Appeals, it is true, in its opinion, states that the record has not
been delivered to its clerk, but this is evidently an inadvertence, as the transcript before us shows that such record was
filed with him on the day mentioned. The court also adds, as
further reasons for its action, that a bond with a certain penalty and prescribed conditions was required to be given within
like period before a supersedeas could take effect, and that no
such bond was given in the case, and also, that when the
Court of Appeals deems a decision of the inferior court plainly
right, and rejects an application for an appeal on that ground,
no other appeal or supersedeas can afterwards b'e granted.

254

WLLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

[Slp. Ct.

These last two grounds do not impress us as having force,
for a bond could not be required until the writ is allowed.
And the ground of refusing the writ, that the decision in the
inferior court was plainly right, being itself held to be untenable, there could be no reason why the order of denial should
not be reversed, and an order granting the writ entered in its
place, as in the case of reversals of other orders.
As to the lapse of more than two years between the date of
the judgment and the delivery of the record to the clerk of the
appellate court, it is sufficient to observe that the Court of
Appeals gave no effect to that circumstance, and we could
not say it had no authority after that time to look into the
record of the inferior court. We could not say what facts
may have existed which prevented the operation of the statute, or what proceedings may have been necessary, according
to the practice of the court, to enable parties to avail themselves of the lapse of time. The court did not refuse to receive the petition of the. plaintiffs in error on the ground that
it was 'presented too late, nor did it afterwards dismiss the
petition for that reason. It took jurisdiction of it so far as to
examine the record of the judgment of the court below, and to
pass upon its character. In its judgment, entered in its records, it states that the petition, " having been maturely considered, and the transcript of the said judgment seen and
inspected, the court being of opinion that said judgment is
plainly right, doth deny the said supersedeas." That judgment, thus entered, is a final determination of the character of
the judgment of the inferior court. Although in the form of
denying the supersedeas, it is not essentially different in its
character and effect from a judgment dismissing such writ after
it had been once granted and the merits of the case heard. So
long as it remains unreversed, it will be authority to all the
inferior courts of Virginia that the confiscation of debts due to
loyal citizens, under an act of the Confederate government,
enforced as a law of the State, was a valid proceeding. It is,
therefore, the subject of review in this court. The Richmond,
&c. Railroad Co. v The Louisa Railroad Co., 13 How 71.
It is enough for our jurisdiction over the case that there was a
final judgment of the Court of Appeals, and our jurisdiction

Oct. 1880.]

WILLIAMS V. BRUFFY.

cannot be now ousted, after we have acted upon the case
and passed upon its merits, by any suggestion that that court
never took jurisdiction to look into the record of the inferior court and determine the character of its judgment, nor
can we listen to any such suggestion in contradiction of the
record of the case. In the elaborate argument of counsel of
the case before us, though several objections were urged to our
jurisdiction, no intimation was made-of the want of jurisdiction by the Court of Appeals. Skillern's Executors v Hay's
Executors, 6 Cranch, 267, Ex parte Story,, 12 Pet. 339, Washzngton Brzdge Co. v Stewart, 3 How 413.
Whenever the highest court of a State by any form of
decision affirms or denies the validity of a judgment of an
inferior court, over which it by law can exercise appellate authority, the jurisdiction of this court to review such decision,
if it involve a Federal question, will, upon a proper proceeding, attach. It cannot make any difference whether, after
an examination of the record of the court below, such decision be expressed by refusing a writ of error or supersedeas,
or by dismissing a writ previously allowed. And when this
court has once acquired jurisdiction, it may send its process,
in the enforcement of its judgment, to the appellate court
of the State, or to the inferior court whose judgment is reversed. Had the Court of Appeals, after assuming jurisdiction so far as to examine the record of the inferior court
and pass upon its action, granted the supersedeas and rendered in the case the judgment which, in our opinion, should
have been rendered, the-judgment of the inferior court would
have been reversed, and judgment ordered in favor of the
plaintiffs in error. Having jurisdiction of the case, we can
now direct that such reversal be made and such judgment be
entered.
But inasmuch as the Court of Appeals finds itself embarrassed in its action upon our mandate by reason of the statute,
to which no reference was made in its original decision, we
will direct that the mandate be recalled, and that final judgment be entered in this court reversing the judgment of the
Circuit Court of Rockingham County, and awarding judgment
to the plaintiffs for the amount appearing from the record

256

PEOPLE'S BANK V. CALHOUN.

[Sup. Ct.

and the agreed statement of facts to be due to them on their
claim, with interest from its maturity, deducting in the computation of time the period of the war, the judgment to be
paid by the defendant as administrator out of the estate of
the deceased George Bruffy, in like manner as other claims
established against his estate, and it is

i o ordered.

PEOPLE'S BANK v. CALHOUN.
1. An action pending in a State court cannot be removed to the Circuit Court,
by written stipulation, where there is nothing in the latter or the record to
show that, by reason of the subject-matter, or the character of the parties,
the latter court can take cognizance of it.
2. In a foreclosure suit, the Circuit Court, having jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and the parties, appointed a receiver, who, pursuant to its orders,
took possession of the mortgaged road. In an action between other parties, subsequently brought in a State court, an attachment was sued out
and levied upon the road. Pending an application thereupon made to the
Circuit Court, to restrain the plaintiff from further proceeding with lis
attachment, lie and the defendant to the action consented to its removal
to the Circuit Court, where, upon a finding that the road was not, at the
date of the levy of the attachment, the property of that defendant, the writ
was dismissed. Held, that the Circuit Court had the right to determine
upon the conflicting claims to the possession of the road, and that tile parties to the action, by consenting to transfer it, did no more, m effect, than
that court might have compelled them to do.
3. The deeds of the defendant transferring his interest in the road to the trustees named m the nmortgage and to the railroad company bear date before
the attachment against hinm was sued out. They were thereafter recorded.
Held, that they were admissible in evidence.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The People's Bank of Belville brought an action in the Circuit Court of the county of St. Clair, in the State of Illinois, at
its April Term, 1876, against Edward F Winslow and James
H. Wilson, on two promissory notes, on which it alleged that
the sum of $40,733.86 was due. At the commencement of the
action, the bank, upon filing the requisite affidavit, setting

