Ot. 1880.]

HALL v. LAW.

H ALT

v. LAW

f. Proceedings for the partition of real estate in Indiana were instituted in

2.

3.

4.

6.

the year 1832, in the Circuit Court of the county where it is situate. The
record consists of an order appointing three commissioners to divide the
land between the several proprietors, their report at the next term, and
its confirmation by the court. The report complies in its details with the
requirements of the statute, gives the boundaries of the land, sets forth
with proper description the portion assigned to each proprietor, and is
accompanied by a plat showing the tracts assigned. Held, that it is not
a valid objection to the proceedings when they collaterally come in question that no petition or complaint appears in the record as the foundation
of them.
When the recitals in the record show the jurisdiction of the court and its
compliance with the statute, the order appointing commissioners is an adjudication affirming the sufficiency of the application and notice, which can
be questioned only in a direct review of the proceedings in an appellate
court.
An instrument gives color of title, -whether the grantor acts under authority
of judicial proceedings or otherwise, - if by apt words of transfer it passes
what purports to be the title; and the grantee's possession of the lands
thereunder for the period mentioned in the Statute of Limitations bars the
true owner's right of recovery.
Where the complainant is out of possession, and the determination in his
favor is only preliminary to a decree against the defendant for the surrender of the possession, the suit, although in 'form a proceeding in equity,
so nearly resembles the common-law action of ejectment as to justify the
application of that statute.
The court, upon the facts of this case, holds that the claim made is stale, and
without merit.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr James C. -Denny and Mr Charles -E.Marsh for the appellants.
Mr Asa Iglehart and Hr J B. Iglehart, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit to quiet the title to certain real property in
the State of Indiana, of which it is charged that one William
P Hall, who died intestate m 1857, was seised in fee. By
the law of Indiana, his real estate descended to the complainants.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD

HALL V. LAw.

[Sup. ot.

The premwies in controversy are situated in the city of Evansville, in that part known as Lamasco. They constitute a part
of a fractional section in the subdivision of the public lands
in a township of the State. A small stream runs through the
section, known as Pigeon Creek, on the west of which foursevenths of the section lie, and on the east three-sevenths. The
premises in suit are on the west side of the creek.
In 1881, the deceased William P Hall became the owner of
two undivided sevenths of the section. In 1833, proceedings
were taken in the Circuit Court of the couny in which the
section lies, at the instance of the possessor of an undivided
interest, for a partition of the land and an assignment in severalty of the interests of the different owners. These proceedings resulted in a partition, by which the interest of Hall was
set apart out of that portion of the section lying east of Pigeon
Creek. If these proceedings are valid, the claim of the complainants, as the children and the widow of the deceased, is
without foundation. He was divested of all interest in the
property in controversy several years before his death.
The proceedings were taken under an act of the State, of
February, 1831, entitled "An Act to provide for the partition
of real estate," the first section of which enacts "That when two or more persons are proprietors of any real
estate, any of whom are desirous of having the same divided, it
shall and may be lawful for the Circuit Court of the county where
such real estate may be situate, on the application of any such person (notice of such application having been previously given by the
party so applying for at least four weeks in some public newspaper
in the State), to appoint three disinterested freeholders, residents
of said county, not related to either of the parties, as commissioners for dividing the said estate, and said commissioners having
previously taken an oath or affirmation, before some justice of the
peace in said county, honestly and faithfully to execute the trust
reposed in them as commissioners aforesaid, shall proceed to make
division of said estate, as directed by the court, among the owners
and proprietors thereof, according to their respective rights, which
partition being made by the said commissioners, or any two of them,
and return thereof being made by the said commissioners, in writing,
under their hands, to said court, particularly describing the lots or
portions allowed to each respective owner or proprietor, mention-

Oct. 1880.]

O

ALL V.

LAW.

ing which of the owners or proprietors are minors, if any such there
be, which return being acknowledged by the commissioners making the same, before any one of the judges of the court aforesaid
for the said county, and accepted by the court, and entered and
recorded in the clerk's dffice, shall be a partition of such lands,
lots, and tenements therein mentioned." Rev Laws of Ind., 1838,
426.
The record of the proceedings of the partition in this case
consists of the order of the Circuit Court of Sept. 12, 1832,
appointing three commissioners to divide the section between
the several proprietors, and to report to the court at the next
term, their report at the next term, in March, 1833, showing
the partition made and the part assigned to each proprietor,
the confirmation of the report at that term by the court, and
its apportionment of the expenses of the partition among the
proprietors.
The order appointing the commissioners recites that it was
proved to the satisfaction of the court that David Miller (one
of the proprietors) had given due and legal notice that he
would, on the third day of the court (which was that day,
September 12), make application for the appointment of commissioners to divide among the several proprietors thereof the
fractional section.
The report gives the boundaries of the section, and sets forth
with proper description the portioi? assigned to each proprietor.
It complies in its details with the requirements of the statute
and is accompanied with a plat of the land showing the tract
assigned.
The validity of this partition is assailed because no complaint
or petition of the applicant for the partition appears in the
record as the foundation of the proceedings, and without one
it is contended that they were void.
The statute does not in terms require the application of the
proprietor seeking a partition to be presented in writing, or, if
one be presented, to be filed among the records of the court,
All that it designates as necessary to authorize the court to act
is, that there should be an application for the partition by one
or more joint proprietors, after giving notice of the intended
application in a public newspaper for at least four weeks.

]HALL v. LAW.

[Sup. Ct.

When application is made, the court must consider whether it
is by a proper party, whether it is sufficient in form and substance, and whether the requisite notice has been given as prescribed. Its order made thereon is an adjudication upon these
matters.
The recitals in the order show a compliance with the statute,
they show jurisdiction in the court over the subject. That
jurisdiction arises upon the presentation of the application,
accompanied with proper proof of previous notice of it. The
order of the court appointing the commissioners is a determination that the application is sufficient, and that due notice of
it has been given. This conclusion is not open to collateral
attack, it can only be questioned, on appeal or writ of error, by
a superior tribunal invested with appellate jurisdiction to review
it. Voorhees v The Bank of the United States, 10 Pet. 449,
Thompson v Tolmze, 2 id. 157, Cornstock v Crawford, 3- Wall.
396.
The cases of Lease v Carr (5 Blackf. (Ind.) 353) and Shaw
v Parker (6 id. 345), cited by complainants, do not support
their position. In the first case, the Supreme Court of Indiana,
having the proceedings in partition before it for review on writ
of error, held that the petition of the appellant should show
the extent and nature of his interest in the land, and that he
holds it in common with the defendants, whose interests, if
known to him, should also Be stated, and that as the petition
in that case was silent in these particulars, and merely requested the appointment of commissioners to divide the land,
it was defective, and the order made thereon was erroneous.
But the court did not hold or intimate that the order and subsequent proceedings were, from the defective character of the
petition, absolutely void. It was the common case of the reversal of proceedings because of intervening error. If not thus
corrected, the existence of the error in no respect impairs the
validity and efficacy of the subsequent proceedings, or the order
or judgment thereon. The distinction between erroneous and
void orders and judgments is too familiar to call for extended
observation, and is fully recognized, not only in the courts of
Indiana, but in those of every State in the Union. Hrornor v
Doe, 1 Ind. 130 Doe v Smith, id. 451, Doe v Harvey, 8 id.

Oct. 1880.]

HALL v. LAW.

104, Ashley v Lasrd, 14 id. 222, Cox v Matthews, 17 id. 367,
-Evans v Ashby, 22 id. 15, Waltz v Borroway, 25 id. 380,
Hawkins v Hawkins, 28 id. 67, Comparet v ilanna, 34 id.
74, Gavzn v Graydon, 41 id.'559, Burk v Hill, 55 id. 419,
Hays v Ford, id. 52, Hunter v Burnsville Turnpike Co., 56
id. 218, Wiley v Pavey, 61 id. 457 The second case, Shaw
v Parker,also came before the Supreme Court on a writ of
error, and follows in its decision Lease v Carr We see nothing in either to impeach the validity of the order of the Circuit
Court of the county appointing the commissioners, or its order
confirming their report. Thus confirmed, the report constituted, in the language of the statute, a partition of the lands
described in it.
The complainants, treating as invalid the partition proceedings, sue for the undivided two-sevenths of that portion of the
fractional section lying west of Pigeon Creek, and assume in
their bill of complaint that the title of the defendant rests
upon a deed made under a decree in a suit in chancery commenced against the deceased in 1836, three years after the alleged partition. It seems that a claim was made at that time
that the two undivided sevenths of the fractional section were
conveyed by their then owner, Nathaniel Ewing and his wife,
to one William Prince, upon a condition which had failed, that
upon the death of Prince, his -estate being insolvent, the property had been sold by order of the Probate Court to one William
Daniel, for forty-five dollars, and for the like sum had; by him
and wife, been conveyed to the deceased William P Hall, and
the suit in chancery was brought ty parties who had obtained
another conveyance from Ewing and wife to set aside the probate sale, and to compel the deceased to convey his interest to
them. The suit resulted in a decree directing the execution of
a deed of the title and interest of the deceased to the complainants in that suit, of whom the defendant was one, by a commissioner appointed by the court. The decree describes the
two undivided sevenths as being the same tract assigned to the
deceased in the partition proceedings. The father of the deceased was appointed the commissioner, and he executed the
deed ordered.
The complainants here assail the validity of this decree, as
VOL. XII.

80

HALL v. LAW

[Sup. Ct.

being rendered without service upon the deceased, who was
then a minor under ten years of age, upon an answer filed by a
guardian ad litem, who was not authorized to waive service on
his ward. It is not necessary to examine into the validity of
the decree for this or other reasons. This deed purports to
pass whatever title the deceased possessed in the lands conveyed under the probate sale, whether it be considered as the
two undivided sevenths of the whole fractional section, or the
tract assigned to him on the partition. It gave at least color
of title. Whenever an instrument, by apt -words of transfer
from grantor to grantee, - whether such grantor act under the
authority of judicial proceedings or otherwise, - in form passes
what purports to be the title, it gives color of title. The deed
of the commissioner in this case, with the return of the commissioners in the partition proceedings, gave such color. Even
should they be considered as invalid, possession under them
for the period prescribed by statute bars the right of the true
owners as effectively as possession under the most perfect title.
It is an absolute defence to the action of ejectment. And a
suit in equity, brought after that period, for the determination
of the title and for possession of the property, will not be entertained, as it is founded on a stale claim. As the statutes of
limitations in most States, and in Indiana among them, apply
in terms only to legal remedies, courts of equity are considered
as bound by them only in cases of concurrent jurisdiction. In
other cases they are said to act only by analogy, and not in
obedience to the statutes. Though the present case is in form
a suit in equity, and as the bill asks for an injunction it may
be so treated, it is essentially a suit to recover the possession of
the land. The complainants are out of possession, and the defendant, or parties claiming under him, are in possession. The
determination in favor of the complainants' title is only preliminary to a decree for the surrender of possession. If not a
concurrent remedy -with the common-law action of ejectment,
it so nearly resembles the latter as to justify the rule that in
such cases the statute equally applies.
The defendant and his associates in the deed of the commissioner, or persons claiming under them, have been in possession of the entire fractional section for over forty years, and

Oct. 1880.]

WALKER v. REISTER.

during all this period have exercised acts of ownership of almost
every kind. They have laid out the land into lots, blocks,
streets, and alleys, and have made extensive improvements
either upon them or in connection with them. They have also
sold parcels to a large number of persons, who have gone into
possession, and still hold them, and have erected buildings
thereon. The town of Lamasco, laid out by them upon the
land, reached a population of over ten thousand inhabitants
before it was annexed to the city of Evansville, of which it now
forms a part.
The statute of Indiana reserved to the deceased a right of
action to recover the premises for five years after he came of
age, and though he lived for ten years after that period, within
the vicinity of the property, and was cognizant of the possession of the defendant and his associates, and of parties holding
under them, of their claim of ownership and of their improvements, he made no attempt to disturb them in its possession,
use, and enjoyment, or in the sale of portions of it.
The claim now set up by the complainants is a stale -one,
and, under the facts disclosed, without merit. The decree dismissing the bill must, therefore, be affirmed, and it is
So ordered.

WALKER V. REISTER.
A bill, filed by the assignee in bankruptcy of an insurance company against its
former officers and directors, alleges that they had divided among themselves
and friends certain bonds belonging to it, and prays for an accounting and
relief. It appears from the proofs that the bonds were never the property
of the company but were, without consideration, borrowed, by some of its
officers, for the fraudulent purpose of exhibiting them, as part of its assets,
to the official examiners, thus furnishing evidence of its sound condition, and
were afterwards returned, according to agreement, to their real owners. Held,
that the bill was properly dismissed.
I

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Yathanel lJHyers for the appellant.
.Hr James 0. Broadhead, contra.

