Oct. 1880.]

OIENTIG V. PAGE.

HENTIG V. PAGE.
The Circuit Court in a foreclosure suit appointed a receiver of the rents and
profits of the mortgaged land, and ordered that all persons who had come
into the possession thereof pendente lite should surrender it to him on his.
demand. On their refusal to do so, a writ was issued commanding the
marshal to eject them. They thereupon addressed a petition to one of the
judges, praying that the writ be revoked by the court. Held, that an appeal
does not lie from Ins order at chambers, denying the petition.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Hr 0. A. Sperry for the appellant.

Hr

Cr0. Clemens, contra.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
On the twenty-sixth day of October, 1877, Mary A. Smith,
administratrix de bonts non of Julia C. Wright, filed her bill
in the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas, against Daniel
M. Adams and others, to foreclose a mortgage made by Adams
and wife on certain lands in Shawnee County, Kansas. On
the 3d of September, 1878, the lands covered by the mortgage
were sold by the treasurer of the county to the appellant for
$64.92, being the full amount of tax, penalty, and charges due
on them for the year 1877 At the time of the sale there was
delivered to the purchaser a certificate, which set forth the
salh, and stated that she would be entitled to a deed for
the lands on the 4th of September, 1881, unless they should
be redeemed prior to that time, in accordance with the provisions of law On the 8th of February, 1879, Hentig, the purchaser, leased the prepiises to C. E. and W K. Gillan for one
year from the 1st of March, 1879, at a rent of $200, and put
them in possession. The certificate of tax sale was recorded
Nov 18, 1878, and the taxes of 1879, amounting to $67.80,
were paid by Hentig, March 10, 1879.
On the 4th of June, 1879, the court having become satisfied
that the property was an inadequate security for the mortgage

220

HENTIG v. PAGE.

[Sup. Ct.

debt, and that Adams, the debtor, was insolvent, appointed H.
J Page receiver of the rents and profits of the property, and
ordered that " all persons in possession of such premises,
whether parties to this cause, tenants under any of them, or
persons who have come into possession pending these proceedings," yield up possession to the receiver on demand. On the
10th of July the receiver reported to the court that he found
the Gillans in possession, who refused to surrender, claiming
that they held under a lease from IHentig, and had paid $150
of their rent, and that the remainder, being only $50, was not
due. The court thereupon issued to the marshal a writ of
assistance, directing him to eject from the premises the persons
described in the original order appointing the receiver, and to
put the latter in possession. On the 12th of July, an order in
the suit was entered in the order-book, directing the complainant and receiver to show cause before the district judge, at his
chambers, on the 18th, why the writ of assistance should not
be revoked, and directing that in the mean time nothing be
done under the writ. At the time named the appellant was
permitted to file in the suit what was denominated a substituted petition. This petition was addressed to the " Hon. C.
G. Foster, one of the judges of the court," and set forth the
claim of the appellant under the tax title with the lease to the
Gillans, and concluded as follows " Wherefore your petitioners
pray that the said marshal may be enjoined from further proceeding in the execution of such writ, and that upon the hearing said writ may be revoked by an order of this court, and
that your petitioner may have such other and further relief as
to equity may seem meet. And as in duty bound will ever
pray," &c. This petition was thereupon heard, and an order
entered in the order-book as follows &c., Compl't,2.
A. SmiTH, Adm'r'x,
- 2055.
VS.
DANIEL M. ADAMs et al., Def'ts.
"AT CHAMBERS, July 18, 1879.
"Now comes the complainant and receiver, H. J. Page, by G.
C. Clemens, their solicitors, and A. J. Hentig, by Hentig & Sperry,
her solicitors, and thereupon came on to be heard the matter of
the petition of A. J. Hentig to enjoin the marshal from further
"MAIy

Oct. 1880.]

HENTIG v. PAGE.

proceeding in the execution of the writ of assistancec issued heretn
to put said receiver into possession of the- property described
in the bill of complaint and decree herein, and to revoke said
writ, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof it
is now here ordered that said petition be and is overruled and
denied.
"From this order and ruling said A. J. Hentig prays an appeal
to the Supreme Court of the United States, which is allowed, and
the bond in appeal fixed at 8300, to act as a supersedeas."
On the 22d of July the required bond was given and the
appeal perfected.
The case has been submitted under the
twentieth rule, but the submission was accompanied by a motion of the appellee to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
We think the motion to dismiss must be granted. The
order appealed from is not a final decree in a " case of equity "
The petition on which the order was made was in reality
nothing more than a motion in the original suit by the appellant, with leave of the court, for a recall of the writ of assistance. It certainly is not a bill in equity, for it names no
parties defendant and prays no process. It is addressed to one
of the judges of the court, and not to the judges or to the
court, and the appellees were brought in on a rule to show
cause in the pending suit, and not by an original writ. Although the judge in rendering his decision gave as a reason for
refusing to grant the petition that the tax certificate alone,
before the expiration of the time of redemption, vested no
title in the purchaser, the order as made settled no such question. The effect of what was done was simply to leave the
writ of assistance in force. The rights of the parties were not
changed in any particular. The appellant was still no party
to the suit, and she could resist the writ as well after the
order as before. She did not by her petition submit herself
to the jurisdiction of the court in the cause. Her application was in the nature of a suggestion to the court that the
writ had been improvidently issued, and, therefore, should be
withdrawn. She has still all the legal and equitable remedies to enforce her original rights that she ever had. If the
writ would not justify the marshal in putting her tenants
out of possession when it was issued, it will not now If she

222

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE

Co. v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

could by a suit in equity enjoin the execution of the writ
against her tenants before her motion was made, she could
afterwards.
It follows that the appeal must be dismissed, and it is
So ordered.

GOODYEAR DENTAL VULCANITE CO.-,PANY

v.

DAVIS.

1. The invention for which reissued letters-patent No. 1904, dated Mlarch 21,
1865, were granted to the Goodyear Dental Vulcanite Company was a set
of artificial teeth, as a new article of manufacture, consistingof a plate of
hard rubber with teeth, or teeth and gums, secured thereto in the manner
described in the specification, by embedding the teeth and pins in a vulcanizable compound, so that it shall surround them while it is in a soft state,
before it is vulcanized, and so that when it has been vulcanized the teeth
are firmly and inseparably secured in the vulcanite, and a tight joint is
effected between them, the whole constituting but one piece. Held, that
the invention being a product or manufacture made in a defined manner,
and not the product alone, separated from the process by which it is created,
the process is as much a part of the invention as is the material of which
the plate or product is composed.
2. Those letters are not infringed otherwise than by using the material and the
process or their equivalents. A plate made of celluloid is not, therefore,
an infringement, as celluloid is not an equivalent for hard rubber, and in
preparing it for that purpose the process, which is inseparable from the
invention, cannot be employed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Massachusetts.
This was a bill in equity brought by the Goodyear Dental
Vulcanite Company against Charles G. Davis. alleging his infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 1904, dated March 21,
1865, and granted to the complainant, as assignee of John A.
Cummings, for an improvement in artificial gums and plates.
The bill was, on a final bearing upon the pleadings and
proofs, dismissed. The complainant appealed here.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by ilfr William H~enry Clifford and M-r
Jenjam?.n F Lee for the appellant, and by Mr Henry Baldwin, Jr., and 11r William . Shipman, for the appellee.

