CRAMIER V. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

same facts, for the same statutory offence. The principle finds
expression in more than one form in the maxims of the coinmon law" 18 Wall. 163, 168.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -In
United States v. Ulrici, error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Missouri, which was submitted at the same
time, MRi.JusTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves substantially the same questions considered in United States
v. Chonteau. Here the principal on the bond in suit pleaded guilty to the indictments found against him, and was fined $1,000 and imprisoned for one day. The
punishment inflicted was for offences which are set forth in the petition in tins
action as breaches of the condition of the bond. Tls difference in the two cases
does not affect the principle upon which the first was decided. Upon its authority the judgment is
Affirmed.

CRAMER

v.

ARTHUR.

1. The valuation of foreign standard coins, which the act of March 3, 1873,
c. 268 (17 Stat. 602 Rev. Stat., sect. 3564), requires the director of the
mint to estimate annually, and the Secretary of the Treasury to proclaim
on the first day of January, is as binding on collectors of customs and importers, as if declared by statute; and evidence is not receivable to show
that it is inaccurate. The Collector v. Richards (23 Wall. 246) cited and
reaffirmed.
2. Pursuant to sect. 2903 of the Revised Statutes, providing for the case of invoices made out in a depreciated currency issued and circulated under
authority of any foreign government, regulations were established declaring
that where the standard value of a foreign currency has been proclaimed
by the Secretary of the Treasury in the manner provided by law, such
value shall control in estimating customs duties, unless collectors have been
otherwise instructed, or unless a depreciation of the value of that currency
"expressed in an invoice from the standard of that currency, shall be shown
by consular certificate thereto attached." Held, that the proclamation and
certificate are conclusive.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Lewzs Sanders for the plaintiff in error.
Hr Assistant Attorney- aeneral Smith, contra.

