Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD V. D.AVIS.

235

chamber is not separated by any partition or diaphragm from
the fire-chamber or furnace, and there are no flues to conduct
the generated heat into the chamber. The charge of infringement is, thdrefore, not sustained.
-Decreeaffirmed.

HFRYFORD

v.

DAvis.

1. In Missouri, where personal chattels have been sold and delivered, the yendee's mortgage or deed of trust on them to secure the purchase-money, lie
still retaining possession of them, is invalid against his creditors, unless
it be acknowledged or proved, and recorded in the county m which he
resides, in such manner as conveyances of land are, by law, directed to be
acknowledged or proved and recorded.
2. A contract between A., a manufacturer of cars, and B., a railroad company
in Missouri, recites that A. thereby agrees to loan to B., for hire, certain
cars to be used upon its road "for hire as aforesaid •" that A. has received
from B. its three promissory notes, two at sixty days and the other at four
months, together with certain bonds of the company as collateral for said
notes that A. is to hold the notes as collateral security and collect them at
maturity, and hold the proceeds for the safe custody and return to A., when
demanded, of said cars delivered to B. "for the term of four months, for
lure as aforesaid," the latter to have the right and privilege at any time
during the four months to purchase the cars upon the payment to A. of
$6,338.40, that being the amount of the notes; that until such payment is
made in full B. shall have no right, title, claim, or interest in or to the cars,
except as to their use for hire, but that they shall remain the property of
A., to be accounted for by B. and redelivered to A. in default of the payment of the -6,338.40; that in the event of default being made in the payment of said notes, and A. shall elect to take the cars into his possession,
the sums collected on the notes shall be retained by him for his own use,
together with such a sum, to be realized from the sale by him of the cars,
as may be needed to make the amount due and unpaid on the notes, the
balance, if aily, to be paid to B., that upon the payment by the latter of
said notes at maturity without hinderance or delay said cars shall belong
to and become the property of B., and that A. will relinquish his ownership
to them, and give B. a good and sufficient bill of sale or conveyance thereof.
The cars were delivered to B., but the contract was not recorded. C., having obtained a judgment against B., levied his execution on the cars. Held,
1. That the contract was not a bailment nor a conditional sale, but that
under it the ownership of the cars passed to B. 2. That to protect them
from seizure and sale under C.'s execution the contract should have been
recorded in the manner prescribed by the laws of Missouri for recording
mortgages or deeds of trust of personal property.

HERYFORD

v.

DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an action under the statutes of Missouri, by Henry
H. Davis, sheriff of Chariton County, for the use of the Jackson and Sharp Company, a corporation under the laws of
Delaware, upon a bond -xecuted and delivered to him by William Heryford and James W Lewis, to indemnify him against
all damages which he might sustain in consequence of the
seizure and sale of certain cars levied upon as the property
of the Keokuk and Kansas City Railway Company, under
an execution sued out on a judgment rendered in favor of
said William against the latter company and the Western Construction Company in the Circuit Court of Chariton County,
Missouri.
A trial by jury having been waived by the written stipulation
of the parties, the court below found the facts as follows 1. That on and prior to Dec. 23, 1873, the Jackson and
Sharp Company was incorporated by Delaware, having its
office and doing business at Wilmington, in that State, and
engaged in manufacturing railroad cars, that the Keokuk and
Kansas City Railway Company was incorporated by Missouri,
and engaged in the construction of a railroad through the
county of Chariton and other counties in the latter State.
2. That, Jan. 5, 1874, the car company delivered to the railway company at Salisbury, Missouri, to be used on its road,
one passenger car, No. 1, and one mail, baggage, and express
car, also No. 1, lettered with the name of the railroad company,
under and pursuant to the terms and conditions of the following articles of agreement entered into Dec. 23, A.D. 1873,
by and between said car company of the first part, and the
said railway company of the second part. It recites, -

"That the party of the first part has constructed one passenger
car, N .1. and one mail, baggage, and express car, also No. 1, and
lettered with the name of the aforesaid railway company, to be used
on the railroad of the party of the second part for hire," and then
proceeds "It is therefore agreed as follows The said party of the
first part hereby agrees to loan to the said party of the second part,
for hire, the said passenger, and mail, baggage, and express cars for
the space of four months from the date of this agreement, to be used

Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD V. DAVIS.

on said railway, and to deliver the same to the party of the second
part at Wilmington, Delaware, to be transported to the said railway company at Salisbury, Missouri, at the expense and risk of the
party of the second part, to be used on the said railway for hire as
aforesaid, and not elsewhere, without the written consent of the
party of the first part.
"The party of the first part has received from the party of the
second part three promissory notes of the party of the second part,
to the order of the Western Construction Co., and indorsed by
A. C. Yandewater, president, F A. Jones, John Foggett, A. C.
Vandewater, G. P Lawrence, John C. Noyes, and J. W Morse,
together with thirteen of the first-mortgage bonds of said railway company, of $1,000 each, as collaterals for said notes, two of
said notes are dated Nov 14, 1873, one payable at sixty days, and
the other at four months, each for $1,919.20, payable, with interest
at the rate of ten per cent per annum, after date, at the Mercantile
Bank of St. Louis, Missouri, the other of said nQtes is dated Dec.
15, 1873, payable at four months, for $2,583, without interest, at the
National Bank of Commerce, New York, which said three notes
the said party of the first part is to hold as collateral security, and
to collect the same at maturity, and to hold the proceeds, when collected, for the safe custody, and return to the party of the first
part, when demanded, of the said passenger, and mail, baggage,
and express cars, delivered to the party of the second part for the
term of four months, for hire, as aforesaid, the said party of the
second part to have the right and privilege to purchase at any
time the said passenger, and mail, baggage, and express cars within
the period of four months from aforesaid date, upon the payment
to the party of the first part in cash the sum of $6,338.40, with
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum from the date of
the agreement until day of payment, but until such payment is
made in full the said party of the second part shall have no right,
title, claim, or interest in and to the said passenger, and mail, baggage, and express cars, except as to their use or hire, nor any right
or authority in any way to dispose of, hire, sell, mortgage, or
pledge. the same, but the said cars are, and shall remain, the property of the party of the first part, to be accounted for by the party
of the second part to the party of the first part, and to be redelivered to the party of the first part, when, demanded, in default of
the payment of the aforesaid sum of $6,338.40, with interest as
aforesaid, hereinbefore described, anything to the contrary herein
contained notwithstanding.

[Sup. Ct.

IxERYORD V. DAVIS.

"It is also agreed that should there be any default in the payment
of any one of the above-described three promissory notes at the
time and on the day that they, or either of them, respectively become due and payable, and the party of the first part shall elect to
take ipto their own possession the above-described passenger and
mail, baggage, and express cars, delivered as aforesaid, the several
sums which may have been collected on account of the abovedescribed promissory notes are to be retained by the party of the
first part for their own use, and the passenger and the mail, baggage,
and express cars are to be sold by the party of the first part at
public or private sale, and of the net amount realized from said
sale so much as should be needed to make the amount remaining
due and unpaid on the above-described promissory notes, with the
interest that may have accrued on the same, shall be retained by
the said party of the first part, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid
over to the said party of the second part.
"1And the said party of the first part hereby agrees with the said
party of the second part, that if all the said three promissory notes
are paid on the day and at the time that they severally became due
and payable according to their terms, tenor, and effect, that upon
payment of all the said notes having been made without any hinderance or delay whatever, the party of the first part will then relinquish their ownership to the said passenger car and the mail, baggage, and express car, and will give to the party of the second part
a good and sufficient bill of sale or conveyance for the said cars,
and will apply to the payment of the same the proceeds of the
above-described promissory notes, interest on notes overdue in any
event to belong to the party of the first part.
"And it is also agreed and understood that, if the said notes are
paid according to their tenor and effect, the said party of the first
part may retain the money paid upon said notes, and then the said
cars shall belong to and be the property of the said party of the
second part, and the said party of the first part shall, on request,
relinquish their ownership thereof, and make a bill of sale or conveyance of all their right, title, and interest therein, to the said
party of the second part.
"In witness whereof, the parties have hereto set their name and
caused the seal of their respective corporations to be affixed.
[SEAL.]

"JACKSON
"J0

E.

"THE

AND SHARP COMPA-Y,
JACKSON,

KEOKUK AND KANSAS

CITY RAILWAY

By S. H. MELVix, Presdent.
[SEAL.]

"ALBERT

BLAIR,

Secretary."

CO.,

Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD V. DAVIS.

3. That said cars were brought to Missouri and were laced
upon and used by said railroad company on its railroad in
Chariton County, Missouri.
4. That the notes mentioned in said contract were not paid
at maturity, and still remain unpaid, that, Dec. 4, 1873, the
Jackson and Sharp Company received $13,000 in the firstmortgage bonds of said railroad company as collateral security
for said notes, for which it executed and delivered its receipt,
as follows "WILMINGTON, DEL., Dec. 4, 1873.
"Received of Keokuk and Kansas City R. R. Co., thirteen one
thousand dollar bonds, No. 281 to 293, both numbers inclusive, as
collateral for said Co. notes given in payment for one passenger
car, and for notes yet to be given for one mail, bagg., and ex. car.

"JOB H. JAcKsOx, _Pres't."

5. That said bonds are yet in the hands of that company
6. That the defendant, Heryford, under and by virtue of the
provisions of an act of the 'General Assembly of Missouri,
entitled "An Act to protect contractors, sub-contractors, and
laborers in their claims against railroad companies or corporations, contractors, or sub-contractors," approved March 21, 1873,
obtained, Nov 20, 1874, a judgment in the Circuit Court of
Chariton County, Missouri, against the said railroad company
and the Western Construction Company, for materials furnished and labor performed by him m the construction of the
road, which said judgment it was declared should be a lien
upon the "road-bed, station-houses, depots, bridges, rollingstock, real estate, and improvements pertaining- to said railroad
within the counties of Clark, .Knox, Macon, Randolph, and
Chariton, in the State of Missouri."
7 That on Nov 25, 1874, an execution was issued on the
judgment.
8. That Davis, sheriff of Chariton County, Missouri, indorsed and returned the execution as levied "upon the following-described property as the property of the Keokuk and
Kansas City Railway Company and the Western Construction
Company, to wit, the road-bed, iron, and cross-ties thereon of
the Keokuk and Kansas City Railway Company, station-houses,

HERYFORD V. DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

depots, bridges, rolling-stock, and improvements appertaining
to said road, situated in Chariton County; also a lot of crossties piled up along the line of said road, supposed to be about
seven thousand, also locomotive engine No. 1, named James
W Lewis, and tender of the same, one passenger-coach No. 1,
branded K. & K. C. R. W Co., and one mail and express car,
branded K. & K. C. R. W Co., four box or freight cars, two
coal-cars, one flat-car, three hand-cars, two iron-cars, one
set blacksmith tools, one lot shovels, spades, and picks, and
all the tools and implements pertaining to said railroad which
are in Chariton County, and all the furniture in the railroad
and construction cars, office in the town of Salisbury "
It was also returned May 3, 1875, by Berry Owens, sheriff
of Chariton County as levied "on one box-car, three rubbercars, and three break-lacks, as the property of the Keokuk and
Kansas City Railway Company. aild the Western Construction
Company "
That Heryford, prior to Dec. 12, 1874, caused Davis to levy
upon and seize, under an execution issued from the Circuit
Court of Chariton County, Missouri, in his favor and against
the Keokuk and Kansas City Railway Company and the Western Construction Company, the cars in said contract described.
That on Dec. 13, 1874, the Jackson and Sharp Company
served notice upon the sheriff claiming the passenger car andmail, baggage, and express car under and by virtue of chap. 55,
sect. 28, p. 608, vol. 1.Wagn. Mo. Stat., title " Executions."
That the sheriff thereupon gave Heryford notice of the claim
of the company, who, Dec. 15, 1874, executed and tendered his
bond to the sheriff, with Lewis as security, conditioned "that
the said bounden William. Heryford and his securities will
indemnify the said H. H. Davis, as sheriff aforesaid, against all
damage and costs which he may sustain in consequence of the
seizure and sale of the above-described passenger-coach No. 1,
and mail, baggage, and express car No. 1, branded with the
name of the K. & K. C. R. W Co., and to satisfy and pay to
any person or persons claiming the same all damages which
said person or persons may sustain in consequence of such
seizure and sale."
That by virtue of the execution -foresaid, and in pursuance

Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD v. DAVIS.

of chap. 55, sect. 58, p. 608, vol. i., Wagn. Mo. Stat., title "Executions," Berry Owens, sheriff of Chariton County, Missouri,
on May 1, 1875, advertised and sold the said passenger-car,
and mail, baggage, and express car, so levied upon.
That prior to the sale and after the levy the defendants had
knowledge of the contract of Dec. 23, 1873.
That the parties, in negotiating their contract of Dec. 23,
1873, and in the subsequent correspondence and dealings after
the execution of the same, treated and undertook said contract
as a conditional sale.
That the contract has never been acknowledged or recorded.
That the cars were, at the time they were delivered, marked
and branded as described in the contract.
That the value of the cars, at the time of the seizure by the
sheriff, was 3,8,800.
As a conclusion of law, the court found that the plaintiff
was entitled to recover of the defendants $3,800, with interest,
by way of damages, in the sum of $540, together amounting to
$4,340, and rendered judgment accordingly
Heryford and Lewis thereupon sued out this writ of error.
Upon the facts and in the rendition of the judgment the
judges were divided in opinion upon the following points, which
are certified here 1. Whether on the facts the plaintiff or the defendants were
entitled to judgment.
2. Whether the instrument under which the plaintiff claims.
was required by the laws of Missouri to be registered in order
to be valid against the creditors of the said railroad company, the property in question having been delivered to and
being in possession and use of the said company at the time
of the levy.
3. Whether the said instrument is a "mortgage or deed of
trust of personal property," within the meaning of the statutes
of Missouri, viz., 1 Wagn. stat. p. 281, sect. 8.
Mr Thomas T. Crittenden for the defendant in error, in support of the. judgment below*
The contract of Dec. 23, 1873, was a conditional sale of the
cars, at a fixed price, to be paid on a certain day, the title
to remain in the seller until payment. Such payment was a
VOL. XII.

16

HERYFORD v. DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

condition precedent to the vesting of title in the buyer, and,
not having been made, the cars were not subject to levy under
the execution. Porter v Pettingill, 12 N. H. 298, Bigelow
v Huntley, 8 Vt. 151, Ayre v Bartlett, 9 Pick. (Mass.) 156,
Reed v Upton, 10 id. 522, Fairbanks v Phelps, 22 id. 535,
Strong v. Taylor, 2 1Aill (N. Y ), 326, Hunt v Bay State Iron
Co., 97 Mass. 279, Penwick v Smith, 63 Pa. St. 18, Clarke v
Parnum, 7 R. I. 174, Coggill v Hartford &- New RHaven Railroad Co., 3 Gray (Mass.), 545.
The plaintiffs in error had notice of the title of the Jackson and Sharp Company, before the execution of the bond
sued on.
This case is clearly distinguished from Hervey v Rhode
Island Locomotive Works (93 U S. 664), where the transaction occurred in Illinois. The contracts and the laws of the
respective States which apply to them essentially differ.
In Illinois, it is held that where the vendor of personal
property delivers possession to the purchaser under an agreement that the property is to be considered as belonging to the
vendor until the payment of the purchase-money, notwithstanding such delivery of possession, such agreement as to
the creditors of the purchaser is fraudulent and void. HifeCormick et al. v Hadden, 30 Ill. 370, Keteham v Watson, 24
id. 591, Thompson v Yeck, 21 id. 73, Murch v Wright, 46 id.
487
In Missouri, the law of which State must govern this case,
such a conditional sale is valid not only as between the parties but as against subsequent bona fide purchasers or creditors of the vendee. Parmlee v Catherwood, 36 Mo. 480,
Little v Page, 44 id. 412, Ridgway v Kennedy, 52 id. 24,
Robbins v Phillips, 68 id. 100, Rogers -Locomotive Works v
Lewis, 4 Dill. 158.
There was no waiver of the vendor s rights, nor such laches
in asserting them as forfeited its title to the cars. In Rogers
Locomotive Works v. Lewis (supra), the notes for the purchasemoney were all overdue eighteen months, and the property was
still in the possession of the vendee. This was not laches. In
the present case the notes were overdue only eight months.
The statute of Missouri on the subject of bailment by way

Oct. 1880.]

IERYFORD v. DAVIS.

of loan (1 Wagn. Stat., p. 280) has been construed in McDermott v Barnum et al., 16 Mo. 114, and arzddles's Adm'r
v Crzddles, 21 id. 522. Sect. 5 is peculiar, and may have had
some effect upon the mind of the draftsman 6f the contract
between the companies.
ilr Henry S. Green, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The correct determination of this case depends altogether
upon the- construction that must be given to the contract
between the Jackson & Sharp Company and the railroad
company, against which the defendants below recovered their
judgment and obtained their execution. If that contract was
a mere lease of the cars to the railroad company, or if it was
only a conditional sale, which did not pass the ownership until
the condition should be performed, the property was not subject
to levy and sale under execution at the suit of the defendant
against the company But if, on the other hand, the title
passed by the contract, and what was reserved by the Jackson
& Sharp Company was a lien or security for the payment of
the price, or what is called sometimes a mortgage back to
the vendors, the cars were subject to levy and sale as the
property of the railroad company The statute of the State
of Missouri enacts that "no mortgage or deed of trust of personal property shall be valid against any other person than the
parties thereto, unless possession of the mortgaged or trust
property be delivered to and retained by the mortgagee or
cetus que trust, or unless the mortgage or deed of trust be
acknowledged or proved and recorded in the county in which
the mortgagor or grantor resides, in such manner as conveyances of land are, by law, directed to be acknowledged or
proved and recorded." 1 Wagn. Stat., c. 35, art. 2, sect. 8.
The plain purpose of this statute was to render secret liens
upon personal property ineffectual as against purchasers or
creditors. The property in this case was in the possession
of the railroad company when the levy upon it was made,
and the contract under which the company held it was not
recorded.
What, then, is the true construction of the contract? The

HERYFORD

V. DAVIS.

[Sup. Ot.

answer to this question is not to be found in any name which
the parties may have given to the instrument, and not alone in
any particular provisions it contains, disconnected from all
others, but in the ruling intention of the parties, gathered from
all the language they have used. It is the legal effect of the
whole which is to be sought for. The form of the instrument
is of little account.
Though the contract industriously and repeatedly spoke of
loaning the cars to the railroad company for lre, for four
months, and delivering them for use for hire, it is manifest that
no mere bailment for hire was intended. No price for the hire
was mentioned or alluded to, and in every bailment or letting
for hire a price or compensation for the hire is essential. The
amount may not be stipulated. It may be a reasonable compensation or a quantum valebat, but the contract must contemplate payment for the use of the thing let or bailed. Not only
was no stch payment provided for or required, but all intention
to demand it is negatived by the strongest implications. The
manufacturing company exacted and took promissory notes
for the entire selling price of the property, $6,138.40, and, in
addition thereto, collaterals to a large amount to secure payment of the notes. The aggregate of the notes was equal to
that price, two of them for $1,919.20 each, one payable at
sixty days and the other at four months, bearing interest from
their date at the rate of ten per cent, and the third note, at
four months, being for $2,583, interest at that rate having
been added to the principal sum. One of these notes fell due
only nine days after the cars were delivered to the railroad
company, and both the others before the expiration of four
months from the date of the agreement. The notes were to be
collected at maturity, and thus it was contemplated that before
the end of four months the manufacturing company should
have in hand in cash the full value or price of the cars. It is
needless to say that all this is totally inconsistent with the
idea that the parties intended a mere letting or bailment for
hire.
It appears equally clear to us that the contract was not one
for a conditional sale. It is true it said the manufacturing
company were to hold the three notes as collateral security,

Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD v. D)AVIS.

and collect the same at their maturity, and "hold the proceeds
when collected for the safe custody and return to the party of
the first part, when demanded, of said passenger, mail, baggage,
and express cars, delivered to the party of the second part for
the term of four months for hire," "the said party of the second
part to have the right and privilege to purchase" (the cars)
"at any time within the said period of four months, upon payment to the party Qf the first part, in cash, the sum of $6,338.40,
with interest at the rate of ten per cent from the date of the
agreement until day of payment, but, until such payment is
made in full, the said .party of the second part shall have no
right; title, claim, or interest in and to said passenger and mail,
baggage, and express cars, except as to ther use or hre, nor
any right or authority in any way to dispose of, hire, sell,
mortgage, or pledge the same, but that the said cars are and
shall remain the property of the party of the first part, to be
accounted for by the party of the second part to the party of
the first part, and to be redelivered to the party of the first
part, when demanded in default of the payment of the aforesaid sum of $6,338.40, with interest as aforesaid, hereinbefore
described, anything to the contrary herein contained notwithstanding."
If this were all, it would necessarily be held that a conditional sale was intended. But it is not all. It is quite unmeaning for parties to a contract to say it shall not amount to
a sale, when it contains every element of a sale, and transmission of ownership. This part of the contract is to be construed in connection with the other provisions, so that if
possible, or so far as is possible, they all may harmonize.
Thus construed, it is quite plain these stipulations were inserted to enable the manufacturing company to enforce payment, not of any rent or hire, but of the selling price of the
cars for which the company took the notes of the railroad
company They were intended as additional security for the
payment of the debt the latter company assumed. This is
shown most clearly by the other provisions of the contract. The
notes became the absolute property of the vendors. As has
been stated, they all fell due within four months, and it was
expected they would be paid. The vendors were expressly

HERYFORD v. DAVIS.

[Sup. Ct.

allowed to collect them at their maturity, and it was agreed
that whatever sums should be collected on account of them
should be retained by the vendors for their own use.
No part of the money was to be returned to the railroad
company in any event, not even if the cars should be returned.
On the contrary, it was stipulated expressly that if the manufacturing company should elect to take the cars into their
own possession, which they reserved the right to do in case of
default of payment of the notes, the property should be sold,
and of the net amount realized from the sale, so much as
should be needed to make the amount remaining due and
unpaid on the promissory notes, with the interest that might
have accrued thereon, should be retained by the manufacturing company, and the surplus, if any, should be paid over to
the railroad company
What was this but treating the notes given for the sum
agreed to be the price of the cars as a debt absolutely due to
the vendors 9 What was it but treating the cars as a security
for the debt 2 And why stipulate that the surplus -which
might be obtained from the sale of the cars, after taking them
back, beyond what was needed to pay the unpaid part of the
debt, should be paid over to the railroad company, if that company was not the owner of the cars, even while they were in
the possession of the other company, and bad not even then
what may be called an equity of redemption 9
In view of these provisions, we can come to no other conclusion than that it was the intention of the parties, manifested
by the agreement, the ownership of the cars should pass at
once to the railroad company in consideration of their becoming debtors for the price. Notwithstanding the efforts to
cover up the real nature of the contract, its substance was an
hypothecation of the cars to secure a debt due to the vendors
for the price of a sale. The railroad company was not accorded an option to buy or not. They were bound to pay the
price, either by paying their notes or surrendering the property to be sold in order to make payment. This was in no
sense a conditional sale. This giving the property as a security for the payment of a debt is the very essence of a mortgage
which has no existence in a case of conditional sale.

Oct. 1880.]

HERYFORD v. DAvIS.

It may be added that the notes were given to the vendors
before the cars were delivered. So, also, the collaterals for the
notes were taken before the delivery, and when they were
taken, the president of the manufacturing company acknowledged he received them, not as additional security for the
restoration of the cars at any time thereafter when demanded,
but as security for the notes "given in payment" for the cars.
This is confirmatory of the construction we have given to the
contract. It tends to show that the transaction was a sale
by which the ownership passed to the railroad company, the
vendors retaining only a lien for the consideration.
It follows, from what we have said, that to protect the cars
from seizure and sale by virtue of executions against the railroad company, recording the contract was made necessary by
the statutes of Missouri, to which we have referred.
The judgment of the Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to enter judgment, on the special finding of facts, in favor of the defendants
below, and it is
So ordered.
dissenting.
I dissent from the judgment in this case. I think that, in
the absence of express law to the contrary, not only has a
man the right to make a conditional sale of his property, but
that this right is not opposed to sound public policy, and
should be fairly and liberally dealt with. The present case
was, in my opinion, clearly a conditional sale, and nothing
else, and the owners of the property had a right to reclaim it
on the terms contained in the agreement. These terms were
fair and just, not involving any forfeiture, but providing for a
due allowance for every dollar paid, by requiring a sale of the
property if the purchase should not go into effect.
MR. JusTICE, BRAI)L]Y

