WADSWORTH V. SUPERVISORS.

WADSWORTH V.

[Sup. Ct.

SUPERVISORS.

The rulings in Aspinwall etal. v. Commisszoners of tieCounty of Daviess (22 How.
364) reaffirmed and applied to this case.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Wisconsin.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

The case was argued by J11r Matthew fH. Carpenter for the
appellant, and by 11fr W P Bartlett for the appellees.
MR.JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
By an act of the legislature of Wisconsin, approved April 1,
1864, the legal voters of certain counties, among which are the
counties of Eau Claire and St. Croix, were authorized to vote
upon the subject of municipal aid in the construction of a railroad from Tomah to Lake St. Croix, by the Tomah and Lake
St. Croix Railroad Company, subsequently called the West
Wisconsin Railway Company
The act declared that "if a majority of the ballots cast in
any of said counties be for railroad aid, the county board of
supervisors of said counties shall have power, by resolution,
to cause to be issued bonds of the denomination of one hundred
to one thousand dollars each, to an amount not exceeding
$50,000 for each of said counties, payable thirty years after
the date thereof, with interest at the rate of seven per cent,
payable semi-annually in the city of New York, at such place
as the treasurer of the State shall designate." The board of
supervisors of ehch of the counties -voting such aid were required to "annually cause to be levied and collected, as other
State and county taxes are collected, a sum of money sufficient
to pay the interest accruing and existing by reason of the bonds
which either of said counties may issue, at the rate aforesaid,
and such further amount to defray any expense attending the
payment of such interest."
The act further provided that "the said bonds, when authorized to be issued as aforesaid, shall be held by the county

Oct;. 1880.]

WADSWORTH V. SUPERVISORS.

board of supervisors of each of said counties, and the same,
or the avails thereof, shall be expended in the counties which
issue the same (provided the railroad passes through the said
county),, in the grading of said railroad, or in the purchase of
ties therefor, and the said bonds shall be delivered to the said
railroad company when the board of supervisors of each of said
counties are satisfied that the same will be applied for such
purpose."
On the 5th of November, 1867, an election was held in the
county of Eau Claire, at which a majority of votes were cast
in favor of aid, to the extent of $50,000, to the Tomah and
Lake St. Croix Railroad Company The road was constructed
through the county prior to March 10, 1870, but it does not
appear when the work of such construction was commenced.
The entire road was, however, fully constructed on or about
Dec. 1, 1871, since which date it has been operated as a railway
On and prior to March 15, 1870, the company demanded of
the board of supervisors for the county of Eau Claire, county
bonds to the amount of $50,000, and payable as required by
the statute. The board refused to comply with that demand,
and made the following record of such refusal, viz. " The
county board of supervisors of Eau Claire County met at the
office of the clerk, all members present. The board took up
the subject of issuing the bonds of the county to the West
Wisconsin Railroad Company as voted in 1867, and expressed
themselves as willing to issue the bonds of the county if they
could be paid by a tax as understood at the time the vote was
taken, but as our highest courts have decided that it is illegal
to levy and collect a tax to pay such bonds, they refuse to issue
them. They are unwilling to issue the bonds of the county
which cannot be paid, but must be repudiated in the end, for
the reason that it would be unjust to the bondholder, and a
disgrace to the county, and requested the county board of
supervisors of said county to cause said bonds to be issued
and delivered to the said company as required by law and the
aforesaid vote of the electors of said county "
There is some confusion in the lauguage, employed in this
minute of the proceedings of the _county board, but there can

WADSWORTH

V. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

be no doubt as to the grounds upon which it refused to execute
and deliver the bonds.
By an act approved March 25, 1872, so much of the act of
April 1, 1864, as authorized the counties of St. Croix and Eau
Claire to issue bonds in aid of the construction of a railroad
from Tomah to Lake St. Croix was repealed.
On or about Sept. 1, 1875, the railroad company, for a valuable consideration, assigned and transferred to Wadsworth all
and every cause of action, in law or equity, it then had, or to
which it was entitled, against the county of Eau Claire, by
reason of the failure and refusal of its board of supervisors
to issue and deliver county bonds in accordance with the vote
of the people.
The object of the present suit in equity, by Wadsworth as
assignee of the company, is to compel the execution and delivery to him of such bonds. To the bill filed a demurrer was
sustained, and a detree entered for the defendants.
In the view which the court takes of this case, it may be
assumed that due notice was given of the election held on the
5th of November, 1867
The main question then presented is, whether the county of
Eau Claire ever came under.a legal obligation to execute and
deliver to the railroad company, county bonds to aid in the
construction of the road from Tomah to Lake St. Croix? The
decision of that question, it seems to the court, is controlled by
the principles announced in Aspinwall, &c. v Commissoners,
J5c., 22 How 364. That case involved the validity of certain
county bonds which were in the hands of bona fide holders for
value, having been issued by the board of commissioners for
Daviess County, Indiana, in payment of a subscription made
in behalf of the county to the capital stock of an incorporated
The subscription was made under the
railroad company
sanction of a popular vote and in conformity with the charter
of the railroad company, which made it the duty of the commissioners to subscribe for the stock and issue bonds in payment thereof, whenever a majority of qualified voters of the
county, at an election held for that purpose, should declare in
favor of such subscription.
It, however, appeared that after the people had voted m

Oct. 1880.]

WADSWORTH V. SUPFiRVISORS.

favor of the subscription, but before any subscription was in
fact made, a new constitution for Indiana went into operation,
containing, among others, the provision that "no county shall
subscribe for stock in any incorporated company, unless the
same be paid for at the time of such subscription, nor shall
any county loan its credit to any incorporated company, nor
borrow money for the purpose of taking stock in any such
company "
It was argued in that case, that as the statute under which
the election was held made it the duty of the commissioners to
subscribe for the stock and issue county bonds in payment
thereof, the right of the railroad company to receive the bonds
became complete and perfect when a majority of legal voters
declared in favor of the subscription, and that such right was
not, and consistently with the contract clause of the national
Constitution could not be, affected by any subsequent changes
in the organic law of the State. To that position this court
was unable to give its assent. The reluctance expressed in its
opinion is not to be construed as implying doubt as to the
correctness of the legal conclusions there reached, but only as
referring to the fact that the bonds in suit were in the hands
of those who, for aught that appeared, had purchased them in
the belief that they were valid obligations of the county We
held in that case that the popular vote did not itself create
a vested right in the railroad company to the bonds, and
that a subscription was necessary to create a contract binding
the county to issue bonds in payment of'the stock, and binding
the company to issue stock for the bonds. "Until the subscription is made," said Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the
whole court, "the contract is unexecuted and obligatory upon
neither party " Hence, the new State Constitution was held
to govern the case, and from the time of its adoption to have
withdrawn from the county commissioners all authority to
make subscriptions to the stock of incorporated companies,
except in the manner and under the circumstances prescribed
by that instrument.
Applying the doctrines announced in Aspznwall, &c. v Commz~soners, &c., to the present case, it is' clear that there was
no binding agreement or contract between the railroad com-

WADSWORTH V. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

pany and the county of Eau Claire, by which the latter became
legally bound, through its board of supervisors, to execute and
deliver bonds to aid in the construction of the road from Tomah
to Lake St. Croix. The act of April 1, 1864, neither in express
words nor by necessary implication, made it imperative iipon
the board of supervisors to issue bonds in pursuance of the
popular vote. The act was an enabling one, and its legal effect
was to invest the board with power to supplement the expressed
will of the people by an issue of bonds. We find nothing in
its provisions justifying the conclusion that the popular vote
was to be taken as an absolute direction that the supervisors
should issue the bonds, at all events, and without regard to the
circumstances intervening after the people had voted in favor
of county aid to the enterprise in question.
It will be observed that the act of 1864 did not contemplate
a subscription of stock upon the part of the county, but simply
a donation of bonds to aid in the construction of the road.
*We can understand why the legislature might invest the constituted authorities of the county with large discretion as to
the exercise of a power to issue bonds by way merely of donation to aid in the construction of a railroad. But whether
sound policy indicated such a course, it is not material to inquire, since our duty is to ascertain the legislative intent, and,
if possible and consistent with the law to give it effect according to the reasonable interpretation of the words employed to
express that intent.
As the statute only declared that the supervisors should
have power, by resolution, to cause bonds to be issued when
the people voted in favor of railroad aid, we are not at liberty
to say that the legislature meant such vote to be a positive
command to exercise that power without regard to the circumstances arising after the expression of the popular will.
But if we.should be mistaken in this construction of the statute,-if the statute had, in terms, made itthe duty of the supervisors to issue bonds, to the extent indicated by the popular
vote, - we should feel bound, upon the authority of Aspznwall,
&e. v Commsswoners, &c., to hold that the legislature could, at
any time before the bonds were in fact issued, or before the
county came under a legal obligation to issue them, repeal, as

Oct. 1880.]

WADSWORTH

V. SUPERVISORS.

it did, the statute conferring the power to issue, and thereby
withdraw from the supervisors all authority in the premises.
The election at which the people gave their sanction to railroad aid had, as we have seen, no other effect than to confer
power upon the supervisors to issue bonds, and did not place
them under any legal obligation to the railroad company to
exercise the power granted. The railroad company had not,
prior to the passage of the act of 1872, acquired any perfect or
vested right to the donation. The repealing statute of 1864
was, under the circumstances, a total abrogation or obliteration of the law repealed, as much so as if the latter had never
existed.
We have not overlooked the averments in the bill that ihe
company constructed its road through Eau Claire County at a
cost, in grading and in the purchase of ties, exceeding the sum
of $50,000, that such work was done, and such money expended upon the faith of the aid voted, and with "the full understanding and belief" that the bonds would be issued and
delivered .to the company, and that the company would not
have built the road and expended the money except in reliance
upon an issue of the bonds as authorized by the statute.
With whom such understanding was had, and upon what
special facts such belief was based, does not appear from any
specific allegations in the bill. The seventh section of the act
of 1864 directed that the bonds, "when authorized to be issued
as aforesaid," that is, when issued under the power conferred
by popular election, should be held by the supervisors, and not
delivered until they should be satisfied that the proceeds would
be expended in the grading of the road in the county issuing
them, or in the purchase of ties therefot. Had the bonds been
in fact executed before the act of 1872, but retained by the
supervisors under an agreement for their delivery when the
purposes indicated by the section just cited had been met, there
might have been some ground for holding that the power given
by the statute to issue the bonds had been finally and fully exercised by the supervisors, and that, in such case, the railroad
company would have been entitled to enforce their delivery,
upon the completion of the road through the county, or after
the expenditure of an equal amount, either in the grading of

WADSWORTH V. SUPERVISORS.

[Sup. Ct.

the part of the road which lay in that county, or ii the purchase of ties therefor. But we .have seen that the bonds had
not in fact, been executed, when the power to issue and deliver them was withdrawn by the legislature. The discretion
conferred upon the supervisors had not then been exercised.
If the company chose to enter upon the work of construction in
the county before the supervisors had, in fact, elected to exert
the power conferred by the statute, and without any agreement, upon sufficient consideration, binding the county to
execute and deliver the bonds, their understanding, however
induced, and their belief, upon whatever facts based, that the
bonds would, at some future time, be issued and delivered,
could not trammel the power of the legislature, or prevent it
from withdrawing the authority conferred upon the supervisors
in the act of 1864.
Nor do we think it at all material in the determination of
this case that the supervisors expressed upon their records a
willingness to issue the bonds, and that they were restrained
from so doing by the circumstance that the Supreme Court
of Visconsin had judicially declared that the payment of the
bonds, if issued, could not be enforced. The cases in that
court to which, as we suppose, the supervisors referred were
Curtis v WhTpple (24 Wis. 350) and Whiting v Mhe Sheboygan & Pond du Lac Bailroad Co., &c. (25 id. 167), in the
former of which, decided in 1869, it was held that the legislature had no power to raise money, or to authorize it to be
raised, by taxation, for the purpose of donating it to a private
educational institution, and in the latter, decided in 1870,
that no such power existed to make a donation in aid of the
construction of a railroad owned, managed, and operated by a
corporation in all respects private, except that in its behalf the
power of eminent domain might be exercised, and except also
that it was charged with certain public duties and was subject
to certain public uses. Notwithstanding the reasons assigned
by the supervisors for the non-issue of the bonds, the fact remained that they did not, prior to the repealing act of 1672,
assume to impose any legal obligation upon the county, either
by an actual issue of the bonds, or by an agreement to issue
and deliver them upon the completion of the road through the

Oct. 1880.]

8LORD
v. STEAISHIP CO.

county Under this view of the case we need not consider the
question, suggested by counsel, as to how far the rights of parties are to be controlled by the decisions of the Supreme Court
of. the State, rendered after the election of 1867, upon the
subject of municipal donations to railroad and other private
corporations.
What has been said is suffcient to dispose of the case.
The decree below sustaining the demurrer was correct,
and is
Affirmed.

LORD v. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
1. While navigating the high seas between ports of the same State, a vessel
of the United States is, together with the business in which she is engaged,
subject to the regulating power of Congress.
2. Sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes, as limited in its application by sect. 4289,
is not unconstitutional.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
Sects. 4283 and 4289 of the Revised Statutes are as follows " SECT. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any
embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property,
goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel, or
for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter,
or thing lost, damage or forfeiture done, occasioned, or incurred,
without the privity or knowledge of such owner br owners, shall in
no case exceed the amount of the value of the interest of such owner
in such vessel, and her freight then pending."
"SECT. 4289. The provision of the seven preceding sections relating to the limitation of the liability of the owners of vessels shall
not apply to the owners of any canal-boat, barge, or lighter, or to
any vessel of any description whatsoever used in rivers or inland
navigation."
Sect. 4283 was one of the seven sections referred to in sect.

4289.

