Oct. 1880.]

DANIELS

v.

TEARNEY.

which the appellant claims as the principle of Swain s invention.
We do not deem it necessary to go into a more particular
examination of the evidence at this time. We have examined
it carefully, and have come to the conclusion that the view
taken of the case by the Circuit Court was as favorable to the
appellant as it c6uld reasonably ask.
Decree affirmed.

DAqIELS

v. TEARNEY.

1. The convention of the State of Virginia passed, April 13, 1861, an ordinance
entitled "An Ordinance to provide against the sacrifice of property and to
suspend proceedings in certain cases," whereby, if a debtor, against whom
there was an execution in the hands of an officer, offered bond and security
for the payment of debt, interest, and costs, when the operation of the ordinance should cease, his property should be restored to him. If he offered
no bond, the property was to be restored to him without lien, unless it would
bring its appraised value as of the date of Nov. 6, 1860. No executions
were, after the date of the ordinance, to be issued against residents except in
favor of the State. The convention passed, April 18, 1861, an ordinance of
secession. A., against whom an execution was issued March 21 of that
year, availed himself of the provisions of the ordinance of April 13, by
giving the requisite bond and security. The judgment against him remaining unpaid and the ordinance having ceased to operate, suit was brought
on the bond. Held, that the obligors are estopped from setting up that, by
reason of anything contained in the ordinance, the bond is invalid.
2. Home Insurance Co. ,. City Council qf Augusta (93 U. S. 116) and'UnitedStates v.
Hodson (10 Wall. 395) cited and approved.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, State of
West Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Dantel B. Lucas for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr Oharles J. Faulkner, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error, brought to reverse a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of West Virginia.
The case, as disclosed in the record, may be sufficiently
stated for the purposes of this opinion, as follows -

DANIELS v. TEARNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

On the 18th of April, 1861, a convention of the State of
Virgima passed an ordinance of secession, and on the 30th of
that month a law entitled "An Ordinance to provide against
the sacrifice of property and to suspend proceedings in certain
cases." This ordinance declared that thereafter no execution
(except in favor of the Commonwealth and against non-residents) should be issued, and that no sales should be made
under deeds of trust or decrees without the consent of the
parties interested, until otherwise provided by la-w, and that
where executions were in the hands of the officer, whether
levied or not, if the debtors should offer bond and security for
the payment of the debt, interest, and costs, when the operation
of the ordinance should cease, the property should be restored
and the bond should be returned, as in the case of a forthcoming
bond, and should be a lien on the realty, of the obligors. If the
debtor offered no bond, his property was to be appraised by
three freeholders, at its value on the 6th of November, 1860,
and unless the property would sell for the amount of the valuation, it should be restored to the debtor without lien.
The suit was brought in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, State of West Virginia, by Tearney and Wilson, executors
of Colin C. Porter. The declaration sets forth that the defendants, on the first day of June, 1861, made their joint and several
bond, whereby they bound themselves to pay to the plaintiff
the sum of $1,597.18 when thereunto requested, and that there
was a condition affixed to the bond, which was, "that whereas,
on the twenty-fifth day of March, 1861, a writ of fierifacmas was
issued from the clerk's office in the name of Colin C. Porter
against Benjamifi F Daniels, for $747.92, with interest from
the second day of January, 1860, until paid, and $31.97 costs, .if,
therefore, the said B. F Daniels should pay the debt, interest,
and costs, when the operation of the ordinance before mentioned
should cease, then the obligation to be void, otherwise to be in
full force."- It was averred that the operation of the ordinance
had long since ceased, and yet that the defendants, though often
requested so to do, had not paid the said sums of money or any
part thereof, whereby an action had accrued, &c.
Among other pleas, the defendants filed one zn hcee verba. "For further plea to this action, the defendants say, that the

Oct. 1880.]

DANIELS v. TEARNEY.

bond in the declaration mentioned was executed ,by Benjamin
F Daniels, a citizen of the State of Illinois, as principal, and
by William B. Daniels and D M. Daniels, as his securities, in
pursuance of the requirements and conditions of a statute passed
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, heretofore,
to wit, on the 30th of April, 1861, by the convention of the
State of Virginia, and that said statute was subsidiary to and
in aid of and in furtherance of the objects and policy of the
ordinance of secession passed theretofore by said convention,
day of April, 1861, in violation of the Conto wit, on the stitution of the United States.
"And the defendants say, that they rely on the fact that said
statute and ordinance were in violation of and repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States for their defence and plea
in this case, and that they are unconstitutional the defendants
are ready to verify "
The plaintiff demurred. The court sustained the demurrer.
and the defendants excepted. The parties thereupon waived a
jury and submitted the case to the court, and a judgment was
entered ii favor of the plaintiff.
The defendants removed the case to the Supreme Court of
Appeals for review That court affirmed the judgment, and
this writ of error was thereupon sued out.
The objection raised as to the jurisdiction of this court is
untenable.
In Home Insurance Co. v City Council of Augusta (93 U. S.
116), we said "Where a judgment or decree is brought to this
court by a writ of error to a State court for review, the case, to
warrant tie exercise of jurisdiction on our part, must come
within one of three categories "1. There must have been drawn in question the validity of
a treaty or statute of, or authority exercised under, the United
States, and the decision must have been against the claim
which either was relied upon to maintain.
"2. Or there must have been drawn in question a statute of,
or authority exercised under, a State, upon the ground of repugnance to the Constitution, or a law or treaty, of the United
States, and the decision must have been in favor of the validity of the State law or authority in question.
vor. x11.

27

DANIELS

v.

TEARNEY.

[Sup. Ct.

" 3. Or a right must have been claimed under the Constitution, or a treaty, or law of, or by virtue of a commission held
or authority exercised under, the United States, and the decision must have been against the right so claimed. Rev Stat.
132, sect. 709, Sewer v Haskell, 14 Wall. 15, Weston v City
Council of Charleston, 2 Pet. 449, McGuzre v Te Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 385."
The plea is neither full nor technical, but it does aver the
invalidity of the statute under which the bond was taken,
because it was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, and was passed "in aid and furtherance of the objects
and policy of the ordinance of secession," and that the defendants "rely on the fact that said statute and ordinance were in
violation of, and repugnant to, the Constitution of the United
States, for their defence and plea in this case." This implies
clearly that the defendants claimed, in addition to what was
averred, that the bond was void in every aspect, and that they
had a right, by reason of the premises, to exemption from liability under it. What is thus averred in a pleading is as effectual
as if it were expressed. Haight v Holley, 3 Wend. (N. Y ) 258.
It thus appears that there was drawn in question the authority
of the sheriff, exercised under a law of the State, in taking the
bond, and that the decision was in favor of the validity of that
authority, and that there was also a right of exemption from liability, claimed under the Constitution of the United States; and
that the decision was against the right so claimed. These claims
give us jurisdiction. Whether they are well founded remains to
be considered. Jurisdiction is only "the right to bear and determine." The result of its exercise is the judgment of the court.
That the ordinance of secession was void is a proposition we
need not discuss. The affirmative has been settled by the
arbitrament of arms and the repeated adjudications of this
court. Texas v White, 7 Wall. 700, Hickman v Jones, 9 id.
197, Dewzng v. Perdicarzes,96 U. S.193. It was supplemented
and complemented by the statute authorizing the bond to be
taken. The latter was one of a series of acts passed by the
secession convention, all looking to the conflict of arms which
was foreseen to be approaching They were intended to prepare the State for the struggle, and were means to that end.

Oct. 1880.]

DANIELS v. TEARNEY.

The saving in the statute as to executions in favor of the Commonwealth and against non-residents was characteristic. It
obviously contemplatel the confiscation of the property of the
latter as a war measure. We cannot doubt that the statute
was invalid by reason of the treasonable motive and purpose by
which its authors were animated in passing it. The provision
that no executions should issue, and that no sales should be
made under decrees or deeds of trust without the consent of
the parties interested, "until otherwise provided by law," was
clearly in conflict with the contract clause of the national Constitution. Bronson v Kinzie, 1 How 811, McCracken v Hayward, 2 id. 608, -Edwardsv Kearzey, 96 U. S. 595.
The circumstances which surrounded the convention and
controlled its action are a part of the history of the times, and
we are bound to take judicial notice of them. Brown v. Piper,
91 U. S. 87
We have already pointed out the infirmities of the statute.
One of them is expressly embodied in the bond. The condition is that the obligors shall pay when the statute under
which it was taken "ceases." That is, that payment was to be
made at the time of its cessation, and not before. In the mean
time, the statute was to operate as a stay law, and the condition
of the bond was framed accordingly This, as we have shown,
was directly repugnant to the constitutional provision which
forbids the impairment of contracts by State laws. The bond,
as a statutory instrument, cannot have more validity than the
statute which prescribed it as the means of giving effect to
the statute in the way it was intended to operate. To hold the
bond valid as a statutory bond, and the statute void, would be
an inversion of reason. Viewed in this light, it is void for
exactly the same reasons that the statute is void. They rest on
the same basis, and must stand or fall together. The creditor
was not to be consulted. His assent was not required. So far
as he was concerned,'the sheriff could proceed in nvitum. The
option to give the bond or not was with the debtor. The
presence or absence of the creditor, and his assent or dissent,
were alike immaterial. He was powerless in any event to
control the result.
The cases are numerous m which it has been held that

DANIELS V. TEARNEY.

[Sup. Cf.

where a bond contains conditions, some of winch are legal and
some illegal, and they are severable and separable, the former
may be enforced and the latter disregarded.
United States v
Hodson, 10 Wall. 395. But this bond does not belong to that
class. The condition is a unit, and indivisible. There are no
separate elements into which it can be resolved. It must be
considered as an entirety, and can be viewed in no other light.
As a statutory bond, therefore, the instrument is clearly void.
Whether it is void also as a voluntary bond is a point upon
winch the opinions of all the members of the court are not entirely in accord. We pass from the subject without further
remark, because, irrespective of that question, there is a view
decisive of the case, in regard to wlich we are unanimous and
our minds are free from doubt.
Conceding the bond to have been wholly void in both
aspects, it does not by any means follow that it could not
thereafter, under any circumstances, be enforced as between the
parties, or that there is such error in the judgment that it
must necessarily be reversed.
A corporation is liable for negligent and malicious torts, including libel, assault and battery, malicious prosecution, and
false inprisonment. In such cases the plea of ultra vres is
unavailing. The corporation is estopped from setting up such
a defence. National Bank v Graham, 100 U. S. 699.
The same result is produced in like manner in many instances where a corporation, having enjoyed the fruits of a contract fairly made, denies, when called to account, the existence
of the corporate power to make it. Bailwad Company v MeCarthy, 96 U S. 258.
The principle of estoppel thus applied has its foundation in
a wise and salutfry policy
It is a means of repose. It promotes fair dealing. It cannot be made an instrument of wrong
or oppression, and it often gives triumph to right and justice,
where nothing else known to our jurisprudence can, by its
operation, secure those ends. Like the Statute of Limitations,
it is a conservator, and without it society could not well go on.
If parties are in pan delicto, the law will help neither, but
leaves them as it finds them. But if two persons are in delicto,
but one less so than the other, the former may in many cases

Oct. 1880.]

DANIELS

v.

TEARNEY.

maintain an action for his benefit against the latter. White v.
Franklin Bank, 22 Pick. (Mass.) 181.
It is not necessary here to consider the extent and limitations of the rule. They are fully examined in the authority
referred to. In the case in hand the obligee must be deemed
wholly innocent, because the contrary is not alleged, and it
does not appear. Quod non apparet, non est. -De non apparentibus et non exzstentibus, eadem est ratw. "If the contract
be executed, however, that is, if the wrong be already done,
the illegality of the consideration does not confer on the party
guilty of the wrong the right to renounce the contract, for the
general rule is, that no man can take advantage of his own
wrong, and the innocent party, therefore, is alone entitled to
such a privilege." 1 Story, Contr., sect. 610, Taylor v Weld,
5 Mass. 108.
It is well settled as a general proposition, subject to certain
exceptions not necessary to be here noted, that where a party
has availed himself for his benefit of an unconstitutional law,
he cannot, in a subsequent litigation with others not in that
position, aver its unconstitutionality as a defence, although
such unconstitutionality may have been pronounced by a competent judicial tribunal in another suit. In such cases the
principle of estoppel applies with full force and conclusive
effect. Perguson v Landram, 5 Bush (Ky), 230. See _Ferguson v Landram, 1 id. 548, Van Hlook v. Whitlock, 26 Wend.
(N. Y ) 43, Lee v Tillotson, 24 id. 337, The People v Murray,
5 Hill (N. Y ), 468, City of Burlington v Gilbert, 31 Iowa,
356, B. C. B. & AL R. B. Co. v Stewart, 39 id. 267
In the case first cited, an injunction was applied for to prevent the collection of a tax authorized by an act of the legislature passed during the late civil war, to enable the people of a
county to raise volunteers and thus avoid a draft for soldiers,
and that object had been accomplished. In disposing of the
case the court well asked, "Upon what principle of exalted
equity shall a man be permitted to receive a valuable consideration through a statute, procured by his own consent or 'subsequently sanctioned by him, or from which he derived an
interest and consideration, and then keep the consideration,
and repudiate the statute?"

UNITED STATES

v. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

In United States v Hlodson (supra) this court said "When
a bond is voluntarily entered into and the principal enjoys the
benefits it was intended to secure, and a breach occurs, it is
then too late to raise the question of its validity The parties
are estopped from availing themselves of such a defence."
Not to apply the principle of estoppel to the bond in this
case would, it seems to us, involve a mockery in judicial administration and a violation of the plainest principles of reason
and justice.
Judgment affirmed.
NoTB.-Another case between the same parties was argued at the same time
as was the preceding case. MR. JUSTIOE SWAYNE remarked, that there were
no material points of difference between them, and that the opinion in the first
case was decisive of the second.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. KNOX.
1. Where, in order to discharge the liabilities of an insolvent national banking
association, the comptroller of the currency assessed against the several
shareholders a sufficient percentage upon the par value of the stock by
them respectively held, he has no power to direct a further assessment to
supply the deficit caused by the inability of the receiver to enforce payment
from such as are insolvent or beyond the jurisdiction.
2. "In addition to the amount invested in the shares," the holders thereof, after
the exhaustion of the assets of the association, are, to a sum not exceeding
the par value of the shares, "individually responsible, equally and ratably
and not one for another," for its outstanding debts. The liability is several,
and is not affected by the failure of any other shareholder to pay the amount
assessed against him.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Thomas J.Durant and Hr Charles TY Hornor for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr Charles Case, contra.
MP. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is a petition for a writ of mandamus directed to
the comptroller of the currency. It was fully heard in the

