Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO..v. ELDREDGE.

100 U. S. 82. The commerce regulated is expressly confined
to a kind over which Congress has been given control. There
is not here, as in Allen v Newberry (21 How 244), a question
of admiralty jurisdiction under the law of 1845, but of the
power of Congress over the commerce of the United States.
The contracts sued on do not relate to the purely internal commerce of a State, but impliedly, at least, connect themselves
-with the commerce of the world, because -in their performance
the laws of nations on the high seas may be involved, and the
United States compelled to respond.
Having found ample authority for the act as it now stands
in the commerce clause of the Constitution, it is unnecessary
to consider whether it is within the judicial power of the
United States over cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE COMPANY v. ELDREDGE.
Where a deed of trust of lands to secure a promissory note was released by the
trustee without the surrender or payment of the note or the express authority
of the holder thereof, a subsequent purchaser with notice takes them subject
to the equitable rights of such holder.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

II" Walter .D Davzdge and 1.
appellant.
1
1-r Enoclt Totten, contra.

iSamuel 1B. Bond for the

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In November, 1871, John Van Riswick sold and conveyed
certain real property in the city of Washington, of which he
then was the owner, to one George B. Coburn, for the sum of
$7,734.40, for which the latter gave his three promissory notes,
each for $2,578.13, payable respectively in one, two, and three
years after date, with interest. To secure these notes, Coburn
VOL. X11.

85

546

INSURANCE CO. v. ELDREDGE.

[Sup. Ct.

executed to one William H. Ward a deed of trust of the property. This deed authorized Ward, upon default in payment
of either of the notes, to sell the property, and upon full payment of the notes, and not otherwise, to release and reconvey
the property to Coburn. The deed was recorded the same
month. In February, 1872, Coburn sold and conveyed the
property to one Edwin E. Mayhew, subject to the deed of
trust.
In June, 1872, two persons by the names of Aistrop and
Dudley jointly borrowed of the complainant, Eldredge, $4,000,
for which they gave their note payable in sixty days, and as
collateral security delivered to him two of the three notes of
Coburn before mentioned, which had been indorsed to them.
In October following, Mayhew, who had subdivided the
property into sixteen lots, upon eight of which, fronting on
14th Street, houses were then being constructed, applied to
the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, through its
agent at Washington, John G. Bigelow, for a loan of $32,000,
and through him the loan was effected, and secured by a deed
of trust upon each of the eight lots. To obtain this loan it
became necessary to have the existing incumbrances upon the
property discharged. The company would not take the property as security with any prior lien upon it. In addition to
the deed of trust to secure Coburn's notes, the property was
then subject to a prior deed of trust, executed by a former
owner, to secure the sum of $7,000. The insurance company
left the matter of investigating the title and determining
as to the sufficiency of the security to Bigelow, who was specially instructed to see that the company had the first lien
upon the property He employed Ward, the trustee of the
Coburn deed, to examine and report upon the title. In compliance, it would seem, with Bigelow's wishes and in conjunction with Van Riswick, who described himself as the holder of
the first note of Coburn, but without the consent or knowledge
of the complainant, then holding the other two notes, Ward
executed a deed of release of the property It is to set aside
this deed, as a fraud upon the rights of the complainant, that
the present suit is brought.
It is very plain, from the evidence contained in the record,

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

ELDREDGE.

that Bigelow, in the course of his inquiries as to the condition
of the property, became fully acquainted with the existence of
the deeds of trust, and learned that the iotes secured were not
paid. The deeds were on record, and he was bound to take
notice of them. The deed of Coburn designated the notes and
limited the power of the trustee to release the property
le
was in terms authorized to release and reconvey it only upon
the full payment of the notes, and not otherwise. The deed
showed the time the notes had to run, and that by their terms
they were not then due. Unless paid at the time, or, what
would be deemed equivalent, surrendered, the trustee had no
authority to execute the release. It was not sufficient that the
original payees of the notes joined in the instrument or consented to its execution. So far as they had parted with the
notes they were denuded of power over the subject.
It is not necessary to express any opinion as to the authority
of a trustee to release property conveyed to him at any time,
where no such restriction, as in the present case, is in terms
placed upon his power. We confine our language to the precise point before us. Here there was no authority on the part
of the trustee to execute the deed until payment of the notes
was made. The fact of their non-payment being known to
Bigelow, the agent of the insurance company, knowledge of it
must be imputed to the company, his principal, and both must
be charged with knowledge of the law and the consequent inability of the trustee, at the time, to release the property
To prevent misapprehension, it is proper to state that we do
not wish to intimate any opinion upon the general question,
whether a purchaser of property may not rely upon a release of
a previous mortgage or trust-deed found upon the official records of the district where the property is situated, without further inquiry, where he has no knowledge of the non-payment
of the indebtedness secured, but what we hold is, that where
a purchaser (and a mortgagee or trustee of a trust-deed stands
in the same position), at the time of taking a deed, has information that a prior mortgagee or trustee of a prior deed
has released the property from the mortgage or trust, without
payment of the notes or their surrender, or express authority
from the holder of them, he will take the property subject to

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.

[Sup. Ct.

any equitable right of the holder of the notes, to secure the
payment of which the mortgage or trust-deed was executed.
As to the position- tlht the complainant is barred of the relief he asks by laches in asserting'bis claim, we do not think
there is any force in it. The company, as already stated, must
be deemed to have known of the want of power in the trustee
to release the property from the Coburn deed, and it does not
lie in its mouth to object that the complainant did not sooner
seek to set aside the priority of lien thus gained, nor can it
aver that his claim to have the instrument cancelled, by which
this priority was secured, is a stale one, when asserted within
the period allowed by law, and no rights of third parties as
bona fide purchasers have intervened to render inequitable the
assertion of his original lien.
-Decreeaffirmed.

UNITED STATES V. PINSON.
The account of a delinquent revenue officer or other person accountable for public monev, as finally adjusted by the proper officers of the Treasury Department, is not admissible as evidence under sect. 886, Rev. Stat., unless it be
certified and authenticated to be a transcript from the books and proceedings
of that department. A certificate, therefore, which states that the transcript,
to which it is annexed, is a copy of the original on file is not sufficient, that
being the form used in reference to mere copies of bonds, contracts, or other
papers connected with the final adjustment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the United States.
11._r B. IV fstes and Hir Ienry T. Ellett, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action against the executrix of one of several
sureties on the official bond, executed April 9, 1858, of Miles H.
Morris, formerly a purser in the navy The government claims
that deceased failed to account for certain clothing received by

