LANAHAN V. SEARS.

[Sup. Ct.

LANAHAN v. SnA~Is.
1. Where a party, on receiving an absolute deed, covenants with his grantor
to reconvey the lands, when the money wuch it was given to secure shall
be paid, both instruments must be taken together as constituting a mortgage.
2. The mortgagee of a homestead in Texas cannot maintain ejectment therefor,
if the "forced sale" thereof be prohibited by the Constitution of the State
whsch was in force at the date of the mortgage.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Western District of Texas.
This was a suit in equity by James E. Sears and Clara Sears,
against Samuel J Lanahan.
The case made by the bill is, m substance The complainants were married in November, 1869, and thereafter lived,
and still live, in Texas, said James since his marriage having been, under the Constitution and laws of that State, the
head of a family
In May, 1870, they purchased certain improved lots in Waco, Texas, and he thereupon took possession
of them, and has, as the head of a family, and with his wife,
ever since occupied them as their homestead. lie was engaged
in business, and became indebted to the firm of Lanahan &
Son, of Baltimore, to whom he gave his promissory notes, aggregating $7,858.19. They were not paid, and the firm pressing for payment, or security, he and wife, to obtain time and
to prevent legal proceedings, made, May 2, 1873, an absolute
deed - which was duly acknowledged and recorded - of the
lots to one Robertson, agent of the firm. Though made to
him, it was really for the benefit of the firm, and there was
executed and delivered, contemporaneously therewith, a writing
by him, which sets forth that the deed was made for the purpose of securing the notes.
Notwithstanding the deed, the complainants continued to
occupy the homestead. It was subsequently conveyed, without consideration, by Robertson to one Fort, who conveyed
it in the same way to Samuel J Lan4han, a member of the
firm. He holds the same for its benefit, and, the notes being
due and unpaid, brought ejectment, Dec. 20, 1875, in the court

Oct. 1880.]

LANAHAN V. SEARS.

below, to try the title to, and recover the possession of, the
lots, making only said James a party defendant.
The bill avers that the deed of May 2, 1873, and accompanying. agreement, constitute a mortgage upon the homestead
which cannot be judicially enforced, and that, if the judgment
be recovered, the complainant Clara will be wrongly deprived
of her homestead. An injunction is prayed for, restraining
Lanahan from the further prosecution of his suit.
The defendant's demurrer to the bill having been overruled,
and he declining to answer, the court decreed in favor of the
complainants.
The defendant then appealed here.
Art. 12, sect. 15, of the Constitution of Texas of 1868 is as
follows "The legislature shall have power, and it shall be their duty, to
protect by law from forced sale a certain portion of the property
of all heads of families. The homestead of a family not to exceed two hundred acres of land (not included in a city, town, or
village), or any city, town, or village lot or lots not to exceed
five thousand dollars m value at the time of their destination as
a homestead, and without reference to the value of any improvements thereon, shall not be subject to forced sale for debts, except
they be for the purchase thereof, for the taxes assessed thereon,
or for labor and materials expended thereon, nor shall the owner,
if a married man, be at liberty to alienate the same, unless by
the consent of the wife, and in such manner as may be prescribed
by law."
Hr Bernard Carterfor the appellant.
A mortgage of a homestead, executed by the husband and
wife to secure his indebtedness, if it be in the form required
by the law of Texas, is valid and binding on them. ,Sampson
& Keene v Williamson, 6 Tex. 118, Jordan v. Peak, 38 id. 429.
The mortgagee under such a mortgage can, after default and
condition broken, maintain in the Circuit Court of the United
States an action for the possession of the land.
It is an elementary principle that a mortgagee who is not, as
in this case, a citizen of the State where the suit is brought may,
after default and breach of the conditions of the mortgage,
maintain in the Circuit Court of the United States, ejectment,

LANAHAN V. SEARS.

[Sup. Ct.

writ of entry, or whatever may be the appropriate action in the
particular jurisdiction to recover possession of the demanded
premises. Brobst v Brock, 10 Wall. 529, Hutchins v King,
I id. 58, Hughes v ldwards, 9 Wheat. 494. The Constitution
of Texas, which exempts from a "forced sale" the homestead,
does not inhibit such an action therefor by the mortgagee on
the common-law side of the Circuit Court of the United States,
although his only remedy in the courts of that State is by a
proceeding to foreclose his mortgage.
The action sought to be enjoined seeks no sale of the property, forced or otherwise. It is simply one of the long-established alternative remedies of the mortgagee, viz., that of
taking the property into possession, and applying the rents and
profits to the liquidation of the debt. 2 Story, Eq., sect. 1016,
Hanway v Thompson, 14 Tex. 142.
The decisions in Texas establish,
1. That if there is a mortgage of the homestead, with no
power of sale inserted therein, then the court will not decree
a sale, because it is in that State a forced sale.
2. That if there is a power of sale inserted in the mortgage or deed of trust, authorizing the trustee or mortgagee
to sell on default, he may sell, and this is not a "forced
sale." Sampson & Keene v Williamson, sutpra, Jordan v
Peak, supra.
The provision in the Constitution adopted by Texas in 1875,
that "No mortgage, trust-deed, or other lien on the homestead
shall ever be valid, except for the purchase-money therefor, or
improvements made thereon, as hereinbefore provided, whether
such mortgage or trust-deed or other lien shall have been
created by the husband alone, or together with his wife, and
all pretended sales of the homestead, involving any condition
of defeasance, shall be void," can have no application to the
rights secured to the appellant by the mortgage of May 2,
1873.
A subsequent statute substantially altering the security cannot affect the rights of the mortgagee. Bronson v Kinzze,
1 How 318.
It makes no difference whether this attempted impairment
of them be by a constitutional or a statutory provision. Rail-

Oct. 1880.1

LANAHAN V. SEARS.

road Company v MWfcClure, 10 Wall. 511, Gunn v Rarry, 15
id. 610.
A brief prepared by the late Mr Bailie Peyton was filed for
the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The premises described in the complaint are in the city of
Waco, in the State of Texas. They have been the homestead
of the complainants from the time of their purchase, in May,
1870. The conveyance to Robertson in 187,3 was accompanied
by a defeasance from him, stating that the deed was executed
as security for certain promissory notes of the husband. The
two documents -the deed, which was absolute in form, and
the defeasance - are, therefore, to be taken together as if
forming one instrument. They together constitute a mortgage,
and as such would be treated in the courts of Texas.
By the Constitution of that State of 1868, wlch was in
force when the notes were given and the mortgage executed,
the homestead of a family was not subject to forced sale for
debts, except for the purchase-,money, or for taxes, and for
labor and materials expended thereon. The premises in question, therefore, could not be sold under any decree in a suit for
the foreclosure of the mortgage. The prohibition of the Constitution extended to any species of compulsory disposition of
the homestead, whether denominated a sale or otherwise. A
similar prohibition in the Constitution of 1845 was so construed
by the Supreme Court of the State in Sampson & Keene v Williamson, contained in the 6th of Texas Reports. In that case
Chief Justice Hemphill said that "the Constitution obviously
intended that the homestead should be exempted from the
operation of any species of execution, or from any forced disposition of the property, whether paxtial or total, which would
disturb the family in the quiet and uninterrupted possession of
their home with the property thereto attached. The beneficence of the provision has a much wider range than to protect the family from a sale which would utterly extinguish all
right in the property It shields them also from any extents
or deliveries of the property, or from any forcible appropriation of its rents, issues, and profits. It protects the domestic
voL. xii.
21

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

sanctuary from every species of intrusion which, under color
of law, would subject the property, by any disposition whatever, to the payment of debts."
The appellant is the ownei of the mortgage in this case, and
aware- so states his counselthat be could not enforce it
against the homestead in the State courts, as there mortgages
can only be enforced by a decree of sale, commenced an action
of ejectment for the premises in the Circuit Court of the
United States, contending that the mortgage passed the legal
title as against the mortgagors, and that, as its owner, lie had a
right to recover the possession of the premises for default in
the payment of the notes secured. He sought, in other words,
to get around the State Constitution by the form of his procedure in the Federal court. We do not think that its wise and
beneficent purpose of securing a home to the family against
the vicissitudes of fortune can be thus easily evaded. A
forced dispossession in ejectment is as much within the prohibition as a forced sale under judicial process. We think,
therefore, that the decree in the suit, enjoining the action of
ejectment, was properly rendered upon the undisputed facts
stated in the complaint, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.
A party who bribes an officer of the United States with money cannot maintain
an action to recover it.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

This is a suit by James S. Clark and Edward Fulton, partners under the name and style of J S. Clark & Co., to recover
from the United States the sum of $10,000 alleged to have
been extorted from the petitioners in December, 1864, by Col.
Harai Robinson, then acting provost-marshal-general for the
Department of the Gulf.
The court below found the following facts -

