UNITED STATES

v. KNOX.

[Sup. Ct.

In United States v Hlodson (supra) this court said "When
a bond is voluntarily entered into and the principal enjoys the
benefits it was intended to secure, and a breach occurs, it is
then too late to raise the question of its validity The parties
are estopped from availing themselves of such a defence."
Not to apply the principle of estoppel to the bond in this
case would, it seems to us, involve a mockery in judicial administration and a violation of the plainest principles of reason
and justice.
Judgment affirmed.
NoTB.-Another case between the same parties was argued at the same time
as was the preceding case. MR. JUSTIOE SWAYNE remarked, that there were
no material points of difference between them, and that the opinion in the first
case was decisive of the second.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. KNOX.
1. Where, in order to discharge the liabilities of an insolvent national banking
association, the comptroller of the currency assessed against the several
shareholders a sufficient percentage upon the par value of the stock by
them respectively held, he has no power to direct a further assessment to
supply the deficit caused by the inability of the receiver to enforce payment
from such as are insolvent or beyond the jurisdiction.
2. "In addition to the amount invested in the shares," the holders thereof, after
the exhaustion of the assets of the association, are, to a sum not exceeding
the par value of the shares, "individually responsible, equally and ratably
and not one for another," for its outstanding debts. The liability is several,
and is not affected by the failure of any other shareholder to pay the amount
assessed against him.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Thomas J.Durant and Hr Charles TY Hornor for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr Charles Case, contra.
MP. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is a petition for a writ of mandamus directed to
the comptroller of the currency. It was fully heard in the

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. KNOX.

court below upon the merits. The writ was refused, and judgment for costs rendered against the relator, the Citizens' National Bank of Louisiana. This writ of error was thereupon
sued out, and the case is thus brought before us for review
There is no controversy as to the facts. The only question
presented for our consideration is a question of law The case
made in the record, so far as it is necessary to be stated for the
purposes of this opinion, is as follows On the 7th of April,
1874, the Crescent City National Bank of New Orleans was,
and for some time had been, insolvent and in the hands of a
receiver. On that day the comptroller assessed each shareholder seventy per cent upon the par value of each share of
his stock, and ordered the receiver to collect the assessment.
This the receiver proceeded to do by filing a bill in equity in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, against all the shareholders. Thereafter he obtained
a decree against all the defendants severally, who were within
the jurisdiction of the court, for the amount due from each one
according to the assessment, and the cause was thereupon continued to await any further assessment the comptroller might
pending.
deem it p.roper to make, and it is still
The capital stock of the bank was $500,000, seventy per
cent, therefore, was $350,000.
This sum, if it could have been collected in full, would have
paid all the debts of the bank and left a balance over. But by
reason of the insolvency of many of the shareholders the assessment netted only $112,658.13, and nothing, or very little more,
will hereafter be realized from it. From the proceeds of the
assessment and other assets of the bank, eighty per cent of the
principal of its debts have been paid.
The relator being a large creaitor of the bank, requqsted the
comptroller to order a further assessment of thirty per cent
upon each share of the capital stock, for the discharge of the
balance of principal and interest still due to its creditors,
and to direct the receiver to proceed as before to collect the
amount of the new assessment. The comptroller refused, because the enforcement of such an assessment would compel
the solvent shareholders to pay the sums and proportions due
from the shareholders who are insolvent.

UNITED STATES V. KNOX.

[bup. Ot.

Ile holds that no such liability is imposed on the solvent
shareholders, and that he has, therefore, no right or power to
make the assessment as requested.
The point to be decided is whether lie is clothed with this
power and duty, and whether the shareholders are thus liable.
The first bank law was passed Feb. 25, 1863, c. 58, 12 Stat.
665. The last clause of sect. 12 is as follows " For all debts contracted by such association for circulation,
deposits, or otherwise, each shareholder shall be liable to the
amount of the par value of the shares held by him, in addition
to the amouit invested in such shares."
This provision was changed in 1864, and has been since and
is now in force in these terms "The shareholders of every
national banking association shall be held individually responsible, equally and ratably, and not one for another, for all
contracts, debts, and engagements of such association, to the
extent of the amount of their stock therein, at the par -value
thereof, ii addition to the amount invested in such shares."

Rev Stat., sect. 5151.
The act of 1863 made no provision for enforcing the personal
liability of shareholders, while that of 1864 provided that it
might be done through a receiver appointed by the comptr9ller,
and acting under his direction. Id., sect. 5234.
The difference between the clause creating the individual
liability as -it was originally, and as it was after it was amended
and altered, is obvious and striking. The change was plainly
made ex zndustrza, to prevent the possibility of doubt as to the
meaning of Congress. What the effect of the clause would
have been without the change is a point we are not called
upon to consider. The charter of a private corporation is a
contract between the law-making power and the corporators,
and the rights and obligations of the latter are to be measured
accordingly
By the common law the individual property of the stockholders was not liable for the debts of the corporation under
any circumstances. Here the liability exists by virtue of the
statute and the assent of the corporators to its provisions, given
by the contract which they entered into with Congress in accepting the charter. With respect to the character of that

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. ]KNOX.

liability, it is entirely clear from the language employed in creating it, that it is several and cannot be made joint, and that
the shareholders were-not intended to be put in the relation of
guarantors or sureties, "one for another," as to the amount
which each might be required to pay
In the process to be pursued to fix the amount of the separate liability of each of the shareholders, it is necessary to
ascertain, 1, the whole amount of the par value of all the stock
held by all the shareholders, 2, the amount of the deficit to
be paid after exhausting all the assets of the bank, 3, then
to apply the rule that each shareholder shall contribute such
sum as will bear the same proportion to the whole amount of
the deficit as -his stock bears to the whole amount of the capital stock of the bank at its par value. There is a limitation
of 'this liability It cannot in the aggregate exceed the entire
amount of the par value of all the stock.
The insolvency of one stockholder, or his being beyond the
jurisdiction of the court, does not in any wise affect the liability
of another, and if the bank itself, in such case, holds any of
its stock, it is regarded in all respects as if such stock were in
the hands of a natural person, and the extent of the several
liability of the other stockholders is computed accordingly
Crease v Babcock, 10 Mete. (Mass.) 525.
These rules have, been applied in several well-considered
judgments of other courts, where the words we have italicized
were notin the statutes upon which they proceeded. We have
found no case in conflict with them. See Crease v Babcock,
supra, Atwood v R. I Agrzcultural Bank, 1 R. I. 376, I the
Matter of the Hollister Baik, 27 N. Y 393, Adkins v Thornton, 19 Ga. 325, Bobznson v Lane, id. 337, Wiswell v Starr,
48 Me. 401. See also Morse on Banking, 503.
Although assessments made by the comptroller, under the
circumstances of the first assessment in this case, and all other
assessments, successive or otherwise, not exceeding the par
value of all the stock of the bank, are conclusive upon the
stockholders, yet if he were to. attempt to enforce one made,
clearly mid palpably, contrary to the views we have expressed,
it cannot be doubted that a court of equity, if its aid were
invoked, would promptly restrain him by injunction.

McELRATH v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Nothing in this opinion is intended in any wise to affect the
authority of Kennedy v Gibson and Others, 8 Wall. 498, and
Casey v Galli, 94 U. S. 673. On the contrary, we approve and
reaffirm the rule laid down in those cases.
The comptroller decided correctly as to his duty in this case.
Judgment affirmed.

MCELRATH V. UNITED STATES.
1. An officer of the army or the navy was, June 20, 1866, subject to summary
dismissal from the service by order of the President.
2. On the twenty-seventh day of June, 1866, the President nominated to the
Senate A. to be a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps from the twentieth
day of that month, vice B. dismissed. The Senate advised and consented
to the appointment agreeably to the nomination, and A. was comnissioned
July 13, 1866. Held, that such appointment, followed by a commission,
operated to discharge B. from the service as effectually as if lie had been
dismissed by the direct order of the President.
3. So much of sect. 6 of the act of July 13, 1866 (14 Stat. 92), as provides that
"no officer in the military or naval service shall, in time of peace, be dismissed from service except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of a
court-martial to that effect, or in commutation thereof," did not take effect
before Aug. 20, 1866, on which day in contemplation of law, the rebellion
against the national autiority was suppressed, and peace restored.
4. Upon the settlement of his accounts by the accounting officers of the treasury,
B., while announcing that lie would not be concluded thereby and protesting that the allowance was insufficient, received it, and brought suit in the
Court of Claims to recover the balance claimed. Held, that the United
States is not bound by the settlement, but for any moneys improperly paid
him In pursuance thereof is entitled to judgment.
5. The provision of the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 765 'Rev. Stat., sects.
1059-1001), authorizing that court, without the intervention of a jury to
hear and determine claims against the government, and also any set-off,
cotnter-claim, claim for damages, or other demand on the part of the government against the claimant, does not violate the Seventh Amendment of
the Constitution.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

On the 5th of June, 1866, Thomas L. McElrath transmitted
to the Secretary of the Navy his resignation as a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps. By an official communication from
the Navy Department, dated June 19, 1866, and signed by
Mr. Welles, as Secretary of the Navv, he was notified that the

