Oct. 1880.]

8LORD
v. STEAISHIP CO.

county Under this view of the case we need not consider the
question, suggested by counsel, as to how far the rights of parties are to be controlled by the decisions of the Supreme Court
of. the State, rendered after the election of 1867, upon the
subject of municipal donations to railroad and other private
corporations.
What has been said is suffcient to dispose of the case.
The decree below sustaining the demurrer was correct,
and is
Affirmed.

LORD v. STEAMSHIP COMPANY.
1. While navigating the high seas between ports of the same State, a vessel
of the United States is, together with the business in which she is engaged,
subject to the regulating power of Congress.
2. Sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes, as limited in its application by sect. 4289,
is not unconstitutional.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
Sects. 4283 and 4289 of the Revised Statutes are as follows " SECT. 4283. The liability of the owner of any vessel, for any
embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by any person, of any property,
goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board of such vessel, or
for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter,
or thing lost, damage or forfeiture done, occasioned, or incurred,
without the privity or knowledge of such owner br owners, shall in
no case exceed the amount of the value of the interest of such owner
in such vessel, and her freight then pending."
"SECT. 4289. The provision of the seven preceding sections relating to the limitation of the liability of the owners of vessels shall
not apply to the owners of any canal-boat, barge, or lighter, or to
any vessel of any description whatsoever used in rivers or inland
navigation."
Sect. 4283 was one of the seven sections referred to in sect.

4289.

LORD V. STEA31SHIP CO.

[Sup. Ct.

The steamship " Ventura," owned by the defendant in error,
the Goodall, Nelson, and Perkins Steamship Company, was
employed in navigation between San Francisco and San Diego,
in the State of California, touching at the intermediate ports
on the coast. In making her voyages she ran a distance of
four hundred and eighty miles on the Pacific Ocean. She
formed part of a transportation line which was largely engaged
in foreign and inter-state commerce, but was herself only employed on her own route, and neither took on nor put off goods
outside of the State of California. While on one of her regular
voyages from San Francisco to San Diego she was totally lost,
with all her pending freight and cargo, on the coast of California, without the privity or knowledge of her owner. This suit
was brought against her owner as a common carrier to recover
the value of the goods lost. The cargo was mostly owned by
retail merchants in San Diego and other places in California
who had made purchases for their business from wholesale
merchants m San Francisco and was in transit from there.
The steamship company pleaded its exemption from liability
as owner of the vessel under sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes. On the trial the court instructed the jury "that if the
jury believed that the said losses occurred solely by reason of
the negligence of the master of said ship and without the
privity or knowledge or neglect of said defendant, that said
sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes fully exonerated the defendant from liability for any such losses, notwithstanding
the goods when lost were being transported on a journey,
the final termini of which were different points in che State
of Californa." To this charge an exception was duly taken.
The jury found in favor of the defendant, and judgment was
rendered accordingly To reverse that judgment the present
writ of error was sued out.
Mr Samuel F Leib and 1-Ur Charles A. Kent, for the plaintiff inerror.
Sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes has no application to
the case at bar, for it has repeatedly been held that the clause
of the Constitution conferring upon Congress the power to
"regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes," does not authorize

Oct. 1880.]

LORD v. STEAMSHIP CO.

that body to exercise any control over the purely internal commerce of a State. Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, License
Cases, 5 How 504, Passenger Cases, 7 id. 283, Allen v Newberry, 21 id. 244, iaguire v Card, id. 248, Sinnot v Davenport, 22 id. 227, Moore v American Transportation Co., 24
id. 1, United States -f Rolliday, 3 Wall. 407, License Tax
Cases, 5 id. 462, Steamship Company v Port Wardens, 6 id.
31, Woodruff v Par/ham, 8 id. 123, United States v Dewitt,
9 id. 41, The Danzel Ball, 10 id. 557, State Tonnage Tax
Cases, 12 id. 204, Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 id. 232,
Peete v Morgan, 19 id. 581, The Sdneca, 1 Biss. 371, The
Tug Oconto, 5 id. 463, and cases cited, The Mary Washington,
1 Abb. (U. S.) 1, The James Morrison, 1 Newb. Adm. 241,
Sears v.. The Board, &c., 36 Ind. 270, Navigatzon Company v
Dwyer, 29 Tex. 382, Story, Const., sect. 1061.
Mr John B. Ward, contra.
Congress did not, in passing sect. 4283 of the Revised Statutes, attempt or intend to exercise any power over the internal
commerce of a State. Its object was to regulate an instrument
of commerce over which it had undoubted control.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The single question presented by the assignment of errors is,
whether Congress has power to regulate the liability of the
owners of vessels navigating the high seas, but engaged only
in the transportation of goods and passengers between ports
mid places in the same State. It is conceded that while the
Ventura carried goods from place to place in California, her
voyages were always ocean voyages.
Congress has power "to regulate commerce -with foreign
itations and among the several States, and with the Indian
tribes" (Const., art. 1, sect. 8), but it has nothing to do with
the purely internal commerce of the States, that is to say, with
such commerce as is carried on between different parts of the
same State, if its operations are confined exclusively to the
jurisdiction and territory of that State, and do not affect other
nations or States or the Indian tribes. This has never been
disputed since the case of Gibbons v Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1. The

LORD V. STEAMSHIP CO.

[Sup. Ct.

contracts sued on in the present case were in effect to carry
goods from San Francisco to San Diego by the way of the
Pacific Ocean. They could not be performed except by going
not only out of California, but out of the United States as well.
Commerce includes intercourse, navigation, and not traffic
alone. This also was settled in Gibbons v Ogden, supra.
"Commerce with foreign nations," says Mr. Justice Daniel,
for the court, in Veazze v Moor (14 How 568), "must signify
commerce which, in some sense, is necessarily connected with
these nations, transactions which either immediately or at some
stage of their progress must be extra-territorial." p. 573.
The Pacific Ocean belongs to no one nation, but is the common property of all. When, therefore, the Ventura went out
from San Francisco or San Diego on her several voyages, she
entered on a navigation which was necessarily connected with
other nations. While on the ocean her national character only
was recognized, and she was subject to such laws as the commercial nations of the world had, by usage or otherwise, agreed
on for the government of the vehicles of commerce occupying
this common property of all mankind. She was navigating
among the vessels of other nations and was treated by them as
belonging to the country whose flag she carried. True, she
was not trading with them, but she was navigating with them,
and consequently with them was engaged in commerce. If in
her navigation she inflicted a wrong on another country, the
United States, and not the State of California, must answer
for what was done. In every just sense, therefore, she was,
while on the ocean, engaged in commerce with foreign nations,
and as such she and the business in which she was engaged
were subject to the regulating power of Congress.
Navigation on the high seas is necessarily national in its
character. Such navigation is clearly a matter of " external
concern," affecting the nation as a nation in its external- affairs.
It must, therefore, be subject to the national government.
This disposes of the case, since, by sect. 4289 of the Revised
Statutes, the provisions of sect. 4283 are not applicable to
vessels used in rivers or inland navigation, and this legislation,
therefore, is relieved from the objection that proved fatal to
the trade-mark law which was considered in Trade-111ark Case.,

Oct. 1880.]

INSURANCE CO..v. ELDREDGE.

100 U. S. 82. The commerce regulated is expressly confined
to a kind over which Congress has been given control. There
is not here, as in Allen v Newberry (21 How 244), a question
of admiralty jurisdiction under the law of 1845, but of the
power of Congress over the commerce of the United States.
The contracts sued on do not relate to the purely internal commerce of a State, but impliedly, at least, connect themselves
-with the commerce of the world, because -in their performance
the laws of nations on the high seas may be involved, and the
United States compelled to respond.
Having found ample authority for the act as it now stands
in the commerce clause of the Constitution, it is unnecessary
to consider whether it is within the judicial power of the
United States over cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE COMPANY v. ELDREDGE.
Where a deed of trust of lands to secure a promissory note was released by the
trustee without the surrender or payment of the note or the express authority
of the holder thereof, a subsequent purchaser with notice takes them subject
to the equitable rights of such holder.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

II" Walter .D Davzdge and 1.
appellant.
1
1-r Enoclt Totten, contra.

iSamuel 1B. Bond for the

MR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

In November, 1871, John Van Riswick sold and conveyed
certain real property in the city of Washington, of which he
then was the owner, to one George B. Coburn, for the sum of
$7,734.40, for which the latter gave his three promissory notes,
each for $2,578.13, payable respectively in one, two, and three
years after date, with interest. To secure these notes, Coburn
VOL. X11.

85

