Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK V. DAYTON.

a mortgage for that purpose, the title of the bank to hold the
mortgage would have been indubitable. In that case prior
equities of the mortgagor might have prevailed against the
title of the bank, because a mortgage is not a commercial
security, and its transfer for any consideration whatever does
not cut off prior equities. But the honafide transfer of commercial paper before maturity does cut off such equities, and
every collateral is held by the creditor by such title and in
such manner as appertain to its nature and qualities. Security
for the payment of a debt actually owing is a good consideration, and sufficient to support a transfer of property When
such transfer is made for such purpose, it has due effect as a
complete transfer, according to the nature and incidents of the
property transferred. When it is a promissory note or bill of
exchange, it has the effect of giving absolute title and of cutting off prior equities, provided the ordinary conditions exist
to give it that effect. If not transferred before maturity or in
due course of business, then, of course, it cannot have- such
effect. But I think it i§ well shown in the principal opinion
that a transfer for the purpose of securing a debt is a transfer
in due course. And that really ends the argument on the
subject.

NATIONAL BANK v. DAYTON.
A., being indebted to B., proposed, in consideration of a further loan of money to
deliver, in payment of both sums, a certain quantity of wood at a stipulated
price per cord. B. accepted the proposal, C. agreeing to receive the wood
from him at that price. The loan was made, and A., pursuant to the agreement of the parties, delivered the wood upon the premises of 0. Held, that
A.'s title passed by that delivery, and'that the wood was not subject to levy
under executions thereafter issued by his creditors.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Wyoming Territory
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Samuel Shellabargerand Mr Jeremiah S. Wilson for the
plaintiff in error.
lr William A. Maury for the defendant in error.

NATIONAL

BANK V. DAYTON.

[Sup. Or.

MR. JUSTICE HARILAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This was replevin by the Wyoming National Bank against
Thomas J Dayton. The latter, as sheriff of Albany County,
Wyoming Territory, had, by virtue of several attachments
against the property of one W S. Bramel, levied upon a number of cords of wood. The bank, claiming to be the owner of
the -wood at and before the time when the writs were issued
and levied, brought this action to recover it, and damages for
the detention thereof.
In the court of original jurisdiction a verdict was returned
in favor of the defendant, and judgment thereon entered.
From the judgment of affirmance by the Supreme Court of
the Territory the present writ of error is prosecuted.
Upon the question of the ownership of the wood, at the date
of the respective levies, the evidence was conflicting, and presented a case peculiarly within the province of the jury to
determine, under proper guidance as to the law governing it.
Without attempting to set forth the whole case, it is sufficient
to remark that there was evidence to establish the following
facts Bramel was engaged in the business of bringing wood down
the Big Laramie River to Laramie City He had a contract
with the Union Pacific Railroad Company for the delivery to
it, at its yard in that city, by a specified date, of five hundred
cords of wood at 85 per cord. In the necessary preparations
for that engagement, he had, prior to Oct. 30, 1873, received
from the bank about $2,100, which its president testified had
been advanced to him at different times on this same wood.
For these advances the bank held his notes. On the day last
named he applied to the president of the bank for a further
advance of money His application was den'ied. iHe then
proposed that the bank should buy all the wood he had, some
of which was then in the yard of the company, but not received
by it, some on the bank of the river, and some in the river.
This proposition was at first declined, but, after further conversation between him and the president of the bank, it was
agreed that the bank should take the five hundred cords at 85
per cord, to be paid for in the debt of 82,100, then held by the
bank, and $400 in cash, upon the condition that the company

Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL BANK v. DAYTON.

would receive the wood from the bank upon like terms. It was
a part of the arrangement that Bramel should, in that event,
put the wood into the yard of the company, and use the $400
for that purpose. In order to ascertain whether the company
would assent to this arrangement, the bank cashier and Bramel,
by direction of the president of the bank, visited Mr. Shankland, who had the control of all such business for the company
They returned together and reported that Shankland approved
the arrangement, and -would make out the vouchers for the
wood to the bank. The cashier then paid $400 to Bramel,
taking his note therefor, bearing interest at three per cent per
month, and the latter went on putting the wood into the yard
of the company He had delivered at that place about three
hundred and seventy-five cords, and had a few cords on the
river-bank, when it was all seized by the defendant in error,
under the attachments against Bramel's property None of
the wood had then been actually received by. the company
Bramel's notes, to which we have referred, were held by the
bank at the commencement of this action. They were taken,
as the bank -claimed and -proved by its president, more as
memoranda ihan anything else, and had not been surrendered
to Bramel because he had not called at the bank for them.
Such was, substantially, the case of the bank. We do not
say that the jury should have found that it was made out, even
by a decided preponderance of the evidence, but only that there
was evidence tending to show that the contract and acts of the
parties were such as the foregoing statement sets forth.
Looking at the case in the light of these facts, it seems that
the transaction between the bank and Bramel was something
more than a mere agreement as to the disposition of the money
to be obtained from the company It constituted a sale to the
bank of all the wood which he delivered at the yard of the
company The absolute title to it passed to the bank upon his
depositing it there, with the intention or for the purpose of
completing the sale. Nothing more remained to be done by
him. His contract bound him to deliver the wood, not to the
company, but at its yard only In legal contemplation, it then
came into the possession and control of the bank, and was not
thereafter subject to be reached by his creditors, upon the mere

NATIONAL BANK

v.

DAYTON.

[Sup. ot.

ground that the title had not passed, or that a complete delivery
had not been made. The delivery in execution of the contract,
at a specified place not belonging to him, was such as accorded
with the nature of the property When placed in the yard of
the company, in pursuance of the agreement, the acts of the
parties united with the previous verbal contract, resulting in a
consummated obligatory agreement, depriving the seller of all
further control of the property, and putting it under the exclusive dominion of the buyer, with a perfected title ther'eto.
From that moment, the indebtedness of the seller to the bank
to the extent of the contract price of the wood actually delivered
at the designated place was discharged, and the property was
thenceforward at the risk of the buyer. Actual manual possession of the bank by its agents was, under the circumstances
and regarding the nature of the property, both impracticable
and unnecessary to a complete delivery These conclusions are
abundantly sustained by authority Benjamin, Sales, .bk. 1,
pt. 2, p. 134, Hilliard, Sales, c. 7, pp. 124-130, Browne, Statute of Frauds, c. 15, p. 323.
The instructions were not in accordance with these views.
The court failed to state distinctly and clearly the principles of
law by which the jury were to be governed. Taking all the
instructions together, it is evident that the deposit of the wood
at the yard of the company, in pursuance of the previous
agreement between the bank and Bramel that it should be put
there for ultimate delivery to the company, was not regarded
by the court as such a change of possession as would, in law,
pass the title to the bank as against the creditors, whose attachments were subsequently issued and levied.
That we do not misinterpret the instructions is quite clear,
from the opinion of the Supreme Court, which declared that
"the record shows that the full and absolute control and possession of the same was publicly and privately retained by
Bramel, after the alleged unconditional sale." In view of
the pleadings and evidence this could not be the case, unless the
court below not only disregarded the evidence in behalf of the
bank, but was, further, of opinion that the delivery of the wood
at the yard was insufficient to pass the title, and change the
control and possession of the property from the seller to the

-Oct. 1880.]

NATIONAL

BANK

v.

DAYTON.

buyer. But that position, as we have seen, is unsound both
tpon principle and authority We repeat that, if Bramel
agreed to sell and the bank agreed to buy the wood at a fixed
price per cord, the seller to remove the wood from the river and
put it in the yard of the company, for sale or delivery to the
latter by the bank, which was to receive the vouchers, and if
the wood was so deposited in pursuance of that sale and agreement, then, in legal contemplation, the title and possession of
the property passed to the bank from the moment it reached
the yard. If after being placed there and before its receipt
by the company the wood had been destroyed or stolen, the
loss would have been that of the bank. It is immaterial, under
the circumstances, that the company ha4 not, when the attachments were levied, expressly or formally recognized the bank's
ownership of the wood..
Some stress was laid upon the fact that the bank took the
note of Bramel for the $400 advanced to him. That act, it is
claimed, was inconsistent with the theory of an absolute purchase by the bank. There was, however, evidence conducing
to show that the bank took the note by way only of precaution,
and to meet the possible contingency of the non-delivery of the
wood at the yard of the company But it was for the jury to
say what weight should be given to that .fact in determining,
upon the whole case, whether there was an actuil sale of the
wood, or only an agreement as to the disposition of the proceeds after it should be received by the company
The judgment will be reversed, with directions to require
the judgment of the court of original jurisdiction to be set
aside and a new trial granted,.and for such further proceedings
as may be in conformity with this opinion, and it is
So ordered.

