64

-

UNITED STATES V. PECK.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES V. PEICK.
PECK v. UNITED STATES.
1. Parol evidence of the surrounding circumstances is admissible to show the
subject-matter of a contract.
2. The conduct of one party to a contract which prevents the other from performing his part is an excuse for non-performance.

APPEALS from the Court of Claims.

Peck, the claimant, entered into a contract with the proper
military officer to furnish and deliver a certain quantity of
wood and hay to the military station at Tongue River, in the
Yellowstone region, on or before a specified day. He furnished
the wood, but failed to furnish the hay, which was furnished
by other parties at an increased expense. The accounting
officers of the government claimed the right to deduct from
the claimant's wood account the increased cost of the hay.
Whether this could lawfully be done was the principal question in the cause.
The court, upon an examination of the contract and of the
surrounding circumstances of the case, were of opinion that
the contracting parties, in stipulating relating to bay, contemplated hay to be cut in the Yellowstone valley, and specially
at the Big Meadows near the mouth of Tongue River, -which
was, indeed, the only hay which the claimant could have procured within hundreds of miles, and which it was known he
relied on. The government officers, fearing that the claimant
would not be able to carry out his contract, and it being absolutely necessary that the hay should be had, allowed other
parties to cut the hay at Big Meadows, and therewith to supply the Tongue River station. The claimant complained of
the double injury: first, of giving the hay which he relied on
to other parties; and, secondly, of charging, him for the increased expense of getting it. The question was whether the
surrounding circumstances could be taken into consideration
in the claimant's excuse, although the contract made no mention of the source from which he was to procure the hay to be
supplied by him' to the government.

Oct. 18-80.]

UNITED STATES V. PECK.

Mr.Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Hr. John B. Sanborn, contra.
after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We think that the facts of the case clearly bring it within
the rules allowing the introduction of parol evidence: first, for
the purpose of showing, by the surrounding circumstances, the
subject-matter of the contract, namely, ]hay to be cut and gathered in the region where it was to be delivered; secondly, for
the purpose of showing the conduct of the agents of the defendants by which the claimant was encouraged and led on to
rely on a particular means of fulfilling his contract until it was
tob late to perform it in any other way; and then was prevented by these agents themselves from employing those means.
The supply of hay which he depended on, and which under
the circumstances he had a right to depend on, was taken away
by the defendants themselves. In other words, the defendants
prevented and hindered the claimant from performing his part
of the contract.
That the subject-matter of a contract may be shown by parol
evidence of the surrounding circumstances, see Bradley v.
Washington, Alexandria, 4 Georgetown Steam Packet Co., 13
Pet. 89 ; Thorington v. Smith, 8 Wall. 1; Maryland v. Tailroad
Company, 22 id. 105; Reed v. Insurance Company, 95 U. S.
28; 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 277; Taylor, Evid., sect. 1082.
And that the conduct of one party to a contract which prevents
the other from performing his part is an excuse for non-performance, see Addison, Contracts, sect. 826 ; Fleming v. Gilbert,
8 Johns. (N. Y.) 527. In the case last cited, the defendant
was sued on a bond obliging him by a certain time to procure
and cancel a nfortgage of the plaintiff and deliver the same to
him. The defendant was allowed to prove by parol that he
procured the mortgage, and, having inquired of the plaintiff
what he should do with it, was directed to place it in the hands
of a third person. This was held to be an excuse for not having fully performed the condition. Judge Thompson said: "It
is a sound principle that he who prevents a thing being done
shall not avail himself of the non-performance he has occaMR.JUSTICE BRADLEY,

VOL. XI.

6

-

CASEY

sioned.

v.

ADAMS.

[Sup. Ct.

Had not the plaintiff dispensed with a further com-

pliance with the condition of the bond, it is probable that the
defendant would have taken measures to ascertain what steps
were requisite to get the mortgage discharged of record, and
would have literally complied with the con dition of the bond."
So when A. gave to B. a bond to convey certain premises, but
they subsequently agreed by parol to rescind the contract, and
A. thereupon sold the premises to a third person, it was held
that though the bond was not cancelled or given up, nor any of
the papers changed, yet by the parol agreement and the acts
of the parties under it the bond was discharged. Dearbornv.
Cross, 7 Cow. (N. Y.) 48; and see 2 Cowen & Hill's Notes to
Phillips on Evid., 605. The principle involved in these cases
is applicable to the present.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. -- The other points involved in the foregoing case were of minor
importance, and, at the'suggestion of the justice who delivered the opinion, are
omitted.

CASEY v. ADAMIS.
Actions, local in their nature, may be maintained in the proper State court
against a national banking association in a county or a city other than that

where it is established.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This was a proceeding instituted in the Fifteenth Judicial
District Court, parish of La Fourche, Louisiana, by Adams &
Co., against sundry parties, among whom was Nicholas W.
Casey, receiver of the New Orleans Banking Association, which
was organized under the act of Congress and established at
New Orleans.
It appears that, by virtue of executory process issued out of
that court, a certain parcel of land in the parish, whereon
Adams & Co. held a mortgage, was sold, they becoming the
purchasers for less than their debt. "The sheriff refused to
complete the adjudication" unless they paid certain mortgage
claims of the banking association and other creditors. Adams

