LOUISIANA V. WOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

LOUISIANA V. WOOD.
1. A city in Missouri, having lawful power to borrow money and provide for the
payment of her debts, issued her bonds for the purpose of raising the means
to pay her interest-bearing debt and the expenses of her government. They
recite that they are issued under the authority of her charter, and an ordinance pursuant thereto passed Jan. 8, 1867. Although not actually executed until July 16, 1872, they were antedated as of Jan. 1, 1872, for the
purpose of evading a law of the State passed March 28, 1872, which enacts
that no bond thereafter issued by any county, city, or incorporated town,
for any purpose whatever, shall be valid or negotiated until it is registered by the State auditor, and his certificate of such registration indorsed
thereon. A., believing that the bonds were what on their face they purported to be, and, therefore, obligatory on the city, bought them in good
faith from her authorized agent, and the money paid therefor went into
her treasury. Hdd, 1. That the city was in the market as a borrower,
and received the money in that character notwithstanding the transaction
assumed the form of a sale of her securities, upon which, they being defectively executed, a suit could not be maintained. 2. That A. is entitled to
recover the money paid, with interest thereon, from the time the obligation
of the city to pay was denied.
2. The power of the city conferred by her charter to borrow money to take up
her bonded indebtedness was not repealed by the eleventh section of the
act of March 28, 1872, which enacts that "any county city or town that
desires to place its outstanding indebtedness, under the provisions of this
act, may do so by funding the same, and issmng new bonds in lieu of the
present ones, upon such terms and bearing such interest, with such length
of time to run, as may be agreed upon between the county, city, or town
and the holders of its bonds."
ERRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
Upon the facts found by the court below this case is as

follows

The city of Louisiana, Missouri, bad authority in law to
borrow money, at any rate of interest not exceeding ten per
cent per annum, and to provide for the payment of its debts.
Onthe 8th of January, 1867, an ordinance was passed by the

city council creating the office of " city fund commissioner."
It was made the duty of this officer to sell the bonds of the
city for the purpose of funding or paying the indebtedness of

the city, and apply the proceeds to the purchase of outstanding
warrants and bonds past due, or not having more than three

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA V. WOOD.

years to run. By this ordinance he was limited m his sales to
a price not less than ninety-five cents on the dollar of the par
value of five-year bonds, and ninety cents for those running
ten years. On the 1st of March, 1871, the fund commissioner
reported to the city council that the bonded indebtedness of
the city was about $150,000, bearing interest mostly at the
rate of ten per cent per annum, and that about $100,000 would
mature that year, and in the years 1872, 1873, 1874, and 1875.
Upon this report an ordinance was passed authorizing the commissioner "to negotiate the bonds of the city for the purpose
of raising money to liquidate the city debt, for a period not
exceeding fifteen years. and at a rate of discount not exceeding
fifteen per cent."
On the 28th of March, 1872, the General Assembly of that
State passed " An Act to provide for the registration of bonds
issued by counties, cities, and incorporated towns," sects. 4 and
11 of which are as follows " S9CT. 4. Before any bond hereafter issued by any county, city,

or incorporated town, for any purpose whatever, shall obtain validity or -be negotiated, such bond shall first be presented to the State
auditor, who shall register the same in a book or books provided
for that purpose, in the same manner as the State bonds are now
registered, and who shall certify by indorsement on such bond that
all the conditions of the laws have been complied with in its issue,
if that be the case, and, also, that the conditions of the contract
under which they were ordered to be issued have also been complied with, and the evidence of that fact shall be filed and preserved
by the auditor, but such certificate shall be, przma .facie evidence
only of the facts therein stated, and shall not preclude or prohibit
any person' from showing or proving the contrary in any suit or
proceeding to test or determine the validity of such bonds, or the
power of any court, city or town council, or board of trustees or
other authority, to issue such bonds, and the remedy of injunction
shall also lie at the instance of any tax-payer of the -respective
county, city, or incorporated town, to prevent the registration of
any bonds alleged to. be illegally issued or founded under any of
the provisions of this act."
"S.cT. 11. Any county,, city, or town that desires to place its
outstanding indebtedness, under the provisions of this act, may do
so by funding the same, and issuing new bonds in lieu of the pres-

LOUISIANA V. WOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

ent ones, upon such terms and bearing such interest, with such
length of time to run, as may be agreed upon between the county,
city, or town and the holders of its bonds Prowded,however, that
the contract for funding, with the terms of the same, shall be assented to by a majority of the qualified voters of such county, city,
or town, at a general or special election held therefor, and at least
thirty days' public notice of the same shall be published in every
paper in the county, city, or town, and when there are none, then
by four printed handbills put up in the most public places in every
voting precinct in such county, city, or town."
Other sections make special provisfon for the assessment and
collection of taxes to pay the principal and interest of all bonds
registered in accordance with the act.
On the 16th of July, 1872, after this act went into effect,
the city, for the purpose of raising money to pay its interestbearing debts and the expenses of its government, caused to be
executed by its proper officers, and sealed with its corporate
seal, twenty-one bonds, payable to bearer on the 1st of January,
1887, for $1,000 each, with coupons attached for semi-annual'
interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum. These bonds
contained recitals that they were issued under the authority of
Although not
the charter and the ordinance of Jan. 8, 1867
actually executed until July 16, 1872, the city, "for the purpose
of evading the provisions of said registration law, and with the
intent to make it falsely appear that said bonds were not subject to the requirements of said law, caused said bonds to be
antedated as of the first day of January, 1872, and caused it to
be falsely stated in them that they were signed, countersigned,
and sealed on the day last named." The bonds thus executed
were, without being registered, placed by the fund commissioner in the hands of a respectable stock and bond broker in
On the 25th of
St. Louis, to sell for the account of the city
August, 1873, the broker and agent sold and delivered to the
plaintiff below, now the defendant in error, ten of the bonds
at ninety per cent of their face value, and on the 1st of September nine more at the same rate. On the 24th of June he
sold to Lewis Dorsheimer one bond, and on the 24th of February, 1874, another to John F Gibbons, at the same price.
The price was in each case paid to the broker in money, the

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA V. WOOD.

purchasers all the time being ignorant .of the fact that the
bonds were actually executed after the registration law went
into effect, or that the recitals were not in all respects true.
They bought the bonds, and paid for them in good faith, believing them to be what on their face they purported to be,
and obligatory on the citv The broker, with the assent of
the fund commissioner, retained from the money realized on
the sales five per cent on the par value of the bonds sold, for
his services, and paid the residue to the commissioner, who,
with the sanction of the city council, used part in the payment
and redemption of matured bonds, coupons, and warrants of
the city, and handed over the rest to the city treasurer. The
fund commissioner reported the sales of the bonds to the city
council, and charged himself with a sum equal to eightv-five
per cent of the par value as the sum realized by him, making
no mention of the amount retained by the broker for services.
His accounts were examined and approved by the city council,
and the bonds, coupons, and warrants taken up by his payments were destroyed. The interest on the bonds thus sold
was met in full by the city as it matured until Jan. 1, 1876,
when only forty per cent was paid, and on the 1st of July of
that year the city declared its purpose not to pay either principal or interest, claiming that the bonds, were invalid because
not registered.
The bonds bought by Dorsheimer and Gibbons were transferred to the plaintiff. After the city had repudiated its obligation, he offered to return the whole twenty-one bonds, and
demanded the repayment of the several sums paid*for them.
This being refused, the present suit was brought to recover
back the money so paid. Upoil the foregoing facts the court
gave judgment against the city for $18,900, and interest at the
rate of six per cent per annum from the time the payment of
the intereston the bonds was stopped. To reverse that judgment, the city brought the case to this court, and the error
assigned is that the facts found are not sufficient to support
the judgment.
Mr Davd P Dyer for the plaintiff m error.
Mr John -D. S. -Dryden,contra.

LOUISIANA V. WOOD.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. CHIEF JUSTI E WAITE, after stating the facts, deliv-

ered the opinion of the court.
That the bonds in question are invalid, is conceded. Such
is the effect of Anthony v County of Jasper (101 U. S. 693),
decided at the last term. It is equally true that the legal
effect of the transactions by which the plaintiff and his assignors got possession of the bonds was a borrowing by fb]e
city of the money paid for what was supposed to be a purchase
of the bonds. As the broker through whom the business was
done was the agent of the city and acting as such, the case, so
far as the city is concerned, is the same as though the money
had been paid directly into the city treasury and the bonds
given back in exchange. The fact that the purchasers did not
know for whom the broker was acting is, for all the purposes
of the present inquiry, immaterial. They believed they were
buying valid bonds which had been negotiated and were on the
market, when in reality they were loaning money to the city,
and got no bonds. The city was in the market as a borrower,
and received the money in that character, notwithstanding the
transaction assumed'the form of a sale of its securities.
The city, by putting the bonds out with a false date, represented that they were valid without registry The bonds were
bought and the price was paid under the belief, brought about
by the conduct of the city, that they had been put out and
had become valid commercial securities before the registry law
went into effect. It would certainly be wrong to permit the
city to repudiate the bonds and keep the money borrowed on
their credit. The city could lawfully borrow The objection
goes only to the way it was done. As the purchasers were
kept in ignorance of the facts which made the bonds invalid,
they did not knowingly make themselves parties to any illegal
transaction. They bought the bonds in open market, where
they had been put by the city in the possession of one clothed
with apparent authority to sell. The only party that has done
any wrong is the city
In .iloses v MacFerlan (2 Burr. 1005), it is stated as a rule
of the common law, that an action " lies for money paid by
mistake, or upon a consideration which happens to fail, or for
money got through imposition." The present action can be

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA

V. WOOD.

sustained on either of these. grounds. The money was paid for
bonds apparently well executed, when in fact they were not,
because of the false date they bore. This was clearly money
paid by mistake. The consideration on which the payment
was made has failed, because the bonds were not, in fact, valid
obligations of the city And the money was got through imposition, because the city, with intent to deceive, pretended that
the false date the bonds bore was the true one. While, therefore, the bonds cannot be enforced, because defectively executed, the money paid for them may be recovered back. As
we took occasion to say in Marsh v Fulton County (10 Wall.
676), "the obligation to do justice rests upon all persons, natural or artificial, and if a county obtains the money or property
6f others without authority, the law, independent of any statute,
will compel restitution or compensation."
It is argued, however, that, as the city was only authorized by
law to borrow money at a rate of interest not exceeding ten per
cent per annum, the money cannot be recovered back, because
a sale of the bonds involved an obligation to pay interest
beyond the limited rate, and the borrowing was, therefore,
ultra vwres. There was no actual sale of bonds, because there
were no valid bonds to sell. There was no express contract of
borrowing and lending, and consequently no express contract
to pay any rate of interest at all. The only contract actually
entered into is the one the law implies from what was done, to
wit, that the city would, on demand, return the money paid to
it by mistake, and, as the money was got under a form of obligation which was apparently good, that interest should be paid
at the legal rate from the time the obligation was denied. That
contract the plaintiffs seek to enforce in this action, and no
other.
Again, it was contended that, as the money in this case was
borrowed to take up bonded indebtedness, the transaction was
ultra vzres, because the effect of the eleventh section of the act
of 1872 -was to repeal all earlier laws authorizing the borrowing of money for such purposes. We do not so understand
that section. The old power to borrow, which the charter
gave, was left unimpaired, but, under this new provision, registered bonds might be issued in place of old ones, if the city

SImS

v.

EVERHARDT.

[Sup. Ct.

and the holders of the old bonds could agree on terms and the
people gave their assent. In this way the holders of old bonds
might avail themselves of the special tax winch the law of
1872 required should be levied to meet the obligation of all
registered bonds but the city was not prevented from borrowing money to pay old bonds if it saw fit to do so, or if it could
not agree on the terms of exchange.
The judgment below was right, and it is consequently
Affirmed.

SIMvs v. EVERHARDT.
1. An infantfei e cover, to whom lands in Indiana were conveyed, executed with
her husband, May 20,1847, a deed in fee therefor, for a valuable consideration paid by the grantee to him. She was, on her petition, divorced from
him, Feb. 14, 1870. Within less than two months thereafter she gave due
notice of her disaffirmance of the deed, and demanded possession of the
lands, which was refused. She thereupon brought suit. Held, that, as she
did nothing during her coverture to confirm the deed, her notice and suit
avoided it.
2. An estoppel in pais not being applicable to an infant, she was not estopped
from alleging her infancy, by any declaration which, at the time of executing the deed, she made in regard to her age.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Indiana.
This case shows that the complainant was married July 14,
1844, to John B. Sims. She was then a minor less than seventeen years old, having been born Sept. 25, 1828. Her father,
April 3, 1845, conveyed to her in fee the tract of land in controversy, and, May 28, 1847, she, joining with her husband,
executed a deed therefor to Magdalena Everhardt. The deed,
subscribed by her and her husband in the presence of a magistrate, was acknowledged in due form, and the purchase-money
paid. Mrs. Everhardt went into immediate possession, paid
a mortgage upon the property, paid taxes, continued in possession, and made improvements until her death in 1871. The
defendants are her devisees.

