SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

right of recovery dependent upon proof of every single fact
averred in the pleadings, or which has been recited in this
opinion. We have considered the case in the light of the
facts, as averred, and, by the demurrer, conceded to exist.
Upon the trial, after issue joined, the court will have no difficulty, in view of what we have said, in determining whether
the case, as actually presented to the jury, shows a breach of
duty or legal obligation upon the part of the railroad company,
for which it may be liable in damages.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded
with directions to overrule the demurrer, and for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion, and it is
So ordered.

SPRINGER

V. UNITED STATES.

1. Certain lands of A. were distrained and sold by reason of his refusal to pay

the income tax assessed against him under the act of June 30, 1864 (13

2.

3.

4.
5.

Stat. 218), as amended by the act of March 3, 1865 (id. 469), he having no
goods or chattels known to the proper officers out of which the tax and
penalty could have been made. The United States became the purchaser
of the lands, received a deed therefor, and brought ejectment against him.
Held, that lie cannot raise the question here that the deed, inasmuch as it
refers to the act of March 30 instead of that of June 30, should, on the
trial, have been excluded from the jury, as that objection to its admissibility in evidence was not made in the court of original jurisdiction.
Where the collector acted in good faith, it was not improper for him, in the
exercise of his discretion, to sell as an entirety the lands, consisting of two
town lots which were enclosed and occupied as a single homestead, a dwelling-house being upon one of them and a barn on the other. The State
statute under which they were separately assessed has no application to
his proceedings.
Congress, ia the exercise of its power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts,
and excises," may, to enforce their payment, authorize the distraint and
sale of either real or personal property The owner of the property so
distrained and sold is not thereby deprived of it without due process of
law.
Direct taxes, within the meaning of the Constitution, are only capitation taxes
as expressed in that instrument, and taxes on real estate.
The duty which the internal revenue acts provided should be assessed, collected, and paid upon gains, profits, and incomes was an excise or duty,
and not a direct tax, within the meaning of the Constitution.

Oct., 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
In June, 1866, the deputy assessor of internal revenue for the
proper district in Illinois delivered to William M. Springer a
notice in writing, with certain accompanying forms, requiring
him within ten days to make out and return, according to
those forms, a list of his income, gains, and profits for the year
1865. In compliance therewith, Springer made out the necessary statement, dated June 21, 1866, and delivered it to the
deputy, together with a written protest against the authoiity
of the latter to demand the statement, on the ground that the
acts of Congress under which that officer acted were unconstitutional and void. The statement, showing that the net
income received by Springer for the year 1865, and subject
to taxation, amounted to $50,798, upon which the sum of
$4,799.80 was'assessed as tax, was transmitted to David T.
Littler, the collector, who, Nov 17, 1866, payment being refused, served a notice upon Springer demanding payment, and
warning him that, unless it should be made within ten days,
the law authorized tho collection of the tax, together with a
penalty of ten per cent additional by distraint and sale.
Payment being again refused, and Springer having no goods
or chattels which were known to the collector or his deputy,
the collector, Jan. 24, 1867, caused'a warrant for $5,279.78,
the amount of the tax and penalty, to be issued and levied
upon certain real estate in the city of Springfield, Sangamon
County, Illinois, consisting of two pieces of lots in the same
enclosure without any division fence, and belonging to Springer,
upon one of which pieces was located his dwelling-house and
upon the other his barn. The property was advertised, and, on
March 15,1867, sold, the United States becoming the purchaser
for the amount of the tax,, penalty, and costs. On that day
Littler, as collector, made and executed to the United States
a deed of the property, which, Nov 28, 1868, was recorded in
the recorder's office of that county Jpnathan Mferriam, his
successor as collector, made and executed, April 17, 1874, another deed to the United States for the same property This
deed was duly recorded April 23, 1874. It recites the assessment of the tax, the demand therefor, the seizure and sale of

SPRINGEI

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the property "by virtue of an act of Congress of the United
States of America, entitled ' An Act to provide internal revenue to support the government, and to pay interest on the public debt,' approved July 1, 1862, and the act of March 30, 1864,
as amended."
Dec. 2, 1874, the United States brought this action of ejectment against Springer.
At the trial the plaintiff, having proved the foregoing facts,
offered in evidence the deed of April 17, 1874, but the defendant objected thereto, on the ground that the deed is void,
because the tax demanded of him was a direct tax, and, not
being levied in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, was
not a legal or valid demand upon him, that the summary levy
upon and sale of his property without opportunity to him to
be heard in court deprived him of his property without due
process of law, that the acts of Congress purporting to authorize the assessment and levy of the tax, the sale of his
property and the execution of the deed, were without force or
validity, and that as the property was susceptible of division
into separate tracts or lots, the laws of Illinois were disregarded
by not selling, it accordingly. He also for the same reasons
objected to the introduction in evidence of the papers pertaining to the assessment, levy, and sale, but the court overruled
the objection, and permitted them and the deed to be read in
evidence. The defendant thereupon excepted.
It was proved by the defendant that he purchased the lots
from different parties, that they are separately described, are
susceptible of division, and would have sold to better advantage
had they been sold separately, that they were assessed separately for the purpose of State taxation, and were, in 1866,
worth between $10,000 and $12,000.
The court thereupon, at the request of the plaintiff, charged
the jury 1. That the deed in question is a valid instrument,
and transferred to the United States the title of the defendant
in and to the lots. 2. That the laws or acts of Congress mentioned in said deed were valid enactments at the time, and
authorized the proceedings taken in the premises. To which
instructions the defendant excepted, and asked the court to
charge the jury, -

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

1. That the tax on the income, gains, and profits of the
defendant, assessed upon him, as appears by the evidence in
this case, was a direct tax within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States, and that, in order to constitute
such tax a valid claim upon the defendant, it should have
been apportioned among the several States the same as representatives in Congress are. And if the jury believe from
the evidence that such tax was not so apportioned among the
several States, then such tax was levied in violation of the
Constitution, and the sale of defendant's property to satisfy
the same is void, and in that case they will find for the de.fendant.
2. That the sale of defendant's real estate to satisfy the tax
assessed upon him ii a summary manner, without first having
obtained a judgment in a court of record, was a proceeding to
deprive the defendant of his property without due process of
law, and if the jury believe from the evidence that defendant's
real estate was sold to satisfy the tax assessed upon him, without having first obtained a judgment in a court bf record, or
without giving said defendant an opportunity to be heard in
court, then such sale was void, and they will find for the
defendant.
3. That if the jury believe from the evidence in this case
that a penalty of ten per cent upon the amount of said tax was
assessed upon defendant by the collector of internal revenue,
which penalty amounted to $479.98, without having obtained
a judgment in a court of record, by due process of law, and
that the defendant's real estate was sold to satisfy said penalty,
together with said tax, then such sale was void, and they will
find for the defendant.
4. That a party claiming title to land under a summary or
extraordinary proceeding must show that all the indispensable
preliminaries to a valid sale which the law and the Constitution prescribe have been complied with, and if they believe
from the evidence that the plaintiff has failed to show that
all the requirements of the law have been complied with in
the assessment and levy of the tax, the service of the notice,
the issue of the warrant, and the execution thereof, in the
advertisement and sale of the property, in the making and

SPRINGER v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

execution of the deed, and in all the other requirements of
the law, then they will find for the defendant.
5. That the sale of real estate to satisfy a personal tax not
levied upon or a lien upon said real estate, without first having obtained a judgment in a court of record and an execution in pursuance thereof, is a proceeding to deprive a person
of his property without due process of law, and if they believe from the evidence in this case that the tax levied upon
defendant was not assessed in the first instance upon said
real estate and made a lien thereon, and that said real estate
was sold to satisfy said tax without a judgment of a court
of record, then such sale is void, and they will find for the
defendant.
But the court refused to so charge the jury, to which refusal
the defendant excepted.
The jury found for the United States, and a motion for a
new trial having been refused, to which refusal the defendant
excepted, judgment was rendered accordingly The defendant
then sued out this writ, and here assigns for error, 1. The admission in evidence of the deed and other papers
in the court below
2. The refusal of the court to charge the jury as requested
by him.
3. The giving of the charge requested by the plaintiff.
4. The refusal to grant a new trial.
Mr William l. Springer for the plaintiff in error.
The tax assessed against the plaintiff in error having been
levied upon his income, gains, and profits, is a direct tax.
3 Smith's Wealth of Nations, 212, 213, 216, 220-228, 244248, 271-274, 276-278, 2 Mill's Pol. Econ. 418-434, Say s
Pol. Econ. 465-468, 480, Perry's Elements Pol. Econ. 443,
1 Chambers's Inf. for the People, 371, Brande's Dict. of
Science, Literature, and Art, 1211, Wayland's Pol. Econ.
391, 392, Knight s Cyclopodia (London, 1842), title "Taxation," Encyclopidia Britannica, title "Taxation," Encyclopmdia Americana, title "Taxes," 4 Elliott's Debates, 433, Sir
Morton Peto on Taxation, 50, 53, Goodrich's Science of Government, 251, Ricardo's Principles of Pol. Econ. 214, 221,
1 Pampletier, 557 (1816).

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

The tax on incomes not having been based, even professedly,
upon population nor apportioned relatively among the several
States, was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States. Const. U. S., art. 1, sects. 2, 8, 9; 1 Kent, Com. 277,
2 Story, Const. 113, 143, Loughborough v Blake, 5 Wheat.
317
The acts of Congress by virtue of which the tax complained
of was levied conferred no authority, for either its assessment
and levy, the sale of his property, or the execution of a deed
therefor.
The deed recites the act approved July 1, 1862, and that of
lfarch 30, 1864, as amended. No act of Congress bears the
latter date. Consequently the deed was not admissible m
evidence. But if it be contended by the United States that
the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 218), was the one referred
to, it is thell submitted that that act, as amended by that
of March 3, 1865, did not authorize the proceedings taken by
the collector. The power to levy the tax is a limited one,
and if the limits prescribed by law are transcended, the levy
is void. West School Dzstrzct of Canton v Merrills, 12 Conn.
437.
In every case where an individual tax is, upon trial, shown
to be greater than the amount authorized, a sale df the land
for the payment of such tax will be deemed void. Kemper v.
McClelland, 19 Ohio, 324, Elwell v Shaw, 1 Greene (Iowa),
335, Blackwell, Tax Titles, 160, 161.
The levy upon and sale of the property of the plaintiff in
error was in violation of the provision of the Constitution of
the United States declaring that "no person shall be deprived
of his life, liberty, or property without due process of law "
3 Story, Const. 661, 1 id. 623-625, Murray's Lessee v .oboken Land and Improvement Co., 18 How 272, Wynehamer
v The People, 13 N. Y 378, People v Berberrzch, 11 How
(N. Y) Pr. 289.
"Due process of law," in its true and largest signification, means law in its regular course of administration by the
courts of justice, and not the execution of a power vested m
ministerial officers. Hake v Henderson, 4 Dev. (N. C.) L. 15,
Taylor v Porter, 4 Hill (N. Y), 146, Bank of Columbza v

SPRINGEI. V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Okely, 4 Wheat. 235, White v Ihite, 5 Barb. (N. Y) 481,
Reed v TTrght, 2 Greene (Iowa), 22, .Joocock v Bennett,
2 Cow (N. Y ) 740, Kenny v Beverly, 3 Hen. & 'M. (Va.)
336, Brown v ITunmel, 6 Pa. St. 87, Erwne's Appeal, 16 id.
256, Arrowsmith v Burlingame, 4 McLean, 498, 5 Webster s
Works, 487, 488, Cooley, Taxation, 316-319.
The request to the court below to charge the jury that a
party claiming title to land under a summary or extraordinary
proceeding must show that all the indispensable prelimmaries to a valid sale have been complied with, should have been
granted. Games v Stiles, 14 Pet: 322, Thatcher v Powell,
6 Wheat. 119, Cooley, Taxation, 308, 328, 334, 853, 354,
Rex v Cooke, 1 Cowp. 26, Blackwell, Tax Titles, 214-216,
Leland v Bennett, 5 Hill (N. Y ), 286, Denike v Bourke,
3 Biss. 39,
aiardin v Owings, 1 Bibb (Ky), 214.
Jfr Assistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.
MNR. JUsTICE SwAYNE, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The central and controlling question in this case is whether
the tax wich was. levied on the income, gains, and profits of
the plaintiff in error, as set forth in the record, and by pretended virtue of the acts of Congress and parts of acts therein
mentioned, is a direct tax. It is fundamental with respect to
the rights of the parties and the result of the case. It will
be last considered. Many of the other points made by the
plaintiff in error reproduce the same thing in different forms
of language. They will all be responded to without formally
restating any of them. This will conduce to brevity without
sacrificing clearness, and will not involve the necessary omission of anything proper to be said.
The plaintiff in error advises us by his elaborate bref "that
on the trial of the case below the proceedings were merely
formal," and that "no arguments or briefs were submitted,
and only such proceedings were had as were necessary to prepare the case for the Supreme Court."
This accounts for the numerous defects in the record as a
whole. It was doubtless intended that only the question presented in the first of the assignments of error should be consid-

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

ered here. In that respect the record is full and sufficient.
Other alleged errors, however, have been pressed upon our
attention, and we must dispose of them.
There is clearly a misrecital in the deed of one of the acts of
Congress to which it refers. By the act of the 30th of March,
1864, was clearly meant the act of the 80th of June, m the
same year. There is no act relating to internal revenue of
the former date.
But the plaintiff in error cannot avail himself of this fact,
for several reasons.
The point was not brought to the attention of the court
below, and cannot, therefore, be insisted upon here. It comes
within the rulefalsa demonstratio non nocet. It was the act of
June 30, 1864, as amended bv the act of March 3, 1865, that
was in force when the tax was assessed. The latter act took
effect April 1, 1865, and declared that "the duty herein provided for shall be assessed, collected, and paid upon the gains,
profits, and income for the year ending the thirty-first day of
December next preceding the time for levying, collecting, and
paying said duty "
The tax was assessed for the year 1865 in the spring of 1866,
under the act of 1865, according to the requirements of that
act, and we find, upon examination, that the assessment was
in all things correct. 13 Stat. 469, 479. The criticism of the
plaintiff in error in this regard is, therefQre, without foundation.
The proceedings of the collector were not in conflict with the
amendment to the Constitution which declares that "no person
shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process
of law" The power to distrain personal property for the payment of taxes is almost as old as the common law Cooley,
Taxation, 302. The Constitution gives to Congress the power
"to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises." Except as to exports, no limit to the exercise of the power is prescribed. In M cCulloch v. Maryland (4 Wheat. 816), Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall said, "The power to tax involves the power to
destroy " Why is it not competent for Congress to apply to
realty as well as personalty the power to distrain and sell when
necessary to enforce the payment of a tax9 It is only the
voL. xI.

38

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

further legitimate exercise of the same power for the same
purpose. In Murray's Lessee v Hoboken Land and Improvement Co. (18 How 274), this court held that an act of Congress
authorizing a warrant to issue, without oath, against a public
debtor, for the seizure of his property, was valid, that the
warrant was conclusive evidence of the facts recited in it,
and that the proceeding was "due process of law" in that
case. See also De Treville v Smalls, 98 U. S. 517, Sherry v
McKinley, 99 id. 496, Miller v United States, 11 Wall. 268,
Tyler v Defrees, id. 381.
The prompt payment of taxes is always important to the
public welfare. It may be vital to the existence of a government. The idea that every tax-payer is entitled to the delays
of litigation is unreason. If the laws here in question involved
any wrong or unnecessary harshness, it was for Congress, or
the people who make congresses, to see that the evil was corrected. The remedy does not lie with the judicial branch of
the government.
The statute of Illinois had no application to the point whether
the premises should be sold by the collector en masse or in two
or more parcels. The fact that the house was on one lot and
the barn on the other, that the whole was surrounded by a
common enclosure, and that the entire property was occupied
as a single homestead, rendered it not improper for the collector
to make the sale as it was made. No suspicion of bad faith
attaches to him. He was clothed with a discretion, and it is
to be presumed that he exercised it both fairly and well.
Oleott v Bynum, 17 Wall. 44.
Certainly the contrary does not appear. If the tax was not
a direct tax, the instructions given by the court, brief as they
were, covered the whole case, and submitted it properly to the
jury
The plaintiff in error was entitled to nothing more. The
fourth instruction which he asked for was liable to several fatal
objections. It was too general and indefinite. It left it for
the jury to decide what were the "indispensable preliminaries"
required by the law and Constitution in the numerous particulars specified. It referred to matters to which the attention
of the court below does not appear to have been called, and Xn

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

regard to which, if this had been done, the requisite proof would
doubtless have been supplied. It -falls within the principle of
the rule so often applied by this court, that where instructions
are asked in a mass, if one of them be wrong the whole may
be rejected. The record does not purport to give all the testimony, and its defects are doubtless largely due to the mode
in which the case was tried, and the single object already stated
which the parties then had in view The instruction was properly refused.
To grant or refuse a new trial was a matter within the discretion of the court. That it was refused cannot be assigned
for error here.
Several other minor points have been earnestly argued by
the learned plaintiff in error, but as they are all within the
category of not having been taken in the court below, we need
not more particularly advert to them.
This brings us to the examination of the main question in
the case.
The clauses of the Constitution bearing on the subject are
as follows "Representatives and direct taxes shall be apportioned among
the several States which may be included within this Union, according to their respective numbers, which shall be determined by
adding to the whole number those bound to service for a term of
years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three-fifths of all Other
persons.
No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid unless
in proportion to the census herembefore directed to be taken."
Was the tax here in question a direct tax? If it was, not
having been laid according to the requirements of the Constitution, it must be admitted that the laws imposing it, and the
proceedings taken under them by the assessor and collector for
its imposition and collection, were all void.
Many of the provisions of the Articles of Confederation of
1777 were embodied in the existing organic law They provided for a common treasury and the mode of supplying it with
funds. The latter was by requisitions upon the several States.
The delays and difficulties ill
procuring the compliance of the
States, it is known, was one of the causes that led to the adop-

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

tion of the present Constitution. This clause ot the articles
throws no light on the question we are called.upon to consider
Nor does the journal of the proceedings of the constitutional
convention of 1787 contain anything of much value relating
to the subject.
It appears that on the 11th of July, in that year, there
was a debate of some warmth involving the topic of slavery On the day following, Gouverneur Morris, of New York,
submitted a proposition " that taxation shall be in proportion to representation." It is further recorded in this day s
proceedings, that Mr. Morris having so varied his motion by
inserting the word "direct," it passed nem. con., as follows
"Provided always that direct taxes ought to be proportioned to
representation." 2 Madison Papers, by Gilpin, pp. 10791081.
On the 24th of the same month, Mr. Morris said that "hbe
hoped the committee would strike out the whole clause.
He had only meant it as a bridge to assist us over a gulf, having passed the gulf, the bridge may be removed. He thought
the principle laid down with so much strictness liable to strong
objections." Id. 1197. The gulf was the share of representation claimed by the Southern States on account of their slave
population. But the bridge remained. The builder could not
remove it, much as he desired to do so. All parties seem
thereafter to have avoided the subject. With one or two immaterial exceptions, not necessary to be noted, it does not
It was
appear that it was again adverted to in any way
silently incorporated into the draft of the Constitution as that
instrument was finally adopted.
It does not appear that an attempt was made by any one to
define the exact meaning of the language employed.
In the twenty-first number of the Federalist, Alexander
Hamilton, speaking of taxes generally, said "Those of the
direct kind, which principally relate to land and buildings, may
admit of a rule of apportwnment. Either the value of the land,
or the number of the people, may serve as a standard." The
thirty-sixth number of that work, by the same author, is devoted to the subject of internal taxes. It is there said, "They
my be subdivided into those of the direct and those of the

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

indirect kind." In this connection land-taxes and poll-taxes
are discussed. The former are commended and the latter are
condemned. Nothing is said of any other direct tax. In
neither case is there a definition given or attempted of the
phrase "direct tax."
The very elaborate researches of the plaintiff in error have
furnished us with nothing from the debates of the State conventions, by whom the Constitution was adopted, which gives
us any aid. Hence we may safely assume that no such material exists in that direction, though it is known that Virginia
proposed to Congress an amendment relating to the subject,
and that Massachusetts, South Carolina, New York, and North
Carolina expressed strong disapprobation of the power given
to impose such burdens. 1 Tucker's Blackstone, pt. 1, app.,
235.
Perhaps the two most authoritative persons in the convention
touching the Constitution were Hamilton and Madison. The
latter, in a letter of May 11, 1794, speaking of the tax which
was adjudicated upon in Hylton v United States (8 Dall. 171),
said, "The tax on carriages succeeded in spite of the Constitution by a majority of twenty, the advocates of the principle
being reinforced by the adversaries of luxlry " 2 Mad. Writings (pub. by Congress), p. 14. In another letter, of the 7th
of February, 1796, referring to the case of Hylton v United
States, then pending, he remarked "There never was a question on which my mind was better satisfied, and yet I have very
little expectation that it will be viewed in the same light by
the court that it is by me." Id. 77. Whence the despondency thus expressed is unexplained.
Hamilton left behind him a series of legal briefs, and among
them one entitled " Carriage tax:" See vol. vii. p. 848, of his
works. This paper was evidently prepared with a view to the
Hylton case, in which he appeared as one of the counsel for
the United States. In it he says "What is the distinction
between direct and zndirect taxes? It is a matter of regret
that terms so uncertain and vague in so important a point are
to be found in the Constitution. We shall seek in vain for any
antecedent settled legal meaning to the respective terms. There
is none. We shall be as much at a loss to find any disposition

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

of either which can satisfactorily determine the point." There
being many carriages in some of the States, and very few in
others, he points out the preposterous consequences if such
a tax be laid and collected on the principle of apportionment instead of the rule of uniformity He insists that if the
tax there in question was a direct tax, so would be a tax
on ships, according to their tonnage. He suggests that the
boundary line between direct, and indirect taxes be settled
by "a species of arbitration," and that direct taxes be held
to be only "capitation or poll taxes, and taxes on lands
and buildings, and general assessments, whether on the whole
propertyq of individuals or on their whole real or personal
estate. All else must, of necessity, be considered as indirect
taxes."
The tax here in question falls within neither of these catepersonal estate"
gories. It is not a tax on the "whole
of the individual, but only on his income, gains, and profits
during a year, which may have been but a small part of his
personal estate, and in most cases would have been so. This
classification lends no support to the argument of the plaintiff
inerror.
The Constitution went into operation on the 4th of March,
1789.
It is important to look into the legislation of Congress touching the subject since that time. The following summary will
suffice for our purpose. We shall refer to the several acts of
Congress, to be examined according to their sequence in dates.
In all of them the aggregate amount required to be collected
was apportioned among the several States.
The act of July 14, 1798, c. 75, 1 Stat. 53. This act imposed a tax upon real estate and a capitation tax upon slaves.
The act of Aug. 2, 1813, c. 37, 3 id. 53. By this act the
tax was imposed upon real estate and slaves, according to their
respective values in money

The act of Jan. 19, 1815, c. 21, id. 164. This act imposed
the tax upon the same descriptions of property, and in like
manner as the preceding act.
The act-of Feb. 27, 1815, c. 60, id. 216, applied to the District of Columbia the provisions of the act of Jan. 19, 1815.

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED

STATES.

The act of March 5, 1816, c. 24, id. 255, repealed the two
preceding acts, and re-enacted their provisions to enforce the
collection of the smaller amount of tax thereby prescribed.
The act of Aug. 5, 1861, c. 45, 12 id. 294, required the tax
to be levied wholly on real estate.
The act of June 7, 1862, c. 98, id. 422,,and the act of Feb.
6, 1863, c. 21, id. '640, both relate only to the collection, in
insurrectionary districts, of the direct tax imposed by the act
of Aug. 5, 1861, and need not, therefore, be more particularly
noticed.
It will thus be seen that whenever the government has imposed a tax which it recognized as a direct tax, it has never
been applied to any objects but real estate and slaves. The
latter application may be accounted for upon two grounds
1. In some of the States slaves were regarded as real estate
(1 Hurd, Slavery,,239, Teazze Bank v .Fenno, 8 Wall. 533),
and, 2, such an extension of the tax lessened the burden upon
the real estate where slavery existed, while the result to the
national treasury was tle same, whether the slaves were omitted or included. The wishes of the South were, therefore,
allowed to prevail. We are not aware that the question of the
validity, of such a tax was ever presented for adjudication.
Slavery having passed away, it cannot hereafter arise. It does
not appear that any tax like the one here m question was ever
regarded or treated by Congress as a direct tax. This uniform
practical construction of the Constitution touching so important
a point, through so long a period, by the legislative and executive departments of the government, though not conclusive, is
a consideration of great weight.
There are four adjudications by this court to be considered.
They have an important, if not a conclusive, application to the
case in hand. In Htylton v United States (supra), a tax had
been laid upon pleasure-carriages. The plaintiff in error insisted that the tax was void, because it was a direct tax, and
had not been apportioned among the States as required by the
Constitution, where such taxes are imposed. The case was
argued on both sides by counsel of eminence and ability It
was heard and determined by four judges, - Wilson, Paterson,
Chase, and Iredell. The three first named had been dis-

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Slip. Ct.

tinguished members of the constitutional convention. Wilson
was on the committee that reported the completed draft of the
instrument, and warmly. advocated its adoption in the State
convention of Pennsylvania. The fourth was a member of
the convention of North Carolina that adopted the Constitution. The case was decided in 1795. The judges were unanimous. The tax was held not to be a direct tax. Each judge
delivered a separate opinion. Their judgment was put on the
ground indicated by Mr. Justice Chase, in the following extract
from his opinion "It appears to me that a tax on carriages cannot be laid by
the rule of apportionment without very great inequality and
injustice. For example, suppose two States equal in census to
pay eighty thousand dollars each by a tax on carriages of eight
dollars on every carriage, and in one State there are one hundred carriages, and in the other one thousand. The owners of
carriages in one State would pay ten times the tax of owners in
the other. A., in one State, would pay for his carriage eight
dollars, but B., in the other State, would pay for his carrage
eighty dollars."
It was well held that where such evils would attend the apportionment of a tax, the Constitution could not have intended
that an apportionment should be made. This view applies
with. even greater force to the tax in question in this case.
Where the population is large and the incomes are few and
small, it would be intolerably oppressive.
The difference in the ability of communities, without reference to numbers, to pay any taxes is forcibly remarked upon
by McCulloh in his article on taxation in the Encyclopedia
Britannica, vol. xxi. (old ed.) p. 75.
Mr. Justice Chase said further, "That he would give no
judicial opinion upon the subject, but that he was inclined to
think that the direct taxes contemplated by the Constitution
were only two, -a capitation tax and a tax on land."
Mr. Justice Iredell said "Perhaps a direct tax, in the
sense of the Constitution, can mean nothing but a tax on
something inseparably annexed to the soil.
A land or
poll tax may be considered of this description. The latter is
to be so considered, particularly under the present Constitu-

Oct. 1880.]

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

tion, on account of the slaves in the Southern States, who
give a ratio in the representation in the proportion of three
to five."
Mr. Justice Paterson said, he never entertained a doubt
"that the principal, he would not say the only, objects contemplated by the Constitution as falling within the rule of apportionment, were a capitation tax and a tax on land." From
these views the other judges expressed no dissent.
" Ellsworth, the Chief Justice sworn into office that morning, not having heard the whole argument, declined taking
part in fhe decision." 8 Wall. 545. Cushing., from ill-health,
did not sit in the case. It has been remarked that if they
had been dissatisfied with the result, the. question involved
being so important, doubtless a reargument would have been
had.
In Pacific Insurance Co. v Soule (7 Wall. 483), the taxes
in question were upon the receipts of such companies from
premiums and assessments, and upon all sums made or added,
during the year, to their surplus or contingent funds. This
court held unanimously that the taxes were not direct taxes,
and that they were valid.
In Veazze Bank v Fenno (supra), the tax which came under
consideration was one of ten per cent upon the notes of State
banks paid out by other banks, State or National. The same
conclusions were reached by the court as in the preceding case.
Mr. Chief Justice Chase delivered the opinion of the court.
In the course of his elaborate examination of the subject he
said, "It may be rightly affirmed that, in the practical construction of the Constitution by Congress, direct taxes have
been limited -to taxes on land and appurtenances and taxes on
polls, or capitation taxes."
In Scholey v Bew (28 Wall. 331), the tax involved was a
succession tax, imposed by the acts of Congress of June 30, 1864,
and July 13, 1866. It was held that the tax was not a direct
tax, and that it was constitutional and valid. In delivering
the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Clifford, after remarking
that the tax there in question was not a direct tax, said "Instead of that, it is plainly an excise tax or duty, authorized by
sect. 1, art. 8, of the Constitution, which vests the power in

SPRINGER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Congress to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises
to pay the debts and provide for the common defence and
public welfare."
He said further- "Taxes on houses, lands, and other permanent real estate have always been deemed to be direct
taxes, and capitation taxes, by the express words of the Constitution, are within the same category, but it has never
been decided that any other legal exactions for the support of the Federal government fall within the condition that
unless laid in proportion to numbers the assessment is invalid."
All these cases are undistinguishable in principle from the
case now before us, and they are decisive against the plaintiff
iii error.

The question, what is a direct tax, is one exclusively in
American jurisprudence. The text-writers of the country are
in entire accord upon the subject.
Mr. Justice Story says all taxes are usually divided into two
classes, - those which are direct and those which are %ndirect,
and that "under the former denomination are included taxes
on land or real property, and, under the latter, taxes on consumption." 1 Const., sect. 950.
Chancellor Kent, speaking of the case of H1ylton v United
States, says "The better opinion seemed to be that the direct
taxes contemplated by the Constitution were only two, viz., a
capitation or poll tax and a tax on land." 1 Com. 257 See
also Cooley, Taxation, p. 5, note 2, Pomeroy, Const. Law, 157,
Sharswood's Blackstone, 308, note, Rawle, Const. 30, Sergeant, Const. 305.
We are not aware that any writer, since Hylton v United
States was decided, has expressed a view of the subject different from that of these authors.
Our conclusions are, that direct taxes, within the meaning of
the Constitution, are only capitation taxes, as expressed in that
instrument, and taxes on real estate, and that the tax of which
the plaintiff in error complains is within the category of an
excise or duty Pomeroy, Const. Law, 177, Pafic Insurance
Co. v. Soule, and Scholey v 1?ew, supra.
Against the considerations, in one scale, in favor of these

Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.

propositions, what has been placed in the other, as a counterpoise? Our answer is, certainly nothing of such weight, in
our judgment, as to require any special reply
The numerous citations from the writings of foreign political
economists, made by the plaintiff in error, are sufficiently answered by Hamilton in his brief, before referred to.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. CHOUTEAU.
1. In an action by the United States upon a bond executed by A., a distiller,
and his sureties, the breaches of the condition assigned in the declaration or complaint were, first, that by omitting to make certain entries in
a book which he, by sect. 3303, Rev. Stat., was required to keep, he was
enabled to defraud, and did defraud, the United States of the tax imposed by law upon the spirits produced at his distillery and, second, that
in violation of sect. 3296 he had removed spirits produced at his distillery
to a place other than the distillery warehouse, without the tax thereon
having been first paid. To the first assignment the defendants answered
by denying its allegations, and averring that whatever fraud was committed was effected through other means than those charged. To the
second they answered, that before the suit was brought two bills of indictment, for the same removals of spirits now complained of, were found
against A., one containing counts upon said section and upon sections
3281 and 5440, and that upon the recommendation of the Attorney-General and the advice of the Secretary of the Treasury the Commissioner
of Internal Revenue accepted from him a specified sum, in a compromise,
satisfaction, and settlement of the indictments, which were thereupon dismissed, and abandoned by the United States. Upon a demurrer to the
answer, - Held, that the answer was a bar to the action.
2. Qucere, whether the only mode for the recovery of the penalty prescribed by
sect. 3296 is not by indictment.

EnRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This is an action upon a bond of a distiller, against the principal and sureties, and is founded upon sects. 3803 and 3296
of the Revised Statutes. The bond is in the penal sum of
825,000, and, after reciting that the principal, Joseph G.
Chouteau, intends, after the first day of May, 1874, to be

