Oct. 1880.]

JIRINS V. SWEETZER.

JIFK=4 v. SWEETZER.
1. Where the Supreme Court of a State reversed, on appeal, a decree dismissing,
upon a final hearing, the complainant's bill, and remanded the cause with
instructions to refer it to a master to state the accounts between the parties
in accordance with the mandate, the suit cannot be removed to the Circuit
Court of the United States.
2. Removal Cases (100 U. S. 457) cited and approved.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr F Carroll Brewster for the appellants.
.Mr A. Bicetts, contra.
Mi.

C

EF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.

This was a suit in equity, begun in the Court of Common
Pleas of Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, June 20, 1868, by the
appellee against the appellants and one James Jifkins, to obtain an account of the rents and profits and a reconveyance of
certain real estate, which, it was alleged, had been transferred
to the defendants, and put into their possession as security for
the payment of money The defendants answered, denying
that they held the property as security, and claiming that their
title was absolute. Upon this issue testimony was taken, and
after hearing in the Common Pleas, on the 20th of February,
1871, the prayer for relief was refused and the bill dismissed.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court
of the State, where, on the 23d of May, 1872, the decree below
was reversed, the bill reinstated, and the cause remanded with
instructions to refer the cause to a master "to take an account
of the rents, issues, and profits received by the defendants
from the property in question, together with an account of
debts paid by them, due by the plaintiff, with an equitable
allowance for services rendered' by the defendants, ascertaining
the amount due by either party to the other party, so as to
enable the Court of Common Pleas to make a final -decree in
On the 24th of August
the premises, according to equity"
VOL. XII.

12

JIFKINS V. SWEETZER.

[Sup. Ct.

the case was referred by the Common Pleas, in accordance with
the mandate of the Supreme Court. On the 24th of August,
1874, two years later, but before any report was filed, the
present appellants, who were then the sole defendants, James
Jifkins having before that time died, filed, in the Common
Pleas, a petition for the removal of the suit to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, under the provisions of the act of 1866, now sect.
639, sub. 2, Rev Stat. In this petition they averred that they
had become citizens of the State of Virginia since the commencement of the suit, that the plaintiff was, when the suit
was begun, and still continued to be, a citizen of Pennsylvania,
and that the suit was one in which there could be a final determination of the controversy, so far as it concerned the petitioners, without the presence of the other defendant or his
legal representatives as parties to the cause. On the 9th of
November, 1874, the same parties filed a further petition for
removal, under the act of 1867 (Rev Stat., sect. 639, sub. 3),
on the ground of local influence and prejudice. Both these
petitions were denied in the State court, Nov 16, 1874, but,
notwithstanding this, the appellants, on the 5th of December,
filed in the Circuit Court a certified copy of the record in the
case, and, on the 20th of March, that court declined to take
jurisdiction, and remanded the cause to the Court of Common
Pleas. From that order the present appeal was taken, May 11,
1875, under the act of March 3, 1875, sect. 5. 18 Stat. 472.
The single question to which our attention was called on the
argument was whether the petitions for removal were presented
to the State court in time. In both the acts of Congress invoked it is provided that the petition shall be filed "before
the trial or final hearing of the suit." From the record it
appears that there was but a single issue between the parties,
to wit, whether the appellants were the absolute owners of the
property in dispute, or whether they held the title in trust for
the appellee. This issue was heard and decided in favor of
the appellants in the Common Pleas. The suit was then taken
by appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, where it was
again heard and a decision rendered in favor of the present
appellee. This disposed of the case finally on its merits, and

Ot. 1880.]

JIFKINS V. SWEETZER.

nothing remained to be done but to continue the hearing
already begun until the necessary accounts could be taken and
the details of a final decree settled. The act of 1875 requires
that the petition for removal shall be filed "before the trial."
This, we held in the Bemoval Cases (100. U. S. 457), meant
"before the trial is in good faith entered upon." If the" trial
had actually begun and was in progress in the orderly course
of proceeding," when the petition was presented, it would be
too late. The same rule bpplies to the acts now under consideration. "Before the trial or final hearing" means here, as
there, before the trial or hearing of the cause has been in good
faith begun. These. statutes do not, any more than that of
1875, "allow a party to experiment on his case in the State
court, and, if he meets with unexpected difficulties, stop -the
proceedings and take his suit to another tribunal." He must
make his election before he goes to the trial or hearing on
the merits.
It seems to us clear that if the Court of Common Pleas
had, in the first instance, decided the issue raised by the pleadings in favor of the appellee instead of the appellants, and sent
the case to a master to state the accounts, no removal could
have been effected after that. The final hearing.was entered
on when, in the orderly course of proceedings, the issue made
by the pleadings, and on which the rights of the parties depended, was submitted to the court for judicial determination.
It matters not that, after the main question in the case had
been settled, the convenience of the court made it necessary to
call in the help of a master. In this way no new hearing was
entered on. The old submission was only continued until the
details of the original inquiry could be settled for the purposes
of a final decree.
The hearing of this case, originally begun in the Common
Pleas, was transferred by the appeal to the Supreme Court.
That court, on the appeal, had the right to re-examine what
had been done ii the Common Pleas. In effect it took up the
case on the hearing begun below If, on the appeal, the decree below had been reversed and the cause sent back for a
rehearing, then the final hearing, for the purposes of the statutes now under consideration, would not have begun until the

180

RAILWAY CO. V. RENWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

court below had again entered upon the determination of the
cause. Then the reversal would have perfected the right to
a second hearing in the court of original jurisdiction, and,
under the rule stated ia Vannevar v Bryant (21 Wall. 41),
a demand for the transfer might properly be made. Here,
however, the Supreme Court granted no new hearing. It
reversed what had been done below, and then proceeded, under
the original submission, to decree on the merits. It thus
continued the hearing under the original submission, decided
the controversy so far as the primary rights of the parties
were concerned, and through the Common Pleas sent the case
to a master to settle the details of the final decree. No power
was given the court below to rehear the case, but only to proceed in due course with the hearing that had been begun until
the inquiry as to the whole subject-matter was completed.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not take part in the decision of

this cause.

RAILWAY COMPANY v. RExwicx.
The second section of the act of the General Assembly of Iowa, entitled "An
Act in relation to riparian owners on the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers,"
approved March 18, 1874, is not in conflict with any statute of the United
States. Where, therefore, the owner of lands on the Mississippi had made
an embankment in front of them, and at its outer end beyond low-water
mark erected, without the direction or consent of the Secretary of War, a
stone pier or crib, tlns court affirms the judgment of the Supreme Court of
that State, declaring that under that section a railway company cannot construct its road over the embankment between high and low water mark, unless
the damages to such owner slall first be ascertained and paid.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Iowa, coupled with a motion under Rule 6 to
affirm the judgment.
This was a proceeding, under the statute of Iowa, by the
Davenport and Northwestern Railway Company for the assessment of damages sustained by its appropriating lands for the

