GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

any clerical errors that may be found in the record of what we
have done.
In Brown v Aspden (14 How 25), where the practice in
respect to orders for rearguments was first formally announced,
the rule in this particular was not extended, for Mr. Chief Justice Taney was careful to say that the order for reargument
might be made after judgment, provided it was entered at the
same term, and the same limitation is maintained in U-nited
States v Kfnight's Administrator,1 Black, 488. Down to that
time such an order could be made only on the application of
some member of the court who concurred in the judgment, and
this continued until Public Schools v Walker (supra), when
leave was given counsel to submit a petition to the same effect.
In all other respects the rule is now substantially the same as
it was before this relaxation.
lfotion dented.

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE COX[PANY.
The charter of A., a mutual life insurance company, provides that "every person who shall become a member of the corporation, by effecting insurance
therein, shall, the first time he effects insurance and before he receives ins
policy, pay the rates that shall be fixed upon and determined by the trustees."
In August, 1872, C., A.'s agent, received from B. an application for a policy
upon his life for $6,000, duly made out upon a printed form furnished previously by C. A policy was issued by A., August 24, and forwarded to C. It
contains a proviso that it shall "not take effect and become binding on the
company until the premium be actually paid, during the lifetime of the person whose life is assured, to the company or to some person authorized to
receive it, who shall countersign the policy on receipt of the premium." The
premium to be paid by B. amounted to $302:52. The policy not having been
called for, C. returned it, October 2, to A., and it was thereupon cancelled.
Nothing beyond the delivery of the application to C. was done by B., or by
any one in his behalf. He died September 4. His administrator tendered the
first premium to C., who declined to act in the matter. Thereupon lie transmittel the proofs of B.'s death to A., and on the refusal of the latter to
accept the premium and deliver the policy brought tis suit against A. Held,
that the suit cannot be maintained, the payment of the premium m the lifetime of B. being a condition precedent to A.'s liability.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.

Oct. 1880.]

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE CO.

This is a suit in equity by Loren Giddings and Leander
Giddings, administrators of Silas Giddings, deceased, to compel
the specific performance, by the Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Company, of its alleged contract, made with him
some months prior to his death, to insure his life in the sum
of $6,000. The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the
complainants appealed here.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
21fr Henry Cr. Miller and Mr Thomas G Frost for the appellants.
HrI Thomas Boyne, contra.
MR. JUSTrCE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

The fa cts of this case necessary to be considered are few and
simple. They are clearly disclosed in the record, and there is
no conflict between the parties about them.
The appellee is a corporation created by the State of Wisconsin. Its principal office and place of business were at Milwaukee. It was authorized to insure lives. Dean & Payne
were its agents at Chicago. The extent of their authority was
to receive applications, forward them to the office at Milwaukee,
and, when risks were taken, to receive, countersign, and deliver
the policies, collecting in all cases, before the latter was done,
the first premium from the assured.
On or about the 6th of August, 1872, a member of the firm
of Roberts & Hubbard, of the county of Warren, in the State
of Illinois, at the instance of Silas Giddings, Sen., of the same
county, presented to Dean & Payne, at Chicago, an application, in due form, for a life insurance policy, insuring Giddings
in the sum of $6,000. The application consisted of a printed
form furnished previously by Dean & Payne. It contained
blaiks to be filled with answers of the applicant to the questions propounded, and was filled up accordingly Dean &
Payne immediately forwarded it to Milwaukee. On the 24th
of the same month the company considered the application and
decided to issue the policy It was issued accordingly, and
bears date on that day The premium to be paid by the
assured was $302.52. The policy was immediately sent to
Dean & Payne. Not being called for, on the 2d of October

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

following they returned it to the company, and it was thereupon cancelled.
At the same time that the policy was applied for, an application was submitted for a loan by the company to Giddings
of $6,000. In relation to this matter there is some conflict in
the evidence, but as the view which we take of the case before
us renders it unnecessary to consider that subject, we pass it
by without further remark.
The seventh section of the act incorporating the appellee is
as follows "Every person who shall become a member of this corporation,
by effecting insurance therein, shall, the first time he effects insurance and before he receives his policy, pay the rates that shall be
fixed upon and determined by the trustees, and no premium so
paid shall ever be withdrawn from said company, except as hereinafter provided, but shall be liable to all the losses and expenses
incurred by this company during the continuance of its charter."
The policy, as made out, was according to the form issued by
the company in all cases. Among other things it provided, 7th, This policy shall not take effect and become binding on
"'
the company until the premium be actually paid, during the lifetime of the person whose life is assured, to the company or to some
person authorized to receive it, who sh.1ll countersign the policy on
receipt of the premium."
Giddings was taken ill of acute pleurisy on or about the 15th
of August, 1872, and died of that disease on the 4th of September following. On the 12th or 13th of November following,
the appellants, by their attorney, tendered to Dean, of the firm
of Dean & Payne, the first premium and demanded the policy
The attorney had also present proof of the death of Giddings.
Dean "refused to have anything to do with the matter, as he
claimed that the company was not liable." The proof of the
death was thereupon transmitted to the home office at Milwaukee.
Neither a tender of the premium nor a demand for the
policy was made by any one until the time before mentioned,
and no notice was given by Giddings or by any one in his

Oct. 1880.]

GIDDINGS V. INSURANCE CO.

behalf during his life that he intended to consummate the
transaction by paying the premium and receiving the policy
All action on his part terminated with the delivery of his application to Dean & Payne for transmission to the company.
He did nothing afterwards. There his connection with the
affair ended.
Upon this state of facts the appellants insist that the
company is liable for the $6,000 specified in the undelivered
policy
A few remarks will be sufficient to dispose of the case.
The presentment of the application to the agents at Chicago,
its transmission to Milwaukee, and its receipt by the company,
in nowise committed or bound the latter to anything. It was
competent for the company to pause as long as they might
deem proper, and finally to accept or reject the application as
they might choose to do. If they elected to contract, they had
the right to prescribe the terms, and it was for the other party
to assent to or reject them. His unbroken silence, as would
have been such silence by the company after receiving the
application, was necessarily negation. Neither party in such
case would have been bound in any wise to the other, because
there would have been wanting the mutual assent of the minds
of the parties, which is vital in all cases to the creation of a
contract obligation. What was done, without something further, could have no more weight or efficacy, in the view of the
law, than an unexpressed thought or any other unexecuted
intention.

The company- prepared the draft of a contract which they
were willing to execute. Among its stipulations was one that
the assurers should not be bound by the instrument until the
premium was paid in the lifetime of the assured, and the policy
was countersigned by the authorized agent of the company
This was a condition precedent to the liability of the appellee,
and necessary to its safety There was nothing in it unconscionable or oppressive, and the company had a clear legal
right to make- it.
Where a condition is subsequent and it is broken, relief may
be given upon equitable terms, but where it is precedent, and
neither fulfilled nor waived, no right or title vests, and equity

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

[Sup. Or.

can do nothing for the party in default. Davis v Gray, 16
Wall. 203.
Here there was clearly no performance by the applicant, and
it is equally clear that hence there was no contract or obligation whatsoever on the part of the company
It was the business of the applicant, if. after sending forward
his application, he continued to desire a policy, to keep up the
proper communcation with Dean & Payne, and during his
lifetime to avail himself of the offer which the company had
made. The proposition of the company expired with his life.
After his death, his legal representatives could not act vicariously for hun. To allow them to enforce such a claim would
be contrary to the plainest principles of both law and equity
If authorities in so plain a case are needed, it is sufficient to
refer to Insurance Company v Young's Administrator (23 Wall.
85), and Piedmont,&c.Life InsuranceCo. v. E-wzng, 92 U. S. 377
What the consequence would have been if, after the applicant was stricken with his mortal disease, the premium had
been paid and the policy delivered, the company being ignorant
of his changed condition, is a point which we do not find it
necessary to consider.
Decree affirmed.

PEARCE v. MULFORD.
1. To entitle an improvement to protection under the patent laws, it must be
the product of the exercise of the inventive faculties, and involve something
beyond what is obvious to persons skilled in tho art to which it relates.
2. Reissued letters-patent No. 5774, granted Feb. 24, 1874, to "Shubael Cottle,
assignor to Mulford, Hale, & Cottle," for an improvement in chains and
chain links for necklaces, &c., are void, the first claim for want of patentability in the alleged invention, and the second for want of novelty.
3. Qucsre, whether said first claim is not also void for want of novelty
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a suit by Lewis J. Mulford, Seth. W Hale, Shubael
Cottle, and Samuel P Baker, doing business under the firm

