PEARCE V. MULFORD.

[Sup. Or.

can do nothing for the party in default. Davis v Gray, 16
Wall. 203.
Here there was clearly no performance by the applicant, and
it is equally clear that hence there was no contract or obligation whatsoever on the part of the company
It was the business of the applicant, if. after sending forward
his application, he continued to desire a policy, to keep up the
proper communcation with Dean & Payne, and during his
lifetime to avail himself of the offer which the company had
made. The proposition of the company expired with his life.
After his death, his legal representatives could not act vicariously for hun. To allow them to enforce such a claim would
be contrary to the plainest principles of both law and equity
If authorities in so plain a case are needed, it is sufficient to
refer to Insurance Company v Young's Administrator (23 Wall.
85), and Piedmont,&c.Life InsuranceCo. v. E-wzng, 92 U. S. 377
What the consequence would have been if, after the applicant was stricken with his mortal disease, the premium had
been paid and the policy delivered, the company being ignorant
of his changed condition, is a point which we do not find it
necessary to consider.
Decree affirmed.

PEARCE v. MULFORD.
1. To entitle an improvement to protection under the patent laws, it must be
the product of the exercise of the inventive faculties, and involve something
beyond what is obvious to persons skilled in tho art to which it relates.
2. Reissued letters-patent No. 5774, granted Feb. 24, 1874, to "Shubael Cottle,
assignor to Mulford, Hale, & Cottle," for an improvement in chains and
chain links for necklaces, &c., are void, the first claim for want of patentability in the alleged invention, and the second for want of novelty.
3. Qucsre, whether said first claim is not also void for want of novelty
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This is a suit by Lewis J. Mulford, Seth. W Hale, Shubael
Cottle, and Samuel P Baker, doing business under the firm

Oct. 1880.]

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

name of Mulford, Hale, & Cottle, agatinst Thomas D. Pearce.
The complainants' bill prays for an injunction to restrain his
infringement of reissued letters-patent No. 5774, granted to the
complainants as assignees of Shubael Cottle, Feb. 24, 1874, for
an alleged new and useful improvement in chains and chain
links for necklaces, &c., upon the surrender of original letters
No. 147,045, granted Feb. 3, 1874. The bill also prays for an
account of profits and damages. The defendant's answer admits the manufacture and sale of the chains made in the mode
described in the letters, but denies the novelty and patentability of the alleged invention.
The specification forming a part of said reissued letters, together with the drawings therein referred to, is as follows "Be it known that I, Shubael Cottle, of the city, county, and
State of New York, have invented a new and useful improvement
in chains for necklaces, &c., and I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear, and exact description of the same, reference
being had to the accompanying drawing, forming a part of this
specification, in which"Figure 1 is a side view of a portion of a chain necklace illustrating my invention. Fig. 2 is a view of the same turned onequarter around. Fig. 3 is a cross-section of the same, taken through
the line x x, Fig. 1.
"My invention has-for its object to furnish an improved chain
for necklaces, &c., having links of peculiar construction, which enable
all the links to be finished separate, and then put together to form
the chain. The invention consists in an ornamental chain whereof
the links are connected together by open spiral links B finished before being connected together, the connection being made by springing the finished links into each other in the manner described.
"I will now describe the chain represented in the drawing to
illustrate mv invention.
"A and B represent the links of the chain. The links A are
round and closed, as shown in Fig. 1, and are made and polished
or colored separately from the other links. The links B, which
constitute the peculiar feature of my invention, are formed of one
or more coils of tubing of the proper length, so as to form a
double spring-link. Into each end of the tube forming the link B
is soldered a small shot, as shown in the drawing, which shot gives
a finish to the link. The links B may then be colored or polished,
VOL. XIi.

8

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

and the chain is formed by springing the links into each other.
The links A B may be made the one kind round and the other
oval, or both may be made round, or both oval.
"The first construction is preferred, as producing a more elegant
chain. Either kind of the links A B may be polished and the other
colored, or both may be polished or both colored, but I prefer to
polish the closed links and color the open spiral links, as producing
a more pleasing effect. By this construction the links may be made
and finished in quantities, and the chain formed from the finished
links by springing them into each other to produce any desired
combination of the links of the same or different kinds. Finishing
the separate links in this way enables them to be more perfectly
polished or colored, and with a greatly diminished expenditure of
labor and time, and enables the links to be pot together without
injuring them in the least, however highly they may be polished
or colored.
"Having thus described my invention, what I claim is"1. An ornamental chain for necklaces, &c., formed of alternate
closed links A and open spiral links B, substantially as shown and
described.
"2. The open spiral link B formed of coils of tubing, substantially as shown and described.
SIIUBARL COTTLE."

Fig. 1.
4P

.

A/

IN

-A

Fig. 2.
23

.

A

B

A

B

Fig. 3.
A
*B

Oct. 1880.]

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

The court below sustained the vali'dity of the letters, enjoined
the defendant from infringing them, and awarded damages to
the complainants. Pearce thereupon appealed.
Jlfr H1enry Baldwzn, Jr., for the appellant, cited Phillips v
Page, 24 How 164, -ubber Tip Pencil Company v Howard, 20
Wall. 498, Collar Company v Fan Dusen, 28 id. 530, Dalton
v. Jennngs, 93 U. S. 271', 'Glue Company v Upton, 97 id. 3,
Rubber-Coated Harness Trimming Company v Welling, id. 7
11I Benjam2n F Lee, contra.
Cottle having accomplished in the manufacture of gold chains
a new and useful result, an increase of efficiency, and a decided
saving in the operation, was clearly entitled to a patent. Gayler v Wilder, 10 How 477, 484, Smith v Goodyear Dental
VFuleanite C6., 93 U. S. 486 ; Bich v Lzppincott, 2 Fish. Pat.
Cas. 4, Strong v Noble, 3 id. 586, Goodyear Dental Vuleanite
Co. v Willis, 7 Pat. Off. Gaz. 41, Dalton v Nelson, 9 id. 1112,
Walton v Potter, 3 Man. & G. 438, Curtis, Patents (4th ed.),
Prel. Obs. p. xxx.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In view of the evidence found in the record, it cannot be questioned that ornamental chains composed of alternate closed links
and spiral links, or formed by spiral links alone, had been known
and in use long before Cottle made his alleged invention. As was
said by the circuit judge, " Chains formed by split rings which
are sprung into each other, or into a solid link, are familiar articles, and there can be no novelty in the mere shape or form
of the chain, or of the link which is shown in the drawings of
the patent." There is abundant evidence, not only that split
rings had been long in use, but that other spiral links had been
made and used before 1873, when the patentee claims to have
made his invention. If, therefore, there.be any novelty in the
link which is the subject of the second claim, it must consist in
the fact that the spiral link is formed of tubing. Tubing itself, as understood in the jeweller's art, is made by compressing a strip of gold around a brass or copper wire, and then
forcing it through a draw-plate, the holes in which decrease
gradually in diameter until the edges of the gold strip are con-

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

[Slip. Ct.

pletely united. The copper wire is then eaten out by an acid,
and the tubing is complete. Both the product and process have
long been well known. And so have been spiral rings formed of
gold tubing. The tubing, before the wire is removed, is wound
into coils around a mandrel, and cut into desired lengths. The
coils may then be pressed together by a wire and annealed, the
wire having been removed, or the compressing and annealing
process may be omitted. Such spirals have a certain degree of
elasticity, which enables them to be sprung upon other links,
and when thus sprung into other closed or open spirals they
will form a chain. The well-known serpent bracelet was
such an open spiral, such a double link, and several of them,
sprung together alternately with closed links, would have
formed a chain identical in principle with that of the patentee. There certainly is nothing patentable in merely reducing
the size of the bracelet so as to adapt it to use in a necklace.
The record also contains evidence that other spiral rings or
links made of gold tubing, some of them open and some closed,
by soldering, were made before 1873. It is to be observed that
the second claim in the patent is not for any process of making a link, not for making tubing, or winding it into spiral
forms, not for tying or annealing the coils when they have
been -wound, but for an open link, consisting of one or more
coils of tubing of the proper length, so as to form a double
spring link, into each end of which is soldered a small shot to
give the link a finish. This is all the description the specification gives of the link. It is not intimated that the coils
must be brought into close contact with each other, or. annealed,
and it is simply said the links may be colored or polished. The
form of the link, when made of gold tubing, is all that is
attempted to be patented. The constituents are not. The
patentee has testified that as long as he had known anything
about the manufacture of jewelry he had known tubing to
be used in the art, that for many years he had known shot
put into the ends of such tubing, and that for a number of
years he had known links formed of tubing with siotted ends.
We think, therefore, the evidence sufficiently establishes that
the second claim is void for want of novelty in the alleged
invention.

Oct. 1880.]

PEARCE V. MULFORD.

The first claim read. in connection with the description
given in the specification and drawings is for an ornamental
chain, consisting of solid links and open spiral links made of
tubing, the latter being finished before they are sprung into
the solid links, and the connection being made by thus springing the links together. In considering whether this can be
sustained, it is necessary to observe what was the state of the
art and what was known when Cottle claims to have invented
the device for which he obtained the patent. Chains having
alternate open and closed links, the open links being spiral and
sprung into the closed links were known. So were chains
made entirely of spiral links, and even of open spiral links. A
chain had also been made and worn, and it was for sale in
the stores, the links of which were hollow They were made
solid, with copper wire inside. The copper wire was then destroyed, leaving the links hollow, and they were then sprung
together to form a chain. The chain was thus composed of
open spiral links made of hollow metal, that is, of tubing. It
is true, as appears from the model which is an exhibit in the'
case, the two ends of the spiral were bent outward and the coils
were soldered together after the links had, been sprung into
each other. Still, when thus sprung into each other, they
made a chain formed of open spiral links of tubing. The soldering was a distinct and after process. Omitting that process and the outward deflection of the ends, and alternating
the links with other links made closed and solid, the chain
would have been substantially the same as that of the complainants. We cannot think the advance which the patentee
made upon that can be called invention. Leaving the links
open after they have been sprung into closed links, there being
no novelty in the links themselves, cannot be patentable. It is
nothing more than the exercise of ordinary mechanical skill.
If in one of the complainants' chains, after the links had been
joined, a person should solder the spirals together or to the
closed rings, it could hardly be maintained that a new chain
had been invented. Or if, when thus soldered, the soldering
should be removed, the change would not deserve to be regarded as a product of invention. Yet this is substantially what
the patentee has done. His chain may have been an improve-

SCHOONDIAKER V. GILMORE.

[Sup. Ct.

ment on the chains that preceded it. In some particulars it
doubtless was: It left the elasticity of the spiral gold tubing
more free by releasing the link from the attachment of the soldering, and it enabled the chain to be freely taken in pieces
without injury to its structure. But all improvement is not
invention, and entitled to protection as such. Thus to entitle
it, it must be the product of some exercise of the inventive
faculties, and it must involve something 1nore than what is
obvious to persons skilled in the art to which it relates.
In this case neither the tubing, nor the open spiral link
formed of tubing, nor the process of making either the open or
the closed link, nor the junction of closed and open spiral links
in a chain, was invented by the patentee. We are, therefore,
constrained to hold that the first claim of the patent, even if
not void for want of novelty, is void for want of patentability
The decree of the Circuit Court will therefore be reversed,
and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
So ordered.

SCHOONIAKER V. G]mmORE.
The courts of the United States, as courts of admiralty, have not exclusive jurisdiction of suits in personam, growing out of collisions between vessels while
navigating the Ohio River.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Pennsylvania, to which is united a motion to
affirm.
This was an action on the case, brought in the Court of
Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, by Gilmore against Schoonmaker & Brown, owners of the steam-tug
"Jos. Bigley" The declaration avers in substance that, by
reason of the negligence of the defendants, the tug, when
descending the Ohio River, a few miles below Pittsburgh,
collided with and damaged certain barges belonging to the
plaintiff.

