HAWLEY V. UPTON.

HAwLEY v.

[Sup. Ct.

UPTON.

A., by his bond, acknowledged the receipt from an insurance company of ten
shares of its capital stock, and agreed to pay $200 therefor, in instalments,
- one-fourth on the receipt of the stock certificate, and the remainder in
three equal amounts at three, six, and nine months from Jan. 7, 1871, the date
of the bond. He paid on executing it $26, and ]is name was entered as a
stockholder on the books of the company. The certificate was not delivered or demanded. In 1872, the company became bankrupt. Held, that the
assignee is entitled to recover of A. the unpaid instalments.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
ERROR

This is an action brought July 25, 1873, by Clark W Upton,
assignee in bankruptcy of the Great Western Insurance Company of Chicago, Ill., to recover from Theodore Hawley the
unpaid instalments alleged to be due on his contract to subscribe to the capital stock of that company
The court, the case having been submitted to it upon the
pleadings and proofs without the intervention of a jury, found
the following facts "The plaintiff is assignee in bankruptcy, as alleged in the
petition.
"On the second day of January, 1871, Rossitur, agent of
the Great Western Insurance Company, requested the defendant to take stock in said company
' The defendant, on certain representations by Rossitar,
signed the following paper or bond "'No. -

]

THE GREAT WESTERN

nISURANCE COMPANY.

[$200.

[Stamp.]
'Capital

stock $500,000, with liberty to increase to $5,000,000.
Stock non-assessable.,

"'Organized July 20, 1857, under act of legislature approved
March 4, 1857.
"'Know all men by these presents, that for and in consideration
of ten sha-es of the capital stock of the Great Western Insurance
Company of Chicago, Ills., received by me, I am held and firmly
bound, and agree to pay the Great Western Insurance Company of
Chicago the sum of two hundred dollars in mnstalnents, as follows

Oct. 1880.]

O 0AWLEY V. UPTON.

twenty-five per cent thereof upon receipt of stock certificate,
twenty-five per cent in three months from date hereof, twenty-five
per cent six months from date hereof, twenty-five per cent nine
months from date, with interest ten per cent after due.
"'CHICAGo, 7th Jan'y, 1871.
"' TEo.HAwLEY. [sEAL.]
"'Signed and delivered in presence of' "At the time the said bond or paper was issued to Hawley
the latter paid Rossitur twenty-five dollars, and delivered to
him the bond. It was not delivered on any particular conditions. It was delivered to an agent of the company's, namely,
the said Rossitur.
"The company afterwards came into possession of the bond,
and entered Hawley's name on their books as a stockholder,
and published him in their publications as one of their stockholders, Hawley having no knowledge of the publications.
Hawley paid no other money, and no calls were made upon
him prior to the bankruptcy
"1No certificate of stock was ever sent or delivered to Hawley, and he made no demand on the company for any certificate
of stock.
"The bankruptcy of the insurance company was caused by
fire in October, 1871.
"The defendant signed no subscription paper or any other
paper than the bond above set out.
" On the foregoing facts and the pleadings judgment was
rendered for the plaintiff. The judges were opposed in opinion on the following questions "1st, Whether the delivery of a stock certificate under
the above circumstances was necessary to constitute the relation of stockholder between the defendant and the insurance
company
" 2d, Whether the above facts constitute a defence to the
action.
"The judges being divided in opinion on the above questions,
hereby certify such division to the Supreme Court, pursuant to
the statute in such case made and provided."
Mr Galusha Parsons for the plaintiff in error.
Hr C. C. Bourse, contra.

HAWLEY V. UPTON.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It cannot be doubted that one who has become bound as a
subscriber to the capital stock of a corporation must pay his
subscription if required to meet the obligations of the corporation. A certificate in his favor for the stock is not necessary
to make him a subscriber. All that need be done, so far as
creditors are concerned, is that the subscriber shall have bound
himself to become a contributor to the fund which the capital
stock of the corporation represents. If such an obligation
exists, the courts can enforce the contribution when required.
After having bound himself to contribute, he cannot be discharged'from the obligation he has assumed until the contribution has actually been made, or the obligation in some lawful
way extinguished.
These are elementary principles. Upton, Assignee, v Tribilcock, 91 U S. 45, Webster v Upton, id. 65. The only question
we have to consider is whether, from the facts found, it appears
that Hawley, the plaintiff in error, had become an accepted
subscriber to the stock of the company before the bankruptcy
There can be no doubt that he was approached by an agent of
the company with a view of securing him as a subscriber. It
is equally true that after the representations made to him be
was willing to become a stockholder. The result was that he
executed the paper set out in the findings, by which he ac
knowledged the receipt from the company of ten shares of its
stock, and agreed within the time named to pay to the company
$200, or twenty per cent of its par value. As the company
could not sell its stock at less than par, what was done
amounted in law to a subscription for the stock, and nothing
else. It is true the stock he took purported to be non-assessable, but that in law could only mean that no assessment would
be made beyond the percentage he had specially bound himself to pay, unless the legal liabilities of the company required
it. Upton, Assignee, v Tribilcoc, supra.
The paper he signed was delivered to the company by the
agent who got it. That it was accepted by the company as a
subscription is shown conclusively by the fact that his name
was entered on the books as a stockholder and publication

Oct. 1880.]

HAWLEY V. UPTON.

made accordingly It matters not that he had no knowledge
of such a publication. His receipt for the stock was an acknowledgment, so far as he was concerned, that he had become
a stockholder, and, after an acceptance by the company, his
liability was fixed whether any publication was made or not.
The publication is only important as a means of showing that
Ins subscription made to an agent had been accepted and ratified by the company The entries on the books had the same
effect. The publication only made it more notorious. The
ultimate fact to be established is that a subscription had not
only been made by Hawley, but accepted by the company.
Both in the pleadings and the argument the defence was
put principally on the fact that no certificate of stock had been
issued. It may be conceded that if a suit had been brought
by the company on the express promise to pay the twenty per
cent, there could have been no recovery without a tender of
the certificate, but that is not this case. Here the creditors
of the bankrupt company are proceeding against Hawley as a
stockholder, to compel him to contribute to the fund which the
law had provided for their security, what he by his subscription
agreed he would pay The suit is not brought on his special
agreement to pay the twenty per cent, but on his general liability as a subscriber to pay for his stock whenever it was
wanted to meet the liabilities of the company As the certificate was not needed to perfect the subscription, its non-delivery
cannot stand in the way of a recovery in this action.
We have no hesitation in answering each of the questions
certified in the negative, and the.judgment is consequently
Affirmed.

