Oct. 1880J]

KAHN V. SMELTING CO.

tax, but that was all the county or its officers were required
to do.
We have always held that every holder of a municipal bond
is chargeable with notice of the provisions of the law by which
the issue of his bond was authorized. If there was no law for
the issue there can be no valid bond. On the face of these
bonds it appears that they were issued to the Chicago and
Southwestern Company on account of an election held by
"certain taxable inhabitants of the county" This clearly connects the bonds with the Chicago and Southwestern charter,
and indicates unmistakably that they were put out on account
of a "strip" subscription. The holder is, therefore, chargeable
with notice of the want of legal authority for their issue.
The principal question certified is answered in the negative,
and, without specially replying to the others, further than may
be implied from this opinion, the judgment is
Affirmed.

KAIN v. SMELTrNG ComPANY.
1. Where, under the practice established in Utah, issues are tried by the court,
its findings of fact should be announced and filed
before the entry of the
judgment.

2. After such entry, an additional finding, made at the request of either party
without notice to the other, forms no part of the record.

3. A member of "a mining partnership" may, without dissolving it, convey his
interest in the mine and business.
4. In a suit to compel an account for the proceeds of a mining claim, a finding by the court that there was no such co-tenancy between the parties in
the mine in controversy as to entitle the plaintiff to an accounting is a

mere legal inference, and not a sufficient finding of fact upon which to base
a decree.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr John B. MBrzde and Hr George H. Williams for the
appellant.
Hr Samuel Shellabarger and Mr Jeremzah H. Wilson,
contra.
APPEAL

VOL. XII.

41

KAHN v. SMELTING CO.

[Sup. Or.

AIR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit to compel the .defendants to account for the
proceeds of a mining claim in Utah, known as the Montreal
claim, and to pay over to the pla~ntiff the amount to which he
may be entitled upon such accounting. The complaint alleges
that on the 14th of December, 1874, the plaintiff and two
other persons, by the name of Deronso and Berassa, were the
owners and tenants in common of the claim, each having an
undivided third, that they then entered into an arrangement
to work the claim for the ores and metals it contained, and
from that time until February, 1876, they were a mining
partnership engaged in working the mine, bearing the expenses
and sharing the profits equally, Deronso and Berassa having
the immediate direction, control, and management of its working that on the 1st of February, 1876, his associates sold
and transferred their interest in the mine, and in the tools,
implements, and appurtenances connected therewith, to the
defendant, Isador Morris, through whom the other defendants
inmediately acquired all the rights they possess, that from
that time until the 10th of April, 1876, the defendants were in
full charge and possession of the property, and extracted from
the mine and sold about sixteen hundred tons of ores, worth
about $45,000, the expense of extracting and marketing of
which did not exceed $10,000, that since the 1st of February
the plaintiff has been a partner with the defendants in the
mining claim and is entitled to his share of the profits made, being one-third of the whole, - and has demanded of the defendants a statement of their work and an accounting, but they
have refused to comply with his demand, or to give him any
information on the subject or any share of the profits, and
have demed him access to the books of account of the concern,
and that the profits amount, according to his infogmation and
He therefore prays for a decree
belief, to about $35,000.
establishing the partnership between him and the defendants,
anAl directing an accounting from them and the payment of the
amount found due to him upon such accounting, and for such
other and further relief as to the court may seem meet and
equitable.
The answer of the defendants traverses the allegations of

Oct. 1880.]

KAHN V. SIELTING

0.

the complaint, and avers that on the 31st of January, 1876,
the defendant, Isador Morris, found Deronso and Berassa in the
actual possession of a portion of the Montreal mine, of which
they claimed to own two-thirds, that, believing they owned
such interest, Morris paid to them $25,000 for it and received
a quitclaim deed from them, that on the following day, for
the like sum, he conveyed, by a similar deed, that interest to
one Wadsworth in trust for such persons as a majority of the
members of the Sandy Smelting Company of Salt Lake City
might direct, and that afterwards such majority conveyed the
same to the defendant, the Central Smelting Company, remaining, however, in the possession of and working the mine until
about March 1, 1876, when the smelting company took possession of it and afterwards held it exclusively until the 1st of
April following. The answer further avers that a short time
prior to this last date the mine was claimed by another company, called the Old Telegraph Company, under an older location that thereupon the Central Smelting Company and its
vendors caused the prior location and the mining claim to be
carefully examined by experienced miners, and upon that examination they became satisfied that the older location and
the Montreal mine were one and the same vein or lode, and
that the Montreal mine was owned by the holders of the earlier
location, that having become thus satisfied of this fact, the
Central Smelting Company abandoned the Montreal mine, and
has not since held, used, or occupied the same, or exercised any
acts of ownership over it.
The answer further avers that the defendants never worked
the Montreal mine or extracted .ore from it, under any agreement with the plaintiff, or by his advice or consent, or in con]unction with him or as his mining partners, that they have
always refused to recognize him as a party in any work, labor,
or management, or business of the mine, that the proceeds of
the mine received by the Central Smelting Company and its
immediate vendors, after deducting the expenditures, show a
net profit of about $12,000, which the defendants hold until
the determination of suits now pending between the plaintiff
and the owners of the alleged earlier location, that those suits
are brought to determine whether the Montreal mine and the

KAJIN v. SMELTING

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

earlier location are one and the. same lode, and which of the
parties is entitled to its possession, and. the proceeds, and
the defendants pray for their protection that the prosecution of
this suit may be restrained until those suits are determined.
On the trial, evidence was produced by both parties, and
from it the court found as facts, First, That there was no partnership between the plaintiff
and the defendants, as charged in the complaint.
Second, That there was no such co-tenaiicv between them in
the mine in controversy as entitled the plaintiff to an accounting; and held, as a conclusion of law, that he had no right to
recover ii the action, and that the suit should be dismissed.
These findings were filed Nov 21, 1877, and judgment upon
From this judgment the
them was entered the same day
plaintiff appeals to this court. Fourteen days after its entry
the judge who heard the case, at the request of the plaintiff,
filed further findings of fact. It does not appear that any
notice was given to the defendants of any intended application
to the court to make any findings in addition to those originally
filed, and to make such findings without such notice was
irregular.
The practice, if permitted would lead to great
abuses. It is not absolutely necessary in any case that the
findings should accompany the announcement of the decision
of the court, but, when they are required, -and by the practice established in Utah they are required in all cases where
issues of fact are tried without a jury, - they should be filed
before the entry of the judgment or decree, as in such cases
upon them the judgment or decree rests. If either party is
dissatisfied with them and desires more full or additional ones,
he should, within a reasonable time during the same term, and
before an appeal is taken or a writ of error sued out, apply to
the court, upon proper notice to the adverse party, to make
such fuller or additional findings, and if the application is
granted, the additional findings should show on their face why
they are made. The additional findings in this case not having been thus made, were properly stricken from the transcript.
Taking, then, the original findings, let us examine whether
they meet the issues raised by the pleadings and support the
decree, for under the practice of Utah, where, in a case seek-

Oct. 1880.]

80KAHN
V. SMELTING CO.

lug equitable relief, the facts are found by the court (and not
by a master or a jury where the findings are merely advisory)
they will be taken as its conclusions upon the evidence, and
their sufficiency for the decree rendered will be considered.
The plaintiff avers that his association -with his co-tenants
of the mine was a mining partnership, and seeks to enforce his
rights as a member of such partnership, and to obtain such
other and further relief as he may be equitably entitled to.
The opinion of the judge before whom the case was heard
shows that he did not recognize the existence of any partnership in mines differing from ordinary partnerships, and his
finding that there was no partnership, as alleged, between the
plaintiff and the defendants, necessarily followed. The allegations of the complaint, whilst asserting a mining partnership,
show that no other partnership existed after the sale of Deronso's and Berassa's interest. Such sale would have ended
any ordinary partnership.
Mining partnerships as distinct associations, with different
rights and liabilities attaching to their members from those
attaching to members of ordinary trading partnerships, exist
in all mining communities, indeed, without them successful
mining would be attended with difficulties and embarrassments,
much greater than at present. In Skillman v. Lockman, the
question of the relation existing between. parties owning several
interestsin a mihe came before the Supreme Court of California, and that court said that "whatever may be the rights and
liabilities of tenants in common of a mine not being worked, it
is clear that where the several owners unite and co-operate in
working the mine, then a new relation exists between them,
and, to a certain extent, they are governed by the rules relating to partnerships. They form what is termed a mining
partnership, which is governed by many of the rules relating
to ordinary partnerships, but also by some rules peculiar to
itself, one of which is that one person may convey his interest
in the mine and business without dissolving the partnership."
23 Cal. 203. The same .doctrine is asserted in numerous other
cases, not only in that court, but in the courts of England.
Associations for working mines are generally composed of a
greater number of persons than ordinary trading partnerships,

KAHN V. SMELTING

CO.

[Sup. Mk

and it was early seen that the continuous working of a mine,
which is essential to its successful development, would be impossible, or at least attended with great difficulties, if an association was to be dissolved by the death or bankruptcy of one
of its members, or the assignment of his interest. A different
rule from that which governs the relations of members of a
trading partnership to each other was, therefore, recognized as
applicable to the relations to each other of members of a mining association. The delectus personc', which is essential to
constitute an ordinary partnership, has no place in these mining
associations. Duryea v Burt, 28 Cal. 569, Settembre v Putnam, 30 id. 490, Taylor v Castle, 42 id. 367 There are other
consequences resulting from this peculiarity of a mining partnership, particularly as to the power of individual members to
bind the association, upon which there is no occasion now to
express any opinion. Skillman v Lockman, supra, D1ckznson
v Valpy, 10 B. & C. 128, Rzeketts v Bennitt, 4 C. B. 686.
But if the relation of-the plaintiff to his associates could not
be considered as one of a mining partnership, he was stll entitled to an accounting from them, if, as alleged by him, lie
was 3oiit owner with them in the mine. They went into
possession of the property under a conveyance from his cotenants, and admit that whatever proceeds they have received
from it were taken under a claim of ownership derived from
that source. They have, upon their own averments, only a
claim, in any event, to two-thirds of the proceeds, and if the
plaintiff was a tenant in common with them, they can only
refuse his demand to the other third by repudiating their own
right to any portion. If a co-tenant, he had a right to call for
an accounting, whatever might be the ultimate result of the
claim of third parties to the whole proceeds as the owners of
the mine under a prior location. He was, therefore, entitled
to a finding on the question of his co-tenancy
The judge of
the District Court seemed to recognize this position, for, after
finding that there was no partnership, -following in this respect his peculiar notions as to the non-existence of such an
association as a mining partnership, - he passed upon the claim
to an accounting as a tenant in common of the mine with the
defendants, and found "that there was no such co-tenancy

Oct. 1880.]

TRINIBLE V. WOODHEAD.

between the plaintiff and defendants in the mine in controversy
as entitled the plaintiff to an account." This is not a sufficient
finding of fact upon which to base a decree, it does not state
that there was no co-tenancy between the parties, it implies
that there was a co-tenancy, it only states that there was not
such a one as entitled the plaintiff to an accounting. This is
a mere legal inference, not the finding of a fact. If a cotenancy'of any kind exised, it is a question of law whether or
not it entitles one co-tenant to an accounting from the others.
In considering the whole case, we think that justice will be
subserved by a new hearing. The defendants recognize the
possibility of the plaintiff ultimately establishing his right to
a portion of the proceeds of the mine in their hands against the
claimants of the alleged earlier location. They aver that they
hold the proceeds subject to the determination of pending suits
between those parties. The present decree, if affirmed,. would
cut off any claim of the plaintiff even should he prevail in that
litigation.
The decree will be, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded with direction to the Supreme Court of the Territory
to send it to the District Court for a new hearing, the parties
to be at liberty to produce new proofs, and it is
So ordered.

TRIBLE v. WOODHEAD.
Glenny v. Langdon (98 U. S. 20) reaffirmed.
APPERAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Kentucky.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

a

Carlisle for the appellant.
lilr John
M11r Stanley Matthews and Mr William I. Bamsey, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, James S. Trimble, who was complainant below, brought his bill in chancery, which was dismissed on final
hearing upon it, the answer, replication, and proofs.
MR. JUSTIOE MiLLrIR

