FRENCH

V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

combustion will pass into or through the chamber within which
the bread-holders move." Thus his reissued patent has become
one for an oven in which there may be no diaphragm or partition separating the compartment in which the dough is placed
from the furnace by which it is heated, and which may be
directly under it. Thus the oven is made a part of the passagewav for the products of combustion from the fire-chamber to
the chimney That this is a very different invention from
anything exhibited in the original specification and drawings
is too obvious to need further elucidation. We cannot doubt
that the purpose of the reissues was not to cure defects m the
original specification, or any deficiency in describing the invention, but to cover other devices which the patentee had not
in mind when he first applied for his patent, and which may
have subsequently come to his knowledge. Thirteen years
after the patent was granted had elapsed before he applied for
any reissue. However this may be, the reissued letters are
so clearly for a different invention from that for which the
patentee first applied, containing new matter, and so much
broader, that we are constrained to hold that the Commissioner
of Patents had no authority to grant them, and consequently
that they are void.
The complainants' bill was, therefore, rightly dismissed.
Decree affirmed.

FRENCHr v. WADE.
1. A.'s lands in Louisiana were, May 6, 1865, duly forfeited to the United States
by a decree of the proper court in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred
by the Confiscation Act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), as modified by the
joint resolution of even date therewith. Id. 627. A. purchased them under
the decree, and, on receiving from the marshal a deed therefor, bargained
and sold them to B. in fee, by an authentic act of sale, with all legal warranties. On the death of A., his heirs-at-law sued B. for the possession of
the lands. Held, that they were entitled to recover.
2. Wallach et al. v. Van Riswwck (92 U. S. 202) reaffirmed.

EnRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.

Oct. 1880.]

FRENCH V. WADE.

This was.a suit brought March 14, 1878, against Joseph M.
French, by the heirs-at-law of Henry F Wade, Jr., to recover
the possession of certain real estate in the city of New Orleans.
Wade was the owner of the property when it was seizea and
a libel for its condemnation filed in the proper District Court
of the United States, under the act of July 17, 1862 (12 Stat.
589), commonly called the Confiscation Act, and the joint resolution of even date therewith. Id. 627 It was condemned
May 6, 1865, as forfeited to the United States, and sold* under
a writ of venditwns exponas, Oct. 21, 1865. Wade was the
purchaser, and he and his wife, by an authentic act passed
before S. Magner, notary public, on the thirtieth day of that
month, bargained and sold it in fee, with all legal warranties,
to French. The latter took possession of it and made valuable
improvements.
The act recites that the property was acquired by Wade "at a
sale made b.y the marshal of the United States for the eastern
district of Louisiana, by virtue of a writ of venditwtnt exponas
to him directed by the District Court of the United States
for that district, in the suit entitled The United States v One
Piece of Ground, &c., the propertyo f Henry F Wade, Jr., No.
7969 of the docket of said court, as per deed of said marshal,
dated the 24th of October, 1865, recorded in the clerk's office
of said court m sales-book B, folios 340 and 341, hereto annexed
as part hereof, said property belonged to said Wade, Jr., defendant in said suit, for having acquired the same by donation from
his father, Henry F Wade, and his mother, Lucretia Martin, by
act passed before Theodore Guyole, late notary, on the 17th of
May, 1860, and the same belonged to said donor and his wife,
as community property." Wade died Feb. 24, 1874.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, and French
sued out this writ of error.
Mr Benjamzn _ Jonas for the plaintiff in error.
Mr John A. Campbell, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE deliverea the opinion of the
court.
We think the court below was right in holding that this case
was governed by that of Wallach et al. v Van Riswick (92 U. S.

FRENCH V. WADE.

[Sup. Ct.

202), in which we decided that after a seizure and an adjudicated condemnation and sale under the Confiscation Act of
July 17, 1862 (12 Stat. 589), of the lands of one engaged in
rebellion against the United States, there was "left in him
no estate or interest of any description which he could convey
by deed, and no power which he could exercise in favor of
another" (p. 208), and that the joint resolution passed contemporaneously with the approval of the act was "intended for
the benefit of his heirs exclusively, to enable them to take
the inheritance after his death." p. 213. As to him, the forfeiture was complete and absolute, but the ownership after
his death was in no wise affected (p. 209), except by placing it beyond his control while living. This case has been
followed many times since. Pike v Wassell, 94 U. S. 711. It
must now be considered as the settled rule of decision in this
court.
Wade, by the purchase of his own interest in the property,
took the property to hold during his life, the same as any other
purchaser. Whatever rights another could have acquired by the
purchase, he got, but no more. Another could not, after purchase, have sold and conveyed the interest of the heirs in the
property, neither can he. By the condemnation and sale,
Wade's estate was separated entirely from that of his heirs after
his death, and the heirs are not estopped by his warranty from
asserting their title.
As the cause was tried below on the question of title only,
and there are no findings in respect to the improvements put
on the property by French, we cannot consider whether any
allowances should be made to him on that account or not.
J.udgment affirmed.

