180

RAILWAY CO. V. RENWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

court below had again entered upon the determination of the
cause. Then the reversal would have perfected the right to
a second hearing in the court of original jurisdiction, and,
under the rule stated ia Vannevar v Bryant (21 Wall. 41),
a demand for the transfer might properly be made. Here,
however, the Supreme Court granted no new hearing. It
reversed what had been done below, and then proceeded, under
the original submission, to decree on the merits. It thus
continued the hearing under the original submission, decided
the controversy so far as the primary rights of the parties
were concerned, and through the Common Pleas sent the case
to a master to settle the details of the final decree. No power
was given the court below to rehear the case, but only to proceed in due course with the hearing that had been begun until
the inquiry as to the whole subject-matter was completed.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG did not take part in the decision of

this cause.

RAILWAY COMPANY v. RExwicx.
The second section of the act of the General Assembly of Iowa, entitled "An
Act in relation to riparian owners on the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers,"
approved March 18, 1874, is not in conflict with any statute of the United
States. Where, therefore, the owner of lands on the Mississippi had made
an embankment in front of them, and at its outer end beyond low-water
mark erected, without the direction or consent of the Secretary of War, a
stone pier or crib, tlns court affirms the judgment of the Supreme Court of
that State, declaring that under that section a railway company cannot construct its road over the embankment between high and low water mark, unless
the damages to such owner slall first be ascertained and paid.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
the State of Iowa, coupled with a motion under Rule 6 to
affirm the judgment.
This was a proceeding, under the statute of Iowa, by the
Davenport and Northwestern Railway Company for the assessment of damages sustained by its appropriating lands for the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILWAY Co. v. RENWICK.

construction of its road. Among others is. a strip situate in
the city of Davenport between high and low water mark on
the Mississippi River. It fronts certain lots, on which were
erected a steam saw-mill, a planing-mill, and other houses.
Renwick and others were in possession of the lots, and they
or those under whom they claimed had made an embankment
extending therefrom into the river, and erected at the end of
it a stone pier, without having obtained the consent or direction of the Secretary of War. A boom was thus formed for
holding logs in front of and convenient to the mill. The line
of the railroad passes over this embankment between high and
low water mark.
The railway company was authorized by law .to construct its
road, and the city of Davenport gave its consent to laying the
tracks within its limits.
A judgment, rendered against the company by the Scott
Circuit Court for the damages aforesaid, was affirmed by the
Supreme Court. This writ of error was then sued out.
Sect. 5254 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
provides ' The owners of saw-mills'on the Mississippi River are authorized
and empowered, under the direction of the Secretary of War, to
construct piers or cribs in fi-ont of their mill property on the banks
of the river for the protection of their mills and rafts against damage by floods and ice -Provzded, however, that the piers or cribs
so constructed do not interfere with or obstruct the navigation of
the river, and in case any pier or crib constructed under authority
of this section shall at any time, and for any cause, 'be found to
obstruct the navigation of the river, the government expressly
reserves the right to remove or direct the removal of it, at the cost
and expense of the owners thereof?'

An act of the General Assembly of Iowa, approved March
18, 1874 (Public Laws of Iowa, 1874, p. 28), is as follows "AN ACT in relation to Riparian Owners on the Mississippi and
Missouri Rivers.
"SECT. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Iowa, that all owners and lessees of lands or lots situate upon the
Iowa banks of the Mississippi and Missouri Rivers, upon which

RAILWAY

Co.

v. RmENWICK.

[Sup. Ct.

property there is now, or may hereafter be, carried on any business
which is in any way connected with the navigation of said rivers,
or to which the said navigation is a proper or convenient adjunct,
are hereby authorized to construct and maintain, in front of their
said property, piers, cribs, booms, and other proper and convenient
erections and devices for the use of their respective pursuits and the
protection and harbor of rafts, logs, floats, and other water-crafts
.Provided,that the same present no material or unreasonable obstruction to the navigation of the stream, or to a similar use of
adjoining property.
" SECT. 2. It shall not be lawful for any person or corporation

to construct or operate any railroad or other obstruction between
such lots or lands and either of said rivers, or upon the shore or
margin thereof, unless the injury and damage to such owners occasioned thereby shall be first ascertained and compensated in the
manner provided by chap. 4, title 10, of the Code."
The company claimed in the courts below that the title to
the soil between high and low water mark being vested in the
State, a riparian owner is not entitled to damages by reason of
the company's obstructing his access to the Mississippi River
by their railroad in front of his premises, and that Congress,
in the exercise of its exclusive jurisdiction over the navigable
waters of the United States, having prescribed certain conditions on which the owners of saw-mills on the Mississippi
River may erect piers or cribs in front of their property, the
above act of the General Assembly of Iowa is void.
M"r James T.Lane and Hr John N. 1ogers in support of the
motions.
Mr James Grant, contra.
M . CmIP' JUSTICE 'VAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Although the Supreme Court of Iowa decided that Congress,
under the power to regulate commerce, had jurisdiction over
the Mississippi River, and having exercised that power in the
way specified in sect. 5254, Rev Stat., all State legislation in
conflict therewith was void, still the question remains, whether,
if a riparian proprietor improves his property with a view to
its use in connection with the river, without complying with

Oct. 1880.]

EX PARTE PERRY.

this act of Congress, a railroad company, under the power of
eminent domain granted by the State, can appropriate his
improvements to its own use without his consent and without
making him compensation. This, we think, is a Federal question giving us jurisdiction, but it is a, question on which we do
not care to hear argument. The controversy is not between
the public and the riparian owner as to his right to keep up his
improvements. The public does not complain, but the railroad
company wants the improvements. In the hands of the company they will be just as much a nuisance, so far as the public
is concerned, as they can be if kept up by the owner. As between these two parties the improvements are the property of
the riparian proprietor, and if the company wants them for its
own use it must make compensation. So the court below has
decided, and to our minds its decision was clearly right. While
m Iowa it has been held that the State owns the lands lying
along the river between high and low water mark, care was
taken in the act of March 18, 1874, to provide- that it should
not be lawful for any person or corporation to construct or
operate any railroad or other obstruction between the shore
and the river without compensation to the shore owners. The
second section of the act is good, even though the first may conflict with what Congress had before done.
The motion to dismiss is denied, but that to affirm granted.
Judgment affirmed.

Ex PARTE PERRY.
This court will not by mandamus compel an inferior court to reverse a decision
made in the exercise of its jurisdiction.

for mandamus.
The petitioners filed their libel against the ship "Civilta"
and the steam-tug "Restless," in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York. The
vessels were seized under process sued out of that court, but
were released on the claimant of each giving the requisite stipulation for value.
PETITION

