Oct. 1880.]

UNITED STATES V. GOLDBACK.

make it retrospective, for the purpose of destroying rights of
property or rights of action which had become vested before
the passage of the law
-Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. GOLDBACK.
1 A manufacturer to whom, pursuant to sect. 3425 of the Revised Statutes, the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue sells proprietary stamps on credit is not,
in default of payment therefor, accountable for public money and does
not forfeit the commissions to winch he is, under that section, entitled.
2. Where the manufacturer when sued paid into court the amount due upon
the stamps after deducting his commissions, and it was then stipulated
that the case should be submitted, the only poiftt in issue being as to his
right to them,- Held, that the United States was not entitled to judgment
for the costs which accrued after the date of such payment.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MRt. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

Goldback was a manufacturer of friction-matches, and as
such gave bond to the United States, under sect. 8425 of the
Revised Statutes, with the other defendants in error as his
sureties, to pay such amounts as might from time to time be
due from him for proprietary internal revenue stamps supplied
•him on a credit, in accordance with the provisions of that
section. Under the law he was entitled to an allowance on
the aggregate amount supplied him, as discount on the face
value, or commission. Stamps were furnished him from time
to time on the faith of this security, and when this suit was
begun the balance against him, without any allowance for discount or commission, was $3,869, but deducting the commission
the amount due was $3,062.72. Pending the snit he paid in
full this last-named sum, and then, without any formal plead-

UNITED STATES V. GOLDBAOK.

[Sup. Cr.

ings, the facts were agreed on and submitted to the consideration of the court, with the statement that the only point in
issue was "as to the right of the defendant, Goldback, to
commissions under the provisions of sect. 3624 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States." Judgment was given in favor
of the defendants so far as the commissions were concerned,
but in favor of the United States for costs to Nov. 20, 1876,
the date when the payment of the amount due was made.
To reverse this judgment, so far as it is in favor of the defendants, this writ of error has been brought.
Sect. 3624 of the Revised Statutes provides that "whenever
any person accountable for public money neglects or refuses
to pay into the treasury the sum or balance reported to be due
to the United States, upon the adjustment of his account, the
First Comptroller of the Treasury shall institute suit for the
recovery of the same, adding to the sum stated to be due on
such account the commissions of the delinquent, which shall
be forfeited in every instance where suit is commenced and
judgment obtained thereon, and an interest of six per cent per
annum from the time of receiving the money until it shall be
repaid into the treasury "
Goldback never received and was not accountable for any
public money He bought stamps at a certain discount and
agreed to pay for them at a future day, giving the bond sued
on as his security He did not pay as lie agreed, and he and
his sureties were sued for what he owed. He had no moneys
which in any legal sense belonged to the United States. He
owed a debt for stamps bought at a certain percentage below
their face value. Money in his hands was no more the property of the United States than that of any other debtor is the
property of his creditors. The stamps when bought were his
own, to do with as he pleased. The United States could not
call on him to account for them. He was bound to pay for
them at the time agreed on, whether used or not. What the
statute denominates commissions were in fact discounts from
the face value of the stamps sold, on account of the quantity
purchased. We think it clear, therefore, that the court below
was right in holding that the United States could not recover
for these allowances, though called commissions.

Oct. 1880.]

WELLS V. SUPERVISORS.

Neither do we see any error of which the United States can
complain in respect to the costs. Full costs were recovered up
to the time the debt was paid. This implies that after that
time each party must pay his own costs. It is clkar a plea of
payment puts darrzen was waived, because the parties, when
submitting the case, agreed on the fact of payment after the
suit was commenced, and in terms said that the only issue
between them was in respect to the commissions. This stipulation as to what the issue was is equivalent, for the purposes
of review here, to an admission of record that proper pleadings
had been filed to raise that issue.
Judgment affirmed.

WELLS V. SUPERVISORS.
1. According to the ruling of the highest court of Mississippi, the financial
powers conferred by the general law upon boards of supervisors of counties in that State do not include that of borrowing money.
2. The bonds of a municipal corporation issued in payment of its subscription
to the stock of a railroad company are void, unless the statute confers in
express terms, or by reasonable implication, authority to issue them.
3. The laws of Mississippi bearing upon the right of the authorities of Pontotoc County to subscribe for stock in the Selma, Marion, and Memphis Railroad Company (formerly known as the Memphis, Holly Springs, Okolona,
and Selma Railroad Company), stated and considered, and the conclusion
reached, that the bonds issued July 1, 1877, in payment of such subscription, and reciting that they are "issued under and pursuant to an order of
the board of police of said county of Pontotoc, now known as the board of
supervisors of said county, made under the authority of the Constitution
and laws of said State of Mississippi, authorized by a vote of the people
of said county at a special election held for the purpose on the twentieth
day of. November, A.D. 1869," are void, there having been no authority of
law to issue them.
4. Lynde v. The County (16 Wall. 6) distinguished.
ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr George Perkins for the plaintiff in error.
Mr Tan H. Manning, contra.
VOL. Xn1.

40

