Oct. 1880.]

TILGHIAIAN V. PROCTOR.

chase of land with which the purchaser has complied, but in
which the vendor has failed, a court of equity will take jurisdiction, and if it be seen that the vendor, from subsequent sales
or otherwise, cannot comply with a decree for a specific performance, the court will adjudge compensation in damages. So
here, the court will grant the relief which the complainants,
under their contract, are entitled to have, if such relief can be
obtained from the county, but if by reason of intervening obstacles since the contract was made whether arising from laches
or default of its officials or repealing legislation, this cannot be
secured, an alternative and compensatory decree, that is, one for
a money equivalent in the form of damages, will be directed:
And as this has been done in the present case, the decree is
Affirmed.

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.
1. Letters-patent for a process, irrespective of the particular mode or form of
apparatus for carrying it into effect, are admissible under the patent laws
of the United States.
2. To sustain such letters, the patentee should be the first and original inventor
of the process, and claim it in them. If the means of carrying it out
are not obvious to ordinary mechanics skilled in the art, his specification
should describe some mode of carrying it out which will produce a useful
result.
3. A party who subsequently discovers a new mode of carrying out a patented
process, and obtains letters-patent therefor, is not entitled to use the process
without the consent of the patentee thereof.
4. Mitchell v. Tilghman (19 Wall. 287) reviewed and overruled, and the letterspatent No. 11,766, granted Oct. 3, 1854, to Richard A. Tilghman, and subsequently renewed and extended, relating to the manufacture of fat acids,
sustained as letters for a process.
5. O'Reilly v. Morse (15 How. 62) and Neilson v. Thompson (Web. P. C. 275) commented upon and explained.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
This is a suit in equity brought by Richard A. Tilghman,
against William Proctor, James Gamble, W A. Proctor, James

TILGHIAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

N. Gamble, and George H. Proctor, complaining of their infringement of letters-patent No. 11,766, granted to him, bearing date Oct. 3, 1854, and subsequently renewed and extended,
for a process for obtaining free fat acids and glycerine from
fatty bodies. The answer denies the validity of the letters and
the alleged infringement of them. On a final hearing upon the
pleadings and proofs, the bill was dismissed, and he appealed.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr George Harding for the appellant.
Mtr Charles B. Collier and Mr Matth
H
He-Carpenter for the
appellees.
IR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves a consideration of the same patent which
was the subject of litigation in the case of Mitchell v Tilghman,
reported in 19th Wallace, 287 The evidence in the present
case, which is quite an unwieldy mass, is much' the same as in
that, being supplemented, however, by the testimony of the
patentee respecting the nature of his original experiments and
the practicability of using profitably the coil apparatus described in the patent, together with certain exhibits relating
to the novelty of the alleged invention. Upon the renewed
consideration which has been given to the subject, the court is
unanimously of opinion, contrary to the decision in the Mitchell case, that the patent of Tilghman must be sustained as a
patent for a process, and not merely for the particular mode
of applying and using the process pointed out in the specification, and that the defendants have infringed it by the processes
used by them.
The patent in question relates to the treatment of fats and
oils, and is for a process of separating their component parts
so as to render them better adapted to the uses of the arts.
It was discovered by Chevreul, an eminent French chemist,
as early as 1813, that ordinary fat, tallow, and oil are regular chemical compounds, consisting of a base which has
been termed glycerine, and of different acids, termed generally
fat acids, but specifically, stearic, margaric, and oleic acids.
These acids, in combination severally with glycerine, form
stearine, margarine, and oleme. They are found in different

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

proportions in the various neutral fats and oils, stearine predominating in some, margarine in others, and oleine in others.
When separated from thei base (glycerine), they take up an
equivalent of water, and are called free fat acids. In this state
they are in a condition for being utilized in the arts. The
stearic and margaric acids form a whitish, semi-transparent,
hard substance, resembling spermaceti, which is manufactured
into candles. They. are separated from the oleic acid, which
is a thin oily fluid, by hydrostatic or other powerful pressure
the oleme being used for manufacturing soap, and other purposes. The base, glycerine, when purified, has come to be quite'
a desirable article for many uses.
The complainant's patent is dated the third day of October,
1854, and relates back to the ninth day of January of that
year, being the date of an English patent granted to the patentee for the same invention. It has but a single claim, the
words of which are as -follows. "Having now described the
nature of my said invention, and the manner of performing the same, I hereby declare that I claim, as of my invention, the manufacturing of fat acids and glycerine from fatty
bodies by the action of water at a high temperature and pressure."
In the case of Mitchell, the majority of the court was of
opinion that in the application of the process thus claimed the
patentee was confined to the method of using the process particularly pointed out in the specification, and as, by that, it
was proposed to produce a very rapid separation of the fatty
elements by the use of a high degree of heat, the operation
being effected in the space of ten minutes by forcing the fat,
mixed with water, through a long coil of strong iron tube passing through an oven or furnac where it was subjected to a
temperature equal to that of melting lead, or 6120 Fah., it was
concluded by the court that the producing of the same result
in a boiler subjected to only 400' Fah., and requiring a period
of several hours to effect the desired separation, was not an
infringement of the patent, although the process by which the
effect was produced - namely, the action of water, in antimate
mixture with the fat, at a high temperature and under a sufficient pressure to prevent the formation of steam - was undoubt-

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

edly the same. On further reflection, we are of opinion that, in
the case referred to, sufficient consideration was not given to
the fact that the patent is for a process, and not for any specific ihechanism for carrying such process into effect.
In order to have a clearer understanding of the question, it is
necessary to advert briefly to the history of the art, and then
to examine the terms of the patent in greater detail.
It is conceded by the complainant that two different processes for effecting a decomposition of fats into their component
elements had been in practical operation prior to his invention.
These processes were called respectively the alkaline saponification process, and the sulphuric-acid distillation process. The
first consisted of the manufacture of the fat into soap by the
use of lime or other alkali, and then, of the decomposition of
the soap, so produced, into the fat acids by the aid of hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid. The decomposition of the soap
was, by a subsequent improvement, effected by distillation in
an atmosphere of steam. The other process, called the sulphuric-acid distillation process, consisted of the direct saponification of fat by means of concentrated sulphuric acid, and the
subsequent distillation over of the resulting fatty acids. By
this process, however, the glycerine was destroyed.
The first of these processes was patented by Gay Lussac and
Chevreul in 1825, but was not brought into successful operation in the manufacture of stearic candles ntil improved by
De Milly in 1831. The second process was proposed and
developed between 1840 and 1850. It was extensively used
during and after that period by the large manufacturing firm
of E. Price & Co., of London, and their successors, Price's
Patent Candle Company Mr. G. F Wilson, one of the
shareholders in that establishment, and apparently a man of
accurate knowledge on this subject, read various papers illustrative of the history of the manufacture before learned societies in England, extracts from which are contained in the
record, and throw considerable light on the matter. It appears
from his statements that the distillation of the saponified fat,
whether saponified by an alkali or by sulphuric acid, was
often accompanied by prejudicial effects froih the access of
atmospheric air to the contents of the still. To remedy this,

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMIAN V. PROCTOR.

he and his associates adopted and patented the introduction of
superheated steam into the still or vat containing the fat
acids, which excluded atmospheric air, and carried over the
fatty vapors into the receiver in a more perfect condition than
they had before been able to obtain them. These patents
were taken out in 1843. In the following year, the same
parties, Gwynne and Wilson, found, what Dubrunfaut had
found two or three years before, that palm-oil, which is very
fusible and manageable, can be distilled in its crude state, in
the manner last described, that is, by the introduction of steam
into.the still, without the intervention of saponification, and
the distilled product being then steam-boiled in water, acidulated with sulphuric acid, and the water allowed to settle and
separate, the resulting substance would be a fat acid. It is
not shown that this process was ever carried into successful
operation prior to Tilghman's patent, and judging from what
was done by the Price Patent Candle Company in the way
of improvement immediately after becoming acquainted with
Tilghman's process, it is to be inferred that the steam-distillation process (without saponification) was still an unsuccessful
experiment when his patent was issued. This experiment,
however, must be regarded as the nearest approach to the
process of Tilghman of anything done in the art prior to it.
We do not regard the accidental formation of fat acid in
Perkins's steam cylinder from the tallow introduced to lubricate the piston (if the scum which rose on the water issuing
from the.ejection pipe was fat acid) as of any consequence in
this inquiry What the process was by which it was generated or formed was never fully understood. Those engaged in
the art of making candles, or in any other art in which fat
acids are desirable, certainly never derived the least hint from
this accidental phenomenon in regard to any practicable process for manufacturing such acids.
The accidental effects produced in Daniell's water barometer
and, in Walther's process for purifying fats and oils preparatory
to soap-making, are of the same, character. They revealed no
process for the manufacture of 'fat acids. If the acids were
accidentally and unwittingly produced, whilst the operators
were in pursuit of other and different results, without exciting

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ot.

attention and without its even being known what was done or
how it had been done, it would be absurd to say that this was
an anticipation of Tilghman's discovery
Nor do we regard the patent of Manicler, which was taken
out in 1826, as anticipating the process of Tilghman. It is
true that he directs a mixture of fat with about one-quarter of
its weight of water to be placed in a boiler, and subjected to a
heat sufficient to create a pressure equal to one atmosphere
above the natural atmospheric pressure (or about 250' Fab.),
the boiler being provided with a safety-valve which would
secure that degree of pressure. But, subject to this pressure,
the patent directed that the mixture should be made to boil,
and of course that the water should be converted into steam
the words are, "Apply fire to this digester to melt and digest
the contained tallow or fat and water and keep up a rapid
ebullition during about six hours." It is probable, therefore,
that any decomposition of the fat which may have been produced by this process was due to the steam formed and passing
through the fat, as no means appears to have been adopted for
keeping up the mixture of the fat and water. But we have no
evidence that the process was ever successful in practice. One
of the defendants' witnesses testifies that he tried it, and though
lie got some results, he adds this pregnant observation " To
transform all the fat in this way at so low a temperature
would have required many days." He only pretends that the
sample which he obtained showed by its appearance, as well as
by its acid action, that the separation had commenced. Evidently therefore, this was but an abandoned experiment, since
we never hear any more of it from 1826 down to the trial of
this cause.
It is unnecessary to examine in detail other alleged anticipations of Tilghman s process. We believe that we have specified the most prominent and reliable instances.
Tilghman s discovery was made in 1853, and was, in brief,
this " That the fat acids can be separated from glycerine,
without injury to the latter, by the single and simple process
of subjecting the neutral fat, whilst in intimate mixture with
water, to a high degree of heat under sufficient pressure to prevent the water from being converted into steam, without the

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN v. PROCTOR.

employment of any alkali or sulphuric acid, or other saponifying agent, the operation, even with the most solid fats,
being capable of completion in a very few minutes when the
heat applied is equal to that of melting lead, or 612' Fab.,
but requiring several hours when it is as low as 350' or 400'
Fab. The only conditions are, a constant and intimate commixture of the fat with the water, a high degree of heat, and
a pressure sufficiently powerful to resist the conversion of the
water into steam. The result is, a decomposition of the fatty
body into its elements of glycerine and fat acids, each element
taking up the requisite equivalent of water essential to its separate existence, and the glycerine in solution separating itself
from the fat acids by settling to the bottom when the mixed
products are allowed to stand and cool. In this process a
chemical change takes place in the fat in consequence of the
presence of the water and the active influence of the heat and
pressure upon the mixture.
We are, satisfied that Tilghman was the original discoverer
of this process. h-is priority was acknowledged at the time
by those most interested to question it. Mr. Wilson, to whose
statements reference has been made, and who is perhaps more
justly entitled than any one else. to claim an anticipation of
Tilghman s discovery, makes no such pretension, but, on the
contrary, concedes" Tilghman's right to priority, and, indeed,
Price's Patent Candle Company, of which Mr. Wilson was a
member and director, took a license under Tilghman's English
patent.
As having some bearing upon the proper construction of the
patent in suit (which will presently be more particularly examined), it is proper to observe that Tilghman's actual invention, as demonstrated in his experiments made in 1853, before
making any application for a patent, was not confined to the
use of a coil of pipe in a heated chamber or~furnace for effecting the process which he claims, but was frequently exhibited
by using a simple digester, filled nearly full with a mixture of
fat and water, and heated in a gas stove, or in a vertical position over a gas lamp, the mixture of fat with the water being
kept up by a loose metallic rod or jumper, which thoroughly
mixed the contents when the digester was shaken. Sometimes

TILGHMIAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

the digester was heated in a horizontal position, and, being
provided with thin copper partitions fixed inside, was made to
revolve m order to cause a more perfect mixture of the materials. In using the digester, it not being provided with a safetyvalve, a small space was left at the top for the formation of
sufficient steam to prevent, by its elasticity, the- vessel from
exploding.
In making these experiments Tilghman not only varied the
apparatus, but applied different degrees of heat in the operation. The following is his account of some of these proceedings. He says "Before applying for my patent I had made
many experiments in decomposing by water at temperatures
below melting bismuth, sometimes in the coil form of apparatus,
but most frequently in digesters. The lowest temperature
tried by me was three hundred and fifty degrees Fah. (350' F ),
or 120 pounds pressure'continued for four hours. The digester
was as usual in a vertical position, but the heat was in this
case given by an oil-bath. I obtained both fat acids and glycerine in this experiment, but in such small quantities as to
prove that though the decomposition did go on at that heat,
yet it was very slow compared with the higher heats. I find
notes of another experiment, July 15, 1854, in the coil apparatus, with palm-oil, made at the melting-point of tin, 4400 Fah.,
360 pounds pressure. It was pumped through the coil very
slowly, so as to give about thirty minutes' heat, and found to
be partly decomposed, so that it was returned to the inlet end
of the apparatus and pumped through a second time at the
same rate and heat, which produced perfect decomposition of
the pah-oil into fat acids and solution of glycerine. Ten
minutes' exposure would have perfectly decomposed palm-oil
at, the heat of melting bismuth, 510' Fah. Yet I found 70'
lower heat required six times as long to produce the same
effect. I had often decomposed tallow at 5100 Fah. before
taking out my patent, not in the coil apparatus, but in the
simple vertical digester. In this case I had to allow increased
time on account of the imperfect contact of the fat and water
in addition to that required by the diminished temperature."
In the course of his testimony, Tilghman explains why, in
his patent, he specially recommended the use of the high tem-

Oct. 1880.]

TILGH IA~i V. PROCTOR.

perature of melting lead in applying his process to practical
use. He says "Many experiments had shown me that at
these higher temperatures the decomposition was carried on
with the greatest economy of fuel and cost of apparatus.
When in London in 1847, I had found Perkins' house-warming
apparatus, consisting of coils of hundreds of feet of pipe, containing water at the temperature of melting lead, had long
been in extensive domestic use there. On returning to London
in 1853, I found the same apparatus largely used for heating
bakers' ovens. As I thus found such heats and pressures were
perfectly practical and safe, as well as economical, I thought I
was bound to describe my invention in what I then believed
to be the best mode of carrying it out, and that, as I was the
discoverer of the chemical fats, I could then claim broadly as
my process the use of water highly heated and under pressure
to decompose fats, no matter what temperature or apparatus
was used."
And being asked for his present view as to the practicability,
economy, and safety of the higher temperatures as compared
with lower temperatures, he said "I think the high-pressure
apparatus is much more economical, both in the first cost and
in the expense of working. Its principal disadvantage is that
ordinary engineers are not familiar with its management, and
consequently dislike it."
In December, 1853, Tilghman, having completed his experiments ,to his own satisfaction, filed a caveat in the Patent
Office preparatory to taking out a patent for hlis invention. In
this caveat he says "The invention consists in subjecting
animal and vegetable fatty and oily substances containing
glycerine to a high temperature and pressure in close vessels,
mixed with different agents, according to the effect desired to
be produced upon the fatty matter. Thus, when I wish to
convert the neutral fatty substances into fatty acids and glycerine, I pump a mixture of the fat and water, under great
pressure, through a series of strong metal tubes, kept at about
the heat of melting lead, and provided with a cooling-worm
and safety-valve at its outlet. The neutral fatty substance is
decomposed by the process, and the fat acid and solution of
glycerine which issue through the safety-valve separate by
settling."

716

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. CO.

Tilghman soon after repaired to England and took out a
patent there, dated the ninth day of January, 1854, and sealed
the 25th of March. He immediately put in operation an apparatus for exhibiting his process on a small scale. Mr. Wilson, before mentioned, witnessed his- experiments, and thus
speaks of them in a paper communicated to the Journal of the
Society of Arts, Jan. 25, 1856 "In January, 1854, Mr. Tilghman, an Amencan chemist, who
has studied all that has been published here and in France on the
subject of acidification and distillation of fatty bodies, obtained a
patent for exposing fats and oils to the action of water at a high
temperature and under great pressure, in order to cause the combination of the water with the elements of the neutral'fats, so as to
produce at the same time free fat acids and solution of glycerine.
He proposed to effect this by pumping a mixture of fat and water,
by means of a force-pump, through a coil of pipe heated to about
612' Fah., kept under a pressure of about 2,000 pounds to the
square inch, and he states that the vessel must be closed, so that
the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to prevent the
conversion of water into steam. This is, all must admit, a beautiful, original, chemical idea, well carried out, it has yet to prove
how far it can compete successfully with distillation. We have
made an arrangement with Mr. Tilghman which will give us the
means of testing its commercial merits."
Mr. Wilson goes on to state that -this process of Tilghman
suggested to them the idea of distilling fats by passing steam
into them at a high temperature whereby to resolve them into
glycerine and fat acids. They found the plan successful, and
that the glycerine distilled over with the fat acids, but no
longer combined with them, and, in July, 1854, they took
out a patent for that process. In a paper read before the
Glasgow meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, in September, 1855, Mr. Wilson thus refers
to the course of discovery which took place in this branch of
manufacture

-

"By our first improvement in separating the fat acids from
neutral fats, the glycerine was decomposed by the direct action of
concentrated sulphuric acid at a high temperature, and all that remained of it was a charred precipitate. A new process for decom-

Oct. 1880.].

TILGHMIAM V. PROCTOR.

posing neutral fats by water under great pressure coming under
our notice" [referring to Tilghman's process] "led us to look again
more closely into our old distilling processes, and the doing this
showed, what we had often been on the brink of discovering, that
glycerine might be distilled.
"In our new process the only chemical agents employed for
decomposing the neutral fat, and separating its glycerine, are steam
and heat, and the only agents used in purifying the glycerine thus
obtained are heat and steajn, thus all trouble from earthy salts or
lead is escaped.
"Distillation, however, purifies the impure glycerine of the old
sources.
"On the table is a series of products of palm-oil, which will serve
to illustrate the process. Steam, at a temperature of from 5500 to
6000 Fab., is introduced into a distillery apparatus containing a
quantity of palm-oil. The fatty acids take up their equivalents of
water, and the~glycerine takes up its equivalent, they then distil
over together. In the receiver the condensed glycerine, from its
higher specific gravity, sinks below the fat acids."
We quote more fully from this paper, because it is a contemporary acknowledgment, made by a man who stood in the
front rank of those who understood, and whose interest it was
to understand, the most advanced process of resolving fats and
oils into their component parts, that Tilghman's "process for
decomposing neutral fats by water under great pressure" was
"a new process," and who, with his associates, took hints
from it for making new departures and improvements in the
art. The statements of Mr. Wilson on this subject are corroborated by other witnesses. Indeed, nearly all those competent to speak on the subject state, or admit, that the process
of decomposing fats into glycerine and fat acids by mixing
them with water, and subjecting the mixture to a high degree
of heat under a pressure sufficient to prevent the conversion of
the water into steam, was not known in the arts prior to Tilghman's discovery The testimony of some experts to the contrary is based upon their construction of certain patents and
publications produced in evidence, the most important of which
have already been adverted to.
The question then arises, Has Tilghman secured the exclusive right to the process of which he was thus the inventor?

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

An examination of the patent itself, which the preceding
remarks will enable us better to understand, will show, we
think, that it was intended to and does cover and secure to the
patentee the general process which has been described, although
only one particular method of applying and using it is pointed
out.
The specification describes the invention as follows
"My invention consists of a process for producing free fat acids
and solution of glycerine from those fatty and oily bodies of animal
and vegetable origin which contain glycerine as their base. For
this purpose, I subject these fatty or oily bodies to the action of
water at a high temperature and pressure, so as to cause the elements of those bodies to combine with water, and thereby obtain
at the same tune free fat acids and solution of glycerine. I mix
the fatty body to be operated upon with from a third to a half of
its bulk of water, and the mixture may be placed i any convenient
vessel in which it can be heated to the melting-point of lead, until
the operation is complete. The vessel must be closed and of great
strength, so that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied
to prevent the conversion of the water into steam.
"The process may be performed more rapidly and also continuously by causing the mixture of fatty matter and water to pass
through a tube or continuous channel, heated to the temperature
already mentioned, the requisite pressure for preventing the conversion of water into steam being applied during the process, and
this I believe is the best mode of carrying my invention into effect.
In the drawing hereunto annexed are shown figures of an apparatus
for performing this process speedily and continuously, but which
apparatus I do not intend to claim as any part of my invention."
The specification then goes on to describe, by the aid of the
drawing referred to, the particular device mentioned. But it
is evident, and indeed is expressly announced, that the process
claimed does not have reference to this particular device, for
the apparatus described was well known, being similar to that
used for producing the hot-blast and for heating water for the
purpose of warming houses. It consists of a coil of iron pipe,
or other metallic tubing, erected in an oven or furnace, where
it can be subjected to a high degree of heat, and through this
pipe the mixture (of nearly equal parts of fat and water), made

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

into an emulsion in a separate vessel by means of a rapidly
vibrating piston, or dasher, is impelled by a force-pump in a
nearly continuous current, with such regulated velocity as to
subject it to the heat of the furnace for a proper length of
time to produce the desired result, winch time, when the furnace is heated to the temperature of 6120 Fah., is only about
ten minutes. The fat and water are kept from separating by
the vertical position of the tubes, as well as by the constant
movement of the current, and are prevented from being converted into steam by weighting the exit valve by which the
product is discharged into the receiving vessel, so that none of
it can escape except as it is expelled by the pulsations produced by the working of the force-pump. Before arriving at
the exit valve, the pipe is passed, in a second coil, through an
exterior vessel filled with water, by which the temperature of
the product is reduced. After the product is discharged into
the receiving vessel, it.
is allowed to stand and cool until the
glycerine settles to the bottom and separates itself from the
fat acids. The latter are then subjected to washing and
hydraulic pressure in the usual way
After describing this apparatus it is added "Although the decomposition of the neutral fats by water .takes
place with great quickness at the proper heat, yet I prefer that the
pump should be worked at such a rate, in proportion to the length
or capacity of the heating tubes, that the mixture, while flowing
through them, should be maintained at the desired temperature for
ten minutes before it passes into the refrigerator or cooling.part of
the apparatus."
It is evident that the passing of the mixture of fat and
water through a heated coil of pipe standing in a furnace is
only one of several ways in which the process may be applied.
The patentee suggests it as what he conceived to be the best
way, apparently because the result is produced with great
rapidity and completeness. But other forms of apparatus,
known and in public use at the time, can as well be employed
without changing the process. A common digester, or boiler,
can evidently be so used, provided -proper means are employed
to keep up the constant admixture of the water and fat, which

TILGH-MAN V. :PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

is a sne qua non in the operation. Tilghman himself, as we
have seen, often used such digesters in making his experiments
before applying for his patent, and,.in putting up machinery
for his licensees after his patent was obtained, he did the same
thing when the parties desired it. Yet surely the identity of
the process was not changed by thus changing the form of
apparatus. No great amount of invention was required to
adapt different forms of well-known apparatus to the application of the process. The principal difficulty would be in providing an internal arrangement in the boiler, or digester, for
successfully keeping up the intimate commixture of the fat
and water. It is evident that this could be accomplished by
means of revolving reels armed with buckets, or of a forcepump constantly transferring the heavy stratum of water from
the bottom of the mass to the top, aided by horizontal diaphragms partially sectionizing the digester. These devices were
resorted to by Tilghman and others when they used a boiler
instead of a coil of pipe.
Whilst Tilghman in his patent recommends the high degree
of heat named, lie does not confine himself to that. It had
been fully dbveloped in his experiments, and was well known
to him, that a lower degree of heat could be eknployed by taking lbnger time to perform the operation, and this would be
necessary when boilers, or digesters, of considerable size were
used instead of the coil of pipe, on account of the decreasing
power of large vessels to resist the internal pressure. The
specification, after describing the use of a metallic coil of pipe,
proceeds to add "The melting-point of lead has been mentioned as the proper
heat to be used in this operation, because it has been found to give
good results. But the change of fatty matters into fat acid and
glycerine takes place with some materials (such as palm-oil) at or
below the melting-point of bismuth [510 Fah.], yet the heat has
been carried considerably above the melting-point of lead without
any apparent injury, and the decomposing action of the water
becomes more powerful as the heat is increased. By starting the
apparatus at a low heat, and gradually increasing it, the temperature giving products most suitable to the intended application of
the fatty body employed can easily be determined."

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

Now, when we find it stated, as we do in this specification,
that the patentee subjects "fatty or oily bodies to the action of
water at a high temperature and pressure, so as to cause the elements of those bodies to combine with water, " that "the mixture may be placed in any convenient vessel in which it can be
heated to the melting-point of lead, until the operation is complete," that "the vessel must be closed and of great strength,
so that the requisite amount of pressure may be applied to prevent the conversion of the water into steam," that "the decomposition of the neutral fats by water takes place with great
quickness at the proper heat, " that "the melting-point of lead
has been mentioned as the proper heat to be used in this operation, because it has been found to give good results; " that "the
change of fatty matters into fat acid and glycerine takes place
with some materials at or below the melting-point of bismuth,"
that "the decomposing action of water becomes more powerful
as the heat is increased," that "by starting the apparatus at a
low heat, and gradually increasing it, the temperature giving
products most suitable to the intended application of the fatty
body employed can easily be determined," and when we then
find that the patentee categorically claims, in general terms, as
his invention "the manufacturzngoffat aczds and glycerzne from
fatty bodies by the aetzon of water at a hzgh temperature and
pressure, " and being satisfied that he was, in fact, the inventor
of the general process described and bodied forth in the specification, - how can we, by any fair rule of construction, circumscribe this claim in such a manner as that it shall only cover
the process when applied in the use of a coil of pipe heated to
6120 Fahrenheit ? Or, if we allow it to embrace any " convenient vessel," and do not confine it to a coil of pipe, how can
we confine it to a particular degree of heat ? What did Tilghman discover? And what did he, in terms, claim by his
patent? He discovered that fat can be dissolved into its" constituent elements by the use of water alone under a high degree
of heat and pressure, and he patented the process of " manufacturing fat acids and glycerine from fatty bodies by the action
of water at a high temperature and pressure." Had the process
been known and used before, and not been Tilghman's invention, he could not then have claimed anything more than the
VOL. XII.

46

722

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

particular apparatus described in his patent, but being the
inventor of the process, as we are satisfied was the fact, he was
entitled to claim it in the manner he did.
That a patent can be granted for a process, there can be no
doubt. The patent law is not confined to new machines and
new compositions of matter, but extends to any new and useful
art or manufacture. A manufacturing process is clearly an art,
within the meaning of the law Goodyear's patent was for a
process, namely, the process of vulcanizing india-rubber by subjecting it to a high degree of heat when mixed with sulphur
and a mineral salt. The apparatus for performing the process
was not patented, and was not material. The patent pointed
out how the process could be effected, and that was deemed
sufficient. Neilson's patent was for the process of applying the
hot-blast to furnaces by forcing the blast through a vessel or
receptacle situated between the blowing apparatus and the furnace, and heated to a red heat, the form of the heated vessel
being stated by the patent to be immaterial. These patents
were sustained after the strictest scrutiny and against the
strongest opposition.
On the subject of patents for processes, Mr. Justice Grier, in
delivering the opinion of this court in Corning v Burden, said
"A process eo nomnne is not made the subject of a patent in our
act of Congress. It is included under the general term, ' useful
art.' An art may require one or more processes in order to
produce a certain result or manufacture. The term ' machine'
includes every mechanical device or combination of mechanical
powers and devices to perform some function or to produce a
certain effect or result. But where the result or effect is produced by chemical action, by the operation or application of
some element or power of nature, or of one substance to another,
such modes, methods, or operations are called processes. A
new process is usually the result of a discovery, a machine of
invention. The arts of tanning, dyeing, making water-proof
cloth, vulcanizing india-rubber, smelting ores, and numerous
others, are usually carried on by processes as distinguished from
machines. One may discover a new and useful improvement
in the process of tanning, dyeing, &c., irrespective of any particular form of machinery or mechanical device. And another

Oct. 1880J

TILGHIAN V. PROCTOR.

may invent a labor-saving machine, by which the operation or
process may be performed, and each may be entitled to his
patent. As, for instance, A. has discovered that by exposing
india-rubber to a certain degree of heat, in mixture or connection with certain metallic salts, he can produce a valuable product or manufacture he is entitled to a patent for his discovery,
as a process or improvement in the art irrespective of any machine or mechanical device. B., on the contrary, may invent a
new furnace, or stove, or steam apparatus, by which this process
may be carried on with much saving of labor and expense of
fuel, and he will be entitled to a patent for his machine as an
improvement in the art." 15 How 252, 267
Neilson's patent above referred to had some features very
similar to those of Tilghman's. The strong objection urged
against the latter is, that the particular apparatus described in
the specification is not that which is generally used, and that it
cannot be used with much profit or success in large manufacturing operations, whereas the slower method of dissolving fats
in a common boiler, or digester, at a lower temperature even
than that of melting bismuth, which is not described in the specification, is the one which is generally adopted. Precisely
this circumstance existed in reference to the patent of Neilson.
The specification directed that the blast or current of air produced by the blowing apparatus should be passed into an airvessel or receptacle heated to a red heat; and from thence into
the furnace. Then, after stating that the air-vessel or receptacle should be increased in size according to the size of the
" The
forge or furnace to be supplied, the specification adds
form or shape of the vessel or receptacle is immaterial to the
-ffect, and may be adapted to the local circumstances or situation." Now, the most simple and natural form of an airvessel, for heating the blast, as here directed, would be a box or
chamber, or a cylindrical vessel, but it turned out in practice
that a receptacle of this kind would answer the purpose but
very imperfectly, and that the best and most useful method
was to heat the blast in a series of tubes placed in a heated
oven. This was held to be no ground for invalidating the
patent, or for preventing it from covering intermediate tubes,
as well as an intermediate box or chamber, the jury being of

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

opinion that a man of ordinary skill and knowledge in the
construction of blowing and air-heating apparatus would be
able, from the information contained in the specification, to
erect a machine which would answer some beneficial purpose
in the application of the process, and would not be misled
and prevented from so doing by the declaration that the form
or shape of the vessel or receptacle was immaterial to the
effect. In this view of the subject the patent was sustained
after very great consideration.
Some question has, indeed, been made whether Neilson's
patent was sustained as a patent for a process. The Court
of Exchequer, in reviewing the proceedings at the trial, and
answering the objection that it was a patent for a principle,
said " It is very difficult to distinguish it from the specification of a patent for a principle, and this at first created in the
minds of some of the court much difficulty, but, after full consideration, we think that the plaintiff does not merely claim a
principle, but a machine embodying a principle, and a very
valuable one. We think the case must be considered as if, the
principle being well known, the plaintiff had first invented a
mode of applying it by a mechanical apparatus to furnaces, and
his invention consists in this, - by interposing a receptacle for
heated air between the blowing apparatus and the furnace. In
this receptacle he directs the air to be heated by the application
of heat externally to the receptacle, and thus le accomplishes
the object of applying the blast, which was before of cold air,
in a heated state to the furnace." Web. P C. 275, 371.
In this passage, we think that the Court of Exchequer (who
spoke through Baron Parke) drew the true distinction between
a mere principle, as the subject of a patent, and a process by
which a principle is applied to effect a useful result. That a
hot,-blast is better than a cold-blast for smelting iron in a furnace was the principle or scientific fact discovered by Neilson,
and yet, being nothing but a principle, be could not have a
patent for that. But having invented and practically exemplified a process for utilizing this principle, namely, that of heating the blast, in a receptacle, between the blowing apparatus
and the furnace, be was entitled to a patent for that process,
although he did not distinctly point out all the forms of appara-

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

tus by which the process might be applied, - having, nevertheless, pointed out a particular apparatus for that purpose, and
having thus shown that the process could be practically and
usefully applied. Another person might invent a better apparatus for applying the process than that pointed out by Neilson,
and might obtain a patent for such improved apparatus, but he
could not use the process without a license from Neilson. His
improved apparatus would, in this respect, stand in a relation
to the process analogous to that which an improvement on a
patented machine bears to the machine itself.
That Neilson's patent was regarded as for a process is apparent from what is said by the judges who had it under consideration. Thus Baron Parke at the trial had said
" The
specification and patent together make it clear what the discovery was. it was the introduction of hot air by means of heating it before it was introduced into the furnace, between the
blowing apparatus and the furnace." Web. P C. 275, 312.
And when the matter came before the House of Lords, after a
trial in Scotland, Lord Campbell said "After the construction first put upon it [the patent] by the learned judges of the
Court of Exchequer, sanctioned by the high authority of my
noble and learned friend now upon the woolsack, when presiding
in the Court of Chancery, I think the patent must be taken to
extend to all machines, of whatever construction, whereby the
air is heated intermediately between the blowing apparatus
and the blast furnace. That being so, the learned judge was
perfectly justified in telling the jury that it was unnecessary
for them to compare one apparatus with another, because, confessedly, that system of conduit pipes was a mode of heating air
by an intermediate vessel between the blowing apparatus and
the blast furnace, and, therefore, it was an infraction of the
patent." Id. 715.
This case of the hot-blast was commented upon in the great
case of O'Beilly] v Morse, and is there recognized and approved
in the opinion of this court delivered by Chief Justice Taney
After quoting the remarks of Baron Parke in the Court of
Exchequer, cited above, the Chief Justice says. "We see nothing in this opinion differing in any degree from the familiar
principles of law applicable to patent cases. Neilson claimed

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Or.

no particular mode of constructing the receptacle, or of heating
it. He pointed out the manner in which it mtght be done, but
admitted that it might also be done in a variety of ways, and
at a higher or lower temperature, and that all of them would
produce the effect in a greater or less degree, provided the air
Whowas heated by passing through a heated receptacle.
ever, therefore, used this method of throwing hot air into the
furnace, used the process he had invented, and thereby infringed
his patent, although the form of the receptacle or the mechanical arrangements for heating it might be different from those
described by the patentee. For whatever form was adopted
for the receptacle, or whatever mechanical arrangements were
made for heating it, the effect would be produced in a greater
or less degree, if the heated receptacle was placed between the
blower and the furnace, and the current of air passed through
it.
The patent was supported 'because lie [Neilson] had
invented a, mechanical apparatus by which a current of hot air,
instead of cold, could be thrown in. And this new method was
protected by the patent. The interposition of a heated receptacle in any form was the novelty he invented." 15 How 62,
115, 116.
We have quoted these remarks of the Chief Justice more
fully because they show most clearly that he put the same construction upon Neilson's patent that was put upon it by Lord
Campbell, and that he fully acquiesced in the legality and
validity of a patent for a process. Yet it has been supposed
that the decision in 0 Reilly v M]orse was adverse to patents
for mere processes. The mistake has undoubtedly arisen from
confounding a patent for a process with a patent for a mere
principle. We think that a careful examination of the judgment in that case will show that nothing adverse to patents for
processes is contained in it. The eighth claim of Morse's patent
was held to be invalid, because it was regarded by the court as
being not for a process, but for a mere principle. It amounted
to this, namely, a claim of the exclusive right to the use of
electro-magnetism as a motive power for making- intelligible
marks at a distance, that is, a claim to the exclusive use of one
of the powers of nature for a particular purpose. It was not a
claim of any particular machinery, nor a claim of any particular

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

process for utilizing the power, but a claim of the power
itself, - a claim put forward on the ground that the patentee
was the first to discover that it could be thus employed. This
claim the court held could not be sustained.
That this was the true ground of the decision will be manifest from the following observations of the Chief Justice in the
opinion already quoted from. He says. "He [Morse] claims
the exclusive right to every improvement where the motive
power is the electric or galvanic current, and the result is the
marking or printing intelligible characters, signs, or letters at
a distance. If this claim can be maintained, it matters not by
For
what process or machmnery the result is accomplished.
aught that we now know, some future inventor, in the onward
march of science, may discover a mode of writing or printing at
a distance by means of the electric or galvanic current, without
using any part of the process or combination set forth in the
In fine, he claims an exclusive
plaintiff's specification.
right to use a manner and process which he has not described,
and indeed had not invented, and therefore could not describe
when he obtained his patent. The court is of opinion that
It is
the claim is too broad, and not warranted by law
by
been
able
the -high praise of Professor Morse that he has
a new combination of known powers, of which electro-magnetism is one, to discover a method by which intelligible marks
or signs may be printed at a distance. And for the method or
process thus discovered he is entitled to a patent. But he has
not discovered that the electro-magnetic current, used as a
motive power, in any other method, and with any other combinations, will do as well." After reviewing the statutes and
decisions bearing upon the subject, the Chief Justice makes a
summary conclusion of the whole matter, as follows "Whoever discovers that a certain useful result will be produced, in
any art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, by
the use of certain means, is entitled to a patent for it, provided
he specifies the means he uses in a manner so full and exact
that any one skilled in the science to which it appertains can, by
using the means he specifies, without any addition to or subtraction from them, produce precisely the result he describes.
And if this cannot be done by the means he describes, the pat-

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

ent is void. And if it can be done, then the patent confers on
him the exclusive right to use the means he specifies to produce
the result or effect he describes, and nothing more. And it makes
no difference, in this respect, whether the effect is produced by
chemical agency or combination, or by the application of discoveries or principles in natural philosophy, known or unknown
before his invention, or by machinery acting altogether upon
mechanical principles. In either case, he must describe th~e
manner or process as above mentioned, and the end it accomplishes. And any one may lawfully accomplish the same end
without infringing the patent, if lie uses means substantially
different from those described." Id. 119.
It seems to us that this clear and exact summary of the law
affords the key to almost every case that can arise. "Whoever
discovers that a certain useful result will be produced in any
art by the use of certain means is entitled to a patent for it,
provided he specifies the means." But everything turns on the
force and meaning of the word " means." It is very certain
that the means need not be a machine, or an apparatus, it may,
as the court says, be a process. A machine is a thing. A process is an act, or a mode of acting. The one is visible to the
eye, - an object of perpetual observation. The other is a conception of the mind, seen only by its effects when being executed or performed. Either may be the means of producing a
useful result. The mixing of certain substances together, or
the heating of a substance to a certain temperature, is a process.
If the mode of doing it, or tbe apparatus in or by which it may
be done, is sufficiently obvious to suggest itself to a person
skilled in the particular art, it is enough, in the patent, to point
out the process to be performed, without giving supererogatory directions as to the apparatus or method to be employed.
If the mode of applying the process is not obvious, then a
description of a particular mode by which it may be applied
is sufficient. There is, then, a description of the process and
of one practical mode in which it may be applied. Perhaps
the process is susceptible of being applied in many modes and
by the use of many forms of apparatus. The inventor is not
bound to describe them all in order to secure to himself the
exclusive right to the process, if he is really its inventor or dis-

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMTAN V. PROCTOR.

coverer. But he must describe some particular mode, or some
apparatus, by which the process can be applied with at least
some beneficial result, in order to show that it is capable of
being exhibited and performed in actual experience.
Let us apply these principles to the present case. In the
first place, the claim of the patent is not for a mere principle.
The chemical principle or scientific fact upon which it is
founded is, that the elements of neutral fat require to be severally united with an atomic equivalent of water in order to
separate from each other and become free. This chemical fact
was not discovered by Tilghman. He only claims to have invented a particular mode of bringing about the desired chemical unin between the fatty elements and water. He does
not claim every mode of accomplishing this result. He does
not claim the lime-saponification process, nor the sulphuric-acid
distillation process, and if, as contended, the result was accomplished by Dubrunfaut, Wilson, and Scharling, by means of
steam distillation, he does not claim that process. He only
claims the process of subjecting to a high degree of heat a mixture continually kept up, of nearly equal quantities of fat and
water in a convenient vessel strong enough to resist the effort
of the mixture to convert itself into steam. This is most certainly a process. It is clearly pointed out in the specification,
and one particular mode'of applying it and carrying it into
effect is described in detail. But it is not the particular apparatus described which Tilghman desires to secure by his patent.
Having pointed out the process and suggested a particular mode
of applying it, he claims as his invention "the manufacturngof
fat acids and glycerine from fatty bodies by the aeton of water
at a high temperature and pressure." The true construction of
tlis claim is to be sought by comparing it, as we have already
done, with the, context of the specification, with the statement
of the patentee that his "invention consists of a process for
producing free fat acids and solution of glycerine from those
fatty and oily bodies of animal and vegetable origin, which contaiii glycerine as a base," that "for this purpose he subjects

these fatty and oily bodiet to the action of water at a high temperature and pressure, so as to cause the elements of those bodies
to combine with water and thereby obtain at the same time

730

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

free fat acids and solution of glycerine," that he "mixes the
fatty body to be operated upon with from a third to a half of
its bulk of water, and the mixture may be placed in any convement vessel in which it can be heated to the melting-point of
lead" [which is afterwards explained to be only desirable for a
quick result, not essential] , that " the vessel must be closed
and of great strength, so that the requisite amount of pressure
may be applied to prevent the conversion of the water into
steam." This is the process which the patentee claims to have
invented, and this description of it gives the proper construction and qualification to the claim.
It is objected that the particular apparatus described in the
patent for carrying the process into effect cannot be operated
to produce any useful result. We have examined the evidence
on this point, and are satisfied that it shows the objection to be
unfounded. A recapitulation of this evidence is not necessary
The testimony of Tilghman himself, of Professor Booth, and of
Mr Wilson is directly to the point.
It only remains that we should express our views on the
question of infringement.
The defendants advance several
reasons for the purpose of showing that their process does not
conflict with that of Tilghman.
First, because they do not
use the apparatus described in the complainant's patent, but
use a boiler in which the charge of fat and other materials is
placed and heated, and do not mix the fat and water in the
manner pointed out in the specification of the patent, but, on
the contrary, have inserted in the boiler a pump which forces
the water as it settles to the bottom upwards to the top of the
mass and pours it upon the upper surface, whence it again finds
its way down through the fat, thus keeping up a constant mixture. It is unnecessary to add anything further on the subject
of the form of the apparatus used. The patentee is not confined to a metallic coil of pipe heated in a furnace, but his patent extends to and embraces any convenient vessel for holding
the mixture, which is strong enough to sustain the pressure
necessary to prevent the water from being converted into steam.
The defendants use such a vessel, and use it for the purpose
indicated and pointed out in the patent. The vessel which
they use has the requisite strength to prevent the water from

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHNIAN V. PROCTOR.

being converted into steam, and does effect that object. And
as to the defendants' using a different method from that suggested in the patent for keeping up the mixture of fat and
water, that is of no consequence. The keeping up of the mixture is the important thing. That is a necessary-part of the
process. They employ such a device for effecting this as is
adapted to the form of vessel in-which they heat the material.
Using a boiler instead of a coil of pipe for this purpose, they
are obliged to employ an additional or modified means for keeping up the mixture. They only employ such means as, ii view
of the change adopted in the form of the heating apparatus,
and of the known appliances in use in analogous processes,
would naturally suggest themselves to a mechanic skilled in
the art. Or, if the mode of effecting the continued mixture
adopted by the defendants should be deemed a new and useful
improvement, they might perhaps have a patent for that peculiar device without being entitled to use Tilghman s process,
on which it is but an improvement.
Another ground on which the defendants argue that they
do not infringe the patent is, that they do not, in their process,
use water alone in admixture with fat, but use also some portion of lime that they formerly used seven per cent of lime,
and now use four per cent. But they do not use lime in the
manner and to the extent in which it is used for dissolving fats
by the saponifying process. That requires twelve or fourteen
per cent. Even if the saponifying process partly takes place,
-they use Tilghman's process for effecting the balance of the
operation. They use water in admixture with fat, heated to a
high degree, far above the boiling-point, and yet subjected to
such pressure as to prevent the water from being converted
into steam and though they may also use other things at the
same time, which other things may facilitate the operation, or
render a less degree of heat necessary than would be required
when water alone is used, and thus actually improve the process of Tilghman, yet this process is included in their operation, and forms the basis of it. It is idle, 'therefore, to say
that they do not infringe Tilghman's patent. It is unnecessary to determine what precise part the lime used by the defendants plays in their process, whether, as the complainant

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

contends, it saponifies the fat to a certain extent, leaving the
remainder to be acted upon by the water alone purely after
the process of Tilghman, or whether, as the defendants contend, the lime produces a more perfect and active commixture
of the fat and water, or predisposes the fat to unite with the
requisite elements of water necessary for producing glycerine
and the fat acids,-in either case the process of Tilghman,
modified or unmodified by the supposed improvement, underlies the operation performed in the defendants' boilers.
Another ground assumed by the defendants to avoid the
charge of infringement is, that they do not heat the mixed
mass in the manner pointed out in Tilghman's specification,
but, instead of heating the containing vessel by an outside
application of heat, they heat the contents by the introduction
of super-heated steam. But we think that this does not alter
the essential character of the process. The heating by steam
is clearly an equivalent method to that of heating by an external fire. The patent does not prescribe any particular
method of applying the heat, except when using the pipe and
coil apparatus described in the specification, and, even in the
use of this apparatus, the outward application of the heat to
the pipe is suggested incidentally and as a matter of convenience rather than as an essential requisite. The patentee
showed one method in which the heat could be applied. That
was all that was necessary for hn to do. If it could be applied in any number of different methods, it would not affect
the validity of the patent as a patent for a process. The
method of heating the mixture by the introduction of steam
may be attended with some beneficial results, in producing an
agitation, or automatic circulation helpful to the perfection of
the admixture of the water and fat, and so far it may be an
improvement on heating from without. Suppose this to bl so,
as before said, the introduction of an improvement gives no
title to use the primary invention upon which the improvement is based.
Finally, the defendants argue that they only use a low
degree of heat and pressure compared with that pointed out
by the patent, namely only about 310' Fah. instead of 612'
The precise degree of heat, as we have seen, is not of the

-Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMIAN V. PROCTOR.

essence of the patent. The specification only claims that a
high degree of heat, such as would be sufficient to melt lead,
is most effective and rapid in producing the desired result,
but suggests a trial of the apparatus employed with different degrees of heat so as to ascertain that which is best for
each particular kind of fat. " By starting the apparatus,"
the language is, " at a low heat, and gradually increasing it,
the temperature giving products most suitable to the intended
application of the fatty body employed can easily be determined." It is probably true, as contended for by the defendants, that by the use of a small portion of lime, the process
can be performed with less heat than if none is used. It may
be an improvement to use the lime for that purpose, but the
process remains substantially the same. The patent cannot
be evaded in that way The matter may be stated thus
Tilghman discovers a process of decomposing fats by. mixing
them with-water, and heating the mixture to a high temperature under a pressure that prevents the formation of steam.
It is a new process, never known before. The defendants
seeing the utility of the process, and believing that they can
use a method somewhat similar without infringing Tilghman's
patent, put a little lime into the mixture, and find that it helps
the operation, and that they do not have to use so high a degree
of heat as would otherwise be necessary. Still, the degree of
beat required is very high, at least a hundred degrees above
the boiling-point, and a strong boiler or vessel, is used in order
to restrain the water from rising into steam. Can a balder
case be conceived of an attempted evasion and a real infringement of a patent 9
And as to the low degree of heat used in the operations of
the defendants, this must also be said that, with the reduction of the temperature, the time of perfecting the operation is
more than proportionally increased. Tilghman was aware of
this result, and pointed it out in his patent. He expressly
says " The decomposing action of the water becomes more
powerfulas the heat is increased." What can be.done in minutes by the application of a very high degree of heat, requires
hours to do at the temperature used by the defendant. But
the process is still the same, and the defendants fail to evade
the patent.

784

TILGHMAN V. PRocToR.

[Sup. Ct.

We pass by the fact that the defendants first took a license
from the patentee, and under it and under his directions
erected substantially the same apparatus which they are yet
using. Receiving what they regarded as additional light, they
refused to continue the payment of a royalty, and put the complainant to his legal remedy
It is our opinion that the patent is for a process, that it is a
valid patent, and that the defendants infringe it.
We have considered the case entirely upon its merits. It
is unnecessary to bestow much discussion upon the technical
objections that have been raised. They have not been pressed
in the argument, and are probably not seriously relied on.
One of them is, that no replication was filed in the case. To
this it may be answered, that the parties have throughout
treated the case as though it were regularly at issue. The
various stipulations into which they have entered, with regard
to the admission of evidence to be heard on the trial of the
cause, are totally inconsistent with the idea that the case was
to be heard merely on bill and answer. Another objection is,
that the patent was dated more than six months prior to the
filing of the application for it. But under the law then in
force (1854) with regard to the antedating of patents where a
foreign patent had been obtained, this was admissible. The
sixth section of the act of March 3, 1839, entitled "An Act
in addition to an act to promote the progress of the useful
arts," expressly declared "that no person shall be debarred
from receiving a patent for any invention or discovery
by
reason of the same having been patented in a foreign country
more than six months prior to his application Promded, that
the same shall not have been introduced into public and common use in the United States prior to the application for such
patent And provided also, that in all cases every such patent
shall he limited to the term of fourteen years from the date or
publication of such foreign letters-patent." Now, we know
by the proceedings on the application in this case that the
attention of the Commissioner of Patents was expressly called
to the fact of the issuing of the English patent, and that the
question of the date of the patent in suit was submitted to
and considered by him. Under the laws then in force, lie

Oct. 1880.]

TILGHMAN V. PROCTOR.

785

determined that the patent ought to be antedatea as of the
date of the English patent. It must be presumed that his
decision was right according to the facts of the case, at least
until the contrary is shown, and nothing has been shown to
the contrary by any evidence in the cause to which our attention has been called.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, and the
cause remanded with directions to enter a decree in conformity
with this opinion, and'it is
So ordered.

