OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAVIESS.

[Sill. Ct.

of the power to issue bonds, because the same provision is
found in sect. 4 of the act of 1872. There is this difference
between these provisions of the two acts
in that of 1852
the railroad company is to issue the stock to the tax-payer,
while that of 1872 simply says that certificates of shares shall

be issued, without saying by whom.

But it is not for us at

tins time to determine the legal effect of that part of the act
of 1872. Power to issue bonds is given in express terms by
that act, and stock was to be issued to all persons "paying
taxes for the principal and interest of said bonds," while in
the act of 1852 the tax was to be collected " for the payment
of the capital stock so subscribed," and stock was to be issued
by the company to the persons holding certificates of the paymenDt of this tax.
On the whole, we think the court below was right in holding that the issue of bonds in this case was not authorized by

law'

Different questions will arise if the railroad company,

or any one who has been subrogated to the rights of the company, shall attempt to enforce the payment of- the original

subscription by the county

Judgment affrmed.

OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAViESS.
1 An act of the General Assembly of Missouri, approved Jan. 4, 1860, authorizes counties, towns, and cities to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company which it incorporated, and issue bonds in payment therefor. The
seventh section enacts that "upon the presentation of a petition of the
president and directors of said company to the county court of any county
through which said road may be located, praying that a vote may be
taken in any strip of country through which it may pass, not to exceed
ten miles on either side of said road that the inhabitants thereof are
desirous of taking stock in said road and of voting upon themselves a
tax for the payment of the same,-it shall be the duty of said county
court to order an election therein, and shall prescribe the time, place, and
manner of holding said election, and if a majority of the taxable inhabitants shall determine in favor of the tax, it shall be the duty of said court
to levy and collect from them a special tax, winch shall be kept separate
from all other funds and appropriated to no other purposes, and as fast
as collected shall cause the same to be paid to the treasurer of said com-

Oct. 1880.]

OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAMvESS.

pany." Hdd, that the affirmative vote of the inhabitants of such a strip
authorized the county court to levy collect, and pay over to the treasurer
of the company such special tax, but it did not create a debt of the county,
as such, for which bonds might be issued under that act or the act of March
24, 1868, authorizing "counties, cities, and incorporated towns to fund their
respective debts."
2. The act of March 24, 1-870, entitled "An Act to amend an act to facilitate the
construction of railroads in the State of Missouri, approved March 23, 1868,"
granted no new power of subscription. The act of 1868 related entirely to
municipal townships as such.
3. The court reaffirms its former rulings that the holder of a municipal bond
is chargeable with notice of the statutory provisions under which it was
issued.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MTr Joseph B. 11ferryman for the plaintiff in error.
11Mr Willard P Hall, contra.
MR. CHIEF JUSTI=E WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
On the 4th of January, 1860, the General Assembly of Missouri incorporated the Platte City and Des Moines Railroad
Company, now, by statutory change of name, the Chicago and
Southwestern Railway Company
Sect. 7 of the charter is as
follows

-

"SECT. 7. Upon the presentation of a petition of the president and directors of said company to the county court of any
county through which said road may be located, praying that a
vote may be taken in any strip of country through which it may
pass, not to exceed ten miles on either side of said road-; that the
inhabitants thereof are desirous of taking stock in said road and of
voting upon themselves a tax for the payment of the same, - it shall
be the duty of said county court to order an election therein, and
shall prescribe the time, place, and manner of holding said election,
and if a majority of the taxable inhabitants shall determine in
favor of the tax, it shall be the duty of said court to levy and collect from them a special tax, which shall be kept separate fiom all
other funds and appropriated to no other purposes, and as fast as
collected shall cause the same to be paid to the treasurer of said
company "

OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAVIESS.

[Sup. Ct.

On the 4th of July, 1865, a new constitution of Missouri
went into effect, sect. 14, art. 11, of which is as follows "The General Assembly shall not authorize any county, city,
or town to become a stockholder in, or to loan its credit to, any
company, association, or corporation, unless two-thirds of the qualifled voters of such county, city, or town, at a regular or special
election to be held therein, shall assent thereto."
By an act to facilitate the construction of railroads, passed
March 23, 1868, municipal townships in any county of Missouri were authorized to subscribe, through the county court
of the county, to the stock of railroad companies, with the
assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters of the township,
and to pay their subscriptions with bonds in the name of the
county, payable out of a special tax to be levied on the real
estate of the township. On the 24th of March, 1870, the
General Assembly amended this law by adding the following
as sect. 7 "In all cases where, by the provisions of the charter of any railroad company organized under the laws of this State, the taxable
inhabitants of a portion of a municipal township of any county in
this State have voted, or may hereafter vote, to take stock in such
railroad company, they are hereby declared entitled to, and shall
have, all the privileges, rights, and benefits in said act conferred
upon counties or townships, and the county court of such county
shall exercise the same powers and perform the same duties in
issuing bonds, levying, collecting, and paying over the taxes which
it is required to ill the case of a county or township under the
provisions of said act .Prowded, however, that no part of such
township outside the limits of the district voting shall be taxed
to pay any of the bonds or coupons so issued by the county court.
This act shall take effect from its passage."
After the passage of this act, the Daviess County Court, on
the petition of the Chicago and Southwestern Railway Company, ordered an election on the twenty-first day of June,
1870, to obtain the assent of the "taxable inhabitants living
within a strip of five miles on each side of the line of said railway to be built through the county of Daviess,
to the

Oct. 1880.]

OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAVIESS.

subscription by the county of Daviess, for and on behalf of the
taxable inhabitants of said strip, of the sum of $60,000 of the
capital stock of said railway company, on such terms and conditions as" the court "should deem proper." Thereupon the
court fixed, as one of the conditions of the subscription, that
"in payment of said subscription sixty bonds shall be issued
by said county to the Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company,
of $1,000 each, payable ten years after date,
with interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, evidenced bysemi-annual coupons," &c. The election was held,
and resulted in five hundred and sixty-eight votes for the subscription and four hundred against it. The county court subscribed the stock, and to pay the subscription issued and
delivered to the company bonds in the following form " UNITED STATES

"$1,000.]

OF AMERICA.

State of 2lissours, County of Dawess.

[$1,000.

"Daviess County Ten-year Bond, No. 3.
"Know all men by these presents, that the county of Daviess,
in the State of Missouri, acknowledges itself to owe and be indebted to, and promises to pay the bearer the sum of one thousand
dollars, on the first day of August, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and eighty, for value received, negotiable
and payable without defalcation or discount at the Metropolitan
National Bank, in the city and State of New York, with interest
thereon fiom the first day of August, A.D. 1870, at the rate of
eight per centum per annum until paid, which interest shall be due
and payable semi-annually.on the first day of February and August
in each year, on the presentation of the proper interest coupon, as
annexed hereto, attested by the signature of William M. Bostaph,
clerk at the said Metropolitan National Bank. This is one of sixty
bonds of like date, amount, and effect, numbered from one to sixty,
both numbers inclusive, issued in payment of the indebtedness of
said county of Daviess to the Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company, incurred on account of an election held in said county
on the twenty-first day of June, A. D. 1870, by certain taxable inhabitants of said county
"In testimony whereof, the said county of Daviess, by order of
its county court, has caused these presents to be executed by the
signature of the presiding justice of said court, attested by the

OGDEN V. COUNTY OF DAVIESS.

[Sup. Ct.

clerk thereof, with the seal of said county affixed, at office in
Gallatin, Daviess County, T[issouri, this twenty-seventh day of
July, At.n. 1870.
" PETER BEAR, Presiding

Jiustice.

"Attest

WILLIAM

M.

BosTAPH, Clerk."

SEAL or DAVIESS
COUNTY COURT, MO.)

The coupon is in words and figures following, to wit " 840.]

GALLATIN, Mo., July 27, 1870.
" County of Daviess, in the State of Missouri, will pay to the
bearer forty dollars on the frst day of February, 1873, at the
Metropolitan National Bank, in the city and State of New York,
for value received, being the semi-annual interest due on bond
No. 3 of said county, issued to Chicago and Southwestern Railway
Company.
" WILLIAM M. BosTArri. Clerk."

When the delivery of the bonds was made, the interest coupons were cancelled to Sept. 1, 1871. The coupons for 1873
were not paid. and this suit was brought to recover what was
due on that account. The plaintiff is a bona fide holder of the
coupons. On the trial the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion on several questions which have been certified here, the principal of which is whether there was lawful
authority for the issue of the bonds. The presiding judge
being of the opinion that there was not, judgment was given
In favor of the county, and to reverse that judgment this
writ of error was brought.
We think the presiding judge was right in the view he
took of the controlling question in this case. Without doubt,
sect. 7 of the charter of the company authorized the taxable
inhabitants of the "strip of country " designated to vote a tax
upon themselves to take stock, and required the county court
to levy and collect such a tax, if voted, and pay over the
money as fast as collected to the treasurer of the company,
but in this we find no authority for the county to issue bonds
in anticipation of the tax. The taxable inhabitants of the
strip of country could not themselves make a bond, and all the
county court could do was to collect and pay over the tax they

Oct. 1880.]

OGDEN V.

OUNTY OF DAVIESS.

voted. The inhabitants were not even organized by themselves, much less made a body politic for any purpose. They
could vote the tax, if called upon to do so by the county court,
but that was all. The effect of their vote was nothing more
than to authorize the county court to levy, collect, and pay
over to the treasurer of the company the special tax they had
determined upon. The requirement of the law - that the
money, when collected, should be paid over to the treasurer
of the company -is entirely inconsistent with any idea that
the obligations to be met in this way were to be in the form
of negotiable paper afloat on the market as commercial securities. Under the provisions of sect. 6 of the charter, counties,
towns, and cities were expressly authorized to issue bonds in
payment of their subscriptions. The omission of any such
power in sect. 7 is conclusive evidence that nothing of the
kind was intended in case of " strip" subscriptions. In this
particular the case is even stronger than that of Wells v
Supervisors, supra, p. 625.
Neither. did the act of March 24, 1870, give the power to
issue bonds. That was an act amending what is commonly
known as the "township aid law" of Missouri, which related
only to subscriptions by municipal townships. The amendment granted no new power of subscription, but simply provided that where, under the charter of any railroad company,
the taxable inhabitants of a portion of a municipal township
had voted or- might vote to take stock m the company, the
county court might issue bonds for the stock so taken, to be
paid out of taxes levied on property within the limits of the
district voting. In the charter of the Chicago and Southwestern Company, authority was not given the taxable inhabitants of any portion of a township to take stock, but to the
taxable inhabitants of any strip of country through which
the road might pass, not exceeding ten miles on either side.
This strip was not necessarily part of a township. ,t might
include parts of several townships, or the whole of some and
parts of others. As the act amended related entirely to municipal townships as such, and there had before been legislation
in relation to strips of country without any reference to townships, it must be presumed that the amendment applied only

OGDEN V. COUNTY

OF DAVIESS.

[Sup. Ct.

to paxts of townships separately, and not to the aggregation of
townships or parts of townships which would almost necessarily be included in a strip of country twenty miles wide
or less along a railroad as it runs through a county The
bonds which this statute authorizes were to be issued on behalf of a portion of a township, not on behalf of a " strip of
country " Under the charter, the taxable inhabitants of the
strip were to take the stock, and they were to be taxed. We
cannot, without a perversion of language, apply the act of 1870
to this provision of this charter. It follows that neither in the
charter nor in the amending act relied on can there be found
authority to issue the bonds in question.
On the 24th of March, 1868, the General Assembly of
Missouri passed an act "to enable counties, cities, and incorporated towns to fund their respective debts." Sect. 1 of that
act is as follows "That the various counties of this State be, and they are hereby,
authorized to fund any and all debts they may owe, and for that
purpose may issue bonds bearing interest at not more than ten
per centum per annum, payable semi-annually, with interest coupons
attached, and all counties, cities, or towns in this State which
have or shall hereafter subscribe to the capital stock of any railroad
company, may in payment of such subscription issue bonds bearing interest at not more than ten per centum per annum, payable
semi-annually, with interest coupons attached. The bonds authorized by this act shall be payable not more than twenty years from
date thereof."
It is claimed that authority for the issue of the bonds can
be found in tns law We do not agree to this. Ieither the
county, nor a city, nor a town took the stock now in question.
The county did not owe any debt. The taxable inhabitants
of the " strip of country " had authority to vote to tax themselves for the stock. In this way they could bind themselves,
but that did not create a debt of the county, as such, for
which funding bonds might be issued. The debt, if any, was
of the " strip" only, and not the county As no bond could
be issued under the original vote, the county assumed no obligation whatever. The county court and other officers of the
county could be compelled to levy, collect, and pay over the

Oct. 1880J]

KAHN V. SMELTING CO.

tax, but that was all the county or its officers were required
to do.
We have always held that every holder of a municipal bond
is chargeable with notice of the provisions of the law by which
the issue of his bond was authorized. If there was no law for
the issue there can be no valid bond. On the face of these
bonds it appears that they were issued to the Chicago and
Southwestern Company on account of an election held by
"certain taxable inhabitants of the county" This clearly connects the bonds with the Chicago and Southwestern charter,
and indicates unmistakably that they were put out on account
of a "strip" subscription. The holder is, therefore, chargeable
with notice of the want of legal authority for their issue.
The principal question certified is answered in the negative,
and, without specially replying to the others, further than may
be implied from this opinion, the judgment is
Affirmed.

KAIN v. SMELTrNG ComPANY.
1. Where, under the practice established in Utah, issues are tried by the court,
its findings of fact should be announced and filed
before the entry of the
judgment.

2. After such entry, an additional finding, made at the request of either party
without notice to the other, forms no part of the record.

3. A member of "a mining partnership" may, without dissolving it, convey his
interest in the mine and business.
4. In a suit to compel an account for the proceeds of a mining claim, a finding by the court that there was no such co-tenancy between the parties in
the mine in controversy as to entitle the plaintiff to an accounting is a

mere legal inference, and not a sufficient finding of fact upon which to base
a decree.

from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr John B. MBrzde and Hr George H. Williams for the
appellant.
Hr Samuel Shellabarger and Mr Jeremzah H. Wilson,
contra.
APPEAL

VOL. XII.

41

