GEORGE V. TATE.

[Sup. Or.

GEORGE V. TATE.
1. Where the signature of a firm name to an instrument shows that it was
intended to be the act of all the partners, effect must be given to it accordingly, although only one of them is named in the body of the instrument.
2. When, in an action at law upon his bond, the defendant sets up that it was
procured from him by fraud, no evidence in support of the plea is admissible, except that which relates to the execution of the instrument.
3. A demand against the obligee, obtained by the defendant after notice of the
assignment of the bond to the plaintiff, is not a matter of set-off.
4. The assignment of a judgment, and of all bonds and instruments which,
during the progress of the suit wherein it was rendered, were taken in
conection therewith, transfers to the assignee a bond given by the defendant, with surety whereby he secured the release of his property which
had been seized under an attachment issued m the suit.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
DistLict of Kansas.
This was an action by Samuel W Tate upon a bond bearing
date Sept. 19, 1872, executed to John J lyers and William
Green by the firm of M. B. George & Brothers as principal,
The bond was subject to the
and J W L. Slavens as surety
condition, "That whereas the said Myers & Green have heretofore commenced, and now have pending, a civil action inithe District Court
of Ellsworth County, State of Kansas, against said Ti. B. George &
Brothers, to recover the sum of $8,509.50, and have also filed then
affidavit according to law, for a writ or'writs of attachment to issue
for the property of said M. B. Geoige & Brothers, and whereas
writs of attachment have issued and are now in the hands of
the sheriffs of those counties to winch said writs of attachment
have been directed, and whereas the said _A.B. George & Brothers
have property within the jurisdiction of said court, about to be
attached under and by virtue of said writs of attachment and
whereas said Myers & Green have agreed and promised the said
.A. B. George & Brothers that they, Myers & Green, will recall the
said writs of attachment upon their, M. B. George & Brothers, executing a bond with approved security to pay the amount of the
judgment and costs which may be rendered in the said action
against said M. B. George & Brothers.

Oct. 1880.]

GEORGE v. TATE.

"Now, therefore, if we, the foregoing named bounden parties,
shall well and truly pay to Myers & Green the amount of the judginent and costs which may be rendered in the foregoing named
action by said District Court in sixty days from the rendition
thereof, then the foregoing bond to be void, otherwise to be and
remain in full force and effect."
The petition avers that Myers & Green performed the conditions in the bond mentioned, that being indebted to Tate they
assigned and transferred to him the bond and their claim and
demand against George & Brothers, and that on the rendition
of a judgment against that firm for.-9,758 they assigned in
writing it and the bond to him, together with all their right,
title, and interest therein and thereto, and that the bond and
judgment remain unpaid. At the time-of the execution of
the bond the obligees were partners doing business under the
firm name of Myers & Green.
The defendants' answer admits the execution of the bond, but
denies the other allegations of the petition, and sets up as a defence that they were induced to sign the bond by the false and
fraudulent representations made to them by Green, and of the
attorney of Myers & Green, that six hundred and seventy-five
head of cattle, sold but not delivered to the purchasers by
M. B. George & Brothers, bad been attached in a suit against
the latter by Myers & Green, and were then held by virtue of
such attachment.
Slavens sets up as a further defence by way of set-off,
that Myers & Green were indebted to the firm of Ferguson,
Slavens, & Co., of which he was a member, in a sum larger
than the judgment obtained by Myers & Green against M. B.
George & Brothers, and that on the last of July, 1874, before
he had any notice of the assignment to Tate, by Myers &
Green, of the bond in suit, said firm of Ferguson, Slavens,
& Co., for value, assigned to him, Slavens, their claim against
Myers & Green, that he was still the owner thereof, that
it was due and unpaid, and that Myers & Green were insolvent.
To these defences the plaintiff filed a general denial.
The assignments in the petition mentioned are as follows -

GEORGE

v.

[Sup. Ct.

TATE.

"MYERs & GREEN
VS.

Al. B. GEORGE &BO.

"I, William Green, in consideration of 88,509.00 (eight thousand
five hundred and nine dollars), to me paid by Samuel W Tate, of
Llano County, Texas, do hereby assign to the said S. W Tate the
within written instrument, and all my interest in the covenants
and agreements therein contained. That I hereby assign, turn
over, and convey to and for the benefit of S. XV Tate, of the
county of Llano, State of Texas, all my right and interest in a certain suit now pending in the District Court of Ellsworth County,
Kansas, wherein I, William Green, and J J. Myers are plaintiffs,
and M. B. George & Brothers are defendants.
"And I constitute the said S. W Tate my attorney irrevocable,
with full power at his own charge in my name to take all legal
measures which may be necessary or proper for the recovery or
enjoyment of the assigned premises, with power of substitution.
"Witness my hand and seal this fivst day of November, A.D. 1872.
MYERS &

GREEN,

By Wm. GREEN.
"Executed in the presence of"G. A. MILLs.
J MYERS and WILLIAm GREEN, Copartners as MYERS & GREEN, Plaintiffs,

"JOHN

I

L. GEORGE,
and JOHN E. GEORGE,
Copartners as I. B. GEORGE & BROTHERS,
Defendants.

MOSEs

B.

GEORGE,

WILLIA

JAMES B. GEORGE,

"1874, May 14. Judgment against the said defendants, M. B.
George & Brothers, in favor of said Myers & Green. Debt,
$9,758.00, costs, $
"Whereas said Myers & Green, since the commencement of the
above suit and before the said judgment, sold their demand against
the defendants to Samuel W Tate for a debt owned by Myers &
Green to Tate, and said suit has been carried on in the name of
Myers & Green to judgment, and the said judgment and the bonds
and instruments connected therewith and taken in said suit by the
plaintiffs from the defendants and their sureties belong to said
Tate Therefore we, the said Myers & Green, hereby, for value

Oct. 1880.]

GEORGE

v.

TATE.

received by us from said Tate, do sell, transfer, set over, and assign
to the said Samuel W Tate the said judgment, and all bonds and
instruments taken therein and connected therewith during the progress of said suit, and all our right and title therein and thereto,
with full power to said Tate to collect, sue the same, and to receipt
therefor as fully as we or either of us could do. As witness our
hands at Ellsworth, in the State of Kansas, this eighteenth day of
May, A.D. 1874.
"1MYERS

&

GREEN '

There was a judgment for the plaintiff for $12,203.31. The
defendants thereupon sued out this writ, and assign for error
that the court below erred, 1. In permitting the plaintiff to read in evidence the written
assignment dated Nov 1, 1872, signed " Myers & Graen, by
Wm.Green."
2. In refusing to allow the defendants to prove that they
were induced to execute the bond sued on by the false and
fraudulent representations of Myers & Green and their agents
and attorneys.
3.In instructing the jury that "the assignment of Nov 1,
1872, by Green to Tate, transferred, under the evidence in this
action, the bond sued on in this case, with the right of Tate to
sue for Green's interest therein."
4. In instructing the jury that "if Slavens, before the assignment to him of Ferguson, Slavens, & Co.'s claim against Myers
& Green, had notice of the assignment of the bond in suit to
Tate, you will disallow the defendants' so-called set-off."
5. In instructing the jury that "if Slavens had such information or knowledge of the assignment as would be sufficient
to put any reasonable man upon inquiry, when such inquiry,
reasonably followed up, would have led to an ascertaining of
the truth, he had sufficient notice of such assignment."
6. In instructing the jury that "if the firm of Myers &
Green, on the eighteenth day of May, 1874, transferred the
judgment and bond by a written assignment, and in such
assignment recited that they had theretofore sold the demand against George & Brothers to Tate, and that the bonds
connected therewith belonged to Tate, then any notice to
Slavens, after such sale, of such sale would prevent the set-off

GEOROE V. TATE.

[Sup. Ct.

in this action, provided such notice was before he obtained the
set-off."
7 In instructing the jury that "an assignment of the claim
in suit against George & Brothers, or all assignment of the
judgment rendered thereon, would also transfer the bond sued
on in this action."
8. In instructing the jury that " if the defendant Slavens,
before the assignment to him of the claim of Ferguson, Slavens,
& Co., had notice of the assignment to Tate of the MYers &
Green claim against George & Brothers, you will not allow
him or any of the defendants any set-off whatever."
9. In refusing to instruct the jury that "the interest of
said Green in said demand has not been proved. The interest
of partners in the property of the firm depends on the condition of the accounts between the partners, and the mere statement that Myers & Green were equal partners in business does
not show what the interest of either may be in any particular
portion of the property "
Ai.r Nelson Cobb for the plaintiffs in error.
111r Jo/hn If. Cravens, contra.
SWAYXE delivered the opinion of the court.
The errors assigned in this case relate to three subjects The admission in evidence by the court upon the trial below
of the instrument dated Nov 1, 1872,
The refusal by the court to permit evidence to be given of
fraud by the defendant in error in procuring from the plaintiffs in error the bond upon which the judgment below was
recovered,
And the instructions given by the court to the jury touching
the set-off claimed by the plaintiffs in error.
These several topics will be separately considered.
It was in proof that the firm of Myers & Green were
largely indebted to Tate. He applied to Myers for payment.
Myers said they had a claim against George & Brothers then
in suit. He requested Tate to "go up and see Billy Green,"
and added, " he will let you have the claim against George
& Brothers." Tate went to Green, and Green had the instrument in question drawn, and after its execution delivered it to
MR. JUSTICE

Oct. 1880.]

GEORGE V. TATE.

Tate. Green further agreed that the jpudgment in the pending
suit should be assigned to Tate as soon as it was recovered.
Tate subsequently saw Myers and showed him the assignment. He said it was "all right," and Tate thereupon gave
up to him the notes of Myers & Green to the amount of the
claim against George & Brothers.
The bond was given to prevent the execution of a writ of
attachment issued for the seizure of the property of George
& Brothers, to secure the payment of any judgment Myers &
Green might recover against them. It was conditioned for the
payment of such judgment.
Viewing the transaction in the light of this evidence, it cannot be doubted that it was the intention of both parties that
the bond should be transferred to Tate, and we think that
intent was made effectual. The difficulty, so far as there is
any, has arisen from the unskilfulness of the draftsman of the
instrument. The assignment could have been made by one of
the partners, and he could have made it by parol. Jones v
GuarantyJ-Indemnity Company, 101 U. S. 622, Story, Partn.,
sect. 101. The signature of the firm name shows that the
instrument was intended to be the act of both partners, and
effect must be given to it accordingly This can be done upon
settled legal principles and analogies.
If a promissory note be drawn, "I promise to pay," &c., and
is signed by more than one person, it is the joint and several
note of all who sign it. Clerk v Blackstock, 1 Holt, 474,
Hunt, Adm'r, v Adams, 5 Mass. 358, s. c. 6 id. 519.
If one party only be named as obligor in the body of a
bond, and others sign it also, all are bound. In no other
way can any effect be given to the signatures of those not so
named. The intent is clear, and that is sufficient. Parks
v Brinkerhoff, 2 Hill (N. Y ), 663, Perkzns v Goodman, 21
Barb. (N. Y ) 228.
A bond to B.'s executors, B. being alive, is a bond to B.
Langdon v Goole, 3 Lev 21.
In Simpson v Henderson (1 Moo. & M. 300), a written
contract stipulated that a ship should be ready to take freight
on board "forthwith." Parol evidence was admitted to show
the surrounding circumstances when the contract was made.

GEORGE

v.

TATE.

[Sup. Ot.

Lord Tenterden said. "The word 'forthwith,' indeed, in strictness, means immediately , but it is plain this cannot be the
construction to be affixed to it here. It was known that she
required some repairs, at least, to be coppered, and some time
must be allowed for that." He left it to the jury to say
whether, under the circumstances, the vessel had been made
ready within a reasonable time.
" Debt on an obligation conditioned to pay £7, by 2s. a
week until the £7 were paid, and if lie failed of the payment
of the 2s. at any of the days wherein it ought to be paid, the
obligation to be void, or else to remain in full force. The defendant pleads that he did not pay the 2s. on one of the days
wherein it ought to be paid. The plaintiff demurs.
The
court held that the condition should be taken distributively,
by referring particulars to particulars, viz. that if he paid
the £7 the obligation should be void, but if lie failed of paying the 2s. at any of the days, it should be in full force, to
which the rest agreed, for the obligation shall not be of no
effect if by any means it may be made good." Vernon v. Alsop,
2 Lev 77. It has been said by an eminent writer that " words
are the counters of the wise and the money of the unwise."
Their office is to symbolize ideas. The intent of the parties
is the contract, and whenever that is ascertained, however inartificially expressed, it is the duty of courts to give it effect.
As between Myers & Green and Tate, the title of Tate was
good by estoppel. The consideration which passed from him
to them made it so.
A title to real estate thus acquired is effectual either for
attack or defence in an action of ejeetment. Dickinson.v Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578.
The court below committed no error in this connection.
Proof of fraudulent representations by Myers & Green, beyond the recitals in the bond, to induce 'its execution by the
plaintiff in error,'was properly rejected.
It is well settled that the only fraud permissible to be proved
at law in these cases is fraud touching the execution of the
instrument, such as misreading, the surreptitious substitution
of one paper for another, or obtaining by some other trick or
device an instrument which the party did not intend to give.

Oct. 1880.]

GEORGE V. TATE.

Hartshorn et al. v Day, 19 How 211, Osterhout v Shoemaker
and Others, 3 Hill (N. Y ), 513, Belden v Dames, 2 Hall
(N. Y ), 433, .Franchotv Leach, 5 Cow (N. Y ) 506. The
remedy is by a direct proceeding to avoid the instrument.
Irvzng v Hfumphrey, 1 Hopk. (N. Y ) 284.
The evidence was properly rejected for another reason.
Where a party reaps the benefit which the bond gives in
such cases, and is called upon to respond, he is not permitted
to repudiate the obligation he has assumed.
In a case not unlike this Judge Story said "The question
is not new, and I am entirely satisfied that where the claimant
voluntarily accepts a delivery 'n bail, it is aii estoppel of his
right to contest the validity of the security He accepts or
not at his pleasure, and it would be grossly inequitable if he
might lie by until the close of the cause, receive and use the
property, and then, by detecting an error in the bond, set the
whole judgment of the eourt at defiance." The Brig Struggle,
1 Gall. 475. See also Bigelow, Estoppel, p. 206, and post, and
2 Whart. Evidence, sect. 1039, and the authorities cited by
each author.
The instructions as to the set-off or counter-claim were as
favorable to the plaintiffs in error as- they had a right to ask.
The jury, upon the evidence, found against them. With this
result, there being no error of law involved, this court has
nothing to do.
It is insisted that the court erred in instructing the jury that
"an assignment of the claim in suit against George & Brothers, or an assignment of the judgment rendered thereon, would
also transfer the bond sued upon in this action."
In this there was no error. The instruction was in exact
conformity to the law upon the subject. Bowdoin v Colman,
6 Duer (N. Y.), 182, Crazg v Parkis, 40 N. Y 181, Claflin
v Ostrom, 54 id. 581, Patisonv Hull, 9 Cow (N. Y ) 747,
Hosmer v True, 19 Barb. (N. Y ) 106.
All the assignments of error are without merit.
Judgment affirmed.

