Oct. 18K0]

GAY v. ALTER.

under a sale made in an equity suit to which he was an original party The sale may have been a nullity, and it may be
that he could have repudiated it as a valid transfer of his
right of property
Instead of pursuing that course, he, with a
knowledge of all the facts, appeared before the auditor and
disputed the right of certain creditors to be paid out of the
fund which had been raised by the sale of his property He
forbore to raise any question whatever as to the validity of the
sale, and by his conduct indicated his purpose not to make any
issue in reference to the proceedings in the equity suit. Knowing that the defendants' claim to the premises rested upon that
sale, he remained silent while the latter expended large sums
in their improvement, and, in effect, disclaimed title in himself. He was silent when good faith required him to put the
purchaser on guard. He should not now be heard to say that
that is not true which his conduct unmistakably declared was
true and upon the faith of which others acted.
The evidence upon this point was properly admitted, and
operated to defeat the action independently of the question
whether the sale by Carrington, the trustee, and its confirmation by the court, was, itself, a valid, binding transfer of the
title to the purchaser.
What has been said renders it unnecessary to consider the
questions of law presented in the remaining bills of exceptions.
Judgment affirmed.

GAY

v.

ALTER.

By the law of Louisiana, a party to a synallagmatic contract has no right to
rescind it by reason of the failure of performance by the other party, unless
he returns to the latter what was received from him, so as to put um in the
same situation in which he was before.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The controversy in this case related to the validity of certain
3udgments, and depended mainly upon the facts disclosed by
the evidence. In one case the judgment' creditor had agreed
to accept $8,000 for a judgment of $11,000, and received .93,000

GAY

v.

ALTER.[

[Sup. Ct.

in cash on this agreement, and informally assigned the judgment to a friend of the judgment debtor for his benefit. The
subsequent payments not being made as agreed, the judgment
was assigned to Gay, who had notice of the transaction, and he
sought to recover the whole amount. Alter, the purchaser of
the property affected by the judgment, contended that it could
only stand for the reduced amount, subject to the payment of
$3,000, which would leave only $5,000 due. Gay claimed that,
as the payments agreed to be made were not all made, the
agreement was forfeited. The court below decreed in favor of
Alter. Gay thereupon appealed here.
1Vr 1T. J Leovy for the appellant.
Hr George L. Bright, contra.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is contended by the appellant that the contract whereby
Ames agreed to sell his judgment for $8,000, was a synallagmatic contract, which he had a right to rescind if the
agreement of the other party as to the payment of the purchasemoney was not performed. This is undoubtedly the law of
Louisiana, but that law also requires that, if a party to a contract wishes to rescind it for such a cause, he must return to
the other party what he has received, so as to put him in the
same situation he was in before. In the present case, it is not to
be supposed that it was Ames's duty to return the $3,000 which
he received, because it was really received from Aymar, the
debtor. But he was at least bound to credit that amount on
the judgment, which would have been a substantial return,
and in that case he would have a right to maintain his judgment for the whole balance, and Gay, his vendee, would have
had the same right. But he did not do this nor has Gay
done it, but, on the contrary, the latter has endeavored to
collect the whole judgment without any deduction whatever.
This conduct is totally inconsistent with the position taken.
It shows, not a rescission of the contract, and a return or credit
of the amount paid thereon, but a determination to regard the
transaction as altogether void and the whole judgment still due.
We think that this position cannot be maintained.
-Decreeaffirmed.

