Oct. 1880.]

SCHOONMAKER V. GILIORE.

The point was made by the defendants that the courts of
the United States have exclusive jurisdiction in cases of collision on navigable waters.
There was a judgment for the plaintiff, on the affirmance
of which by the Supreme Court the defendants sued out thiswrit.
Mr Alexander l. Watson in support of the motions.
Hr Bill Burqwrn, contra.
MR. CGHIF3 JUSTiCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The single question in this case is, whether the courts of the
United States, as courts of admiralty, have exclusive jurisdiction of suits zn personam, growing out of collisions between
vessels while navigating the Ohio River. This is a Federal
question, and gives us jurisdiction, but we cannot consider it
as any longer open to argument, as it was decided substantially
in The Moses Taylor, 4 Wall. 411, The Hine v Trevor, id. 555,
The Belfast, 7 id. 624, Leon v Caleeran,11 id. 185, and Steamboat Company v Chase, 16 id. 522. The Judiciary Act of 1789
(1 Stat. 73, sect. 9), reproduced in sect. 563, Rev Stat., par. 8,
which confers admiralty jurisdiction on the courts of the United
States, expressly, saves to suitors, in all cases, the right of a
common-law remedy, where the common law is competent to
give it. That there always has beep a remedy at common law
for damages by collision at sea cannot be denied.
The motion to dismiss is overruled, and that to affirm granted.
Judgment affirmed.
NOTE. - Brown v. Davidson, error to the Supreme Court of the State of Pennsylvauia, involved the same question as the preceding case. It was submitted
by, the same counsel and determined in the same manner.

RAILWAY

COMPANY v. HECK.

[Sup. Ct.

RAILWAY COMPANY v. HECK.
Neither the charge of the court below, if no exception was taken thereto before
the final submission of the case to the jury, nor the granting or the refusing
a new trial, is subject to review here.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr B. Walker for the plaintiff in error.
Mr 0. B. Sansum, contra.
R. CHITIE JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
It does not appear from this record that any exceptions
were taken in the progress of the trial to what was done by
Nearly three weeks after the trial was conthe court below
cluded and a verdict rendered, a motion was made for a new
trial, because of certain alleged errors in the charge, but it is
nowhere shown that they were noted or brought to the attention of the court before the verdict. Certainly no exceptions
were taken. A trial court may, in the exercise of its judicial
discretion, grant a new trial, if convinced that its charge was
wrong, even though its attention was not called to the error
complained of before the case was finally submitted to the jury
But not so with us. Our power is confined to exceptions actually taken at the trial. The theory of a bill of exceptions is
that it states what occurred while the trial was going on. Time
is usually given to put what was done into an appropriate form
for the record, but, unless objection was made and exception
taken before the verdict, no case is presented for a review here
of the rulings at the trial. This has been settled in this court
since Walton v United States, 9 Wheat. 651. The cases are
numerous to that effect.
We have uniformly held that, as a motion for new trial in
the courts of the United States is addressed to the discretion
of the court that tried the cause, the action of that court in
granting or refusing to grant such a motion cannot be assigned
for error here. Schuchardt v Allens, 1 Wall. 359, Insurance
Company v Barton, 13 id. 603.
Judgment affirmed.

