Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. MISSISSIPPI.
1. A petition for a mandamus was filed in one of her courts by the State of Mississippi to compel a railroad company, a corporation existing under the
laws of that State, to remove a stationary bridge which it had erected over
Pearl River, a navigable stream on the line between Louisiana and Mississippi. Thereupon the company presented its petition, duly verified, praying
for the removal of the suit into the Circuit Court of the United States, and
alleging that the right to erect, use, and maintain the bridge was vested by
the company's charter; that its maintenance over said river was authorized
by the act of Congress approved March 2, 1868 (15 Stat. 38) that thereunder it became a part of a post-road over which for several years the
mails of the United States have been carried, and that therefore the suit
impugns the rights, privileges, and franchises granted by said act. The
petition was accompamed by a bond with good and sufficient security conditioned as required by the act of March 3, 1875. 18 Stat. part 3, p. 471.
Held, that under the latter act the company was entitled to the removal
prayed for.
2. The decisions of this court affirming the jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States in cases arising under the laws of the United. States, or where
a State is a party, cited and commented on.
3. The ruling .in Insurance Cempany. v. Dunn (19 Wall. 214) and Ronoval Cases
(100 U. S. 457), that a party loses none of his rights who, after failing to
obtain its removal, contests a suit on its merits in the State court, reaffirmed.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr John A. Campbell and Mr Thomas L. Bayne for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr Alexander M. Clayton, contra.
Mr. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, defendant below, filed a petition in the
State court of original jurisdiction for the removal of this suit
into the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississippi. The petition was accompanied by a
bond, with good and sufficient surety, conditioned as required
by the statute. The application for removal was denied, and
the court, against the protest of the company, proceeded with
the trial of the suit. A demurrer to the answer was sustained,
and judgment was entered in behalf of the State. Upon a
writ of error, sued out by the company, the Supreme Court of

RAILROAD

CO. v. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ot.

Mississippi gave its sanction to the action of the inferior court
upon the petition for removal, and affirmed, in all respects, its
judgment upon the merits.
The first assignment of error relates to the action of the State
court in proceeding with the trial after the filing of the petition
and bond for removal of the suit. If the suit was one which
the company was entitled, under the statute, to have removed
into the Circuit Court of the United States, then all that occurred
in the State court, after the filing of the petition and bond,
was in the face of the act of Congress. Gordon v Longest, 16
Pet. 97, Kanouse v lIartn,15 How 198, Insurance Company
v 1bunn, 19 Wall. 214. Its duty, by the express command of
the statute, was, the suit being removable, to accept the petition
and bond, and proceed no further.
Among the cases to which the national Constitution extends
the judicial power of the United States are those arising under
the Constitution or laws of the Uion. The first section of the
act of March 8, 1875, determining the jurisdiction of circuit
courts of the United States, and regulating the removal of
causes from State courts, invests such circuit courts with
original jurisdiction, concurrent with the courts of the several
States, of all suits of a civil nature, at common law or in equity,
where the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the sum
or value of 500, and " arisiug under the Constitution or laws
of the United States." Under the second section of that act
either party to a suit of the character just described may remove it into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district. The only inquiry, therefore, upon this branch
of the case is, whether the present suit, looking to its nature
and object as disclosed by the record, is, in the sense of the
Constitution, or within the meaning of the act of 1875, one
"arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States."
The action was commenced by a petition filed, in behalf of
the State, against the New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga
Railroad Company (now known as the New Orleans, Mobile,
and Texas Railroad Company), a corporation created in the
year 1866, under the laws of Alabama, and by an act of the
legislature of Mississippi, passed Feb. 7, 1867, recognized and
approved as a body politic and corporate in that State, with

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD

0.

V. MISSISSIPPI.

authority to exercise therein the rights, powers, privileges, and
franchises granted to it by the State of Alabama.
The object of the action was to obtain a peremptory writ of
mandamus, requiring the company to remove a stationary
bridge which it had erected across Pearl River, on the line
between Louisiana and Mississippi, and construct and maintain,
in the central portion of the channel of that.river, where the
railroad crosses, a drawbridge which, when open, will give a
clear space, for the passage of vessels, of not less than sixty feet
in width, and provide, after its construction, for the opening
of the drawbridge, without unnecessary delay, for any and all
vessels seeking to pass through it.
The claim of the State is 1. That the construction and maintenance of a stationary
bridge across Pearl River is in violation of the company's charter, an obstruction to the navigation of the river, and a public
nuisance, resulting in great and irreparable damage to the people
of Mississippi.
2. That Pearl River, by the common law and the law of nations, is a navigable river, in which the tide ebbs and flows
above said bridge, is navigable for steamboats for more than
two hundred miles, and has been so navigated from time immemorial, that the river is the boundary between Mississippi
and Louisiana, neither of those States having power to authorize
any obstruction to its free navigation, that by an act of Congress, entitled "An Act to enable the people of the western part
of Mississippi Territory to form a constitution and State government, and for the admission of said State into the Union on
an equal footing with the original States," passed March 1,
1817, it was, among other things; provided "that the Mississippi
River and the navigable rivers and waters leading into the same,
or into the Gulf of Mexico, shall be common highways and for
ever free, as well to the inhabitants of said State as to other
citizens of the United States, "that those provisions constituted
a condition on which the State of Mississippi was admitted into
the Union, and an engagement on the part of the United States
that all the navigable rivers and waters emptying into the Gulf
of Mexico should for ever be free to all the inhabitants of the
State of Mississippi, that Pearl River does lead and empty

RAILROAD

C0.

V. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ct.

into the Gulf of Mexico, that the bridge is such an obstruction
to the navigation of Pearl River as to cause permanent injury,
as well to the State of Mississippi and its inhabitants, as to the
commerce of the United States and of the world, and, consequently, was in violation of the law
The company resists the application for a mandamus upon
several grounds.
It affirms that the bridge m question had been constructed
and is maintained in accordance with its charter and conformably to the power and authority conferred by the States of
Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
It further avers, in its answer, that the railroad is a great
public highway through those States, connecting them with
other portions of the United States, that Congress, in view of
the magnitude and cost of the work, and to expedite its construction, by an act entitled "An Act to establish and declare
the railroad and bridges of the New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga Railroad, as hereafter constructed, a post-road, and for
other purposes," approved March 2, 1868, authorized and empowered that corporation to construct, build, and maintain
bridges over and across the navigable waters of the United States
on the route of said railroad, between New Orleans and Mobile,
for the use of the company and the passage of its engines, cars,
trains of cars, mails, passengers, and merchandise, and that the
railroad and its bridges, when complete and in use, were to be
held and deemed lawful structures and a post-road, that the act
of Congress required drawbridges on the Pascagoula, the Bay
of Beloxi, the Bay of St. Louis, and the Great Rigolet, but
none on Pearl River, power being reserved by Congress to amend
or alter the act so as to prevent or remove material obstructions,
that the company is authorized to maintain the bridge in question under that act of Congress, that the same is a lawful
structure and a post-road, which no court can, consistently with
the act of Congress, overturn or abate as illegal or as a nuisance.
On the day succeeding that on which its answer was filed,
the company presented the petition for removal, to which reference has already been made, accompanied by a bond in proper
form. That petition sets out the nature and object of the
action, and claims that the right to erect and to maintain the

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

present bridge for the conveyance of the cars, trains, passengers, mails, and merchandise, vested in the company, "on a contract with the State of Mississippi in the enactment aforesaid,
that the State of Mississippi has no power to repudiate that
contract or to'impair its obligations, that it is a vested right
resting on a contract and supported and sustained by the Constitution of the United States, and that this cause is one arising
under the Constitution of the United States."
It then proceeds "And your petitioner further represents that the bridge
aforesaid, and its maintenance over the said river in the manner
in which it exists, is authorized by the act of dongress approved
March 2, 1868, which authorized and empowered the said company to construct, build, and maintain bridges over and across
the navigable waters of the United States on the route of the
said railroad between Mobile and New Orleans, and that when
constructed they should be recognized as lawful structures and
a post-road, and were declared to be such, and the Congress
reserved the power to alter the same when they become an
obstruction to the navigable waters.
"Your petitioner says that the railroad and bridges are and
have been for three or more years a post-road, -over which
the mails of the United States have been carried and are now
being carried, and as the bridge referred to is a lawful structure under the laws of the United States, this suit impugns
the rights, privileges, and franchises granted by the act of Congress aforesaid of the 2d March, 1868."
From this analysis of the pleadings, and of the petition for
removal, it will be observed that the contention- of the State
rests, in part, upon the ground that the construction and maintenance of the bridge in question is in violation of the condition
on which Mississippi was admitted into the Union, and inconsistent with the engagement, on the part of the United States,
as expressed in the act of March 1, 1817 On the other hand,
the railroad company, in support of its right to construct and
maintain the present bridge across Pearl River, invokes the
protection of the act of Congress passed March 2, 1868. While
the case raises questions which may involve the construction of
State enactments, and also, perhaps, general principles of law,

RAILROAD

CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ct.

not necessarily connected with any Federal question, the suit
otherwise presents a real and substantial dispute or controversy
which depends altogether upon the construction and effect of
an act of Congress. If it be insisted that the claim of the State,
as set out in its petition, might, possibly, be determined by
reference alone to State enactments, and without any construction of the act of 1817, the provisions of which are invoked by
the State in support of its application for mandamus, the important, and, so far as the defence is concerned, the fundamental, question would still remain, as to the construction of
the act of Congress of March 2, 1868. That act, the company
contends, protects the present stationary bridge against all interference whatever, upon the part either of the State or of
the courts. In other words, should the court be of opinion that
the law is for the State, if the rights of parties were tested
simply by the statutes of Alabama and Mississippi, it could not
evade, but must meet and determine, the question, distinctly
raised by the answer, as to the operation and effeet of the act
of Congress of 1868.
Is it not, then, plainly a case which, in the sense of the
Constitution, and of the statute of 1875, artses under the laws
of the United States 9
If regard be had to the former adjudications of this court,
this question must be answered in the affirmative.
It is settled law, as established by well-considered decisions
of this court, pronounced upon full argument and after mature deliberation, notably in cohens v Virgznza, 6 Wheat. 264,
Osborn v Bank of the United States, 9 id. 738, Iiad/or v Cooper,
6 Wall. 247, Gold-Washing & Water Company v KYeyes, 96
U. S. 199, and Tennessee v Dams, 100 U. S. 257
That while the Eleventh Amendment of the National Constitution excludes the judicial power of the United States from
suits, in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of
the United States by citizens of another State, such power is
extended by the Constitution to suits commenced or prosecuted
by a State against an individual, in which the latter demands
nothing from the former, but only seeks the protection of the
Constitution and laws of the United States against the claim or
demand of the State,

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

That a case in law or equity consists of the right of one
party, as well as of the other, and may, properly, be said to
arise under the Constitution or a law of the United States,
whenever its correct decision depends on the construction of
either,
That cases arising under the laws of the United States are
such as grow out of the legislation of Congress, whether they
constitute the right or privilege, or claim, or protection, or
defence of the party, in whole or in part, by whom they are
asserted,
That, except in the cases of which this court is given, by
the Constitution, original jurisdiction, the judicial power of the
United States is to be exercised in its original or appellate
form, or both, as the wisdom of Congress may direct, and,
lastly,
That it is not sufficient to exclude the judicial power of
the United States from a particular case, that it involves questions which do not at all depend on the Constitution or laws
of the United States, but when a question to which the
judicial power of the Union is extended by the Constitution
forms an ingredient of the original cause, it is within the
power of Congress to give the circuit courts jurisdiction of
that cause, although other questions of fact or of law may be
involved in it.
These propositions, now too firmly established to admit of,
or to require, further discussion, embrace the present case, and
show that, whether we look to the Federal question raised by
the State in its original petition, or to the Federal question
raised by the company in its answer, the inferior State court
erred, as well in not accepting the petition and bond for the
removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States,
as in thereafter proceeding to hear the cause. It was entirely
without jurisdiction to proceed after the presentation of the
petition and bond for removal.
In view of our decisions in Insurance Company v. Dunn (19
Wall. 214), in Removal Cases (100 U. S. 457), and in other
cases, it is scarcely necessary to say that the railroad company
did not lose its right to raise this question of jurisdiction by
contesting the case, upon the merits, in the State courts after

RAILROAD CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ct.

its application for the removal of the suit had been disregarded.
It remained in the State court under protest as to the right of
that court to proceed further in the suit, and there is nothing
in the record to show that it waived its right to have the case
removed to the Federal court, and consented to proceed in the
State court, as if there bad been no petition and bond for the
removal.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi will,
therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for such orders
as may be consistent with this opinion, and with directions that
the court of original jurisdiction be required to set aside all
judgments and orders made in this suit after the presentation
of the petition and bond for its removal into the Circuit Court
of the United States, and proceed no further in the suit, and
it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take part

in deciding it.
. JUSTICE MILLER dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case. It is
always a matter of delicacy when a cause of which a court
has undoubted jurisdiction is transferred, at the instance of
one party, to another court of concurrent jurisdiction. It is
especially so when the transfer is to be made to a Federal from
a State court, without regard to the consent of the latter, and
against the objection of the other party
In such a case the right of removal should be made very
clear on the application for that purpose. And when the application has been refused, and the State courts, up to the
highest to which the cause can be carried, have considered
and decided it upon its merits, the judgment finally rendered
should not be treated as a nullity, unless the case upon which
the want of jurisdiction of these courts depends is made very
plain indeed.
I do not think such a case is presented here.
The removal is based upon the second section of the act
of Congress of March 3, 1875, "to determine the jurisdiction
M

Oct. 1880.]

RAILROAD CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

of circuit courts of the United States, and to regulate the removal of causes from State courts, and for other purposes."
This enacts "that any suit of a civil nature, at law or in
equity, now pending or hereafter brought in any State court,
where the matter.m dispute exceeds, exclusive of costs, the
sum or value of $500, and arising under the Constitution or
laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall
be made, under their authority," may be removed by either
party, on proper showing, to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The decision is that this is a suit arising under a
law of the United States, to wit, the act of Congress concernmg the bridge of which plaintiff complains. I make no captious criticism by reason of the fact that the opinion of the
court is mainly directed to the constitutional provision extending the judicial power of the United States to cases arising
under that instrument and the laws and treaties made under
its authority, while the word used in the statute is suits. The
language of the Constitution may be broad enough to sustain
a statute which authorizes the removal of a cause at any stage
when a case is made, which, taken as a whole, requires a judgment based upon the Constitution, a law, or a treaty of the
United States.
The act of 1875 is the first which ever attempted to give
a right of removal on sucli ground, and it limits that right
to suits arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States. It does not give the right of removal where
the defence arises, under such a'law, unless "suit" necessarily
includes the defence which may be made thereto. The lexicons do not so define it. Bouvier's Law Dictionary says that
in the practice of the law "suit" means "an action." Can
a defence to an action be called the action? No more can the
defence to a suit be called the suit. Webster says "suit" is
the act of suing, the process by which one gains an end or
object, and as a word in the law, he says it is "an attempt to
gain an end by legal process," "a legal application to a court
for justice," "an action or process for the recovery of a right
of action." Does this mean the defence to an alleged right of
action? Can it be held to mean the attempt to defeat an action? Worcester defines it thus. "In modern law, the prose-

144

RAILROAD CO. V. MISSISSIPPI.

[Sup. Ct.

cution of some claim or demand in a court of justice judicial
prosecution " and perhaps this is as good a definition of the
word, when used in reference to legal proceedings, as any that
can be framed, and it is peculiarly applicable to the use of the
word in the act of 1875.
In Weston v Tie City of Oharleston (2 Pet. 449), 'Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, conceding the term to be a very comprehensive one, says it applies
"to any proceeding in a court of justice by which an individual pursues that remedy in a court of justice which the law
affords him."
Taking the idea of a "suit" as thus defined, what is meant
9
The obvious
by the suit arising under a law of Congress
answer seems to be that the cause of action is founded on the act
of Congress, that the remedy sought is one given by an act of
Congress, that the relief which is prayed is a relief dependent
on an act of Congress, that the right to be enforced in the
suit is a right which rests upon an act of Congress. In all
this I see no place for holding that a defence to a suit not so
founded on an act of Congress, or a plea which the defendant may interpose to any ordinary action, though that plea be
founded on an act of Congress, is a suit arising under an act
of Congress.
Looking also to the reasons which may have influenced
Congress, it may well be supposed that while that body intended to allow the removal of a suit where the very foundation and support thereof was a law of the United States, it did
not intend to authorize a removal where the cause of action
depended solely on the law of the State, and when the act of
Congress only came in question incidentally as part (it might
be a very small part) of the defendant's pilea in avoidance. In
support of this view, it may be added that he in such case is
not without remedy in a Federal court, for if he has pleaded
and relied on such defence in the State court, and that court
has decided against him in regard to it, he can remove the case
into this court by writ of error, and have the question he has
thus raised decided here.

