SOLOMON v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

SoLoMoN v. ARTI=UR.
Imported goods composed of cotton and silk, the latter being the component part
of chief value, were, by the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 202), subject to a
duty of fifty per cent ad valorern.

Einoit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
Tins was an action brought by Solomon Solomon and others,
constituting the firm of Solomon Brothers, against Arthur, the
collector of the port of New York. The following facts were
admitted upon the trial, it being agreed that neither party
should offer any evidence.
Plaintiffs are partners in business, and as such imported at
the port of New York, in December, 1873, and January, 1874,
certain goods manufactured of silk and cotton. The defendant
exacted upon them a duty of fifty per cent ad valorem, which
rate the plaintiffs paid under protest, the substantial part of
which is, that under existing laws the goods are only liable
to a duty of thirty-five per cent, because they are provided
for at that rate by sect. 22 of the act of Mlarch 2, 1861, and
sect. 13 of the act of July 14, 1862. This protest was followed
by an appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury, who affirmed
the decision of the collector. This suit was brought in due
time.
The goods were composed of silk and cotton, in varying
proportions, the warp being all cotton and the filling partly
silk. It is admitted by the plaintiffs, for the purpose of this
case, that silk was the component material of chief value. The
goods generally are known in trade and commerce as goods
made of mixed materials, but each kind thereof is also known
by its specific, name. If the plaintiffs are entitled, to recover,
judgment shall be rendered in their favor for the difference
between thirty-five and fifty per cent, which amount is $461.75
gold, with $75.40 interest in currency
The jury found a verdict for the defendant pursuant to the
instructions of the court, and the plaintiffs sued out this
writ.

Oct. 1880.]

SOLODION

v.

ARTHUR.

Mr Edwards Pierrepont and Mr William Stanley for the
plaintiffs in error.
The duty was exacted under the last clause of sect. 8 of the
act of June 30, 1864, which imposes fifty per cent ad valorem "on all manufactures of silk, or of which silk is the component material of chief value, not otherwise provided for."
13 Stat. 202, 210.
It is plain that, the commercial designation of the goods in
question was, "goods made of mixed materials." A commercial designation is that " known in trade and commerce."
The tariff acts recognize two species of dutiable goods, into
one of which silk must enter and be "the component part of
chief value," and a totally distinct kind of "mixed goods,"
into which silk may or may not enter in part, as the case
may be.
We invite attention to the act of Aug. 5, 1861, and the act
of March 2, 1861. Sect. 16 of the latter act prescribes "On
silk ribbons, galloons, braids, fringes, laces, tassels, buttons,
button cloths, trimmings, and on silk twist, twist composed
of mohair and silk, sewing-silk in the gum or purified, and
all other manufactures of silk or of which silk shall be the
component material of chief value, not otherwise provided for,
thirty per cent ad valorem." 12 Stat. 186. Sect. 22 describes
the other kind, in these words "Manufactures, not other-wise provided for, composed of mixed materials in part of
cotton, silk, wool or worsted, or flax." Id. 192. Sect. 2 of the
act of August 5, which raises the duty on silk goods to forty
per cent, leaves that on "mixed goods" at thirty per cent.
The enumeration of the silk goods on which the duty was
raised to forty per cent is precisely the same, word for word,
as in the preceding act. Id. 293.
By sect. 13 of the act of July 14, 1862, the duty on "manufactures composed of mixed materials in part of cotton, silk,
wool, or worsted, hemp, jute, or flax," was raised to thirty-five
per cent. Id. 557
No higher duty than thirty-five per cent had ever been
imposed by any statute upon this class of goods. And it is
here to be noted that the statute of 1862, which increased the
duty on "manufactures composed of mixed materials;" did not
VOL. xm.

14

SOLOMON

v.

ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ot.

change the duty upon goods of which silk was the component
material of chief value.
The attempt is now made to strain the statute of 1864, relating to silk goods, to cover "manufactures composed of
mLxed materials," into which silk may so enter as to form the
more costly part.
After enumerating some thirty silk manufactures, the section ends in the words we have first quoted.
The class of goods "known in trade and commerce as goods
made of mixed materials," which are specifically named in the
other statutes, and upon which the duty was in 1861, thirty per
cent, and in 1862 thirty-five per cent, is nowhere alluded to in
this statute of 1864. Sect. 22 expressly provides "that the
duties upon all goods, wares, and merchandise imported from
foreign countries not provided for in this act shall be and remain as they were, according to existing laws prior to the 29th
of April 1864" (13 id. 216), and " that all acts and parts of
acts repugnant to the provisions of this act be, and the same
are hereby, repealed."
Thus we find running through the statutes these two classes
of manufactures those into which silk must enter, and the
"mixed manufactures," into which silk might or might not
enter. It is an admitted fact that the goods in question are
generally known in trade and commerce as goods made of mixed
materials, but inasmuch as "silk was a component material of
chief value," it is argued by the learned Assistant AttorneyGeneral that these " mixed goods " must pay a duty of ffty
per cent, under the act of 1864, which relates to a totally different kind of goods.
Surely no such construction can fairly be given to the
acts, and such ruling would be quite out of harmony with
numerous decisions of this court. Arthur v Zimmerman, 96
U. S. 124, Arthur v Unhhart, id. 118, Arthur v Lahey, id.
112, Arthur v Daves, id. 135, Arthur v Homer, id. 137,
1ewhe v Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, Homer v The Collector, 1 id.
486, and the long list of earlier cases on commercial designation.
-MrAssistant Attorney- General Smith, contra.

Oct. 1880.]

SOLOBION v. ARTHUR.

delivered the opinion of the court.
It is obvious that the goods in question came under the
designation of the last clause of sect. 8 of the act of June
30, 1864 (13 Stat. 210), which lays a duty "on all manufactures of silk or of which silk is the component part of chief
value, not otherwise provided for, fifty per centum ad valoren." That duty was. therefore, properly assessed, unless the
articles imported were "otherwise provided for." And that
is the question. The plaintiffs insisted then, and insist now
that a duty on these goods was " otherwise provided for"
by the acts of March 2, 1861, sect. 22, and July 14, 1862;
sect. 13, as "manufactures composed of mixed materials, in
part of cotton, silk, wool or worsted, or flax," on which a
duty of only thirty per cent was laid by the act of 1861,
and of five per cent additional by the act of 1862. 12 Stat.
192, 557
Previous acts were not repealed zn toto by the act of June
30, 1864, but it was declared by sect. 22.that "all acts and
parts of acts repugnant to the provisions of this act be, and
the same are hereby, repealed," with a proviso " that the duties upon all goods, wares, and merchandise imported from
foreign countries, not provided for in this act, shall be and remain as they were, according to existing laws prior to 29th
April, 1864."
The act of 1864 contained no separate provision for a duty
on goods composed of "mixed materials," like that in the acts
of 1861 and 1862, on which the plaintiffs rely They contend,
therefore, that those clauses still continued in force, and that
the goods imported by them were embraced therein, and were
not intended to be embraced in the general clause in the act
of 1864, under which the collector exacted the duty in question. The plaintiffs insist that the term "mixed materials,"
or " goods made of mixed materials," is a specific and wellknown commercial designation or name, which by usage covers
the goods imported by them, and is not a ,descriptive phrase
used merely to designate any class of goods answering to the
description, andi therefore, although they may be embraced in
the general description of the act of 1864, of goods " in which
silk is the component part of chief value," such a general deMR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

SOLOION v. ARTHUR.

[Sup. Ct.

scription is not sufficient to take them out of their places in
the previous acts where they are designated by name. It may
be conceded that if the goods in question had a specific name,
such as that applied to "reps, " "tapestry, " "galloons, " &c.,
and had been designated in the acts of 1861 and 1862 by such
specific name, the argument of the plaintiffs would be" well
founded. It would be in accordance with the decision of this
court in 11ovms v ArthIur, 95 U. S. 144. But are the terms
relied on a name for goods 9 Are they not descriptive rather
than denominative 9 We think it is very clear that they are
merely descriptive. It may be true, as stated in the agreed
case, that " such goods are generally known in trade and commerce as goods made of mixed materials," but the case also
adds that "each kind thereof is also known by its specific
name." The fact that certain goods belong to the class of
mixed goods, or of goods made of mixed materials, does not
stamp them with the name of mixed goods, for the same description is applicable to many other kinds of goods, all having
different names. It is not their name it is merely their
description.
Since, therefore, the designation in the act of 1861, of "manufactures .composed of mixed materials, in part of cotton, silk,"
&e., is merely descriptive, and since the designation in the
act of 1864, of "manufactures of which silk is the component
part of chiet value," is also descriptive, and since the goods in
question are confessedly embraced in both descriptions, and
since the act of 1864 contains no provision relating to mixed
goods, like that in the acts of 1861 and 1862, and lays a duty of
fifty per cent ad valorem on goods in which silk is the component part of chief value," not otherwise provided for," which
we have construed generally to mean "not otherwise provided
for in this act" (Snythe v Fiske, 23 Wall. 374), - it seems to,
be almost a matter of demonstration that this was the duty
properly demandable on the goods.
It is observable that the description of "manufactures made
of mixed materials, in part of cotton, silk, " &c., is more general than that of "manufactures of which silk is the component
part of chief value." Logically, the two phrases standing together in the same act or system of laws would be related as

Oct. 1880.]

SOLOMON V. ARTHUR.

213

follows "Goods made of mixed materials, cotton, silk, &c.,
shall pay a duty of thirty-five per cent, but ifsilk is the component part of chief value, they shall pay a duty of fifty
per cent."
It is suggested by the plaintiffs' counsel that a counterpart
of the clause in the act of 1864, relating to goods in which
silk is the component part of 6hief value, was contained in the
acts of March 2, 1861, and Aug. 5, 1861, and that if this
clause in these acts did not apply to the plaintiffs' goods, the
like clause in the act of 1864 should not be construed to apply
to them, and, to show that the said clause in the acts of 1861
did not apply to the goods, they refer to the fact that, prior
to the passing of the act of 1864, the goods now in question
were always assessed under the "mixed materials " clause, and
not under the "component material of chief value" clause.
We do not think that this argument can prevail. In the first
place, it does not appear by the record what the practice was
prior to 1864, and if it did appear as suggested, it is observable that under the act of March 2, 1861, it was a matter of
indifference under which clause the goods should be assessed,
as the duties were the same under both, and, having commenced to assess the goods in one way under that act, the
practice may have been inadvertently continued. We think
the practice was at least questionable, if it obtained. At all
events, the true construction of the law in its ultimate form
is too obvious to admit of a reasonable doubt. The goods are
aptly described by the general clause in the act of 1864, and
are not otherwise provided for in that act, nor provided for by
name in any previous act. It follows that they are subject to
duty under the said general clause.
We have been unable to find anything in the clauses referred to, or in their collocation in the various acts, or in the
method of grouping or classification observed therein, that
would lead us to infer an intention to exclude the goods in
question from the operation of said general clause. It is sometimes the case, no doubt, that certain articles are so, obviously
intended to be included in a particular grouping or classification, as to repel any suggestion that they are meant to be
embraced in a different part of the law, though literally appli-

THE " BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. Ct.

cable to them. But this cannot be said in the case before us.
The goods in question have no such inseparable relation to one
form of description exclusive of the other, nor are they so
clearly intended to be embraced in any particular grouping or
classification, as to repel or prevent the application to them
of the clause under which they were assessed.
Judgmjzent affirmed.

THE " BENEFACTOR."
1. At about ten o'clock in the forenoon, when the weather was clear and fine, a
steamship and a schooner were on the ocean. The schooner, having seen
the steamship when six or seven miles away kept steadily on her course.
The steamer saw the schooner when three miles off, and from that time
until a collision between them occurred both vessels were sailing on courses
which crossed each other, so as to involve risk of collision. Held, that
under the circumstances it was the duty of the steamship to keep out of
the way of the schooner, and the latter having held her course, the former
is liable for the damages occasioned by the collision.
2. The ruling in The Abbotsjbrd (98 U. S. 440), that under the act of Feb. 16,
1875 (18 Stat. 315), the finding of facts by the Circuit Court in admiralty
cases is conclusive, and that only rulings upon questions of law can be
reviewed by bill of exceptions, reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of New York.
This is a libel filed in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York by William H. Mount and
others against the steamship "Benefactor," to recover damages
arising from a collision between that vessel and the schooner
"Susan Wright."
The District Court found in favor of the libellants, and from
its decree the claimants of the "Benefactor " appealed to the
Circuit Court. The latter court found, 1. That the collision took place a little after ten o'clock in
the forenoon of the twenty-sixth day of February, 1875, off
Squan Beach, New Jersey, and about three miles distant therefrom.
2. That the weather at and prior to the time of the collision
was fine and clear, the wind about west-northwest, and strong,

