Oct. 1880.]

ROGERS V. PALMER.

wife were personally known to the officer, the objection to its
admzssibility as to these. grantors was clearly unfounded in
fact. The effect of the deed was for the court to consider
afterwards.
As the deed professed to convey the property in controversy
by the parties against whom the attachment ran, two months
before the writ was issued, it is impossible to hold it to be
irrelevant to an issue as to the ownership of the property at
the date of the levy of the writ.
Similar objections were made to a deed made by the same
grantors to the St. Louis and Southeastern Railway Company,
of the fifth day of January, 1876, to which the same answers
apply
What effect should be given to the fact that these deeds
were not recorded until after the levy of the bank's attachment we need not inquire, for that proposition does not go to
their admissibility in evidence, and its decision depends upon
other matters, both of law and evidence, as to which no question is raised by this record.
These are all the assignments of error requiring notice at
our hands, and in these we find none.
Judgment affirmed.

ROGERS V. PALMER.
1. A., as attorney for B., procured a judgment by default in favor of the latter
against 0., of whose insolvency and intent to commit a fraud on the bankrupt law lie bad knowledge. Held, that that knowledge was imputable
to B.
2. C. having, with intent to give a preference to B., contributed to the rendition
of the judgment at an earlier day than without his aid it could have been
rendered, an execution was sued out and levied upon his goods. Held,
that he thereby procured them to be taken on legal process within the
meaning of the thirty-fifth section of the Bankrupt Law of March 2, 1867
(14 Stat. 534), as modified by the act of June 22, 1874. 18 Stat., part 3,
pp. 180, 181.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Minnesota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

ROGERS V. PALMER.

[Sup. ot.

a

H1r .-Edward
Rogers for the appellant.
Hfr Enoch Totten and Mr Cushman f Davs, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The complainant is assignee in bankruptcy of Andrew Palmer,
Jr., son of the appellee.
The father having procured a judgment against his son in
the District Court of Freeborn County, Minnesota, for the sum
of $8,433, caused execution to be issued thereon and levied upon
the stock of goods of the defendant, who was a merchant in
business in the town of Albert Lea, in that county
Within a few days thereafter, proceedings in bankruptcy
were instituted against the sort, and he was duly declared a
bankrupt. His assignee brought this suit in chancery for the
purpose of having the levy declared void as a fraud upon the
Bankrupt Act, and the goods, or their proceeds, subjected to
administration in the bankruptcy proceeding. After answer,
considerable testimony was taken. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and he appealed.
The bankrupt was indebted to his father on three promissory
notes of several years' standing, and long overdue, on which
interest had been paid with tolerable regularity until a year
before the bankruptcy About that time, the father, a resident of Wisconsin, visited the son, who lived in -Minnesota, and
received a mortgage on some land, but not sufficient in value
to secure the debt. In July, 1875, he again visited his son in
Albert Lea, and not long afterwards sent the notes for collection to Lovely & Parker, attorneys of that place, who commenced suit by the issue of a summons Oct. 23, 1875, which
was served the same day An affidavit was made, November 5,
in the case by Parker, one of the attorneys, on which an attachment was issued and levied on the entire stock of the
defendant's goods. In this affidavit Parker stated, without
qualification, that the defendant was about to dispose of his
property with intent to delay and defraud his creditors.
By the course of procedure in the courts of M\Iinnesota, the
plaintiff in that suit was entitled to judgment on the 13th of
the month, if no plea or answer was interposed, and none was
filed by the defendant.

Oct. 1880.]

ROGERS V. PALMER.

Two days before this time, however, other creditors of
Palmer, hearing of the condition of affairs, came to look after
their interests and to prevent this judgment. Before they
could initiate proceedings in bankruptcy they filed a bill in
equity in the State court, and procured an order enjoining the
plaintiff and his attorneys from taking their default and judgment, on the ground that the proceeding was fraudulent and
collusive between father and son. This injunction was issued
on the 12th, but on the 13th, the first day on -hich a judgment by default could have been entered in the action at
law, it was dissolved on the affidavit of Andrew Palmer, Jr.,
drawn up by one of the attorneys for his father, denying all
the allegations of the bill, and stating that his father's debt
-was a just and true one, and was due and wholly unpaid to
the amount stated in the complaint. Judgment was rendered
immediately, and on the same day an execution was levied on
the defendant's stock of goods.
In a very few days thereafter the debtor Palmer was duly
declared a bankrupt. By agreement the goods were sold, and
the money derived therefrom deposited in the bankrupt court,
subject to the final decree in this suit, as they would have been
if they had not been sold.
There is no question that at the commencement of the
action by the ffther the son was insolvent.
There are many circumstances besides the affidavit made by
the son to show that he and his father bad a perfect understanding in regard to that suit. Among these are the visit of
the father only a few months before it was commenced, the
absence of any special reason for suing at that time after eight
years' delay, and the giving shortly after of security by mortgage for the debt, though insufficient, the sending of the notes
for suit to the attorneys who had 'been usually employed by
the son, the son's moving, as soon as the goods were attached,
his books and papers into the office of these attorneys, and his
seeming full consultation with them throughout the whole
proceeding.
When we come to add to these the voluntary affidavit of
the defendant, on which alone the injunction was dissolved,
and the father enabled to recover judgment, under which an

ROGERS V. PALMER.

[Sup. Ct.

execution was issued and a lien secured on all the defendant's
goods, we are satisfied that the son actively aided in securing
this seizure of them, with a design to prevent the equal distribution of them among his creditors under the proceedings
in bankruptcy, which be knew would be commenced in a few
days.
Several of these creditors were present when the injunction
was dissolved and the judgment rendered. The injunction, as
the attorneys and the debtor Palmer knew, was obtained to
restrain the prosecution of the action until they could apply
to the court in bankruptcy To delay the rendition of the
judgment until the application could be made would be fatal
to the preference of the father's debt, for by the bankrupt
law the attachment was dissolved when the son was adjudged
a bankrupt, and unless execution could be levied before that
time the goods would pass to the assignee, relieved of any claim
under the judgment.
Whether, therefore, the father should be paid in full to the
exclusion of other creditors or not depended on the dissolution
of that injunction, and that was obtained solely on the voluntary affidavit of the insolvent son.
We are satisfied that he procured this preference and this
taking of his goods on execution with a purpose of defeating
the operation of the bankrupt law, within the meaning of the
act on that subject. Sect. 35 of Bankrupt Act.
But, in order that the assignee shall recover the value of the
goods seized on execution, it is not alone sufficient that the
bankrupt should have aided an procuring the seizure. It is
also necessary that the creditor should have had reasonable
cause to believe that the debtor was insolvent and should have
known that a fraud on the Bankrupt Act was intended.
We think thins is the result of sects. 35 and 39 of the original
bankrupt law, as amended by the act of June 22, 1874, which
changed the original act in important particulars, and which,
so far as it may conflict with that act, or the revision, must be
held to control them both. 18 Stat. part 3, pp. 180, 181.
This latter statute carefully introduces the word know instead of reasonable ground to believe, in regard to the purpose
to commit a fraud on the act.

Oct. 1880.]

ROGERS V. PALMER.

We have little difficulty in coming to the conclusion that
the elder Palmer had reason to believe that his son was insolvent at the time judgment against him was taken and the
execution- levied. We have already given the reasons for this,
to which may be added that has son swears that he wrote to
his father, pending negotiation with his other creditors and
before the judgment was taken, asking him to consent, with
the other creditors, to accept a compromise of fifty per cent
for his debts.
It is a little more difficult to say that the father knew that
the goods were seized with intent to defraud the bankrupt
law Possibly at the moment of the seizure he did not know
personally all that his attorneys and his son had done, nor all
that they knew It may be that he supposed his suit would
proceed in regular order, without the aid of his son or any act
on the part of his attorneys intended to evade the bankrupt
law He may not have known personally that other creditors
were on the ground contesting his right to a judgment, and
still others on the way to institute bankruptcy proceedings,
which, if done before the goods were seized under his execution, would defeat his purpose of securing a prior lien.
But this cannot be said of the attorneys who represented
him. One of them had, only a few days before, made oath
that the son was about to dispose of his property to delay
and defraud his creditors. This, if true, was certainly a fraud
on the bankrupt law Instead of instituting a proceeding in
bankruptcy, this attorney swore out an attachment in favor
of his client, which would be a fraud on the bankrupt law,
by preventing the equal distribution of this debtor's property
among his creditors.
These attorneys also procured the debtor to make the affidavit in the injunction suit, with the perfect knowledge that,
if they thereby succeeded in dissolving it, their client would
seize the goods, and make his debt in preference to all other
creditors, though they knew that other creditors were on their
way to St. Paul to initiate bankruptcy proceedings. They,
therefore, knew and intended that their action in behalf of
their client would work a fraud upon the bankrupt law
Is this knowledge imnutable to the appellee in this case?

ROGERS V. PALIER.

[Sup. Ct.

In Hoover v West (91 U. S. 308), a creditor had procured a
confession of judgment and a levy on property of his debtor,
who was declared a bankrupt within four months thereafter.
The creditor had sent his note to a collection agency in
Philadelphia, which forwarded it to their corresponding attorney in Nebraska, where the judgment was taken. The creditor knew nothing of what was done until the money was
made by sale of the goods, and had given no direction as to
the mode of proceeding, and held no communication with his
This court held that the attorney was the agent in
attorney
the transaction of the collecting agency and not of the creditor,
and that he could not be held to know what the attorney
knew in regard to the insolvency of the debtor, and other
matters in the case. Three of the judges dissented from this
But an examination of the opinion will show that all
view
were agreed that if the creditor had sent the note directly
to the attorney, the latter would then have been the agent of
the creditor, whose acts and whose knowledge, obtained in the
course of the employment, would have been the acts and the
knowledge of his principal. And such, we think, is the true
rule of law
That the attorneys of the elder Palmer and the son were
aware of the insolvent condition of the latter, and were cooperating to have his property seized on execution before the
bankrupt law could be enforced, and with intent to defeat its
operation on the son's property, we think is quite clear. And
,this we understand to be a fraud upon the bankrupt law,
where the debtor contributes actively to that end. Wilson v
City Bank, 17 Wall. 473, Little v Alexander, 21 id. 500.
The result of these considerations is that the decree of the
Circuit Court must be reversed, and a decree rendered for
the complainant, in conformity to this opinion, and it is
So ordered.
MRii. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

