Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA V. NEW ORLEANS.

208

Where the fault is wholly on one side, the party in fault
must .bear his own loss, and compensate the other party, if
such party have sustained any damage. If neither be in fault,
neither is entitled to compensation from the other. If both
are in fault, the damages will be divided. 1 Parsons, Shipp.
& Adm. 525, 526, The JHornng Lzght, 2 Wall. 550, Union
Steamship Co. v New York J Virginza Steamshtp Co., 24 How
307
The want of a proper ,watch is a fault of great weight.
1 Parsons, Shipp. & Adm. 576, 577, The Sapphire, 11 Wall.
164, 1Te Indiana,Abb. Adm. 30, The lary T. Wilde, Taney's
Dec. 567, The FerryboatLydia, 4 Ben. 523. In a cause of collision, the plaintiff, in order to recover entire damages, must
prove both care on his own part and want of it on the part of
the defendant. 1 Parsons, Shipp. & Adm. 529 and note 2.
This case falls clearly within the first of the categories above
stated.
-Decreeaffirmed.

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.
1. The obligation of contracts is impaired by such legislation as lessens the efficacy of the remedy which the law in force at the time they were made
provided for enforcing them.
2. A. recovered judgment, in 1874, against New Orleans, upon certain bonds issued
by the city in 1854, and sued out an execution, which was returned ;zulla
boiza. The Act No. 5 of the legislature of Louisiana of 1870 requires that a
plaintiff, having an executory judgment against the city, must file a certified
copy thereof in the office of the controller, and imposes upon the latter the
duty of causing the same to be registered, and of issuing a warrant upon
the treasurer for the amount due thereon, without any specific appropriation
therefor, &c. Held, that so much of said act as requires such filing and
registration before A. can procure a warrant in his favor for the amount
due, or resort to other means to enforce the payment thereof, does not
render less effective his pre-existing remedies, and is therefore not in conffict with the contract clause of the Constitution.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.

Morris Ranger recovered, May 1, 1874, against the city of

New Orleans certain judgments.

To enforce the collection

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

of them, he instituted, June 21, 1879, this proceeding, in the
name of the State on his relation in the Third District Court
of the Parish of Orleans, for a peremptory mandamus to compel the mayor and administrators of the city to levy and collect
a special tax sufficient in amount to satisfy the judgmentg.
The following statement of facts signed by the attorneys for
tbhe respective parties was filed "1st, That the judgments which are made the basis of this
mandamus proceeding were rendered for the amounts - principal, interest, and costs - and at the dates stated in the petition,
and had for their basis bonds issued by the city of New Orleans
in 1854, to the New Orleans, Jackson, and Great Northern Railroad Company, and New Orleans, Opelousas, and Great Western
Railroad Company
"2d, That writs of fiert facias were issued on said judgments, and after demand made upon the city were returned
nulla,bona, and that the city has no property liable to seizure
and sale.
"3d, That said judgments have never been registered in
accordance with the provisions of the act of 1870.
"It is further agreed that this statement of facts is made
in lieu of the note of evidence taken at the trial, which has
been mislaid."
The remaining facts and the statute bearing upon the case
are set forth in the opinion of the court.
itr -D C.Labatt for the plaintiff in error.
MR. JUSTICE F IELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes here from the Supreme Court of Louisiana.
On the 1st of May, 1874, the relator recovered in one of the
courts of that State against the city of New Orleans, two judgments, amounting in the aggregate to $170,000, besides costs.
Upon these judgments executions were issued and returned
unsatisfied, after demand upon the officers of the city to point
out property belonging to it subject to seizure, to be levied
upon to satisfy the same. The relator thereupon presented a
petition to the Third District Court of the Parish of Orleans,
setting forth these facts and averring that it was the duty of
the mayor and administrators of the city to provide for the pay-

Oct. 1880.]

LoUISIANA

V. NEW ORLEANS.

ment of the judgments by levying and collecting a tax for that
purpose, but that they refused to do this, and that he was
unable to satisfy the judgments by the ordinary process of
execution. He therefore prayed for an order upon the mayor
and administrators to show cause why a writ of mandamus
should nok issue to compel them to levy and collect a tax to
satisfy the judgments.
The order to show cause was granted, and upon its return
the respondents filed a peremptory exception to the relator's
demand, denying that he was entitled to the relief prayed, but
the District Court granted the writ. Its judgment was, on
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State, reversed and a decree entered dismissing the petition. The case was then brought
here.
The city authorities resisted the demand of the relator for
the mandamus, on the ground that he had not registered his
judgments as required by the provisions of the act No. 5 of 1870.
That act divests the courts of the State of authority to allow
any summary process or mandamus against the officers of the
city of New Orleans to compel the issue and delivery of any
order or warrant for the payment of money, or to enforce the
payment of money claimed to be due from it to any person or
corporation, and requires proceedings for the recovery of money
claimed to be owing by the city to be conducted in the ordinary
form of action against the corporation, and not against any
department, branch, or officer thereof. The act also provides
that no writ of execution or fieri facias shall issue against the
city, but that a final judgment against it, which has become
executory, shall have the effect of fixing the amount of the
plaintiff's demand, and that he may cause a certified copy of it,
with his petition and the defendant's answer and the clerk's
certificate that it has become executory, to be filed in the office
of the controller, and that thereupon it shall be the duty of
the controller or auditing officer to cause the same to be registered, and to issue a warrant upon the treasurer or disbursing
officer of the corporation for the amount due thereon, without
any specific appropriation therefor, provided there be sufficient
money in the treasury specially designated and set apart for
that purpose in the annual budget or detailed statement of

LOUISIANA

v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

items of liability and expenditure pursuant to the existing or
a subsequent law
The act further provides that in case the amount of money
designated in the annual budget for the payment of judgments
against the city of New Orleans shall have been exhausted, the
common council shall have power, if they deem it proper, to
appropriate from the money set apart in the budget or annual
estimate for contingent expenses, a sufficient sum to pay the
same, but if no such appropriation be made, then that all
judgments shall be paid in the order in which they shall be
filed and registered in the office of the controller of the city
from the first money next annually set apart for that purpose.
The Supreme Court of the State, whilst observing that the
act might contain provisions which, if invoked, would be considered unconstitutional, held that, so far as it required the
registry of judgments before payment, it was valid, that this
requirement was a wise and useful provision, tending to restrain
and check the reckless levy of taxes, and affording in a compact
form a correct knowledge of the city s liabilities, that it was
made in the interest of economy and the orderly conduct of the
city's affairs, and neither took away any pre-existing right nor
rendered less effective any pre-existing remedies, and that the
relator was, therefore, premature in his action, that he should
first register his judgments, and then, if payment was not made
or adequately provided for in the next levy, he might proceed
to enforce it.
The relator, on the other hand, assails the constitutionality
of the act in question, contending that it impairs the obligation
of his contracts with the city, the validity of which by the
judgments thereon is not open to question, in that it compels
him to do acts, preliminary to the payment of his judgments,
not required when the contracts were made, and deprives him
of his remedy by mandamus, and cites numerous decisions of
this court, and of the State courts, upon the nature and extent
of the constitutional inhibition against the impairment of contracts by State legislation. These decisions are familiar to us.
The obligation of a contract, in the constitutional sense, is
the means provided by law by which it can be enforced,- by
which the parties can be obliged to perform it. Whatever

Oct. 1880.]

LOUISIANA v. NEW ORLEANS.

legislation lessens the efficacy of these means impairs the obligation. If it tend to postpone or retard the enforcement of
the contract, the obligation of the latter is to that extent
weakened. The Latin proverb, gut cito dat bzs dat, - he who
gives quickly gives twice, - has its counterpart in a maxim
equally sound, - qut serus solvit, minus solvit, - he who pays
too late, pays less. Any authorization of the postponement of
payment, or of means by which such postponement may be
effected, is in conflict with the constitutional inhibition. If,
therefore, we could see that such would be the effect of the
provision of the act of the State, No. 5 of 1870, requiring judgments to be registered with the controller before they are paid,
we should not hesitate to declare the provision to be invalid.
But we are not able to see anything in the requirement which
impedes the collection of the relator's judgments, or prevents
his resort to other remedies, if their payment be not obtained.
The registry,is a convenient means of informing the city authorities of the extent of the judgments, and that they have become
executory, to the end that proper steps may be taken for their
payment. It does not impair existing remedies.
We do not know, from anything in the record before us, that
there are any other judgments against the city of New Orleans
than the two obtained by the relator, or that the city is indebted
in any other sum, nor can we say that there are not ample
means already in the treasury of the city for their payment,
and that, upon their registry, a warrant for the amount will
not be at once issued and paid. If the money be already in
the treasury appropriated for their payment, or if provision be
made for the levy and collection of taxes sufficient to pay them,
it cannotbe justly said that the relator is delayed in enforcing
them by being required to place a certified copy of the judgments with the controller of the city before getting a warrant
on its treasury for the amount due him. If such warrant, when
obtained, be not paid, or provision be not made for its payment
upon the meeting of the city council, the relator can pursue
further remedies for the collection of his judgments.
Decree affirmed.

