PARKS V. BOOTH.

[Sup. Ct.

PARKS v. BOOTH.,
1. Reissued letters-patent No. 1826, granted Nov. 29, 1864, to Jonathan L. Booth
for a new and useful improvement in gram-separators, are valid.
2. A specification describing an invention consisting merely of a new combination of old elements or devices which produces a new and useful result
is sufficient if they be specifically named, their mode of operation given,
and the result pointed out, so that those skilled in the art, and the public,
may know the extent and nature of the claim and what the parts are wich
co-operate to do the work claimed for the invention.
3. Where in a suit for the infringement of letters-patent for such a combination,
the parts of which are not susceptible of division or separate use, the
answer sets up that the complainant is nqt the first and original inventor of
it, the defence to be available must apply to the combination as an entirety,
and not to a part of it, or to one or more of the claims of the letters, if they
do not cover the entire invention.
4. A patentee is not entitled to reimbursement for counsel fees paid or expenses
incurred by him, other than his taxable costs, nor to interest on the profits
realized by an infringer.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.

This was a suit by Jonathan L. Booth, against George Parks,
Grant B. Turner, William A. Taylor, and James Vaughan,
partners, under the name and style of Turner, Parks, & Co.,
for an alleged infringement of the complainant's reissued
letters-patent, for an improvement in grain-separators.
The letters were a second reissue. The original letters, No.
25,484, were granted to Booth Sept. 20, 1859, reissued Sept.

25, 1860, No. 1043,
1826.

and again reissued Nov 29, 1864, No.

The court rendered a decree May 9, 1874, adjudging that the
letters were valid, that the defendants had infringed them, and
that the complainant recover the profits, gains, and advantages
which the defendants received, or which accrued to them since
Nov 29, 1864, by the manufacture, use, and sale of the improvements described and secured by the reissued letters, and also
such damages, if any, in addition to profits as he sustained by
reason of said infringement. The case was referred to a
Master to ascertain the damages and profits, who filed his report Nov 24, 1875, awarding to the complainant, on account

of profits, $9,944.09, and as damages, being expenses of con-

Oct. 1880.]

PARKS v. BOOTH.

ducting the suit, $627.20, and compensation for the complainant's time, $420, making in all, $10,991.29.
To this report the complainant and defendants filed exceptionfs, which were overruled, saving that made to the allowance
for his time. The Master's report, as thus amended, was confirmed Dec. 15, 1876, and a final decree rendered against the
defendants for the sum of $11,184.42, being the amount found
due by the amended report, with interest thereon.
From that decree the defendants appealed.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
J1fr William Bakewell and. Mr T. B. Kerr for the appellants.
Mr F _Y Cogswell, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Power to promote the progress of science and useful arts by
securing for limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive
right to their respective writings and discoveries is expressly
vested in Congress by the Constitution. Pursuant to the power
there conferred, the enactment of Congress provides that the
original jurisdiction of patent cases shall be exclusive in the
circuit courts or the district courts exercising circuit court
powers. Rev Stat., sects. 629-711.
Provision is also made that a party, whose rights, secured by
valid patent are invaded by infringement, may seek his remedy
in an action at law or by a suit in equity, at his election.
5 Stat. 124, 16 id. 206, Rev Stat., sect. 4920.
Federal courts vested with jurisdiction in such cases have
power, in their discretion, to grant injunctions to prevent the
violation of any right secured by a patent, as in other cases of
equity cognizance.
Sufficient appears to show that a patent in due form was
issued to the complainant, on the 20th of September, 1859, for
a new and useful improvement in grain-separators, which consisted in the employment and use of a series of inclined screens
and boxes, having a proper shake-motion communicated to
them, in connection with a fan air-blast spout, the whole being
arranged in a manner set forth in the specification.
Without entering much into details, it will suffice to say in
VOL. XII.

7

PARKS V. BOOTH.

[Sup. Ct.

this connection that the object of the improvement was to
subject grain to a thorough screening operation. Machines
were constructed under the patent and were put in operation
at various places, but on the 25th of September of the next
year it was surrendered and reissued, and on the 29th of
November, four years later, it was surrendered a second time,
when the patent in suit was issued to the complainant, which
is a second reissue. Having removed the defects in the prior
patents, the complainant alleges that he immediately put the
machines on sale, that he has ever since been in possession of
the right secured by the patent, and that he would have made
large profits from the manufacture and sale of the same had he
not been prevented from so doing by the respondents.
Two claims are made by the complainant. He charges that
the respondents have largely infringed his exclusive right, and
are still engaged in making and selling machines which are constructed in the same manner as the patented improvement, and
accomplish the same object by the same mode of operation.
Service was made, and the respondents appeared and filed an
answer. Their principal defences are as follows 1. That the
complainant is not the original and first inventor of the patented improvement. 2. That the alleged invention had been
in public use and on sale for more than two years prior to the
application by the complainant for a patent. 3. That the reissued patent described in the bill of complaint is not for the
same invention as the original.
Proofs were taken, hearing had, and the Circuit Court entered
a decree in favor of the complainant, and sent the cause to a
master to compute the profits, gains, and advantages which the
respondents have received, or which have arisen or accrued to
them from the infringements of the said patent. Due report
was made by the laster, to whose report certain exceptions
were filed by the respondents. Exceptions were also filed by
the complainant, but, inasmuch as he did not appeal, they will
not be re-examined. Those filed by the respondents, which are
still the subject of complaint, will receive due consideration.
Both parties appeared, and were heard in support of their
respective exceptions, all of which were overruled by the Cir
cuit Court except the fourth exception filed by the respondents.

Oct. 1880.]

PARKS v. BOOTH.

Matters of the kind being settled, the Circuit Court entered
a final decree in favor of the complainant in the sum of
$11,184.42, with costs of suit. Prompt appeal was taken by
the respondents to this court, and since the cause was entered
here they have filed the assignment of errors set forth in their
brief.
All such matters as are deemed material to the several
defences pleaded in the answers will be carefully considered,
without entering into the details of the argumentative portion
of the errors assigned. When reduced to specific propositions,
the errors assigned may be stated as follows 1. That the complainant is not the original and first inventor of, the patented
improvement. 2. That the supposed improvement was not the
proper subject of a patent, because it did not involve any invention. 3. That the Circuit Court erred in finding that the respondents had infringed the reissued patent of the complainant.
4. That the Circuit Court erred in overruling the exceptions of
the respondents to the Master's report. 5. That the Circuit
Court erred in allowing damages to the complainant in addition
to profits.
Redress for the infringement of a patent may be sought by a
suit in equity as well as by an action at law, and the required
allegations and proofs are substantially the same in one form of
remedy as in the other. Neither damages nor profits can be
recovered unless the complaining party alleges and proves that
he or the person under whom he claims was the original and
first inventor of the patented improvement, and that the same
has been infringed by the party against whom the suit is
brought. Both of those allegations must be proved to maintain
the suit, but the patent, if introduced in. evidence by the
complaining party, affords him prima facie evidence that the
patentee was the original and first inventor. That presumption,
in the absence of any satisfactory proof to the contrary, is sufficient to entitle him to recover if he proves the alleged infringement.
Evidence to overcome that presumption may be introduced by
the defending party in case due notice of such an intention is
given to the party ihat instituted the suit, as required by the
act of Congress. Rev Stat., sect. 4920. Notices of -thekind

PARKS v. BOOT.

[Sup. Ct.

were given by the respondents in their answers, and the assignment of errors calls in question -the decision of the Circuit
Court in that regard, which is the first question presented for
re-examination in the record.
Questions of the kind cannot well be decided without first
ascertaining what the patented improvement is that is described in the first pleading of the complaining party, and that
becomes necessary in this case, both in determining the issue of
prior invention and the issue of infringement. Attempt having failed to show that the reissued patent is not for the same
invention as the original, the question as to the nature of the
improvement may be determined by the examination of the
specification and drawings of the patent in suit.
Two claims are annexed to the specification. The first is
the combination of the zigzag screens and boxes, as exhibited
in the model and drawings, when the same have a lateral
shake-motion, or one at right angles to the passage of the grain,
in such a manner as to cause the grain to pass consecutively
over and through them, and when arranged relatively to each
other, to operate as set forth in the specification, the second
is the series of zigzag screens and' boxes with or without the
troughs and having the lateral shake-motion in connection with
the fan and spout, as set forth in the specification and exhibited
in the drawings.
Plain as these claims are, it would not be difficult to define
their meaning, even without resort to the details of what precedes in the specification. Speaking directly to the point, the
patentee states that his invention consists in the employment
or use of zigzag screens and boxes or passages having a proper
lateral shake-motion communicated to them, and so arranged
that the grain may pass consecutively over and through them and
be subjected to a thorough screening operation. Also using in
connection with the zigzag screens and boxes a revolving fan
and spout, so arranged that the grain will be subjected to a sufficient blast for the separation from it of all light impurities.
Reference is then made to the drawings, wieh show the frame
of the machine and the manner in which the series of devices
called inclined screens are secured by elastic pendants, as more
fully explained in another part of the specification. Explana-

Oct. 1880.]

PARKS

v.

BOOTH.

tions follow which show that the screens may be formed of
perforated zinc or other sheet-metal, placed alternately in
reversed inclined positions, as is clearly seen in figure 2 of
the drawings, each screen being placed at the top of what is
termed a shallow box which forms the passage of the grain, the
boxes extending the whole length of the screens in order to
receive the grain and discharge the same on to the elevated end
of the screen next below, through openings constructed for the
purpose, in order that the screening operation may be continued through the whole series of screens.
Instructive, and minute explanations are given in the specification of the entire construction and mode of operation of the
apparatus and the several devices of which it is composed.
Beyond all doubt, the explanations constitute a full compliance
with requirements of the Patent Act in all respects, and are
amply sufficient to show that the invention consists of the combination of elements or ingredients, the substance of which is
embodied in the claims of the patent annexed to the specification. None of the elements or ingredients are claimed to be
new, from which it follows that the invention consists entirely
in the combination, and not a doubt is entertained that it is
both new and useful.
Inventors of machines are required, before they secure a
patent, to deliver a written description of the improvement,
and of the manner and process of making, constructing, and
using the same, in such full, clear, and exact terms as to enable
one skilled in the art or science to make, construct, and use the
invention. Drawings are also required in certain cases, and if
the invention is such that it may be represented by a model,
the applicant for a patent is required to furnish a model of the
improvement. Requirements of the kind, in cases where they
apply, .may be regarded as conditions precedent to the right of
the commissioner to grant such an application , but cases often
arise where they or some of them do not apply
An applicant for a patent, "in case of a machine," is required to explain the principle thereof, the best mode of applying the same, and to point out and distinctly clann the part,
improvement, or combination which he claims as his invention,
and the respondents contend that the patent of the complainant

PARKS v. BOOTm.

[Sup. Ot.

is invalid because the specification does not comply with that
requirement. Rev Stat., sect. 4888.
Inventions sometimes embrace an entire machine, and in
such cases it is sufficient if it appears that the claim is coextensive with the patented improvemeiit. Other inventions
embrace only one or more parts of a machine, and in such cases
the part or parts claimed must be specified and pointed out, so
that constructors, other inventors, and the public may know
what the invention is and what is withdrawn from general
use.
Patented inventions are also made which embrace both ,a
new device or element and a new combination of old devices
inbodied in the same apparatus or machine. Particular description of the improvement is required in such a case, as the
property of the patentee consists not only in the new device,
but also in the new combination.
Modern inventions very often consist merely of a new combination of old elements or devices, where nothing is or can be
claimed except the new combination. Such a combination is
sufficiently described, to constitute a compliance with the letter
and spirit of the act of Congress, if the devices of which it
is composed are specifically named, their mode of operation
given, and the new and useful result to be accomplished is
pointed out, so that those skilled in the art and the public
may know the extent and nature of the claim and what
the parts are which co-operate to do the work claimed for the
invention.
Apply those rules to the specification in question, and it is
clear that the proposition that it does not point out what is
claimed as new is wholly unsupported and founded in mistake
as to what is required by the Patent Act.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the respondents that
the patentee is not the original and first inventor of the improvement. Such a defence may be supported by proof that
the invention was made by another before the patented improvement was made for the infringement of which the suit is
brought. Authority is also given to the respondent in such a
suit to show if he can that the improvement had been patented
or described in some printed publication prior to the supposed

Oct. 1880.]

PARKS V. BOOTH.

invention set forth in the specification. Rev Stat., sect. 4920.
Defences of the kind are authorized by the act of Congress, and
it may be remarked that it is not necessary to allege or prove,
in order to sustain such a defence, that the prior patent or
description was issued or given two years earlier, as the only
requirement is that the patent or publication was prior to the
supposed invention of the complainant.
Enough appears in this explanation to show that the two
defences may be considered together, as it is settled law that if
the patentee is not the original and first inventor of the improvement, or if it had been patented or described in any
printed publication prior to the supposed invention, then the
complainant cannot recover.
Notice in due form is given by the respondents in their
answer and amended answer of twelve patents or specifications
prior in date. to the patent of the complainant, and which, as
the respondents allege, supersede the invention described in
the complainant's patent.
Attempt will not be made to
describe the invention set forth in each of these publications.
Suffice it to say in that regard that all of them have been
carefully examined to the extent of the means furnished
by the transcript, and the court is of the opinion that no one
of the documents is of a character to sustain the issue that
the complainant is not the original and first inventor of the
improvement.
Most or all' of the inventions described in those publications
bear more or less resemblance to that claimed by the complainant, and it may be that if it were allowable to test the
validity of the invention in question by comparing the same
with the whole as if embodied in a single exhibit, the evidence
might be sufficient to support the views of the respondents in
respect to the defence under consideration. Were that allowable it might well be suggested that the screen is found in one,
the box in Another, and the means to produce the lateral shake
in a third, and so on to the end, but it would still be true that
neither the same combination in its entirety nor the same mode
of operation is described in any one of the patents or printed
publications given in evidence.
Attempt is scarcely made in argument to show that any one

PARKS v. BOOTH.

[Sup. Ot.

of these exhibits embodies the entire invention of the complainant, but it is insisted that every feature of the patented
improvement is found in some one or more of those publications. Suppose that is so, still it is clear that such a concession, if made, could not benefit the respondents, unless they can
be allowed to extend the same comparison to two or more
exhibits, as they do not contend that the entire invention is
superseded by any one of their exhibits.
Where the thing patented is an entirety, consisting of a separate device or of a single combination of old elements incapable of division or separate use, the respondent cannot make
good the defence in question by proving that a part of the entire invention is found in one prior patent, printed publication,
or machine, and another part in another, and so on indefinitely,
and from the whole or any given number expect the court to
determine the issue of novelty adversely to the complainant.
Bates v Coe, 98 U. S. 31.
Common justice forbids such a defence, as it would work a
virtual repeal of so much of the Patent Act as gives to inventors
the right to a patent consisting of old elements, where the
combination itself is new and produces a new and useful result. New elements in such a patent are not required, and if
such a defence were allowed, not one patent of the kind in a
thousand of modern date could be held valid. Nor is such
a defence consistent with the regulations enacted by Congress
in respect to the procedure in litigations in respect to patentrights.
Infringers or persons sued as such may plead the general
issue, and having given the required notice may prove that the
patentee is not the original and first inventor of the improvement, or that it had been patented or described in some printed
publication prior to the supposed invention, or that it had been
in public use or on sale in this country for more than two years
before the patentee applied for his patent. Corresponding proceedings may be had in equity, the denial of infringement and
notice being alleged and given in the answer.
Defences of the kind, if the thing patented is an entirety,
incapable of division or of separate use, must be addressed to
the invention and not to a part of it or to one or more claims

Oct. 1880.]

PARKS v. BOOTH.

of the patent, if less than the entire invention. More than
one patent may be included in one suit, and more than one
invention may be secured in the same patent, in which cases
the several defences may be made to each patent in the suit
and to each. invention to which the charge of infringement
relates.
Remarks already made, without more, are sufficient to show
that the evidence introduced by the respondents to sustain the
proposition that the complainant is not the original and first
inventor of the improvement fails to establish that assignment
of error, and that the defence must be overruled.
Much discussion of the next defence is not required, beyond
what is necessary to state the true construction and meaning of
the provision of the Patent Act which allows that defence.
Evidence of the want of novelty arises from the acts of others,
the defence being that the invention was constructed by another
before the patentee made his invention, the rule being that
priority of right depends in the first place upon priority of construction. Inventors may, if they can, keep their inventions
secret., but if they do not, and suffer the same to go into public
use for a period exceeding what is allowed by the Patent Act,
they forfeit their right to a patent. Hence the Patent Act
allows the infringer to plead and prove that the invention of
the patentee had been in public use or on sale in this country
for more than two years before the inventor applied for a
patent. No question of priority is open under 'that defence,
nor will evidence sustain it that another had made or patented
the invention two years before the application, without the
knowledge of the patentee whose invention is in question.
Evidence of priority is admissible under the preceding defence. Unless inventors keep their inventions secret they are
required to be vigilant in securing patents for their protection,
and if they do not, and suffer the same to be in public use or
oii sale in this country for more than two years before they
apply for a patent, they forfeit. their right, and if an infringer
alleges and proves that defence he cannot be held liable in a
suit for infringement.
Subject to this explanation, it is clear that there is no proof
in this case that the complainant was guilty of any laches in

PARKS v. BOOTH.

[Sup. Ct.

applying for a patent, or that his improvement ever went into
public use or was on sale in this country before he applied for
his patent.
Machines called grain-separatorsit is admitted in argument,
are manufactured and sold by the respondents, but they denied
in their original answer that their separators were in all respects constructed in the same manner as the apparatus of the
complainant, nor have they since entirely abandoned that proposition. Instead of that, they still insist that the reissued patent
of the complainant differs from the original, but they substantially admit that the machines which they construct and
sell do infringe the invention of the complainant, as described
in the reissued patent, which is sufficient for the complainant,
as the respondents have failed to make good their defence that
the reissued patent is not for the same invention as the original. Irrespective of any admission, however, the court is satisfied, from a comparison of the two exhibits, that the charge of
infringement is fully sustained.
Eighteen exceptions were filed by the respondents to the
report of the Master, but it is not deemed necessary, in view
of the state of the record, to give them a separate examination
in this case. Infringement being proved, the complainant was
entitled to an account of the profits made by the respondents
in the unlawful use of the patented improvement, which consisted of the new combination described in the specification.
Obviously it was a proper case for reference to a master, and
it is not perceived that the general basis of his report exhibits
any error to the prejudice of either party Two special errors
are discovered in addition to the one very properly corrected by
the Circuit Court.
Costs were properly allowed, but the court is of the opinion
that the complainant was not entitled to an allowance for any
expenses beyond the taxable costs. Interest on the profits
decreed to the complainant should not have been allowed, as
was decided by this court many years ago, the better opinion
being that profits in such a case are to be regarded in the light
of unliquidated damages, which usually do not draw interest
without the special order of the court. Silsby v Foote, 20
How 378, 386.

Oct. 1880.]

BROOKS V. RAILROAD

CO.

Expenses to the amount of $627.20, including counsel fees,
were allowed to the complainant beyond the taxable costs,
which, together with the entire interest allowed, must be deducted from the decree. From which it follows that the decree
in favor of the complainant, instead of being $11,184.42, should
be $9,992.09, without interest, but with costs of suit, as allowed
in the decree of the Circuit Court, and the decree is modified
so as to conform to that computation, but without any injunction, as the term of the patent has expired.
The decree, as modified, will be affirmed, without interest or
costs, the costs of this court to be paid by the appellee, and
it is
So ordered.

BRooKs v. RAiLRoAD CouPANY.
A petition for a rehearing cannot be filed after the term at which the judgment
was rendered.

for leave to file a petition -for rehearing.
This case was, on appeal from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Iowa, determined at the last
term. It is reported in 101 U. S. 443.
MOTION

Hr Joseph E. leDonald and Mr John M. Butler in support
of the motion.
MRt. CmrEF JusTIcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
A petition for rehearing after judgment, under the rule promulgated in Public Schools v Walker (9 Wall. 603), cannot be
filed except at the term in which the judgment was rendered.
In Hudson J Smith v Guestier (7 Craneh, 1), a motion was
made at the February Term, 1812, for a rehearing in a case
decided two years before, but the court said "the case could
not be reheard after the term 'in which it was decided." At
the end of the term, the parties are discharged from further
attendance on all causes decided, and we have no power to
bring them back. After that, we can do no more than correct

