Oct. 1880.]

EDWARDS V. UNITED

STATES.

ence, it found a system for the regulation of pilots in force in
every State. The act which has been mentioned adopts this
system, and gives it the same validity as if its provisions had
been specially made by Congress." 9 Wheat. 1, 207 The
long-continued silence of Congress, with its plenary power, in
the presence of such legislation by the States concerned, is
itself an implied ratification and adoption, and is equivalent
ii its consequences to an express declaration to that effect.
Atkicns v. The .Dismtegrating Company, 18 Wall. 272.
The several acts of Congress bearing on the subject are fully
referred to in Ex parte .etNiel, supra. In that, and in the
earlier and more elaborate case of Cooley v Board of Wardens
of Port of Philadelphta (12 How 299), this subject, in all its
aspects, was so fully considered that further remarks on the
present occasion are deemed unnecessary
Judgment affirmed.

EDWARDS v. UNITED STATES.
A. sued out a writ of error returnable to the October Term, 1877.

The return

was duly made, the transcript of the record lodged in the clerk's office in
September of that year, and a citation issued and served in time, but by an
oversight of A.'s counsel no fee-bond was given. The cause was not docketed.
In September, 1878, the bond was filed and the cause then docketed, no motion to docket and dismiss having in the mean time been made. Held, that a
motion made at the present term to dismiss the writ must be denied.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr J W Stone and 2Mtr M. J. Smiley in support of the
motion.
J.r Hf. F Severens, contra.
MR.CHIEF JUSTCE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The writ of error in this case was returnable to the October
Term, 1877 The return was duly made, and a transcript of

576

EDWARDS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

the record lodged in the office of the clerk of this court on the
A citation in due form was issued
27th of September, 1877
and served in time. By an oversight of the counsel for the
plaintiff in error no fee-bond was given, and the cause wis not
docketed during the term of 1877 No motion to docket and
dismiss was ever made, and on the 3d of September, 1878, the
attention of counsel having been called to the omission of the
security for costs, an acceptable bond was given and the cause
docketed in form. Under these circumstances we are not inclined to dismiss the suit. We are aware that in some of the
cases it has been said that a writ of error or an appeal becomes
inoperative if a transcript is not filed and the cause docketed
during the term to which it is made returnable, but this has
always been in cases where a return had not been made and
a transcript had not been filed within the time. The language
should, therefore, be construed in connection with those facts.
In Owzngs v Tiernan's Lessee (10 Pet. 447) and Van Rensselaer v Matts (7 How 784), leave was given to docket the
cause after the term, when the transcript had been filed in
time, but through inadvertence a fee-bond had not been given
and there had not been in the mean time a motion to docket
and dismiss. That is this case. In Selma & Meridian Railroad Co. v Loutstana NAratzonal Bank (94 U S. 253), the transcript was filed in time, but the cause not docketed because of
a failure to furnish a fee-bond. In this state of things, and
while the default continued, a motion to docket and dismiss
was made under rule 9, and granted. At the next term the
appellant appeared, and moved to set aside the order of dismissal and docket his appeal. This we refused, under the circumstances of that case. After a cause has been docketed and
dismissed it cannot be again docketed unless by order of the
court. Such is the rule. If a return is made and the transcript deposited in the clerk s office in time, our jurisdictmon
is kept alive. The docketing of the cause after that is mere
procedure, and if unreasonably delayed, the parties may be
subjected to the consequences of a failure to prosecute a suit.,
which rest largely in the discretion of the court when not provided for by rules. Rule 9 is of that class.
In this case it is abundantly shown that the omission to give

Oct. 1880.]

BENNETT v. RAILROAD

00.

the bond was through inadvertence and without any intention
to delay the due prosecution of the suit. No harm has been
done, save possibly a short extension of the time for bringing on the hearing. The defendants in error have delayed
their motion to dismiss until a new writ is barred by lapse
of time.
Aotton dented.

BENNETT V. RAILROAD COMiPANY.
The owner or occupant of land who induces or leads others to come upon it for
a lawful purpose is liable in damages to them - they using due care - for
injuries occasioned by the unsafe condition of the land or its approaches, if
such condition was known to him and not to them, and he negligently suffered
it to exist, without giving timely notice thereof to them or the public.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kentucky
Thbe case is stated in the opinion of the court.
11lr Walter Evans for the plaintiff in error.
There was no opposing council.
MR. JUSTICE. HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by John Bennett against the Louisville
and Nashville Railroad Company, commenced by a petition
framed m accordance with the Kentucky Code of Practice in
civil cases. Its object is to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have resulted from negligence or want of
proper care on the part of the agents, servants, and employds
of the defendant, a corporation engaged in the business of
transporting freight and passengers for hire. The petition
was twice amended, and a demurrer thereto having been sustained, judgment was given for the defendant. After judgment the plaintiff died, and the action was revived in this
court in the name of Martha J Bennett, his-personal representative.
The controlling question before us is whether the amended
petition makes out a cause of action against the company
VOL. X1i.

37

