THE " BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. Ct.

cable to them. But this cannot be said in the case before us.
The goods in question have no such inseparable relation to one
form of description exclusive of the other, nor are they so
clearly intended to be embraced in any particular grouping or
classification, as to repel or prevent the application to them
of the clause under which they were assessed.
Judgmjzent affirmed.

THE " BENEFACTOR."
1. At about ten o'clock in the forenoon, when the weather was clear and fine, a
steamship and a schooner were on the ocean. The schooner, having seen
the steamship when six or seven miles away kept steadily on her course.
The steamer saw the schooner when three miles off, and from that time
until a collision between them occurred both vessels were sailing on courses
which crossed each other, so as to involve risk of collision. Held, that
under the circumstances it was the duty of the steamship to keep out of
the way of the schooner, and the latter having held her course, the former
is liable for the damages occasioned by the collision.
2. The ruling in The Abbotsjbrd (98 U. S. 440), that under the act of Feb. 16,
1875 (18 Stat. 315), the finding of facts by the Circuit Court in admiralty
cases is conclusive, and that only rulings upon questions of law can be
reviewed by bill of exceptions, reaffirmed.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Eastern District of New York.
This is a libel filed in the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of New York by William H. Mount and
others against the steamship "Benefactor," to recover damages
arising from a collision between that vessel and the schooner
"Susan Wright."
The District Court found in favor of the libellants, and from
its decree the claimants of the "Benefactor " appealed to the
Circuit Court. The latter court found, 1. That the collision took place a little after ten o'clock in
the forenoon of the twenty-sixth day of February, 1875, off
Squan Beach, New Jersey, and about three miles distant therefrom.
2. That the weather at and prior to the time of the collision
was fine and clear, the wind about west-northwest, and strong,

Oct. 1880.]

THE " BENEFACTOR."

the steamship was bound from New York to Wilmington, and
the schooner bound from Matanzas to New York.
3. That the steamship was observed by those in charge of
the schooner when six or seven miles distant therefrom, and
from twenty to thirty minutes before the collision. At that
time the steamship bore a point or two off the starboard bow
of the schooner. The schooner was close-hauled, sailing on a
course about north by west, at the rate of about eight miles an
hour. The steamship was proceeding on a course about southsouthwest at the rate of about ten miles an hour, with her sails
set, and the wind free, and makng much lee-way
4. That at this time the courses of the two vessels were such
as to cross each other, if continued, and such as to bring the
two vessels either together or into close proximity to each other,
and the two vessels were proceeding in such directions as to
involve risk of collision.
5. That on the windward side of the two vessels, and about
three miles distant therefrom, was the New Jersey shore, trending at that point about north by east and south by west, and
on the leeward side was the open ocean, without any obstruction to safe navigation. There was nothing to prevent the
steamship from seasonably changing her course so as to pass
either to windward or to leeward of the schooner and give her
a wide berth.
6. That from the time when the steamship was observed,
as above stated, she was watched by those in charge of the
schooner, and the schooner was kept close-hauled upon her
course. The steamship was also kept upon her course, without
slacking speed or stopping, until the vessels were only a few
lengths apart and a collision was imminent, when the peak of
her mainsail was lowered, her engines slowed and stopped, and
an effort made to pass to leeward of the schooner, but without
success.
7 That after the steamship was within a few lengths of the
schooner, and a collision was imminent, the captain of the
schooner attempted to avoid the impending collision or lessen
its force by porting the helm of the schooner, but, after putting
the schooner's wheel only about two spokes to port, he was
driven away therefrom by the nearer and dangerous approach

THE "B ENEFACTOR."[

[Sup. Ct.

of the steamship, which struck the schooner on her starboard
quarter, in consequence of which the schooner sank almost
immediately, with her valuable cargo.
8. That the schooner kept her course until the steamship
was in close proximity and the collision was imminent, and if
there was any change in the schooner's course after that, and
before the collision actually took place, it was very slight,
had no effect in producing the collision, and was made 7n
extremzs.

9. That at the time of the collision the schooner was of the
value of $17,850, the cargo was of the value of $35,046.58,
and both the vessel and cargo, by reason of the collision,
became a total loss. The amount of damage sustained by
William H. Mount, by reason of loss of and injury to his personal effects by the collision was $1,283.85. The net freight
lost by reason of the collision was $1,923.14. The amount of
damages sustained by the other libellants, by reason of the
loss of and injury to their personal effects by the collision,
was $591.15.
The court concluded as matters of law,1. Upon the steamship and schooner discovering each other
proceeding in such directions as to involve risk of collision, as
stated in the foregoing findings of fact, it was the right and
duty of the schooner to keep her course, and the duty of the
steamship to keep out of the way of the schooner, and the
steamship was in fault in failing to perform that duty
2. It was also the duty of the steamship, under the circumstances stated, to pursue a course which should not needlessly
put the schooner in imminent peril, and the steamship was in
fault in failing to perform that duty
3. It was the duty of the steamship, before the time when
she did so, to slacken her speed or stop, and the steamship was
in fault in failing to perform that duty
4. If, when a collision had become imminent by reason of
the fault of the steamship, any error was committed ?n extremts by those in charge of the schooner, the schooner is not
responsible therefor.
5. The steamship had no right, under the circumstances
stated, needlessly to place herself in such close proximity to

Oct. 1880.]

THE

,BENEFACTOR."

the schooner that the error of a moment would bring destruction.
6. The collision was occasioned by the fault of the steamship, and the steam~hip should be condemned therefor.
7 The decree of the District Court was right, and should be
affirmed with costs.
The claimants of the " Benefactor" thereupon appealed here.
Mr Cornelius Van Santvoord for the appellants.
The court declined to hear counsel for the appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, delivered the opinion of the

court.
Upon the facts as found the judgment below was clearly
right. The vessels were on the ocean, and there was nothing
to interfere with their navigation. The weather was clear and
fine, and the time about ten o'clock in the forenoon. The
schooner saw the steamer when six or seven miles away, and
from that time steadily kept her course'until the collision was
imminent. While there is no special finding that the steamer
saw the schooner, it would have been a gross fault on her part
if she did not, and both in the answer and in the requests for
finding presented to the court below it is stated that the
schooner was seen when three miles off. From that time until
the collision the vessels were sailing on courses which crossed
each other, so as to involve a risk of collision. Under these
circumstances it was the imperative duty of the steamer to
keep out of the way, and of the schooner not to embarrass the
steamer by any change of course. The schooner, mindful of
her duty, did hold her course, but the steamer did not avoid
a collision.
The theory of the steamer seems to have been that, as the
schooner was bound for New York, she should have steered
more to the eastward than she did, and that the steamer had the
right to assume she would do so, and act accordingly This is
clearly wrong. The steamer was bound to govern herself by
what the schooner actually did, not by i'hat might have been
done. When more than six miles from the steamer, and from
twenty to thirty minutes before the collision, the schooner was
close-hauled, and on a course which she held steadily.all the

218

THE " BENEFACTOR."

[Sup. Ct.

time. At that distance from the steamer she had the right to
choose her own way of getting to her port of destination, and
the steamer could not require her to change it. As the responsibility of avoiding the collision was on the steamer, it was
a fault in her to get so close that a slight change in the course
of the schooner, in the midst of what seemed to be imminent
It is clear to us that
peril, would bring the vessels together
those on board the steamer were deceived as to the movements
of the schooner by the leeway they themselves were making,
and that they expected to pass to the windward, when they
should have shaped their course to go to the leeward.
The only remaining questions are those which arise on the
In The Abbotsford (98 U. S. 440), we
bill of exceptions.
decided that on an appeal in this class of cases we could only
pass on such rulings of the court below as might properly be
put into a bill of exceptions on the trial of an action at law,
and that the findings of fact sent up with the record were conclusive here. If there are errors in these findings, they can
only be corrected at the proper time and in the proper way by
We are no longer required to weigh evithe court below
dence. On an appeal, the findings have all the effect of the
This must be accepted as
verdict of a jury in actions at law
our final conclusion as to the effect of the act of 1875 (18 Stat.
315) in this particular.
The bill of exceptions in this case contains all the evidence,
and a request made of the court by the appellant to find the
From this request it appears that the
facts in a certain way
about the facts was as to whether
controversy
only material
her course so as to cross the
changed
negligently
the schooner
the collision. The court,
on
bring
and
bows of the steamer
was to some extent conwhich
after considering the evidence,
flicting, found that she did not. This disposed of the case, and
is conclusive on us. All the exceptioiis taken have their foundation in this finding, and relate to questions of law which
As we
would have arisen if that had been the other -vay
cannot disturb the finding, we cannot consider the exceptions.
It follows that the ]udgment must be affirmed, and it is consequently
So ordered.

