WHITE V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

deed must within five years either himself take actual possession of the property, or within the same period bring a suit
to recover possession , and, upon his failure to do either, his
action upon his deed shall be barred.
When thus considered, the law violates no contract and deprives the purchaser at the tax sale of no estate or property to
which he had a right. He bought subject to a condition, with
explicit warning that if he did not comply with it, his deed
should become ineffectual to support an action. Failing to
perform the condition, he is left without remedy, but also
without just ground for complaint.
We see no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

WmiiTE

v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

Suit by A. against B. as indorser of a protested draft, the indorsement being,
"Pay to A. or order for account of B." The declaration contained a special
count on the draft and indorsement, and one for money paid for the use of B.
at his request. Held, 1. That by the terms of the indorsement A. became
merely the agent of B. for the collection of the money 2. That under the
special count parol evidence was not admissible to vary those terms. 3. That
under the common count it was competent for A. to show that at the time of
the indorsement and delivery of the draft to him he gave B. his check therefor less the discount, and that the latter received and used the money.
4. That under that count A. was entitled to recover from B. either for money
paid without consideration, money loaned, or money advanced to hin on the
faith of the delivery of the draft.

En o to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Hr S. V
iite for the plaintiff in error.
Ar Henry HW.Teller, contra.
MR. JUSTIoE MILER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action by White, who was plaintiff below, for
the sum of $60,000, against the Miner's National Bank of

Oct. 1880.]

WHITE v. NATIONAL BANK.

Georgetown, Colorado. The declaration contains twelve special counts, upon as many drafts, drawn by the Stewart Silver
Reducing Conpany on Thomas W Phelps, payable in the
city of New York to the order of the defendant, and indorsed
by J L. Brownell, its president, to S. V White, and duly protested for non-payment.
To these counts is added. another, in this language "And
for that also, heretofore, to wit, on the first day of April, A.D.
1876, at the said county of Clear Creek, the said defendant
was indebted to plaintiff in $60,000, for so much money by
the plaintiff, before that time, paid to the use of said defendant at its request, which said sum of money was to be paid
to the plaintiff on request," with an allegation of request and
refusal.
To this declaration the defendant pleaded the general issue
and several special pleas, which it is unnecessary to notice.
The case was tried by a jury
The plaintiff recovered
$15,000 debt and $2,625 damages for interest, on account of
three of the drafts. His claim on the other drafts, and for
money paid at defendant's request, was rejected. He, therefore, brings this writ, and assigns for error the rulings of the
court in the progress of the trial; which are set forth in a bill
of exceptions.
J L. Brownell, a partner in the firn of J. L. Brownell &
Brother, doing business as bankers and brokers in the city of
New York, was also president of the defendant, and interested
in the Stewart Silver Reducing Company during the time of
the transactions involved in this suit. As such president, he
sold or transferred the several drafts on which this suit is
founded to White, and received of the latter for the use of the
bank the amount of said drafts less the discount. They were
not paid at maturity, but due demand, protest, and notice
were made. Those on which plaintiff recovered need not be
further noticed. The others were rejected by the court as
evidence against the defendant, on account of the form of the
indorsement.
As they were, in this respect, alike, the form of one Will be
given here as a specimen of the whole -

WHITE

" $5,000.]

v.

[Sup. Ct.

NATIONAL BANK.

OFFICE OF THE STEWART SILVER REDUCING COMPANY,

" GEORGETOWN, COL., Oct. 25, 1875.
"Four months after date pay to the order of the Miners' National Bank, Georgetown, Colorado, payable at the Third National
Bank, New York City, five thousand dollars.
[L. S.]

"STEWART

SILVER REDUCING

"By J.

COMPANY,

OSCAR STEWART,

Prestdent.

"To Tiros. W PHELPS, Esq.,

" Georgetown, Colorado.
"Accepted. - Tios. W

Across the face, in red

PHELPS.

Indorsed
" No.
Pay S. V White or order for account iiners' National Bank, Georgetown, Colorado. J. L. Brownell, p't.
" S. V

WHITE."

Because of the words "for account of Miners' National
Bank of Georgetown, Colorado," in this indorsement by
Brownell, as president of the bank, the Circuit Court ruled
that there arose out of the transaction no obligation on the
part of the bank to pay the draft or return the money, although due demand of the acceptor and refusal to pay was
proved, with notice to the bank. This is the principal question which we are to decide.
The plaintiff relies largely on two propositions to establish
his right to recover against defendant on this indorsement.
The first of these is that these words are merely directory
and capable of explanation, and when it is shown by parol
testimony, as in this case, that the plaintiff bought and paid
full value for the draft, with the understanding that he was
buying it as commercial paper, with the usual incidents of
such a transaction, the indorser is liable in the usual manner,
notwithstanding the words we have quoted.
The other proposition is that such is the custom of bankers
who deal in such paper in New York, where these drafts are
payable, and that the custom must control the construction of
the contract.
We are not satisfied that either of these propositions is
sound.
The language of the indorsement is without ambiguity, and
needs no explanation, either by parol proof or by resort to

Oct. 1880.]

WHITE V. NATIONAL BANK.

usage. The plain meaning of it is, that the acceptor of the
draft is to pay it to the indorsee for the use of the indorser.
The indorsee is to receive it on account of the indorser. It
does not purport to transfer the title of the paper or the
ownership of the money when received. Both these remain,
by the reasonable and almost necessary meaning of the language, in the indorser. It seems to us that the court below
correctly construed the effect of the indorsement to be to
make White the agent of the bank for the collection of the
money
If this be a sound view of the legal effect of the written
indorsement, neither parol proof nor custom can be received to
contradict it.
But we are aware of the necessity of proceeding with great
caution in a case of first impression in regard to questions
affecting commercial transactions, and we do not, therefore,
decide this one,, because we do not think it absolutely necessary to the case. For assuming this to be correct, we think
the plaintiff was still entitled to recover more than he did.
The court below seems to have paid but little attention to
the issue on the count for money paid to the use of defendant.
It appears distinctly by the evidence, and is uncontradicted,
that the money paid by plaintiff on account of these drafts
was placed to the credit of the defendant with its corresponding bankers in New York, and paid out on checks of the defendant, so that there is no question that the latter received the
money There is also no question but that plaintiff thought
he was buying these drafts and that they became his property by their delivery to him. It is also evident that Brownell,
the president of the bank, thought he was selling him the
drafts, and there is evidence that neither White nor Brownell
noticed the restrictive words of the indorsement. But if the
court below was correct in holding that the indorsement the evidence in writing of what the parties did - only made
White the agent of the bank, and left the bank the owner of
the drafts, then both White and Brownell were mistaken, and
the money was paid and received under a mutual mistake.
If White paid his money as purchase-money of the drafts, he
paid it without any consideration, for he did not purchase the

WHITE v. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct.

drafts. He only burdened himself with the duty of collecting
the money for the bank, and the bank received and used his
money without giving him any consideration for it. So, also,
if White did not become the owner of the drafts, and if, when
he should collect the money on them, he would hold it, in the
language of the indorsement, "for the account of the bank,"
the jury might have been left at liberty to presume that the
money which he paid was a loan or advance on the security of
the paper delivered to him at the time. Either of these views
of the transaction would justify a recovery under the money
count, in which the delivery of the money and the delivery of
the drafts, with the qualified indorsement, would be, evidence
of the payment and receipt of the money and the circumstances
which attended it.
This indorsement is treated by counsel here as an assignment of the paper without recourse, in which the title to the
paper passed, but the right to recourse to the assignor was cut
off. But this is evidently an error. If the court below was
correct, neither the title to the paper nor the right to the
money under it passed. The only effect was to justify the
acceptor in paying to the indorsee for the account of the bank.
The legal effect of the transaction, as evidenced by the writing, was merely to enable White to collect the money for the
bank. Though a restricted indorsement, it was no assignment
at all. It is not, therefore, a contradiction or a varying of the
meaning of the written instrument to prove that, in the delivery
of this paper to White, he and the bank were under a mistake as to the effect of it, or that he paid this money to the
bank without any consideration, or that he advanced money
to the bank in the idea that he was to be reimbursed out of
the draft when collected.
The instructions given by the court, and the refusal of the
prayer of plaintiff, fairly raised this question. All the drafts,
except the three which had no such indorsement, were excluded from the jury The jury were told that nothing else
was before them.
The thirteenth instruction asked by plaintiff and refused by
the court distinctly affirmed that if Brownell obtained from
plaintiff sums of money on account of the drafts, which the

-Oct. 1880.]

WItTE

v.

NATIONAL BANK.

court had refused as evidence, which money was placed to
the credit of defendant in a New York bank, and afterwards
drawn by defendant, the defendant was liable for such money
The judgment will be reversed, and the case remanded with
directions to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial, and
it is

So ordered.
NoTE. - Third National Bank v. National Bank, error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Colorado, was argued by Mr. William H.
Scott for the plaintiff in error, and by Mt. Henry 31. Teller for the defendant in
error.
Ma. JUSTIC MILLEiR delivered the opinion of the-court.
The action in the present case is brought against the same defendant on
indorsements of drafts precisely similar to the indorsements in White v. National
Bank, though by. a different plaintiff. There is in that case the same money
count joined with special counts on the drafts, and the same evidence 'that the
money came to the use of the defendant.
In this case, however, the parties waived a jury, and the court found no facts,
but rendered a general finding for the defendant. We have had some difficulty;
therefore, in disturbin-the judgment, as there is no charge to the jury and no
instructions asked and refused.
A bill of exceptions, however, embodies tie, evidence, and shows that the
court refused to receive the drafts in evidence, although the accompanying evidence of the receipt of the money by defendant, and its payment by plaintiff,
was the same as in the other case. To this ruling there was 'an exception.
We are of opinion that the drafts, the peculiar indorsement, and the payment
of the money by the plaintiff, and its receipt and use by the defendant, were
each and all parts df a transaction admissible as evidence of money paid by
plaintiff to the use of defendant, to be repaid on request, and that the court
erred in rejecting any part of it.
The judgment will therefore be reversed for that error, and the case remanded
with directions to grant a new trial.
So ordered.

