SHARPE v. DOYLE.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE MILLER dissenting. I dissent from the judgment of the court. In addition to the general proposition
which I have always maintained, that no legislature of a State
has authority to bargain away the State's right of taxation, I
am of opinion that in issuing the bonds and coupons which
are the subject of this controversy the legislature of Virginia,
neither m terms nor by any just inference, made any contract
that the bonds and coupons should not be subject to the same
taxes as other property taxed by the State.

SHARPE V. DoYL,.
1. Where the marshal of the United States, to whom was directed a warrant of
provisional seizure sued out of the proper court sitting in bankruptcy,
levied it upon certain goods in the possession of a third party claining
title to them,- Held, that this court has jurisdiction to re-examine the
judgment of a State court, whereby it was held in a suit against the marshal that, by reason of such possession, be had no authority under the laws
of the United States to so levy the warrant.
2. The goods were subject to seizure under the warrant, if they were the
property of the person against whom the proceeding in bankruptcy was
pending.
3. The marshal must, in such a case, act at his own risk, in regard to the ownership of them and their liability to seizure.

ERROR to the Superior Court of the city of New York.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr Charles B. Whitehead for the plaintiff in error.
111r William Henry Arnoux, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Alfred E. Lagrave and James D. Otis, partners in trade,
were, on a petition filed May 30, 1872, adjudicated bankrupts
on the eighth day of the following June. On the first day of
the latter month a warrant was issued under the seal of the
District Court, in which the bankruptcy proceedings were
pending, directed to the marshal of the district, which, after

Oct. 1880.]

SHARPE v. DOYLE.

reciting that a previous order had been obtained for the possession of the bankrupts' goods, proceeded as follows "You are therefore required and authorized, immediately
upon receipt hereof, to take possession provisionally of all the
property and effects of said Alfred E. Lagrave and James D.
Otis, and safely keep the same until the further order of the
court."
Under this warrant the plaintiff in error, who was the marshal to whom the writ was directed, seized eight packages of
goods. For this act he was sued in the Superior Court of the
city of New York by the defendants in error, who recovered a
judgment against him for their value, which was finally affirmed
by the Court of Appeals.
The case was tried by a jury, the defendant's plea being
that the goods were the property of the bankrupts, and
were lawfully seized under the warrant for provisional possession.
While it is uncontradicted that the goods had been the
property of the bankrupts, evidence was given tending to show
that, in fraud of the bankrupt law, they had been purchased a
few days before by the plaintiffs in this action, and that, when
seized by the marshal, they were in the possession of the plaintiffs, or of some one for them. The court gave the jury the
following instruction " As you know, the defendant is x United States marshal.
He has certain powers given to him by statute. Under a warrant of the kind in evidence (the form of which it is unnecessary to read to you) he has authority to take goods belonging
to a bankrupt and which are in his possession. He has no
authority under such a warrant to take goods from a third person, having possession for himself of the goods and claiming as
a matter of right to be entitled to their possession. If that be
the case here, the defendant had no right to take these goods
from Mr. Ketchum's warehouse. If Mr. Doyle was, as a matter of fact, in possession of these goods, claiming them as
owner for himself, then the plaintiffs, Doyle and Adolphi, are
entitled to recover for the value of the goods what you shall
find it to be. Otherwise, the defendant is entitled to a verdict.
It will be unnecessary for you to inquire as to the reasons of

SHARPE V. DOYLE.

[Sup. Or.

this , but I say to you, briefly, that such a rule of law as that
does not finally determine the rights of the parties, because the
defendant may only have limited nights to take possession
under certain circumstances, while the assignee in bankruptcy
for the creditors of Lagrave & Co. might try the question on
different principles of law This defendant is an officer of the
law, with certain limited powers."
This charge, to which an exception was taken, was decisive
of the case, there being no doubt that persons other than the
bankrupts had, under claim of title, the possession of the goods
at the time they were seized under the warrant. The defendant asserted a right to them, under the laws of the United
States, on the ground that the pretended purchase by the
plaintiffs was a fraud upon the bankrupt law, and passed no
title, that the ownership was, by virtue of the bankruptcy
proceedings, in the assignee, and that the plaintiffs were not
entitled to recover. The right so claimed was decided adversely to the defendant. The instruction was affirmed in the
court of last resort, and its soundness depends upon the authority conferred on hin by the writ. The case is, therefore, a
proper one for a writ of error from this court.
The writ in the marshal's hand is identical in its mandatory
part with se 6t. 5024 of the Revised Statutes, and, if he did no
more than it commanded him, was a sufficient justification for
his act, unless the statute is unconstitutional. This is not pretended, either here or in the State courts.
It is a little difficult to see upon what principle the plaintiffs
can maintain the suit, if they were not the rightful owners of
the goods. It is true that, in a case of naked trespass without
claim of right in the trespasser, the possessor of the goods may
recover, without regard to the state of the title. But such is
not the case here. The defendant acted under a lawful writ
from a court having junsdiction to issue it. By his plea he
took upon himself the burden of proving that the goods were
subject to seizure under the writ, and in doing so he must, of
course, prove that the plaintiffs were not the lawful owners of
them. In other words, that the right of the assignee in bankruptcy,. whose right he represented in that suit, was superior to
that of plaintiffs.

Oct. 1880.]

SHARPE V. DOYLE.

But the court said "You shall not be permitted to prove
that. If plaintiffs show that they were in possession, asserting ownership, you will .not be allowed to contradict that
assertion."
Such a proposition is opposed to all the analogies of the law
If a writ be sued out of a court of competent jurisdiction,
directing an officer to seize specifically described property, as
in admiralty, replevin, or ejectment cases, it is a protection to
the officer, when he is sued in trespass for executing it. If,
however, it in general terms directs or authorizeshnim to seize
the property of an individual, without a special description of
it, he exercises the authority conferred at his own risk as regards the ownership of the property, and its liability to seizure
under that process. Such is the rule applicable to an ordinary
writ of attachment, and to afiervfaczas at common law
When, however, some one other than the defendant sues the
officer for a wrongful levy of the writ, it has never been doubted
that the title to the property and the rightfulness of the seizure
under the writ were open to inquiry, and that unless the plaintiff made out his case before the jury, he must fail. This subject is fully considered by the court in Buck v Colbath, 3 Wall.
334.
No just distinction can be seen between this latter class of
cases and the one now under consideration. The act of Congress was designed to secure the possession of the property of
the bankrupt, so that it might be administered under the proceedings in bankruptcy Between. the first steps initiating
them and the appointment of the assignee, a considerable time
often elapses, during which the effects of the bankrupt, especially in a case commenced by creditors, may be surreptitiously
conveyed beyond the reach of the court or of the assignee, who,
when appointed, is entitled to the possession of them. If the
bankrupt does not voluntarily aid the court, or is inclined to
defeat the proceedings, he can, with the aid of friends or irresponsible persons, sell his movable property and put the money
in his pocket, or secrete his goods or remove them beyond the
reach of the assignee or the process of the court, and thus defy
the law The evidence in this case shows the manner in which
this can be done.
VOL. XII.

44

SHARPE V. DOYLE.

[Sup. Ct.

It was the purpose of the act of Congress to remedy this evil.
It, therefore, provides that as soon as the petition in bankruptcy is filed, the court may issue to the marshal a provisional
warrant, directing him to take possession of all the property
and effects of the bankrupt, and hold them subject to the further order of the court. To have limited this right or duty of
seizure to such property as he might find in the actual possession of the bankrupt would have manifestly defeated in many
instances the purpose of the writ. There is, therefore, no such
limitation expressed or implied. As in the writ of attachment,
or the ordinary execution on a judgment for the recovery of
money, the officer is authorized to seize the property of the
defendant wherever found, so here it is made his duty to take
into his possession the bankrupt's property wherever le may
find it. It is made his duty to collect and hold possession until
the assignee is appointed or the property is released by some
order of court, and he would ill perform that duty if he should
accept the statement of every man in whose custody lie found
property which he believed would belong to the assignee when
appointed, as a sufficient reason for failing to take possession
of it.
But he does this on his own responsibility for not only a
faithful, but a correct, judgment in deciding what property to
seize. He is liable to suit if by mistake he takes possession of
property not liable to seizure under his warrant.
Such a suit was brought in this case, and we can see no
reason why the issue made by the pleadings, namely, the true
ownership of the property, should not have been fully submitted to the jury It was the shortest way to determine the
rights of the parties. It was the first time the issue was presented. It was before a court of competent jurisdiction.
To hold that the plaintiffs, by reason of their bare assertion
of ownership connected with possession, must recover of the
marshal the value of the property, and that the assignee could
then have sued plaintiffs and recovered it from them, is a mode
of doing justice that does not commend itself to our judgment,
even if the assignee could be sure to find a responsible defendant when lie came to sue.
We are of opinion that the Court of Appeals of New York

Oct. 1880.]

COUNTY OP MOBILE V. KIMBALL.

was in error in its construction of the bankrupt law and in
affirming the instruction of the inferior court.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor further
proceedings rn conformity with thzs opznton.

COUNTY OF MOBILE v. KIMBALL.

1. The power conferred upon Congress by the commerce clause of the Constitu-

2.

3.

4.

6.

6.

tion is exclusive, so far as it relates to matters within its purview which
are national in their character, and admit or require uniformity of regulation affecting all the States. That clause was adopted in order to secure
such uniformity against discriminating State legislation.
Commerce with foreign countries and among the States, strictly considered,
consists in intercourse and traffic, including in these terms navigation and
the transportation and transit of persons and property as well as the purchase, sale, and exchange of commodities. To regulate it, as thus defined,
there must be only one system of rules applicable alike to the whole country, which Congress alone can prescribe.
State legislation is not forbidden touching matters either local in their nature
or operation, or intended to be mere aids to commerce, for which special
regulations can more effectually provide, such as harbor pilotage, beacons,
buoys, and the improvement of harbors, bays, and navigable rivers within
a State, if their free navigation under the laws of the United States be not
thereby impaired. Congress, by its non-action in such matters, virtually
declares that, for the time being and until it deems fit to act, they may be
controlled by State authority. The act of the State of Alabama, entitled
"An Act to provide for the improvement of the river, bay, and harbor
of Mobile," approved Feb. 16, 1867, is, therefore, not m conflict with the
Constitution.
The provision for issuing bonds by the president and commissioners of revenue of Mobile County is not a taking of private property for public use,
within the meaning of the Constitution of Alabama, nor can it be declared invalid, although it may impose upon one county the expense of an
improvement m which the whole State is interested.
The harbor board was authorized by that act to provide for the contemplated
improvement by entering into a contract therefor binding upon the county.
If specific performance cannot for any reason be enforced in favor of the
party who is thereunto entitled, on his completion of the work under the
contract, a court of equity will adjudge that compensation in damages be
made to him by the county.
A decree dismissing his bill without prejudice is not a ar to a subsequent suit
for the same cause of action.

