CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

sanctuary from every species of intrusion which, under color
of law, would subject the property, by any disposition whatever, to the payment of debts."
The appellant is the ownei of the mortgage in this case, and
aware- so states his counselthat be could not enforce it
against the homestead in the State courts, as there mortgages
can only be enforced by a decree of sale, commenced an action
of ejectment for the premises in the Circuit Court of the
United States, contending that the mortgage passed the legal
title as against the mortgagors, and that, as its owner, lie had a
right to recover the possession of the premises for default in
the payment of the notes secured. He sought, in other words,
to get around the State Constitution by the form of his procedure in the Federal court. We do not think that its wise and
beneficent purpose of securing a home to the family against
the vicissitudes of fortune can be thus easily evaded. A
forced dispossession in ejectment is as much within the prohibition as a forced sale under judicial process. We think,
therefore, that the decree in the suit, enjoining the action of
ejectment, was properly rendered upon the undisputed facts
stated in the complaint, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.
A party who bribes an officer of the United States with money cannot maintain
an action to recover it.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims.

This is a suit by James S. Clark and Edward Fulton, partners under the name and style of J S. Clark & Co., to recover
from the United States the sum of $10,000 alleged to have
been extorted from the petitioners in December, 1864, by Col.
Harai Robinson, then acting provost-marshal-general for the
Department of the Gulf.
The court below found the following facts -

Oct. 1880.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

I. On the 26th of October, 1864, the Secretary of the Treasury signed and delivered to the claimants the paper of that
date, annexed to the petition, and on the same day Abraham
Lincoln, President of the United States, signed the order of
that date, accompanying said paper, and also annexed to the
petition.
I. On the 16th of November, 1864, the claimants delivered
to George S. Denison, the acting collectoi: of customs at New
Orleans, a bond, duly executed, with proper and sufficient sureties, in the sum of $250,000, as required by the aforesaid paper
signed by the Secretary of the Treasury
III. On the 13th of December, 186.4, on the United States
ship "Choctaw," off Bayou Sara, La., John J Cornwell, lieutenant-commander of the United States navy, commanding the
second and third districts of the Mississippi River, issued the
following order, addressed to. naval officers between Bayou Sara
and New Orleans " Pass the steamer 'Sciota,' Captain Owesney, with a cargb of three hundred and thirty-six (336) bales
of cotton, to New Orleans, without molestation. The cotton
was taken on board at Bayou Sara by my consent."
IV On the arrival of the steamer" Sciota" at Nevw Orleans,
she and her cargo were seized by the United States military
police, under the control of Col. Harai Robinson, then acting
as provost-marshal-general of the Department of the Gulf, of
which department Gen. S. A. Hurlbut was then in command.
V After the seizure of the "Sciota" and her cargo, General
Hurlbut issued a special order, stating that, by direction of
the major-general commanding the military division west of the
Mississippi, the cotton brought by the steamer "Sciota" should
be disposed of as follows A certain number of bales (number
not shown) to be given to the claimants, the remainder to
be turned over to 0 N. Cutler, the United States purehasing-agent, and that the claimants, should give bonds for their
appearance when required. On said Robinson's receipt of said
order he sent for the claimants, and they appeared before hn,
and gave bonds, at which time they did not exhibit to him
any papers in relation to the shipment of cotton. It was not
the province of said Robinson to have anything to do with the
receiving or disposing of the cotton.

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

VI. On or about the 21st of December, 1864, in the evening,
after office hours, the claimants called on the said Robinson at
his dwelling, and showed him the papers aforesaid, dated Oct.
26, 1864, signed by the Secretary of the Treasury and the
President, which the said Robinson had not before seen or
had any knowledge of, and the claimants asked him what he
thought of that permit. He told them he thought it was a
sweeping one, that it covered all ground. They answered that,
notwithstanding that permit, the cotton aboard the "Scrota"
had been seized and detained, and themselves put under bond.
He asked how that could be. They answered that the permit
was of no account unlevs signed by the major-general commanding the department. He asked them if they had presented
it to the general commanding They said yes, and it had
been refused. He then advised them to go to General Canby,
who commanded the military division west of the Mississippi,
and show the permit to him. They replied, " You know that
is useless by the very order which put us under bond it
states by order of the general commanding the military division west of the Mississippi." They further said they were
satisfied that it could not be done except by money, that
money was wanted, and that they were willing to pay most
liberally to have it signed, that that would cover and release
their cotton. They said they would pay $10,000 to have that
presidential permit indorsed, and their cotton released. He
then told them to leave the permit with him, and he would
see about it.
The next day the said Robinson took the permit to General
Hurlbut, and told him the parties wished to have it signed by
him. General Hurlbut replied, "Yes, I have seen this permit
-before. I have refused to sign it." Robinson then said," General, these men have offered a large amount of money to get
this permit indorsed, there's money in it." Hurlbut perused
the permit carefully, and said, "You must take that to Mr.
Denison, and have him certify that the proper bonds have been
filed by these parties, Clark and Fulton." Robinson took the
permit to said Denison, and advised him of the wishes of General Hurlbut. Denison then indorsed on the permit the following certificate -

Oct. 1880.]

CLARK. V. UNITED STATES.
"CUSTom-HousE,

COLLECTOR'S OFFICE,

"NEw ORLEwNs, LA., Nov. 16, 1864.
"I certify that J. S. Clark and E. Fulton have delivered to me a
bond, duly executed, with proper and sufficient sureties, in the sum
of $250,000, as required by the foregoing authority from the Secretary of the Treasury.
"GEo.

[sEAL..]

S. DExisox,

" Sp. Ag't of Treasury Dep't 4- Act'g Collectorof Customs."

Robinson then took the permit back to H{urlbut, who placed
on it the following indorsement " HEADQ'Rs DzP'T GuLF, Dec. 23, 1864.

"The above executive order will be obeyed and respected by all
military officers within this department.
"S. A. HURLBUT, X. G C."
That day, or the next, the claimants handed Robinson,
at his dwelling, $5,000, and subsequently, on the same day,
he handed that money back to them, stating to them that
it did not suit him to receive it in that manner. They asked
him how he would receive it. He told them he would receive
it through Denison, the collector of the port. The next morning Denison handed him an envelope with $5,000 in. it, out of
which Robinson took $2,000 or $3,000 and gave it to General
Hurlbut, and laid away the balance in the provost-marshalgeneral's office.
After that money was given to Robinson, the claimant Clark
saw him again, and said to him, " Now I have the permit indorsed, see if you can get my cotton released, see if General
Hurlbut will give an order releasing or justifying the release
of my cotton." Robinson then saw Hurlbut and stated the
facts to him, and Hurlbut then wrote the following paper "H-EADQUARTERS

DEPARTMENT OF THE GuLF,

"NEw ORLEA's, Dec. 24, 1864.
"Pursuant to executive order of his exc'y the President of the
United States, J. S. Clark and E. Fulton are permitted to bring the
number of bales of cotton in said order mentioned from Ratcliff's
Landing, on the Miss. River, 25 miles above Bayou Sara, on the
steamer ' Sciota,' provided the same is received under protection of
a gunboat. The taking of any passengers or freight to be landed at

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

any point, or the payment of anything but United States treasury
notes, will work forfeiture of steamer and cargo. The cotton returning on the boat will be reported and identified by Mr. 0. N.
Cutler and the prov mar. gen'l.
"S. A. H~u LBU, lL. C C."
The claimants then paid Robinson another $5,000, which was
disposed of in the same manner as the first.
Afterward, and prior to the thirteenth day of February, 1865,
they paid Robinson the further sum of 83,000, of which he gave
$1,000 to General Hurlbut, and the rest was disposed of by
Robinson in the provost-marshal-general's office.
Besides the moneys so received by Robinson from the claimants, other moneys were paid him by C. A. Weed & Co., the
amount of which does not appear, and also the sum of $1,000
was paid him by one Courtney
Of the whole amount paid him by all those parties, $8,000
went into the hands of General Hurlbut, who returned the
same amount to Robinson on or about the 4th of April, 1865.
With the remainder of said whole amount, or a part of it,
Robinson purchased gold coin, which he deposited in the First
National Bank of New Orleans, taking therefor certificates of
deposit in favor of different officers of the bank, which they
indorsed over to him, to the amount of $7,602.25.
VII. In January, 1865, a special commission in New Orleans
was appointed by the Secretary of War, with the sanction of
the President, and was in session there until May 5 following.
On .the 13th of February, 1865, that commission placed the
said Robinson in solitary confinement, and the same day
stopped the payment of said certificates of deposit, and the
amount of them, in gold coin, was afterward turned over by
the commission to the Secretary of War, by whom the same
was put as a special deposit in the Treasury Department until
the 16th of June, 1869, when, at the request of the Secretary
of War, the same was covered into the treasury
That commission also took $8,000 from said Robinson, which
was likewise turned over to the Secretary of War, by whom it
was, with the addition of $40 interest, accrued on compound
interest notes, paid .into the treasury on the 10th of June,
1869.

Oct. 1880.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

VIII. The money paid as aforesaid by the claimants to said
Robinson was paid by them with the corrupt motive and purpose on their part of procuring official action whereby their
cotton should be released.
The following additional finding was allowed at the request
of the claimants.
It does not appear that there were any interviewsbetween
the claimants and the said Robinson upon any subyct, nor any
offer of the payment of any sum or sums of money by them to
the said Robinson, for any purpose, until after the seizure, by
the United States military police, of the claimant's steamer
" Sciota" and the cargo of cotton thereon, which had been
.shipped from Bayou Sara, La., under the pass and supervision
of Lieut,-Com. John J Cornwell, of the United States steamship "Choctaw," on the thirteenth day of December, 1864.
Upon the foregoing facts the conclusion of law was that the
claimants werp not entitled to recover.
The petition having been dismissed, the claimants appealed
here.
The paper referred to in the first finding is as follows "1TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Oct. 26, 1864.
S. Clark and E. Fulton-allege that prior to the second day
of July, 1864, under authority of Geo. S. Deison, special agent of
the Treasury Department at New Orleans, they purchased in the
parishes of East and West Feliciana, in the State of Louisiana,
8,435 bales of cotton upon which they advanced the sum of
$123,200 in United States currency, as part payment for the same,
and became liable to pay the balance of the purchase-money
"That after purchasing and becoming owners of said cotton, and
while in the act of moving the same to market for sale, they ascertained that by the passage of the act of July 2, 1864, they were
prevented from proceeding with the shipment of said cotton or in
any way interfering with the same, and it now remains at the
points above named, exposed to the depredations of guerillas.
They therefore ask that authority may be granted them to complete the transaction commenced and conducted thus far under the
prescribed rules and regulations of the Treasury Department.
"After full examination, and in view of the fact that the loyalty
of the parties is not questioned, and that there are no adverse claimants to said -cotton known to the department, authority is hereby
CJ.

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

given to the said J. S. Clark and E. Fulton to transport by way of
New Orleans (where all government fees and dues shall be paid
before shipment therefrom) the -cotton in question, provided they
shall first present to the acting collector of customs, at New
Orleans, the original authorities or permits under which they acted,
or copies thereof certified by the officer with whom they are filed,
with proof to his satisfaction that the cotton was actually purchased in good faith, under and by virtue of said authorities, and
payment made and liabilities incurred as alleged, and provided
further, that the said J S. Clark and E. Fulton shall first execute
to the satisfaction of the said acting collector at New Orleans a
bond with sufficient security in the penalty of $250,000, conditioned
that all fees and taxes, in any way due or accruing to the government of the United States from said cotton, shall be paid on its
arrival at New Orleans, and any cotton transported or attempted to
be transported under this authority without the original permits or
authorities, or certified copies thereof and proof herein required,
shall be seized and proceeded against for forfeiture and condemnation to the United States.
"The acting collector at New Orleans shall record and file, in his
office, a copy of this authority, and deliver the original to the said
J. S.Clark and E. Fulton, after indorsing upon it his certificate,
attested by his official seal, that the required bond has been duly
executed and delivered.
"The conditions herein stipulated having been complied with,
the cotton moving under this authority, or under permits given in
pursuance hereof; will be allowed to be transported without hindrance or delay.
"The leave hereby granted is confined to so much of said cotton
as had been actually paid for, or said parties had become legally
liable to pay for, under and by virtue of permits properly issued by
authority of this department, prior to said second day of July, 1864,
and the power to revoke the authority hereby granted at any time,
should satisfactory cause appear, is reserved to this department.
"W P FESSENDEx,
"Secretary of the Treasury."
"EXECUTIVE IMANSIN, Oct. 26, 1864.
"The Secretary of the Treasury having by the terms of and
upon the conditions contained in the foregoing paper by him
signed, directed that J S. Clark and E. Fulton be allowed to transport from certain localities in the State of Louisiana, to markets in

Oct. 1880.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

the loyal States or elsewhere, 8,435 bales of cotton owned by them
in said State, and that permits be given them for that purpose by
the acting collector of customs at New Orleans:
"It is ordered that all cotton moving in compliance with such
direction of the Secretary of the Treasury, or permits granted in
pursuance thereof, shall be free fiom seizure or detention by any
officer of the government, and commandants of military departments, districts, posts, and detachments; naval stations, gunboats,
flotillas, and fleets will observe this order, and give the said J. S.
Clark and E. Fulton, their agents and transports, proper facilities
and passes for the purpose of getting said cotton through the lines,
and'safe conduct within our lines while the same is moving in strict
compliance with the directions of the Secretary of the Treasury and
permits above referred to.
" ABRAHABm

LINcoiu."

Mr Samuel Shellabarger and Mr JoTh J Weed for the
appellants.
The appellants might have recovered of the provost-marshalgeneral at New Orleans ihe money which he received from
them to secure the release of their cotton and the indorsement of the permit and executive order. His wrongful and
fraudulent extortion of the money which was ultimately taken
from him and deposited in the treasury did not divest them
of their title to it, nor bar their right to recover it of the
United States.
An action may be maintained whenever the defendant, who
has received money belonging to the plaintiff, is obliged by
the ties of natural justice and equity to refund it. Carey
v Curtis, 8 How 236, Nash v Towne, 5 Wall. 689, Ml"oses
v. Macferlan, 2 Burr. 1005, Clark v Shee, Cowp. 197, Butler v Harmson, id. 565, Chilton v Bratden's Admmistratrzx,
2 Black, 458, Castle et al. v Bullard, 23 How 172, Olmstead
v Hotaling, 1 Hill (N Y ), 818, Bank of Boston v United
States, 10 Ct. of Cl. 519.
The appellants paid the money to the .provost-marshalgeneral to procure the release of their property which he had
illegally seized, and to obtain the possession of it which he
unlawfully detained from them. It is well settled that a party
paying money for such a purpose may recover it in an action

330

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

for money had and received. Atlee v Backhouse, 6 Mee. &
W 633, 650, Chase v wimnall, 7 Me. 134, Oates v Hudson,
6 Excb. 346, Shaw v Woodcock, 7 Barn. & Cress. 73, Toyner
v Ebgremont, 3 Cush. (Mass.) 567, Preston v Boston, 12 Pick.
(Mass.) 7, Boston & Sandwzch Glass Co. v Boston, 4 Mich.
181, Riply v Gelston, 9 Johns. (N. Y.) 201, Clinton v Strong,
9 id. 370, Baltvmore v Heffernan, 4 Gill (Md.), 425, Yorbes
v Appleton, 5 Cush. (Mass.) 118, Storer v Mfitchell, 45 Ill.
213, 1 Parsons, Contracts, 395, 5th ed.
The right of the appellants to recover in this action cannot
be defeated, upon the maxim, In par delicto potwor est eonditso
defendentis.
The evidence does not establish such a state of facts as renders this principle applicable. The appellants' cotton had been
seized previously to the payment of the money, and the executive order of the President of the United States, exemptmg it from seizure by the military authorities, was ignored
and treated with contempt. The acts of the provost-marshalgeneral were illegal and oppressive, and the appellants were
obliged to pay the money extorted by that officer or submit
to those acts. It was not a case of par delictum. It was
oppression on one side and submission on the other. It can
never be predicated as par delictum, when one holds the rod
and the other bows to it. Smith v. Cuff, 6 Man. & Sel. 160,
Alsoqer v Spalding, 4 Bing N. C. 407, Horton v Biley, 11
Mee. & W 492, Browntng v Ifforms, Cowp. 790.
The Solicitor-General,contra.
MR. CIIIEF JUSTIoE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Upon the facts found the court below was right in treating
this as a case of bribery rather than extortion. The claimants
undoubtedly held an executive license to transport by way of
New Orleans, notwithstanding the act of July 2, 1864 (13 Stat.
377, sect. 9), any cotton they had bought in the parishes of
East Feliciana and West Feliciana, under the authority of the
special agent of the treasury at New Orleans, if they gave the
required bond and presented to the acting collector of customs
at that port the original authorities or permits under which

Oct. 1880.]

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

they acted, or copies thereof certified by the officer with whom
they were filed, with proof to the satisfaction of the acting
collector that the cotton was actually purchased in good faith
under and by virtue of such authorities. By the express terms
of this license any cotton transported, or attempted to be transported, under it, without the original permits or authorities or
certified copies and proof required, was subject to seizure and
condemnation. It is ndt pretended that when the seizure was
made the claimants had in their possession any evidence of
their right, under this authorization, to transport the cotton
which was seized. While it has been found that the bond
was executed and delivered to the acting collector on the 16th
of November, 1864, the findings are entirely silent as to the
presentation of the original permits or the required proof before the transportation was entered upon. Neither did the
executive license have upon it the prescribed certificate that
the bond had been executed and delivered. Undei: such circumstances the seizure could not have been wrongful in the
first instance. It was the duty of the military authorities at,
that point to see that nothing passed out from the enemy's
country under this authority until the requisite evidence was
furnished. New Orleans was a military post, and Congress
had seen fit to restrict materially the power of the President
to permit commercial intercourse with the inhabitants of the
insurgent territory The executive license, when construed in
connection with this new congressional action, was evidently
intended only to protect such rights as had become vested
under previous authorities or permits rightfully issued. Therefore, nothing could pass except what the collector had been
satisfied by proof was "actually purchased in good faith under
and by virtue of said authorities.'
The claimants, when the seizure was made, did not attempt
to secure a release by producing the necessary evidence of their
rights, but by tempting a subordinate officer in the military
service by a liberal offer of money. He made no demands,
but accepted what they voluntarily gave him. In this way
the executive order was evaded and a pass through the lines
secured by corrupting an officer. Clearly this was bribery,
and placed the claimants and the man they corrupted %n oa

CLARK V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

delieto. They could not recover back from him the money
they paid, neither can they from the United States after it has
been taken from.him as -a punishment for his faithlessness to
his trust.
It is insisted, however, that when the claimants presented to
the military authorities the executive license, with the certificate of the acting collector indorsed to the effect that the
requisite bond had been delivered to him, they had done all
that was required to get their property back and proceed with
the transportation. They evidently did not so understand the
effect of what they had done, for they voluntarily offered and
paid more money to secure what they wanted, and that they
interpreted the instrument correctly is, to our minds, clear.
The execution of the bond is one thing, and the production of
the original permits and proof another. It is true that in the
license the provision as to the bond follows that as to the permits and proof, but the delivery and acceptance of the bond
were no more evidence of the presentation of the permits than
the presentation of the permits would have been of the delivery of the bond. The certificate of the bond on the license
was evidence of the performance of that condition, but nothing
more. The execution of the bond was not at allidependent on
the presentation of the permits and proof. The penalty of the
bond was fixed in Washington and specified in the license
itself, and it was entirely immaterial, so far as the requirements of the license were concerned, whether the bond was
delivered before or after anything else was done. Before,
therefore, the commanding general could be required to release
the seizure, it must have been shown to him that the acting collector was satisfied that the original permits had been
given, and the purchases in good faith made, as alleged by the
claimants. Instead of attempting to make such a showing,
bribery was resorted to, and in that way the necessary order
obtained.
Beyond all doubt, the judgment below was right, and it is
consequently
Affirmed.

