OCTOBER -TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

52. The payment by the holder of the lien, seeking its enforcement by sale of the premises, of the amount of the homestead
exemption, would of course obviate the necessity of the sale
in the case mentioned, where the property was incapable of
division, and authorize a decree for the delivery of the entire
property to the party otherwise entitled to it. The master,
to whom it was referred to ascertain whether the premises
could be divided so as to set off to the widow a portion
equivalent to the sum of $1000, having reported that they
could not be divided, the complainant was entitled to the possession of the whole premises upon paying the required amount
into court for her benefit. The decree of the Circuit Court is,
therefore,
Aflrmed.
THE STRATH.,IRLY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOIR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued February 1, 1888.-Decided February 13, 1888.

The fine imposed upon the master of a vessel, by Rev. Stat. § 4253, for a
violation of that and the preceding section, is, by § 4270, made a lien
upon the vessel itself, which may be recovered by a proceeding in rem;
but it is the same penalty which is to be adjudged against the master
himself, in the criminal prosecution for misdemeanor, and payment by
either is satisfaction of the whole liability.
Section 4264 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of February
27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 250, subjects vessels propelled in whole or in part
by steam, and navigating from and to, and betiveen the ports therein
named, to the provisions, requisitions, penalties and liens included within
Rev. Stat. § 4255, as one of the several sections of the chapter relating
to the space in vessels appropriated to the use of passengers.
A penalty imposed upon a master of a vessel arriving at a port of the United
States, for a violation of the provisions of Ret. Stat. § 4266, is not
- charged as a lien upon the vessel by the operation of Rev. Stat. § 4264,
as'amefided by the act of February 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 250.

Ti

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This was a libel of information in rem, filed in the District
'Co urt of the United States for'the District of California, July

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Statement of the Case.

1, 1882, 'on behalf of the United States against the British
steamer Strathairly. The claimant having interposed peremptory exceptions, a decree in the District Court was entered
August 30, 1882, sustaining the exceptions and dismissing the
libel. From this decree the libellant appealed to the Circuit
Court of thd United States for the District of California, in
which, October 3, 1882, a decree was entered sustaining the
exceptions and dismissingdthe libel. From that decree the
libellant appealed.
The libel contained three counts. The first was for the
recovery of $16,300 for an alleged violation of the provisions
of § 4252 and 4253 of the Revised Statutes. In this count it
was alleged that the steamship Strathairly was a British vessel
owned by citizens of Great Britain, and propelled in whole or
in part by steam; that W. B. Fenwick, the master thereof,
brought on said steamer from Hong Kong, China, 326 steerage
passengers in excess of the number fixed by law in proportion
to the space or tonnage of said vessel; that by reason thereof,
Fenwick, the master of said ship, became liable to a fine of
$50 for each of said 326 passengers, amounting to $16,300,
which amount, it was alleged, was made a lien by the laws of
the United States on said vessel, her tackle, furniture, engines,
and apparel. It was further alleged in the same count that
prior to the promoting of said libel a criminal information was
filed in the District Court of the United States for the District
of California, charging Fenwick, the master, with the offence
of unlawfully bringing from said port of Hong Kong into the
port of San Francisco the said 326 passengers in excess of the
number that he could lawfully bring on said vessel; that said
Fenwick was duly arraigned on said information, and pleaded
guilty to the offence of bringing on said vessel" 223 steerage
passengers in excess of the number that he could. lawfully
bring, on the same; that thereupon said Fenwick was duly
sentenced to pay a fine of $50 for each of said 223 passengers, amounting in all to the sum of $11,150. To this count
McIntyre, the claimant of the ship, filed a peremptory exception on the ground that the facts stated were not sufficient to
constitute, create, or give rise to a lien on said vessel under
any law or statute of the United States.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

The second count of the libel was for the recovery of the
sum of $5280 for an alleged violation of the provisions of §
4255 of the Revised Statutes. In this cQunt it was alleged
that on April, 17, 1882, at Hong Kong, Chifia, there Were
taken on board of said steamship Strathairly 1056 steerage
passengers for transportation to the port of San Francisco,
Cal:; that said 1056 sieerage passengers were by said vessel
,transported to and landed at said port of San Francisco; that
said vessel at the time said steerage passengers were so transported from Hong Kong to San Francisco did not have the
number 6f berths required by law for the accommodation of
said passengers, nor were said berths constructed in the manner required by law, by reason whereof the master of safe- ship
and the owners thereof became liable to a penalty of $5 for
each of said 1056 passengers, amounting in all to $5280, no
part of which had been paid, and that the same constituted a
lien upon said vessel. To.this count the claimant also excepted,
1st, because the facts stated therein were not sufficient to constitute, create, or give rise to a lien on said vessel under any
law or ptatute of the United States; 2d, because the ship
Strathairly, being at the time a vessel propelled in whole or
in part by steam, neither the master nor owners thereof were
subject or liable to the penalty provided for by § 4255 of the
Revised Statutes, and that no lien did or could attach on said
vessel under § 4270 of the Revised Statutes.
The third count of the libel was for the recovery of the sum
of $1000 for the alleged violation of the provisions of § 4266
of the Revised Statutes, taken in connection with § 2774. In
this count it was alleged that W. B. Fenwick, the master of
said steamship, on April 17, 1882, took on board of said
ship at Hong Kong, China, 1056 steerage passengers, and
transported them in said ship to the port of San Franci~co;
that on arriving at said last named port the said master neglected and refused to deliver to the collector of customs at
said port of San. Francisco, a list of all the passengers taken
on board of said vessel and brought in her to the port of San
Francisco; also that said Fenwick knowingly and wilfully
made out and delivered to said collector of customs a false list

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Argument for Appellee.

of said passengers, in which he reported that the whole number brought Was 829, and no more, instead of 1056,. the number alleged to have been actually brought and landed, by
reason of which said Fenwick became liable to a fine of $1000,
which, it was alleged, was also a lien upon said vessel To
this. c6unt the claimant excepted, on the ground that the facts
stated were not sufficient to constitute, create, or give rise to
a lien on said vessel under any law or statute of the United
States.
Xr. Assistant Attorney General .Mauryfor appellant.
Ab. William I.
TF orow for appellee.
signed and filed the biief for same.

XL. Milton Akdros

I. Under the first cause of action, the'libellant seeks to
recover, by a proceeding in rem against the steamship Strathairly, not- only' the Alme which the master of that vessel was,
by a decree of the District Court of the United States for the
District of California, condemned to pay on a proceeding
against him by criminal information for a violation of the
provisions of §§ 4252 and 4253 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, but also $5150 in excess thereof. '[These sections axe to be found in the opinion of the court, post.] It
will be observed that the punishment, denounced by § 4253
for the carriage of passengers in excess of the number allowed
by § 4252, is confined to the master of the vessel, who, in such
case, is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
fined $50 for each passenger, taken on boaxd i4 excess of 'the
number allowed by law, and may also be imprisoned for a
period not exceeding .six months; that is, he may be both
fined and imprisoned at the discretion of the court, within
the limits provided in . 4253. No mention whatever is made
of any liability on the part of the owner of the vessel or of
the vessel itself for a violation of the provisions of either of
the foregoing sections.
Now §§ 4252,4253 and 4254 are, in all matters of substance,
identica with § 1 of the act of 'March 3, 1855, 10 Stat. 715,
c. 213.
voL. cxxrv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellee.

The only other section of the Revised Statutes relating to the
bringing of passengers into the United States from a foreign
port or place in which the ,punishment for a violation of its
provisions is directed solely against the master of the vessel, is
§ 4262.. This section provides that it shall be the duty of the
masters of vessels employed in transporting passengers between
the United States and Europe, to cause their food to be properly
cooked, and to be served at regular and stated hours in such
manner as shall be deemed most conducive to their health and
comfort; and that "every master of any such vessel who wilfully fails to furnish and distribute the food in the quantity,
and cooked in the manner required by this Title, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars, and be imprisoned for a term not
exceeding one year. The enforcement of this penalty, however, shall not 'affect the civil responsibility of the master and
owners to such passengers as may have suffered from such
default." This section, together with the two sections next
preceding, is the same as § 6 of the act of :March 3, 1855.
It is to be observed that the word penalty, as used in § 4262,
is not synonymous with jfne. This penalt;', the enforcement
of which is not to affect the civil responsibilities of the master
and owners, as provided in the last clause of the section, is the
fine and imn-tisoninent; it is, therefore, not the ftne only that
is designated as the penalty, but the whole _punishment that is
so designated.
Section 4270, which prescribes the mode of procedure for
the recovery of the several penalties hereafter to be mentioned,
is [set forth in the opinion of the court, and is] identical in all
respects with the provisions of § 15 of the act of 1Afarch 3,,
.1855, except that in the latter section the phrase "vessel or
vessels" is used. Noow, what are the "severalpenalties imposed
by the foregQing provisions" .which are to "be liens on the
-vessel violating those provisions" 2 This leads to an examination of "theforegoing provisions," for a violation of which a
penalty eo nomine is denounced against the master and
owners, recoverable by a proceeding in rem against the vessel,
and to a comparison of them with the provisions of the act of
MAarch 3, 1855.

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Argument for Appellee.

Section 4255 directs in what ma-iner the berths on board
vessels bringing passengers from a foreign port shall be coo,
structed; and provides, that for a violation of this section,
"the master of the vessel and the owners thereof shall severally
be liable to a penaty of five dollars for each passenger on
board of gttch vessel on such voyage to be recovered by the
United States in any port where such vessel may arrive or
depart." This section is identical with § 2 of the act of March
3, 1855.
Section 4256 requires a house on the upper deck over the
passage way leading to the apartment allotted to passengers
below deck, and provides how such house shall be constructed.
This is identical With § 3 of the act of March 3, 1855.
Section 4257 provides for the ventilatior of the apartments.
occupied by the passengers, and determines the size and consttuction of such ventilators. This section is identical with §
4 of the act of March 3, 1855.
Section 4258 provides for the number, construction and
arrangement of the cambooses or cooking ranges. This section
is the same as § 5 of the act of March 3, 1855.
1 Section 4259 [set forth in the opinion of the court] is identical with the provisions of § 8 of the act of March 3, 1855,
except that the penalty therein prescribed is $50 instead of
$200, as in § 4259.
Section 4263 provides that the master of such passenger vessel is authorized to maintain good discipline, and such habits
of cleanliness among passengers as will tend to the preservation and promotion of -health; that their apartments shall be
kept in a clean and healthy state, and makes other provisions
of a similar character. It is then further provided in said see-'
tion, that for each neglect or violation of any of the provisions
thereof, the master and owner of the vessel shall bi severally
liable to the United States in apenalty Qf 850, to be recovered
in any circuit or district court within the jurisdiction of which
such vessel may arrive, &c.
The prQvisions of this section, so far as they relate to what
is to be done by the master or owners of the vessel in respect
to the discipline, cleanliness, &c., of the passengers, are ilenti-

561

OCTOBER" TERM, 1887.
Arguimept for Appellee.

cal with the provisions of § 7 of the act of March 3, 1855.
And, so far as they relate to the penalty and the method of its
recovery, are identical with the provisions of § 8 of the act of
March 3, 1855, for a violation of the seventh section of said
act.
The result of the foregoing examination shows that by the
provisions of title 48, c. 6, of the Revised Statutes relating
to the "transportation of passengers and merchandise," as
well as by the ptovisions of the act of March 3, 1855, two
modes of punishment for violations of the various provisions
of both acts were to be employed; one, a criminal proceeding
against the master only, the other, a civil proceeding against
the master, or both the master and owner for the 2enaltiev
mentioned in these statutes, the amount of which are made
liens on the vessel.
For a violation of the provisions of §§ 4252 and 4262, the
master of the vessel is to be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and is to be punished byfine and inprisonment. For a violation of the provisions of § 4255, 4256, 4257, 4258 and 4263,
penalties only are denounced against the master and owner,
and for a iolation of those of § 4266, taken in connection with
§ 2774, against the master only, to be recovered by a suit, to be
instituted in any Circuit or District Court of the United States
having jurisdiction in the premises, and in respect -to-thesePenalties only, is a lien created against the vessel. It is these
penaties,as distinguished from the fines which are made part
of the punishment of the master for a misdemeanor, for which
the vessel, as well as the master and owners, is liable.. Nowhere
in the statute are the words fine and p 'tlty used interchangeably, or treated as synonymous terms.
, " atever may
be the definition given to them in text-books or dictionaries,
Congress evidently intended to distinguish one from the other,
as. well as the modes of procedure by which they were to be
enforced, and the persons against whom they were to be enforced. Had Congress intended that the fine by which the
master is to be punished, in part, for carrying passengers in
excess of the number authorized by law to be carried, or for.
failing to distribute pioper provisions during the voyage should

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Argument for Appellee.

be a lien on the vessel as well as the penalties denbunced against,
,both him and the shipowner, it is r~asonable to presume that
it would have expressed such intent by using, in § 4270, the
wordfines in connection with the word penalties or in some
other apt and unmistakable manner have expressed such
intent, especially in view of the construction given as early as
1867 by more than one federal court to the fifteenth section
of the act of March 3, 1855.
The first case to which reference is made is that of The Can-.
dace, 1 Lowell, 126. This was decided in February, 1867, and
arose under the first and fifteenth sections of thb act of March
3, 1855, the provisions of which are, as already submitted, in
all substantial respects, the same as those of the Revised Statutes on the same subject, and under which the first count in
the present libel is based. The court held, "upon a careful
consideration of the statute," that it did "not give a lien upon
the vessel for the fine which may be imposed upon him (the
master) for a violation of the first section of the act," and the
libel was accordingly dismissed. The judgment of the bistrict
Court was affitmed on appeal by the Circuit Court.
The next case in which the point under considerption-was
decided is Urnited States v. Ethani Allen, 3 Am. Law Review,
372, decided by Judge Hoffman, July 30th, 1868, .and the conclusion of the court was the same as that arrived at by, Judge
Lowell. At the time that the case of,.iTe .Etan,Allen was
dedided, that of ie Candade had not been published, and
neither the counsel in the former case - who is now submitting the present case for the appellee - nor the court was
aware of Judge Lowell's decision, which was first published in
April, 1869.
II. The second cause of action is for an alleged violation of
the provisions of § 4255 of the Revised Statutes, which relates
to the construction of berths. Thid section is, so far as doncerns the question involved, identical with the second section
of the act of March 3, 1855.
The amendment .made to Rev. Stat. 4264: by the act of February 27, 1877, [these acts are set out in the opinion of the
court,] do not enlarge the provisions of §§ 4252, 42531 4264.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
.Argument for Appellee.

Their language was broad enough to cover any vessel whether
propelled by steam or otherwise. Now, as the legislature must
be presumed to have intended something by these amendments,
it must be presumed that they were intended to restrict the
provisions of these sections to vessels not propelled in whole or
in part by steam, except as to those.provisions which relate t6
the &pace to be appropriated to steerage passengers, and the
examination by the inspectors of the customs to ascertain
wYhether the requirements of the law relating to suck space
have been complied with, and these provisions, and these only,
are, by the terms of the amendment, made applicable to ves.
sels propelled in whole or in part by steam. To hold other
wise, it is respectfully submitted, will be to give np force or
effect whatever to the amendment, and practicably to obliterate it from the statute.
The judicial construction which has been given to the first
and second sections bf the act of 1855, taken in connection
with §§ 9 and 10 of that act, is, at least, equally applicable to
a construction of §§ 4252, 4253, 4254, and 4255 of the :Revised
Statutes taken in connection with § 4264 as amended by the
act of February 27th,, 877. See The ]ftanhattan, 2 Ben. 88;
The Devonshire., 8 Sawyer, 209.
It is evident that the word space as used in §§ 4253, 4254,
4256 and 4257 relates to the spaces mentioned in. § 4252, the
proportions of which.are defined and fixed by that section
and by which the provisions of the other sections relating to:"
space are to be governed.
Neither in § 4255 of the Revised Statutes nor in § 2 of the act of March 3, 1855, of which
the former section is in substance a copy, is the word space
used. "When, therefore, the word space as used in § 4264
as amended by the act of February 27th, 1877, can be clearly.
referred to every preceding section of the statute, where the
word &paceis used, it would seem to be a forced and unwarranted construction of that section to hold that the word
space, as used therein, includes the. interval between the
bottom of the berths and the deck, or the construction of the
berths parallel to the side of the ship and separated from each
other by partitions, or to the length or breadth of the berths

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court.

as provided for in § 4255. It is true that in a certain sense
the interval between the bottom of a berth and the deck; the
number of superficial feet that a berth, as a structure, may '
occupy; or the number of superficial feet that the partitionp
of such berth may inclose, is a space; but, is it not clear that
neither of them is one of the &pacesmentioned in or contemplated by the statute, but that, -on the contrary, it is but a
divoon of such spaces and not the spaces themselves?

MR.

J5uTOE M

TTH EWS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The first question for consideration is, whether the find
imposed upon the master of a vessel by § 4253 of the Revised
Statutes, for the violation of that and the preceding section,
is a lien upon the vessel itself, to be recovered by a pioceeding in , em. Section 4252 of the Revised Statutes pr6vides
that: " N o master of any vessel owned in whole or in part
by'a citizen of the United States, or by a citizen of any foreign country, shall take 6n board such ves'sel, at any foreign
port or pface other than foreign contiguous territory of the
United States, passengers contrary to the provisions of this
section, with intent to bring such passengers to the United
States, and leave such port or place and bring such passengers, or any number thereof, within the jurisdiction of the
United States."' It then prescribes the number of passengers
which may be lawfully carried by reference to the tonnage
and space of the vessel. Section 4253 declares that whenever
the master of any such vessel shall carry and bring within the
jurisdiction of the United States any greater number of passengers than is allowed by § 4252, he shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall, for each passenger taken on
board beyond such limit, be fined $50, and may also be
imprisoned for not exceeding six months. Section -270 is as
follows:
"SEc. 4270. The amount of the several penalties imposed
by the foregoing provisions regulating the carriage of passengers in merchant vessels shall be liens on the vessel violating

OCTOBER TERIt- 1887.,
Opinion of the Court.

those provisions, and such vessel shall- be libelled therefor in
any Circuit or District Court of the United States where such
vessel shall-arrive."
It is argued that the penalties referred to in § 4270 do
not intlude the fine imposed by § 4253. There are other
provisions following § 4252 and prior to § 4270, it is said,
imposing penalties which are embraced by § 4270 exclusive of
all others. Of these, the first is mentioned in § 4255, which
particularly prescribes the number and construction -of the
berths for the use of: passengers on any such vessel, and provides that for any violation of the section "the master of the
vessel and the owners thereof shall severally be liable to a
penalty of $5 for each passenger on board of such vessel on
such voyage, to be recovered by the United States in any port
where such. vessel may arrive or depart." This, it is argued,
is a penalty eo nomim, for which not 6nly the master, but the
owners of the vessel are liable, and to be recovered, not in a
criminal prosecution, but in a civil action, and is thus distinguished from the base of the fine imposed by § 4253.
Section,4259 also imposes a penalty of $200 upon the ma8ter and owner of any such vessel which shall not be .provided
with the house or houses over the passage ways, or with ventilators, or with cambooses-or cooking ranges with the houses
over them, required by previous sections, for each and" every
violation or neglect to conform to each of these requirements
to be recovered by suit in any Circuit or District Court of the
United States within the jurisdiction of which such vessel
may arrive, or from which she may be about to depart, or at
any place within the jurisdiction of such courts, wherever the
owner or master of such vessel may be found.
So § 4263 provides for maintaining discipline and habits of
cleanliness anong the passengers for the preservation and promotion of i.heir health by the master, who is required to
cause the apartments occupied by such passengers to be kept
at all times in a clean, healthy state; and the owners of every
such vessel are required to construct the decks and all parts of
the apartments so that they can be thoroughly cleansed, and
to provide a safe and convenient privy or water-closet for the

569

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court.

exclusive use of every 100 of such passengers. The master is
also required to disinfect the quarters for the passengers.
The section then further provides: "And for each neglect or
violation of any 6 the provisions of this section the master
and owner of any such vessel shall be severally liable to the
United States in a penalty of fifty dollars, to be recovered in
any Circuit or District Court within the jurisdiction of which
such vessel may arrive, or from which she is about
depart,
or at any place where the owner or master may be-found."
The contention is, that the penalties embraced by § 427T)
are those, and those only, referred to under that name in
§§ 4255, 4259, and 4263, thus excluding from § 4270 the fines
.imposed upon the master by § 425,3, as well as the fine imposed by § 4262. This last named section provides that every.
" 'ister of such vessel who wilfully fails to furnish and distribute provisions in the quantity and cooked in the manner
- required by law shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be fined not more than $1000, and imprisoned for a term
not exceeding one year; with the proviso, that "the enforcement of this penalty, however, shall not affect the civilt
responsibility of the master and ownens to such passengers as
may have suffered from such default."
It is suggested that there is a line of distinction between
the punishments provided by §§ 4253 and 4262, which are confined to the master alone, for what seem to be violations of a
personal duty oharged upon him by the law, and in which
it is assumed that the owners of the vessel do not participate,
and those penalties imposed by the other sections upon the
master and owners fbr faults of constructioi - and management, where blame may be justly imputed to the owners as
well ns the master. This construction of the statute was
adopted by Tudge Hoffman in the United States District
Court of California, in the ease of Unitecl States v. Ethan
Allen, reported in 3 Am. Law Rev., 372. Analyzing the act
of Congress of March 3, 1815 10 Stat. 715, 720, entitled "An
act to Regulate the Carriage of Passengers in Steamships and
Other Vesselp," now carried into the Revised Statutes in the
sections under consideration, he said: "It would seem, there-to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fore, that Congress intended to distinguish between the 'fines'
which on conviction of a misdemeanor the master might be
sentenced to pay, and the ' penalties' which in a civil action are
made recoverable from the owners as well as the master.
The offences for which the master is made criminally liable
are wilful violations of the law in Which the owners have no
complicity. The infractions of the act for which the owners
are made responsible in a civil suit relate to houses over passage ways, to ventilators, cambooses or cooking ranges, waterclosets, &c., and other arrangements for the comfort and
health of the passengers, which it is the -owners' duty to provide. For the omission to do so the owners and the vessel
are justly made responsible." His conclusion was that these,
and these alone, are the penalties which are made liens on the
vessel.
The same view was taken by Judge Lowell in The Candace,
1 Lowell, 126, decidea in 1861. He sums up his statement of
the question, referring .to the act of March 3, 1855, 10 Stat.
1715, 1720, as follows: "When, therefore, I consider the kind of
penalty mentioned in the first section, which may be partly
imprisonment; the person upon whom it is imposed, being
the master only; the mode of its enforcement by a criminal
trial and sentence; the absence of allusion to any responsibility of the owner or vessel; in all which respects it differs from
the mere pecuniary civil penalties imposed by the other sections; and further, that the ordinary office of a lien is to be
security for a debt or civil liability, and the great difficulty of
applying it in fact in aid of the criminal responsibility of a
third person, and find that there are in the statute many civil
pecuniary forfeitures or penalties to which the fifteenth section
giving these liens is properly and exactly applicable; and that
to the only other criminal penalty mentioned in the act it
cannot possibly be applied before conviction of the master,
because the amount is not fixed until then - I am constrained
to conclude that it does not give a lien upon the vessel for the
fines which may be imposed upon him for a violation of the
first section of the act."
It is to' be observed, however, that in the original act of

THE STRA-THAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court;

March 3, 1855, the first section of which corresponds with §
4252 and 4253 of the Revised Statutes, the fine thereby imposed on the master is also spoken of as a penalty. The
language is, that "every such master shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, before any
Circuit or District Court of the United States, shall, for each
passenger taken on board beyond the limit aforesaid, or the
space aforesaid, be fined in the' sum of fifty dollars, and may
also be imprisoned, at the discretion of the judge before whom
the penalty shall be recovered, not exceeding six months."
In § 4253 of the Revised Statutes the phrase in which the
word "penalty" occurs in the original act is omitted for the
sake of condensation, but without any change in the sense.
The phrase, however, is retained in § 4262, where the fine and
imprisonment prescribed as a punishment for the misdemeanor
of the master is spoken of as a penalty, the enforcement of
which shall not affect the civil responsibility of the master and
owners to the passengers who may have suffered by the fault.
The word "penalty" is used in the law as including fines, which
are pecuniary penalties. The language of § 4270 includes all
that may be properly designated as penalties imposed by any
of the previous provisions regulating the carriage of passen-.
gers in merchant vessels. It is the amount of these penalties
which, being imposed by the foregoing provisions, are declared
to be liens on the vessel violating those provisions; and in
yiew of that section the vessel is considered and treated as
itself violating those provisions, whether the act constituting
the offence be the act of the master alone or that of the master and owners. In other words, this section of the statute
does not point to any distinction such as that now insisted on,
but seems intended to embrace as liens upon the vessel itself
the amount of every penalty imposed by a previous section of
the statute for every offence against its provisions.
The fact that the master is also liable, as a part of his punishment, to be imprisoned does not constitute any such incongruity as to make the construction now put upon § 4270
unreasonable. It is the fine that is referred to as the penalty,
as is distinctly pointed out in the language of § 4270 when it

OCTOBER TERM,

1887-.

Opinion of the Court.

.speak4 of the amount of the several penalties; thatis to saKo
pecuniary sum which may be awarded as a penalty. Neil .er
is it an insurmountable inconvenience affecting this constatction of the law that the extent of the lien declared by § 4-,0
cannot be ascertained until after a conviction of the master
and the assessment of the amount of the fine imposed upon
-him. This is undoubtedly true in respect to § 4262, because
there the fine is only made ultimately certain by the sentence
of the court, to whom the discretion is confided of imposing
any amount not in excess of $1000. Neither is there anything
in the nature of the master's offence, as described in §§ 4252,
4253, and 4262, which should constitute the fines assessed
.under those section exceptions out of the provision for a lien
conitained in § 427 . Tere is nothing in the nature of the
case to exonerate I ie owner of the vessel from responsibility
for the acts of the master in overcrowding the vessel with passengers contrary to law. By § 4260 and § 4261 the owner is
expressly made responsible for the act of the master in not
putting on board for the use of the passengers a safficient
supply of provisions and water, and the owner, as well as .the
master, is by § 4261 made expressly liable to the extent of $3
a day for each passenger put on short allowance in consequence of a failure of the master to supply the proper quantity.
and quality of provisions and water as-required by law.
-It seems to us, therefore, that the direct and express meaning of § 4270 is to make the vessel liable in irem as itself guilty
of the offence for every pecuniary penalty that may be assessed
for a violation of any of the previous provisions of the statute
regulating the carriage of passengers in merch;iit vessels.
- The second count of the libel is for the recovery of the penalty provided by § 4255. That section is as follows:
"lNo such vessel shall have more than two tiers of berths.
The interval between the lowest part thereof and the deck or
platform beneath shall not be less than nine inches; and the
berths shall be well constructed, parallel with the sides of the
-vessel and separated from each other by partitibns, as berths
ordinarily are separated, and shall be at least six feet in length,
and at least two feet in width, and each such berth shall be

THE STRATHAIRLY.

Opinion of the Court

occupied by no more than one passenger; but double berths
'of twice the above width may be constructed, each berth to
be occupied'by no more and by no other than two women, or
by one woman and two children under the age of eight years,
or by husband and wife, or by a man and two of his own
children under the age of eight years, or by two men, members of the same family. For any violation of this section,
the master of the vessel, and the owners thereof, shall severally
be liable to a penalty of five dollars for each passenger on
board of such vessel on such voyage, to be recovered by the
United States in any port where such vessel may arrive or
depart."
'This section corresponds with § 2 of the act of March 3,
1855. Section 10 of the same act was as follows:
"That the provisions, requisitions, penalties, and liens of
this act, relating to the space in vessels appropriated to the
use of passengers, are hereby extended and made applicable
to all spaces appropriated to the use of steerage passengers in
vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, and navigating
from, to, and between the ports, and in manner as in this act
named, and to such vessels and to the masters thereof; and so
much of the act entitled 'An act to amend an act entitled an
act to provide for the better security of the lives of passengers
on board of vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam,
and for other purposes,' approved August thirtieth, eighteen
hundred and fifty-two, as conflicts with this act, is hereby repealed; and the space appropriated to the use of steerage
passengers in vessels so as above propelled and navigated is
hereby subject to the supervision and inspection of the collector of the customs at any port of the United States at which
any such vessel shall arrive, or from which she shall be about
to depart; and the same shall be examined and reported in
the same manner and by the same officers by the next preceding section directed to examine and report."
'The act of August 30, 1852, referred to in this section, provided for the inspection of steam vessels and their equipment
by inspectors appointed for that purpose, on whose favorable
report a license was issued, without which it was unlawful for

574

OCTOBE4 TERM, 4887.
Opinion of the Court.

the vessel to engage in navigation. One object of the inspection was to determineL Whethek the vessel had suitable accommodations for her crew and passengers, and in the certificate
of inspection to be furnished .by the inspectors to the collector
of the district they were required to state the number of staterooms, the number of berths therein, the number of other permanent berths for cabin passengers, the number of berths for
deck or other passengers, the number of passengers of each
class for whom she had suitable accommodations, and, in case
of steamers sailing to or from any European port, or to or
from any port on the Atlantic or Pacific, a. distance of 1000
miles or upwards, the number of each she Was permitted to
carry, and, in'case of a steamer sailing tQ any port a distance
of 500 miles or upwards, tht number of deck passengers she
was permitted to carry. The evident purpose of § 10 of the
act of March 3, 1855, was to make the provisions of that act,
relative to the inspection of vessels applicable io all vessels
propelled in whole or in part by 9team, which were witlin the
pr6visions of the act of August 30, 1852, so as to have but one
system of inspection, in the particulars specified, applicable to
vessels of every description. The act of March 3, 1855, by its
terms, did apply to all vessels, inclu'ding steamers as well as
sailing vessels, but not to vessels enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade; the latter were provided for by the act of
August 30, 1852; and the 10th seotton of the act of March 3,
1855, was evidently introduced, as we have said, for the purpose of establishing uniformity in respect to regulations for
the accommodation and safety of steerage passengers in all
vessels engaged in the business of carrying such passengers,,
whether between ports in the United-States or between them
and foreign ports. This section, however, was omitted in the
revision of the statutes, and that, omission was supplied by the
act of February 27, 1877, 1Q'Stat. 240, 250, c. 69, amending
§ 4264 of the Revised Statut& byadding thereto the substance
of the provisions of -the omitted '§ 10 .of the act of Mdrch 3,'
1855, so as to restore the law in that particular to the condition in which it was under the last named act. That amendment is in the-following language: "The provisions, requisi-

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court.

tions, penalties, and'liens enumerated in the several sections of
this chapter relating to the space in vessels appropriated to
the use of pissengers are hereby extended and made applicable to all spaces appropriated to the use of steerage passengers
in vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, and navigating from, to, anwd between the ports and in manner as herein
named, and to such vessels and to the masters thereof; and
the space appropriated to the use of steerage passengers in
vessels as above propelled and navigated is hereby made subject to the supervision and inspection of theeollector of customs
in any port. in the -United States at which any such vessel
shall arrive or from which she shall be about to depart; and
the same shall be examined and reported in the same manner
and by the same officers directed in the preceding- section, to
examine and report."
It is now argued that the only sections of this chapter relating to the space in vessels appropriated to the use of passengers
are §§ 4252, 4253, and 4254, which correspond with the first
section of the act of March 3, 1855. The reason assigned in
support of this view s ems to be that they are the only sections
which refer expressly to spaces appropriated to the use of passengers. Section 4252 declares that the spaces appropriated for
the use of such passengers, not occupied by stores or other goods,
not the personal baggage of such passengers, shall b 9 in certain proportions; that is to say, on the main and poop decks
or platforms and in the deck houses, if there be any, one passenger for each sixteen clear superficial feet of deck, if the height
or distance between the decks or platforms shall not be less
than six feet, and on the lower deck, not being an orlop deck, if
any, one passenger for each eighteen clear superficial feet, if the
height or distance between the decks or platforms shall not be
less than six feet, but so as that no passenger shall be carried
on any other deck or platform, nor upon any deck where the
height between decks is less than six feet. But on two-deck
hips, where the height between decks is seven and one-half
feet or more, fourteen feet of superficial deck shall be the proportion required for each passenger. Section 4253 imposes.the
penalty upon the master for carrying any greater number of

OCTOBER - TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

passengers than in the proportion to the space or tonnage proscribed in the preceding section.

Section 4254 authorizes, for

the safety or convenience of the vessel, portions of the cargo
to be placed or stored in places appropriated to the use of passengers on certain cohditions, but requires that the space thus
occupied shall be deducted from "the space allowable for the
use,of passengers." It also authorizes the construction' of a
hospital "in the spaces appropriated to passengers" to be
included "in the space allowable for passengers," not to' exceed one hundred superficial feet of deck or platform. Then
follows § 4255 above quoted, on which -the second count of the
libel is founded, which has'reference to the construction of the
berths to be occupied by the passengers. It prescribes the
interval between the lowest part of any tier of berths and the
deck or platform beneath to be not less than nine inches; that
the berths shall be well constructed, parallel with the sides of
the vessel, and separated from each other by partitions, and
shall be at least six feet in length and two feet in width, and
specifies how they shall and hall not be occupied by passengers. It is quite true that in § 4255 there is no express reference to spaces appropriated to. the use of passengers and that
phrase does Dot occur in it, but nevertheless the section does
plainly relate to the space in vessels appropriated to the use of
passengers. It describes how the berths in which the passengers sleep shall be constructed, separated, and occupied. These
berths are within'the space which by the previous sections
must be allowed for and allotted to*the use of passengers;
they cohistitute a part of that very space 'and are included in
it. The language, therefore, of § 4264, as amended by the act
of February 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 250, applies directly so as
to subject vessels propelled in whole or in part by steam, and
navigating from and to and between the ports therein named,
to the pr6visions, requisitions, penalties, and liens included
within § 4255 as one of the several sections of the chapter
relating to the space in vessels appropfiated to the use of passengers.
It is true that the contrary construction of these sections of
the act was adopted by Mr. Justice Blatchford, then District

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court.

Judge in the Southern District of New York,'in the case of the
Sktearnhip Xlanhattan, 2 Ben. 88, whose decision was affirmed
on appeal in the Circuit Court in October, 1868, by Mr. Justice
Nelson, and that case was followed as an authority in the case
of 127w Devon.shire, 8 Sawyer, 209, by Judge Deady in 1882..
In the latter case the District Judge seems to have been influenced in some degree by the consideration that the enactment
by Congress of the omitted § 10 of the act of March 3, 1855,
as an amendment to § 4264.of the Revised Statutes by the act
of February 2T, 1877,must be considered.to have restored the
section with the judicial construction which had been given to
it in the case of Y7w 3fanXIatta. We do not, however, consider this circumstance as entitled to the weight given to it by
him, and which we are asked in the"argument by counsel to
give in the present case. It is certainly not sufficient, in our
judgment, to overcome what seems to us to be the clear meaning of the statute derived froin its language and its reason.
This view, indeed, is forcibly presented by the learned District
Judge in the case of The .Devonshire, where he says (p. 213):
"The argument of the district attorney in favor of the libel isthat the provisions in § 2 are regulations relating to the ' space'
appropriated to passengers, and therefore made applicable to
steam vessels by the operation of § 10, because by them the
'space' between each berth, and that appropriated to each
passenger therein, is prescribed. And when we consider that
the evils intehded to be prevented by § 2 are as likely to exist
in the case of steerage passengers carried in steamships as
those against which § 1 is intended to guard, itis not without
force. There is quite as much need that a steerage passenger
shall have the ' space' and privacy provided in § 2 when he lies
down to sleep or is prostrated with sickness, as that he shall
have the general moving and breathing 'space' between decks
provided in § 1; and although the word ' space ' is not used in
§ 2, still that is the subject of it, and its division and appropriation among passengers for the purpose of berths are
thereby daxefully and minutely regulated." We think these
considerations are conclusive in support of the sufficiency of
the second count.
VOL. cxxiv-37

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The,third count of the libel is for an alleged violation of
4266 of the Revised Statutes. That section provides that the
master of any vessel arriving in the United States from any
foreign place whatever, at the same time that he delivers a
manifest of the cargo or makes report or entry of the vessel
pursuant to law, shall also, deliver a report to the collector of
the district in which such vessel shall arrive and a list of all
the passengers taken on board of the vessel at any foreign port
or place, verified by his oath, in the same manner as directed
by law in relation to the manifest of the cargo. In that list
he is required to desig-nate particularly the age, sex, and occupation of the passengers, respectively, the part- of the vessel
occupied by each during the voyage, the country to which
they severally belong, and that of which it is their inteition
to become inhabitants, and whether any and what number
have died on the voyage; and the refusal or neglect of the
master to comply with the provisions of this section is subjected to the same penalties, disabilities, and forfeitures as are
provided for a refusal or neglect to report and deliver a manifest of the cargo. The penalties, disabilities, and forfeitures
referred to in this section are those imposed by § 277(4, which
declares that every master who shall neglect or omit to make
either of the reports and declarations thereby required shall
for each offence be liable to a penalty of $1000.
This section does not subject the vessel itself to any liability
for this penalty, and we are not referred to any general provision of the statute imposing such' a liability on the vessel,
akin to that contained in § 3088 making the vessel liable whenever her owner or master is subject to a penalty for a violation
of the revenue laws of the United States. It follows that the
penalty imposed for a violation of § 4266 cannot be charged
as a lien on the vessel, under the third count of the libel, unless
that section is made applicable to vessels propelled in whole or
in part by steam. This can be only on the supposition that
this effect is given to it by the amendment to § 4264.
We find it impossifile to adopt the construction that makes
§ 4266 one of those sedtions relating to the space in'vessels appropriated to the use of passengers, which by the amendment

THE STRATHAIRLY.
Opinion of the Court.

to § 4264 are extended and made applicable to all spaces appropriated to the use of steerage passengers in vessels propelled
in whole or in part by steam, and navigating from, t6, and
between ihe ports and in manner as therein named, and to
such vessels and to the masters thereof. Doubtless one of its
useful purposes was to enable the collector of the district to
ascertain, from the verified list of passengers which it required
to be furnished, whether the provisions of the statute had been
complied with, which limited the number of passengers according to the tonnage and space allowed in the vessel for steerage
passengers; but .we think it would be a strained construction
of the act for that reason to include the section under consideration in those made applicable to steam vessels, because they
relate to the sjpace in such vessels appropriated to the use of
steerage passengers.
The only construction of the law which would subject the
vessel to the lien of the penalty referred to in § 4266, by virtue
of § 4270, would be that which made all the provisions of the
chapter applicable to vessels propelled in whole or in part by
steam, as well as to sailing vessels, on the ground that the
language of the various sections makes no distinction- as to
vessels on account of their propelling power. It is 6 ertainly
true that the language of all the sections is large enough to
include steam vessels as well as sailing vessels, but to give that
application to this legislation is to deprive of its whole effect the
original § 10 of the act of March 3, 1855, and the corresponding amendment introduced by the act of February 27, 1877,
to § 4261. That section extends and makes applicable to all
spaces appropriated to the use of steerage passengers in vessels
propelled in whole or in part by steam, navigating from, to,
and between the ports and in the manner as in the act named,
and to such vessels and to the masters thereof, the provisions,
requisitions, penalties, and liens of the. act relating to the space
in vessels appropriated to the use of passengers. If without
that section all the provisions of the act were applicable to
steam vessels, then the section itself would have no meaning.
To give it any effect whatever it is necessary to suppose that
it was the intention of Congress that no provisions of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of March 3, 1855, should apply to steam vessels, except those
that were made applicable to them by § 10. By extending to
them the particular provisions named in the section, the inference is unavoidable that all other provisions axe thereby excluded from a similar application. This view is strengthened
by the fact that the section having been omitted from the
revision, it was restored by the act of February 27, 1877. By
omitting § 10 from the revision, it was probably the view of
the revisers that the whole chapter should apply to steam
vessels as well as sailing vessels. It seems to have been the
intention of Congress to correct this view* by restoring the
original § 10 as an amendment to § 4264. We are, therefore,
of opinion that § 4266 does not apply to vessels propelled in
whole or in, part by steam,, and that the third count of the
libel cannot be sustained.
Our conclusion, therefore, on the whole case is, that the
libel sets out a sufficient cause of action, and entitles the
United States, upon proof of the facts, to recover under the
first and second counts, but that it must be dismissed as to
the third. Under the first count, that recovery must be limited
to the amount adjudged as a penalty against the master by
way of fine upon the criminal information against him. The
penalty recoverable against the vessel, afid which by § 4270 is
made a lien upon it, is not an additional penalty, but is the
same penalty which by § 4253 is to be adjudged against the
master himself in the crininal prosecution for the misdemeanor, and payment on the part of either is satisfaction of
the whole liability. It is the amount of that fine so assessed
that is made a lien on the vessel. Under the second couint it
does not appear that any proceeding for the penalties tjhetein
sought to be recovered had been previously taken against the
master. The difficulty of further proceeding under that- count,
however, is removed by a stipulation between the parties contained in the record. This stipulation provides that the' liability, if any, of the master of the steamship, for the penalties
provided for in §§ 4255 and 4266 of the Revised Statutes, may
be ascertained on the trial of the cause itself, as fully and with
the same force and effect as if the same were ascertained on a

GREAT FALLS 3MFG. CO. v. ATT'Y GENERAL:

581

Syllabus.

trial of a proceeding against the master, to recover the penalty,
and a judgment therefor had been rendered against him; and
all exceptions to the libel that the liability of the master, if
any, had not been ascertained--n a .proceeding against him
prior to the filing thereof were thereby waived.
For the reasons assigned, the decree of the Circuit Court is
Reversed, and t/he cause remanded with directions to takefwrtlher proceedings therein, in accordancewith this opinion.

GREAT FALLS MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Submitted December 19, 1887. -Decided

Febuary 6, 1888.

An arbitration was had ir 1863 between the Great Falls Manufacturing
Company and the Secretary of the Interior (on behalf of the United
States) in regard to the amount of compensation to be paid to the company for its land, water rights and other property to be taken for the
Washington aqueduct. The arbitrators reported four alternative plans:
for the construction of the proposed work, and decided that if Plan 4
should be adopted, involving only a dam from the Maryland shore to,
Conn's Island, the Ufiited States should pay as damages the sum of$15,692; but that if Plan 1 should be adopted, involving the construction of a dam from the Maryland shore across the Maryland channel and
Conn's Island to the Virginia shore, the company should receive as damages the sum of $63,766, and should also have the right to build and
maintaifi a dam and bulkhead across the land of the United States in Virginia, and to use the water, subject to the superior right of the United
States to its use for the purposes of the aqueduct. The United States
The comconstructed the aqueduct, adopting substantially Plan 4.
pany sued in the Court of Claims for compensation, and recovered a
judgment for $15,692, which was affirmed here. 112 U. S. 645. By an act
of Congress passed in 1882, for increasing the water supply, provision
was made for the acquisition of further property and further rights, and
for the extension of the dam across Conn's Island to and upon the Virginia shore. This statute provided for a survey and for the making and
filing of a map of the property to be taken and acquired under it,and
also for notice of the filing ta the parties interelted, for appraisements
of property taken, for awards of damages, and forayment of the awards

