SAB1ARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

SABARIEGO

.

MAVERICK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 11, 14, 1887.-Decided January 23, 1888.

When a government officer, acting under authority of law and in accordance
with its forms, conveys to an individual a tract of land as land of the
government, the deed will pass only such title as the government has
therein; and there is no presumption of law that it is a -valid title.
Under the provisions of Spanish law in force in Mexico in 1814-1817, confiscation of property as a punishment for the crime of treason coiuld only
be effected by regular judicial proceedings ;. and, it being once declared,
the property remained subject to the exclusive jurisdictiop of the intendants, both in ordering sale and in .taking cogniiance of controversies
raised concerning it.
There is no legal presumption in favor of jurisdiction in proceedings not
according to the common course of justice; but the policy of the law
requires the facts conferring it to be proved by direct evidence of a formal character.
The facts that Spanish public officers seized a tract of land in Mexico as
confiscated for the treason of its owner, and that after taking regular
and appropriate steps for its sale they proceeded to sell it and to make
conveyance of it by instruments reciting these facts and accompanied by
certificates of the officers who took part in the transaction that the property had been so confiscated, raise no presumption, under the law of any
civilized State, that any judicial proceedings were taken against the owner
to find him guilty of treason, or to confiscate his property for that ofibnce.
To entitle aplaintiff to recover lands by virtueof prior possession, in an action
brought against an intruder, a wrongdoer, or a person subsequently
entering without right, it must appear that the possession was in the first
instance under color of right, and that it has been continuous and without abapdonment; or, if lost, that there was an animus revertendi.

TRESPASS to try title. The following is the case, as stated
by the court.

This is an action of trespass to try title, brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Western, District
of Texas by Pilar Garcia de Sabariego and her husband Manuel, citizens of- Mexico, against Maverick and others, citizens
of Texas, to recover a certain tract of land lying in the city
of San Antonio, Texas. She. claimed the property as the sole

.'262

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

heir of her deceased father, Francisco Garcia, and of her deceased mother, Gertrudes Barrera de Garcia, both of whom
it was alleged died seized and possessed of the said land. The
different defendants filed pleas of not guilty, the statute of
limitations, alienage of the plaintiffs, &c. On the trial, as
shown by the bill of exceptions, the plaintiffs read in evidence
certain partition proceedings, showing title in one Miguel Losoya to the suerte or tract claimed in the suit by a grant from
the King of Spain. The plaintiffs next offered in evidence
certain documents, the originals being in Spanish,, and translations of which into English are set out, and a deed from a
board of commissioners to Garcia, showing a sale and conveyance of the premises in controversy to him, based, according
to the recitals, upon a confiscation of the property of Losoya
by the Spanish government in the year 1814. These documents, relating to the confispation, sale, and conveyance of
the property in controversy, were admitted in evidence, the
court stating at the time that, in its opinion, they did not
show any decree or adjudication of confiscation sufficient to
warrant the sale, and that, unless the plaintiffs could show
some further proceedings upon which to base the action of
the officers in the premises, the said proceedings constituted
no legal confiscation and passed no title to the purchaser at
said sale. Counsel for the plaintiffs then stated to the court
that they were unable to offer in evidence any further or other
confiscation decree or proceedings than those already offered
and read in evidence. Counsel for the plaintiffs then offered
other testimony in depositions, "but the court, upon the objection of defendants, refused to all3w the depositions aforesaid,
or any part of them, to be read, and refused to permit plaintiffs to make any of the proofs aforesaid upon the ground
that the said confiscation proceedings were insufficient to pass
title of any character, and that no title of any character was
thereby passed to or vested in said Garcia, and that this was
fatal to plaintiffs' right of recovery, and that all the said evidence read as well as that proposed to be offered showed no
title in plaintiffs which would Warrant a verdict and judgment
in their favor."

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

The court thereupon directed a verdict for the defendants,
which was rendered, and judgment thereon accordingly, to
reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The document relating to the sale and conveyance of the
premises in dispute are as follows:
The first is entitled: "The governor of the province of
Texas refurns statements of property confiscated from the
rebels in Bexar, and of the condition thereof, and asks
whether some of it may be sold." Then follows a list of
the names of the parties and a general description of the
property of each, extended into a column of valuations. In
this list appears the name of Miguel Losoya; the property
described, one-half dula of water; extended 100. This list
is preceded by the following heading: "Statement of property confiscated from the rebels of this city by the order of
the commanding general, Don Joaquin de Arredondo, as
shown by the statement and inventory made by Captain
Don Fran'co del Prado y Arce on the 27th of October, 1814,
which I copy, and to which I refer myself, viz." It is dated
Bexar, the 27th of October, 1814, and signed F'co del Prado
y Arce, Juan Fran'co de Collantes. Then follows: "General
inventory and copy of property belonging to the king, and
confiscated from the insurgents of this province, which 1
received from my predecessor, Lieutenant Don Juan Antonio
Padilla, and is now in existence, viz." In this list also appears Miguel Losoya's one-half dula of water. Then follows,
under the head of remarks, the following:
"All the other confiscated property appearing in the statement made by Don Francisco del Prado as above, in the copy
of the statement of existing property which I have received
from my predecessor, Lieutenant Don Antonio Padilla, now
wanting, shall be accounted for by my predecessor in office,
since I have had no knowledge of it; but I will be accountable for the property which I received from said Padilla, as
appears in this last statement.
"Bexar, 19th of September, 1817.
" Ju.x FRANI'CO DE OOLLA!NTES."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

On the same document is the following endorsement:
"[On margin:] On the 20th inst. receipt was acknowledged,
stating that he shall be advised of the result.
"There are in this city several houses sequestered from the
insurgents who took part in the revolution of this province,
which took place in the past year, 1811, but all of them are so
deteriorated that they are becoming wholly unserviceable,
having never been repaired, owing to want of funds for that
purpose, a few of them having been inhabited by persons connected with the army, who, considering their' well-known
straitened circumstances, had means to pay rent only. The
result is that, although at that time they were appraised by
commissioners appointed for that purpose, according to their
inventory existing in these archives, in amounts which were
then adequate, they cannot now be worth one-half of what
they were then, and some of them may not be worth onethird; and, considering that their ruinous condition increases
from day to day, I hope that your lordship will please tell me
whether some of them may be sold in case that purchasers be
found, and whether, owing to the cause abcve specified, some
rebate, may be made on the appraised value, considering that
at this moment a buyer comes before me of a house appraised
at three hundred and eighty dollars, but, inasmuch as the
price does not suit him; he asks for somd rebate on it, said
house being wholly unserviceable. In these terms, and considering that this business is under the authority of the intendancy, I shall act acc6rding to the instructions which your
lordship may give on the subject. God keep you many years.
"Bexar, September 14, 1817.
"A

TOZOmMARTnEZ.

"To the Intendant of San Luis Potosi.
"One Icuartillo.'
"Fourth stamp: 'One cuartillo.'
hundred and fourteen and fifteen.

For the years eighteen

"San Luis Potosi, the 20th of October, 1817.
"Let the official communication of the governor of the
province of Texas, and inventory and statements thereto

SABARIEGO v.. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

attached, upon houses sequestered from the rebels at
Bexar, and asking whether some of them may be
sold, be filed, and let the whole be referred to the
'asesor' for his opinion upon such instructions as may be
proper. The intendant 'corregidor' 6f this province, Don
M,[anuel Jacinto de Acevedo, has thus decr ed and ordered and
did sign hereto with assisting witnesses, in default of a hotary,
which I certify.
[SEAL.]

181..]
"Assisting, Jos' HAmA Burna.
MANq. Jos. Dommio.
"[SEAL.

fMAuEL DE AcEvEDo.

"One cuartilo.
"[On margin :] Erasures are not valid.
"To the Intendant.
"Article 82 of the royal ordinance of December 4, 1786,
gives power, in case of confiscation by sentence of any property*
within the territory of this province, and makes it the special
duty of your lordship 'to proceed to the alienation and collection of the proceeds and to take cognizance of all litigation
and claims subsequently arising; and on the same subject a
superior order was afterwards issued -referring to property
confiscated feom the rebels. In these terms and in the case to
which the governor of the province of Texas makes reference at the beginning of his report of the l9th of September
of this year, that the confiscation of the property mentioned
in it was effected by the order of the-commanding general of
the eastern provinces, dhe provisions of said articles are applicable, and, consequently, your lordship should be pleased to
order that the confiscated property, owing to the deterioration
it has suffered, as stated, be reappraised by two sworn experts,
thus altering the value heretofore assessed. on it in order to
facilitate its more speedy sale and that its total loss may not
result to the prejudice of the royal treasury, and said property
being thus appraised let it at once be offered in public sale for
the term of nine days, three outcries being afterwards made,
and, at the lw t outcry, adjudication being awarded to the best
bidders for pzd.els, who may appear with the respective bond

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

certificates by persons able to give security for their bids, and
these bids shall be good and may be accepted for adjudication
thereon, provided that others be not made a little more in
excess of the two-third parts of the amount of appraisement,
this being the practice generally observed in all the tribunals.
And your lordship will please give notice of this decision to
the commanding general; whereupon these proceedings should
be referred for the specific objects to the governor of Bexar,
who should in due time report the results to this intendancy.
"San Luis Potosi, October 29, 1817.
"(Lic'do)

JOSEF RuIZ DE AGUmRE.

"San Luis Potosi, October 31, 1817.
"As the ' asesor' advises, let this be communicated to the
commanding general of the eastern provinces for his information. This his lordship has decreed and signed hereto, which
he certifies.
"AcEvE@Do.
"Assisting, Juii Jos i DoMINGo, 3.
Jos-& MAPIA Bui-.AL.
"On the same day an official communication was addressed
to the general commanding the eastern provinces, with insertion of the foregoing opinion, which I certify.
c

-

-,

Paraph."

Then follows a "statement showing the property sequestered
from the rebels of the capital of Texas, according to the
inventory existing in the archives of this government, specifying that which has subsequently been returned, donated, and
finally ruined by the swollen river in the overflow of the 5th
of July of this year, viz." This includes Niguel Losoya, onehalf dula of water, rented for one fanega of corn; dated at
Bexar, September 10, 1819.
The next document referred to is called a "translation of
confiscation proceedings of 1819," dated at the Intendancy of
San Luis Potosi, in the year 1819: "The governor of Texas
reports the injury caused by the overflow undergone by the
city of Bexar on the fifth of July to the landed estate confis-

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

cated from the insurgents. Statement of the houses and
'jocales' (thatched cabins) belonging to the royal domain, as
confiscated from the rebels, which have been ruined in the
overflow of the city of Bexar, which took place in the morning
of the 5th of July." Then follows a list of houses and
"jocales," dated Bexar, the 8th of July, 1819, signed J5os6
Flores; Examined, Martinez; with the following statement at
its conclusion:
"On the morning of the. 5th instant, in consequence of a
terrific water-spout which burst north of this city, the 'river
became so swollen as to run over its banks, caasing a general
overflow such as has never been beheld in the province before,
leaving the city in such a condition that it may be said to
exist no longer, and its inhabitants (those who were not
victims of the fury of the waters) being reduced to the most
lamentable destitution. The landed estate belonging to the
royal domain by sequestration has been ruined by that overflow, a statement of which property I enclose herewith for the
knowledge of your lordship. The unfortunate condition of
this people did not allow me to offer that property for sale, as
your lordship had instructed; now and for better cause it will
be more difficult, and all the houses left standing will by
degrees fall in ruins, as they have been considerably shattered
by the overflow; even the parcels of cultivable land are no
longer fit for cultivation. Therefore your lordship will please
determine as you may deem most advisable, in order that the
royal domain may not suffer a total loss. May God preserve
you many years.
"Bexar, July 9, 1819.
Axcomo MATmEz.
"To the intendant, Don Manuel Acevedo.
"One 'quartillo' fourth .[L. s.] stamp, one quartillo, years
eighteen hundred and sixteen and eighteen hundred and
seventeen. One ' quartillo.'
"September 13th, 1819.
"[L. s.]
Luis PoTosI.
"Let the governor of the province of Texas be notified that
this intendancy is informed of the occurrence referred to in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the foregoing letter, and that, inasmuch as the property mentioned in the accompanying list has suffered so great injury,
while other property is completely falling into ruin, he will
cause the same to be appraised again by experts sworn in due
form, and that it be sold at auction, to Ve awarded to the best
bidder, conforming himself, so far as the said occurrence allows,
to the order given on the subject and contained in the proceedings addressed to him on the thirty-first of October, eighteen
hundred and seventeen. Thus it has been determined and
signed by the ' Sefior Intendente. Corregidor' of this province,
by the advice of his ' Intendente Letrado,' before me, which
I certify.
"MANUEL DE ACEVEDO,

licenciado, Josef Ruiz de Aguir'e.
"Before me -

ANroNio M AiA JUARES,

".Yotaqy RoyaZ and Military Intendente of State.
"On the seventeenth of the same month the letter was dispatched as by orders.
"JUARES.

This list of houses and "jocale 's" does not contain any reference to Miguel Losoya, bdi in the same document follows a
"statement of property this day in existence confiscated from
the rebels of the capital of Texas, viz." In that list is found
the name of "Miguel Losoya, one-half stock watering privilege
(media dula de agua), with its land;" dated Bexar, September
10th, 1819; signed Jos6 Flores and Martinez.
Then follows an "exhibit of the property sequestered from
the rebels of the capital of Texas according to the inventory.
existing in the-archives of this government, stating what was
subsequently restored, donatdd, and received, and finally swept
off by the waters of the river in the overflow of the 5th of
July of this year, viz." In this again appears "Miguel Losoya,
one-half stock watering privilege, with land, rented for one
fanega of corn;" dated Bexar, September 10, 1819; signed
Jos6 Flores; Examined, Martinez. Ard there is added the
following statement:

SABARIEGO

v. MAVERICK.

Statement of the Case.

"Considering that the overflow of the 5th of July last past
resulted in the ruin of several houses and all the 'jocales'
which were sequestered and belong to the royal domain, I instructed the agent of said property to make statements, which
] enclose herewith to your lordship for your information. One
of these statimefits exhibits all the sequestered property, as I
did formerly report to your lordship, stating the disposition
made of that property. The other statement shows what is
this day remaining of said 'property, with the remark that in
relation to the arable lands most of it has been destroyed by
the overflow, being situated in close proximity to the banks of
the river, and they are no longer fit for cultivation. I also
enclose to your lordship a statement, as required, of the same
commissioner, who has not one ' real' on hand, but holds some
bills, part of which may be collected, being against the troops,
to which they may be charged on their accounts; others, however, will be of difficult collection, being due by several parties
whom the late misfortune has left in the greatest destitution,
and now exclusively dependink on the charity of his excellency, the viceroy, who has -sent $29.00 for the purpose, and of
the most illustrious prelate, Don Jos6 Ignacio de Aransivia,
who contributed $19.00. However, your lordship will determine as you deem just. May God preserve your lordship
many years.
"Bexar, September, 1819.

"AwolIo

I ATATINEZ.

"To the Intendent, Don Manuel- de Acevedo.
"Luis Potosi, October 20th, 1819.
"Let this letter and accompanying documents be filed with
the former proceedings existing in this intendancy, and be
referred to the 'promotor fiscal,' and according to his request
to the I asesor.'
[L. s.]
AovwDo.
"Antonio Maria Guares, one Iquartillo' ; fourth stamp, one
quartillo; years eighteen hundred and sixteen and eighteen
hundred and seventeen, one quartillo.
"[L. s.]

[L. s.]

One quartillo."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Also the following:
"Proceedings of Sale of the Property Sequestered from the
Rebels for the Account of the Royal Revenues. Year 1819.
"The real estate sequestered in this capital from the rebels,
having to be sold for the benefit of the royal treasury, in order
that said royal treasury may not lose all its interests owing to
the greatV depreciation suffered by said property, and by virtue
of the orders received by me on the subject, I commission you
jointly with the inhabitants, Don Vicenti Gortori, first regidor,
and Don Jos6 Flores, agent of said property, to proceed to said
sale, in accordance with the opinion of the Iasesor' of the
intendancy of San Luis Potosi, a copy of which I enclose to
you in order that you may conform with it in all its points,
and to form the heading of the proceedings to be instituted on
the subject. I do likewise enclose a statement of the houses
and lands which must be sold according to the last appraisement made by the experts, Jos6 Donaciano Ruiz and Francisco
Zapata, master masons, for the houses, and for the lands by
the farmers Francisco Flores, Don Santiago Seguin, Diago
Perez, and Jos& Gomez, to whom I did administer the oath to
proceed to the appraisement; and you will inform me of the
result, and forward said proceedings to me. May God preserve you many years.
"Bexar, 6th of November, 1819.
" A'roo

MARTiNEZ.

"To Captain Don Manuel Cedran.
"Potosi, the 20th of October, 181t.
"Let the letter of the governor of the province of Texas and
the accompanying inventory and statement of houses sequestered from the rebels of Bexar be filed, advising whether any
of them may be sold, and let the whole be referred for advice
to the 'asesor' for such determination as he deems proper.
The Iintendante corregidor' of this province, Don Manuel
Jacinto de Acevedo, has thus determined and ordered and

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

signed hereto, with assisting witnesses, in default of a notary,
which I certify.
"MIRU:EL Di

AcOEv mo.

"Assisting, JuAx Josk DozmTUEz.
Jos. :MRiA LomA.

"To the Ihtendant.
"Article 82 of the royal ordinance of December 4, 1786,
gives power in case that in the territory of this province the
case should arise to confiscate any property, it should be the
special duty of your lordship to proceed to the alienation and
to the collection of the proceeds, notwithstanding all pleadings
and applications subsequently made. On this same subject
orders were subsequently issued referring to property confiscated from the rebels. Consequently, and whereas the governor of the province of Texas states at the beginning of the
statement made on the 19th of September of this year that the
confiscation from the inhabitants referred to in it was made by
the order of the commanding general of the eastern provinces,
the case referied to in said article exists, and therefore your
lordship should order that the confiscated. property, owing to
the depreciation suffered by it, shall be appraised again by two
sworn experts, thus modifying the prices formerly assessed, in
order to facilitate a prompt sale, and to avoid a total loss to
the injury of the royal treasury; and that said property, upon
being thus appraised, be placed at auction for nine days, and
afterwards cried three times, and at the last cry be adjudicated
to the best bidder or bidders for parts, who may appear with
proper security papers by individuals able to be good for their
bids, and said securities shall be good and may be accepted in
proceeding to the adjudication, provided that other parties do
not offer a little more than two-thirds of the appraisement, this
being the practice habitually observed by all courts; and your
lordship should inform the commanding general of this determination, and subsequently refer these proceedings for the
contemplated purpose to the said governor of Bexar, who will
in due time report the results to the intendancy.
"San Luis Potosi, October 29, 1817.
"LiOENCIADO, Josfi TRz DE AGuimn.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"San Luis Potosi, October 31, 1817.
"Agreeably to the advice of the 'asesor,' this will be communicated to the commanding general of the eastern provinces for his information.
"Thus his lordship has decreed and did sign hereto, which I
certify.

"AcEvEino.
"Assisting, JuAx Josi DomnGuEz.
Josi MARIA Lom.
"I, Don Antonio Martinez, Knight of the Royal Order San
Hermenegildo, colonel in the royal armies, and civil and
military governor for his Majesty of this province of the
Texas, New Philippines, &c., do certify that the foregoing
opinion is a literal copy of that appearing in the proceedings
referred from the intendancy of San Luis Potosi and existing
in the archives of government in my. charge, and for due
authenticity I have signed hereunto at Bexar, the 6th of
November, 1819.
4 ANTONIO MAMTINEZ."

To this is attached: "Exhibit of property sequestered from
the rebels to be offered at public auction, with statement of
the value of the same according to the last appraisement." In
this list is contained Miguel Losoya's suerte, and extended in
a column of figures at 50. .This list is dated Bexar, the 6th of
INovember, 1819, and signed Antonio Martinez.
Then follows a return by the commissioners of the sale, as
follows:
"Pursuant to your lordship's order to proceed to the sale
and adjudication of the property sequestered from the rebels
of this province, the same was placed at auction for the term
of nine days, after which it was cried three times, as prescribed
by the order of the intendant of San Luis Potosi, said property
and grounds being adjudicated at the last cry, as appears from
the documents which we return to your lordship, with others
referred by you to this board, for your information, with the

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

understanding that the buyers have been notified to keep the
amounts in which the adjudication was made subject to your
lordship's pleasure. The other property has not been adjudicated,- because no bidders presented themselves.
"M[ay God preserve your lordship many years.
"Bexar, November 22, 1819.

,MA=L-uE

CEDlA..

"VIoENTE

GoRTORi.

"Josh FLOnES.
C'

To Governor Don Antonio Martinez.

"In the city of San Fernando de Bexar, on the twentysecond day of the month of November, in the year eighteen
hundred and nineteen, we, the board of commissioners organized for the sale of the property sequestered from the rebels
of this province by the order of the governor of the same,
Colonel Don Antonio, Martinez, viz., Captain Don Manuel
Cedran, Don Vicente Gortori, first regidor of the ayuntamiento of this capital, and the inhabitant Don Josef Flores de
Abrego, by virtue of the order of the said governor heading
these proceedings, in consequence of the order received by
that chief from the intendancy of San Luis Potosi, also herein
insefted, to proceed to the sale of said property sequestered,
as appears in the exhibit accompanying the order of said governor, the whole for the benefit of the royal treasury, do
certify and, so far as we are able, do pledge our faith that,
after having placed said sequestered property mentioned in
the above recited order and exhibit at auction for the term of
nine days, and caused the same to be cried three times, according to the order of the intendant of San Luis Potosi, they
were adjudicated at the last cry, which *took place on the
twenty-first instant."
-

Then follows a list of the property sold, including "that of
Miguel Losoya, also in favor of Captain Don Francisco Garcia,
in fifty-five dollars." The return proceeds:
"To which parties adjudication was made, being the only
ones whose respective bids reached the limits specified, no
other party having bidden over them, nor did buyers present
VOL. CXXIV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

themselves for the other property contained in the governor'.s
statement; and for due authenticity, wherever it may beproper, we give the presents, signed by us on the aforesaid
day, month, and year.
"MANUEL CEDRAN,
"VICENTE GORTORI,

"JOSi: FLORES,

"Prmsidia Company of Beccar.
"Received from the board commissioned by the governorof the province, Colonel Don Antonio Martinez, the sum of
three thousand one hundred and fifty-five dollars, proceeds of
the sale of rebel property in favor of the royal treasury, which
shall be charged to this company, of which I am the fiscal
agent, and used for the support of the troops in said province..
"Bexar, November 27th, 1819.
"1$3155.00.
ATnxA lRo TR
o.
"Examined: MiATINEZ.
"The property sequestered*from the rebels in this capital
having been offered for sale by virtue of your lordship's orderto me on the subject, I enclose to you the proceedings formed
concerning said sale, together'with the receipt of the sum of
three thousand one hundred and fifty-five dollars, proceeds of
the sale of said property, which amount was received by the
financial agent of this presidial company for the support of
the troops of this province, which had no means whatever..
Therefore I hope that, should your lordship deem it proper,
the royal treasury department at Saltillo will be instructed
to charge the same against the said Bexar Company.
"As to the property still .remaining unsold, no bidder having
presented himself, owing both to the depreciated. condition of
the same, and to the poverty of the population, which does
not permit them to buy it; some purchasers might present
themselves if it were sold o1 credit, which point I did not
wish to determine, because, although some honorable persons
may be found able to assume that indebtedness, the uncertainty of the:-crope and their reduced proportion might prevent them from meeting if.However, your lordship will
determine Rs yon deem ad visable.

SA1BARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

"Respecting the house sequestered from the rebel, Vicente
Travieso, (which has been provisionally transferred to the
ayuntamiento of this city by your lordship's order,) no bidder
will ever appear, because it has been materially injured by the
overflow, and it would be impossible for the whole population
to raise the four thousand five hundred dollars, amount of its
reduced appraisement. May God preserve your lordship many
years.
"Bexar December 10th, 1819.

Amwxoxio MAnxxz.

"To the intendant, Don Manuel de.Acevedo.
"Potosi, January 20th, 1820.
"To the 'promotor fiscal' in whose office the former proceedings exist, Licenciado, Ruiz de Aguerre: I return these
proceedings, after having taken proper action thereon and on
the former proceedings, without. the respective requests, in
order that the 'juez de letras' of the respective district may
act as he deems just.
"Potosi, April 16th, 1821.

"LtEcIADo, MAEQUyz."

The next document is the deed of. the commissoners, as
follows:
"Tra=Zation of -Deed. Nov. 23, 1819.
"Valid during the reign of. our Lord Ferdinand '7th.
4th stamp, 1819.
"The party interested paid in this revenue office, in my
charge the half 'real,' cost of this stamp.
Luis GAL&u (Paraph).
"Bexar, Nov. 23, 1819.
"In the city of San Fernando de Bexar, on the twentythird day of the month of November, in the year eighteen
hundred and nineteen, we, the commissioners of the board
organized for the sale of property confiscated from the rebels
of this province, by the order of the governor of the same,
Colonel Don Antonio Martinez, viz., Captain Don Manuel
Cedran, Don Vicente Gortori, first regidor of the ayuntamiento
of this capital, and the resident Jos6 Flores de Abrego, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

virtue of the order of the said governor, in consequence-of
the order received by said chief from the intendancy of
San Luis Potosi, to proceed to the sale and adjudication
of said confiscated property for the benefit of the royal
treasury, do certify and do, so far as we can, bear evidence
that after said property was offered in public auction, according to accustomed processes, the 'suerte' of Miguel Losoya
was adjudicated in favor of Don Francisco Garcia in the sum
of fifty-five dollars, being bounded on the north by the land
of the widow of Vicente Amador, on the south by that of
Cipriano Losoya, on the east by the wall of the mission of
Balero, and on the west by the land of Don Francisco Collantes
and Manuel Hirnines, which tract of land was delivered by
said board to Captain Don Francisco Garcia in the specified
sum of fifty-five dollars, which he paid in current money for
the benefit of the royal treasury, in consideration whereof he
shall possess it now and hereafter as its lawful lord and owner,
remaining at liberty to sell it again, to donate or transfer it
by inheritance to whomsoever it may be his will, so thozu io
contradiction may be opposed as to the freedom in which he
remains to make use of it; and for due authentidity, and in
order that this evidence of sale may avail him as a title and
muniment in the archives of the government, and that as many
copies of the same may be delivered to the party interested as
he may desire, we sign these presents in the city of Bexar on
the day, month, and year above stated.
"MANUEL CEDRA
(Paraph).
" VIcENTE GoRroRi (Paraph).
"I approve this sale.
"Josh. FLoREs (Paraph).
"MRTnvEz (Paraph)."
Among the depositions offered in evidence on the part of
the plaintiffs were those of Juan N. Seguin and Jos6 Flores.
The former of these, Juan N. Seguin, testified that he bad
resided in San Antonio from the year of his birth, 1807, until
the year 1842; that in 1833 he was mayor of the city of San
Antonio and political chiefpro tempore of the department of
Texas ;.that in 1835 he was captain of a company of Mexican

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Statement of the Case.

volunteers, and took part in the battle of San Jacinto in defence of the independence of Texas, April 21, 1836; that in
1838 he was elected senator in the Congress of Texas, and in
May, 1840, mayor of the city council of the city of San Antonio; and that in 1869 he was appointed county judge of
Wilson County, Texas, but subsequently removed to Mexico.
He also testified that he was personally acquainted with the
lands in controversy, known as the Miguel Losoya suerte, and
had been since the year 1818, when Francisco Garcia consulted
his father as to its purchase, and was acquainted with it -s the
property of Garcia, who went into and maintained peaceable
possession of it uihtil the year 1834, when he died of cholera in
the Bahia del Esperitu Santo, near Goliad. He says the possession of the land by Garcia was public and notorious, and that.
from 1824 to 1835 it was cultivated by Felipe Musquize, whose
brother, Don Raymond Musquize, was the attorney in fact of
Don* Francisco Garcia. This testimony as to possession is
corroborated by the witness Flores, who says he leased it
himself in 1835 from Raymond MUsquize which fact is also
testified to by another witness, Louis Gomez.
It further appears from the record that the plaintiffs' demurrer to the answers of the defendants, pleading the alienage of
the plaintiffs and the statutes of limitation as defences, being
overruled, the plaintiffs took issue by a general denial of the
allegations by a supplemental .petition, which also alleged
"that in the year 1833, and from said year and up to the institution of this suit by the plaintiffs, Pilar Garcia de Sabariego
had been a frne covert and married woman, and during the
whole of said period labored, and still- labors, under the disability of being a Jeme covert and married Woman; that her
father, Francisco Garcia, died intesta , 'at Goliad, Texas, in
the year 1834, and her mother, Gertrudes Barrera de Garcia,
died intestate at Matamoras, in Mexico, in the year 1843; that
at the times of the death of her said father and mother, and
from said times until the bringing of this suit, she labored, and
still labors, under the disability of being a feme covert and
married woman, and plaintiffs plead the said disability as excepting and saving the said Pilar from the operation of all

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

limitation-laws and from all presumptions of grant, and any
and all other presumptions and pleas in defendants' answers
contained, which are not good as against a feme covert and
married woman."
AXr. W. Hallett Pkillips for plaintiffs in error. -Yr. John
Hancock and Mr. S. R. Fisher were with him on his brief.
.Mr.Joh
brief.

Treland,for defendants in error submitted on his

-MkJusTic- YATTRrws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The precise point ruled by the Circuit Court in rejecting the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs was that the documents,
including the deed to Garcia, notwithstanding their recitals,
failed to establish even prima facie any transfer of Losoya's
title, to effect which it was necessary to prove by other evidence a lawful confiscation of his estate. This ruling is
assigned for error on the ground, contended for by counsel for
the plaintiffs in error, that the documents referred to, according to the laws prevailing in the locality at the time of their
execution, were sufficient, with the aid of presumptions supplied by that lav, to establish in the first instance the truth of
the facts recited and on the basis of which alone the proceedings could be lawful'including the principal fact of a lawful
confiscation of the estate of Miguel Losoya.
The contention on the part of the plaintiffs in error is stated
by counsel, furnishing an opinion to that effect from Sefior
Emilio Velasco, an eminent lawyer of the city of Mexico, as
follows :
"The documents upon the confiscation and sale are, therefore, autientic documents, and in their whole contents are
entitled to full faith and credit. Thus, when the governor of
Texas affirms in them that, by order of the commanding general, the property was confiscated, the affirmation is entitled
to full faith afd credit. A direct proof by the introduction of
a certified copy of the order of confiscation issued by the com-

SABARIEGO

v. MAVERICK.

Opinion of the Court.

manding general would undoubtedly have been proper; but if
it is not in existence the facts are sufficient proof that it did in
fact exist:
"I. The inventory made by Captain Don Francisco del
Prado y Arce, October 27, 1814, states that the said property
was confiscated by order of the commanding general, Briga.dier Don Joaquin de Arredondo. From the tenor of that
document it is to be deduced that the said Prado y Arce held
the character of depositary (custodian) and administrator of
the co fiscated property, and, consequently, when stating. in
the inventory that the confiscation had been done by the order
of the commanding general, he affirmed a fact connected with
the exercise of public functions and on account of which he
-exercised these same. functions.
"II. The governor of Texas forwafded to the intendant of
:San Luis Potosi the inventory estab6lished by Captain Prado y
Arce, and in his communication he stastd that the property
had been sequestered from the insurgents who, in 1811, took
part in the revolution in Texas. The governor of Texas pro,
ceeded in the confiscation business in the exercise of the functions intrusted to him by law. When forwarding the inventory
to the intendant of San Luis Potosi he accepted its contents
and assumed the responsibility thereof, consequently it results
from the documents authenticated by the governor of. Texas
tbat, in consequence of having taken part in the insurrection
NWhich occurred in Texas in 1811, the property of Miguel
Losoya was confiscated by the order of the commanding general. Brigadier Don Joaquin de Arredondo.
"IIH. The opinion of Don Jos6 Ruiz de Aguirre, the ' asesor'
[of the] intendancy of San Luis Potosi, and the decree of the
intendant, Don Manuel de Acevedo, in which he concurs in
the opinion, are, as stated by the governor of Texas, in the
beginning of his statement of September 19, 1817, founded on
the fact that the confiscation of the property was effected by
the order of the commanding general of the eastern provinces.
As iNill subsequently appear, both the intendant and his Iasesor'
were judges, and in these cases acted as jadges; there is reason, therefore, for affirming that, by a judicial resolution

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

.Opinion of the Court.

(judgment), it was declared that the property had been confiscated by the order of the commanding general, and that the

report of the governor of Texas was considered a sufficient
foundation for this declaration.
" V. Finally, in the Iasesor's' opinion and in the decree of
the intendant of San Luis Potosi, itwas directed that a report
of the decision of these functionaries should be made to the
commanding general. It further appears that this decree was
complied with, and there is no evidence whatever that the
commanding general denied the correctness of the report made
by the governor of Texas.
" "These several reasons admit of no doubt that the confiscation was effected by order of the commanding general; and
authorizes the affirmation that it was done by a judicial resolution by a competent authority. It was so declared; therefore
'this point, cannot be questioned."
In support of _this conclusion counsel cite also the declarations of this court in cases supposed to be similar, and reference is made to -that of the UnitedZ States v. Arrebndo, 6
Pet. 691. That case related to the validity of a Spanish grant
of title to lands in Florida as affected by the treaty between
Spain and the United States of 1819, and the question was as
to the effect of the documents in evidence to shbw a grant of
its own public lands by the Spanish government, entitled to be
recognized as valid under the treaty with this country.. Speaking to that point, this court said (p. 727): "It is thus clearly
evidenced by the acts, the words, and intentions of the legislature that, in considering these claims by the special tribunals,
the authority of the officer making the grant or other evidence
of claim to lands formed no item in the title it conferred; that
the United States never made that a point in issue between
them and the claimants to be even considered, much less
adjudicated. They have submitted to the principle which
prevails as to all public grants of land, or acts of public officers
in issuing warrants, orders of survey, permission to cultivate
or improve, as evidence of inceptive and nascent titles, which
is, that the public acts of public officers, purporting to be exercised in an official capacity and by public authority, shall not

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK
Opinion of the Court.

be presumed to be a usurped but a legitimate authority, previously given or subsequently ratified,' Which is equivient.
If it was not a legal presumption that public and responsible
officers, claiming and exercising the right of disposing of the
public domain, did it by the order and consent of the government, in whose name the acts were done, the confusion and
uncertainty of titles and possessions would be infinite, even in
this country; especially in the States whose tenures to land
depend on every description of inceptive, vague and inchoate
equities rising in the grade of evidence by various intermediate
acts to a full and legal confirmation by patent under the great
seal.

.

.

.

Without the recbgnition of this principle there

would be no safety in title papers, and no security for the
enjoyment of property under them. It is true that a grant.
made without authority is void under all governments, (9
Oranch, 99; 5 Wheat. 303,) but in all the question is on whom
the law throws the burden of proof of its existence or nonexistence. A grant is void unless the grantor has the power
to make it; but it is not void because the grantee does not
prove or produce it. The law supplies this proof by legal
presumption arising from the full, legal, and complete execution of the official grant, under all the solemnities known or
proved to exist, or to be required by the law of the country
where it is made and the land is situated.

.

.

.

This or no

other court can require proof that there exists in every government a power to dispose of its property; in the absence of
any elsewhere, we are bound to presume and consider that it
exists in the officers or tribunal who exercise it by making
grants, -and !hat it is fully evidenced by occupation, enjoyment,
and transfer of property had and made under them, without
disturbance by any superior power, and respected by all coordiifate and inferior officers and tribunals throughout the State,
colony, or province where it lies. A public grant, or one
made in the name and assumed authority of the sovereign
power of the country, hag never been considered as a special
verdict, capable of being aided by no inference of the existence
of other facts than those expressly found or apparent by necessary implication; an objection to its admission in evidence on

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Qpinion of the Court.

a trial at law or a hearing in equity is in the nature of a
demurrer to evidence on the ground of its not conducing to
prove the matter in issue. If admitted, the court, jury, or
chancellor must receive it as evidence both of the facts it
recites and declares, leading to and the foundation of the
grant, and all other facts legally inferable by either from
what is so apparent on its face.

.

.

The validity and

legality of an act done by a governor of a conquered province
depends on the jurisdiction over the subject matter delegated
to him by his instruction from the king and the local laws and
usages of the colony, when they have been adopted as the
rules for its government. If any jurisdiction is given, and not
limited, all acts done in its exercise are legal and valid; if
there is a discretion conferred, its abuse is a matter between
the governor and his government, &c. Xingi v. Picto, late
Governor of Trinidad, 30 St. Tr. 869-871. It is a universal
principle that where power or jurisdiction is delegated to any
public officer or tribunal over a subject matter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion, the acts so done are
binding and valid as to the subject matter; and individual
rights will not be disturbed collaterally for, anything done in
the exercise of that discretion within the authority and power
conferred. The only questions which can arise between an
individual claiming a right under the acts done and the public,
or any pers6n denying it: validity, are power in the officer
and fraud in the party. All other questions are settled by the
decision made or the act done by the tribunal or officer;
whether executive, (1 Cranch, 170, 171,) legislative, (4 Wheat.
423; 2 Pet. 412; 4 Pet. 563,) judicial, (11 Mlass. 227; 11 S. &
R. 429, adopted in 2 Pet. 167, 168,) or special, (20 Johns. 739,
740; .2 Dow P. 0. 521,) unless an appeal is provided for or
other revision by some appellate or supervisory tribunal is
prescribed by law."
The same prindiples were applied in the case of Strotzer v.
Lucas, 12 Pet. 410, and have been uniformly recognized by
the Supreme Court of Texas in dealing with claims of title
based on the official acts of the public authorities of the preceding governments of Mexico and Spain. Jones v. .fuisbach,
26 Texas, 235.

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Opinion of the Court.

But in all these cases the question was whether the docuinents, with the recitals therein, and the presumptions of law
and fact arising thereon, shown to have been executed by
officers of the government, within the apparent scope of their
authority, were sufficient in the first instance to show that
the title of the government assumed by them to exist passed
by the conveyance which undertook to transfer it. In no
case, however, have they been held sufficient, where the fact
in issue was whether the government at that time had any
title to convey, to establish the fact in dispute, as against
parties claiming a preexisting adverse and paramount title in
themselves. All that can be reasonably or lawfully claimed
as the effect of such documents of title, is that they pass such
estate, and such estate only, as the government itself, in whose
name and on whose behalf the official acts appear to have
been done, had at the time, but not to conclude the fact that
the estate conveyed was lawfully vested in the grantor at the
time of the grant. This is the doctrine declared by this court
in the case of HMerron v. Dater, 120 'U. S. 464. In that case
it was sought to give effect to a recital in a patent from the
State of Pennsylvania as against the party who at the date
of the patent was shown to have a title good as against the
State. It was said by the court (p. 478): "Clearly that
recital was not evidence against the plaintiffs, for if the patent
could not take effect against them without it, it could not give
any effect to that recital. Their right had already vested
prior to the existence of the patent, and the grant to them
could not be affected by a subsequent grant to a stranger."
So in the present case, the question is not whether the title
which the King of Spain had to the lands in controversy
passed by the, documents in question to Garcia, but whether
at that date the King of Spain had the title which they purport to convey.
The law on this subject was stated by this court in its opinion delivered by Mhr. Justice Story in Carver v. Astor, 4 Pet.
1, 83, as follows: "It is laid down generally that a recital of
one deed in another binds the parties and those who claim
under them,. Technically speaking, it operates as an estoppel,
I

'OCTOBER

TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and binds parties and privies-privies in blood, privies in estate, and privies in law. But it does not bind mere strangers,
or those who claim by title paramount the deed. In does not
bind pers.orns claiming by an adverse title, or persons claiming
from the parties by title anterior to the date of the reciting deed.
Such is the general rule. But there are cases in which such
a recital may be used as evidence even against strangers, If,
for instance, there be the recital of a lease in a deed of release,
and in a suit against a stranger the title under the release
comes in question, there the recital of the lease in such release
is notper se evidence of the existence of the lease. But if the
existence and loss of the lease be established by other evidence,
there the recital is admissible as secondary proof, in the absence .of more perfect evidence, to establish the contents of
the lease; and if the transaction be an ancient one, and the
possession has been long held under such release, and is not
otherwise to be accounted for, there the recital will of itself,
under such circumstances, materially fortify the presumption
from lapse of time and length of possession of the original
existence of the lease."
So in United States v. Ross, 92 U. S. 281, this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Strong on this point, said (p. 284): "Because property was captured by a military officer and sent
forward by him, and because there is an unclaimed fund in the
treasury derived from the sales of property of the same kind
as that captured, because onmi presumuntur rite esse data,,

and officers are presumed to have done their duty, it is not the
law that a court can conclude that the property was delivered
by the military officer to a treasury agent, that it was sold by
him, and that the proceeds were covered into the treasury.
The presumption that public officers have done their duty, like
the presumption of innocence, is undoubtedly a legal presumption, but it does not supply proof of a substantive fact. Best,
in-his Treatise on Evidence,  300, says: 'The true principle
intended to be asserted by the rule seems to be, that there is
a general disposition in courts of justice to uphold judicial
and other acts rather than to render them inoperative; and
with this view, where there is general evidence of facts having

SABARIEGO

v. MAVERICK.

Opinion of the Court.

been legally and regularly done, to dispense with proof of circumstances, strictly speaking, essential to the validity of those
acts, and by which they were probably accompanied in most
instances, although in others the assumption may rest ou
grounds of public policy.' Nowhere is the presumption held
to be a substitute for proof of an independent and material
fact."
It is contended, however, by counsel for the plaintiffs in
error that the validity and effect of the documents under consideration must be tried by the system of.law in force in the
locality at the time, of the transactions, and that, by reference
to the Spanish law in force at the time in Mexico, the documentary evidence offered was sufficient to establish prima
facie the title of Garcia as legitimately derived through a confiscation and sale of the property of M iguel Losoya.
By that law, as it appears, among the cases of treason the
following is enumerated: "The third- is, if any one induce, by
deed or advice, a country or people, owing obedience to their
king, to rise against him, or not to obey him as well' as they
formerly did." (Ley 1, tit. 2, partida 7; Law 5, tit. 32 of the
Ordenamiento de Alcula; Recopilacion, Ley 1, tit. 8, 18 lib. 8.)
"The punishment of death and confiscation of property is
inflicted upon persons guilty of this crime." (L. 2, tit. 18, lib.
8, Rec., 1 White's New Recopilacion, 255.)
It is admitted that, by the provisions of the Spanish law in
force at the time, confiscation of property as a punishment for
the crime of treason could only be effected by regular judicial
proceedings. The text cited on that point is Ley 4, tit. 7,lib.
12, of the Kovisima Recopilacion, as follows: " It is not our
will that such persons should forfeit their property and offices
without having first been heard and found guilty, and let the
laws of our kingdom be observed in such case, unless their
treason or e'il deed be notorious." The authority of the king
to take c9gnizance of cases of confiscation as a punishment
for treason was entrusted in the Spanish colonies to other
functionaries designated for the territory of New Spain, which
subsequently became the Mexican Republic, in the Real
Ordenanza, or Royal Ordinance, for the establishment and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887:

Opinion of the Court.

instruction of the army and provincial intendants of the kingdom of New Spain, December 4, 1786. It is to Article 82 of
this Ordenanza that the 'asesor,' Josef iRuiz de Aguirre, refers
as the ground for recommending the sale of the property in
question in one of the documents offered in evidence.
The following summary of the provisions of the Ordenanza
bearing on that point is taken from the opinion of Sefior
Emilio Velasco furnished by counsel for the plaintiffs in error,
and to which reference has already been made:
"In Article 1 of the Ordenanza twelve intendancies were
established, one of which was that of San Luis Potosi. In
Article 7 it was provided that the alcalde mayor, or corregidor
(chief alcalde or corregidor) of San Luis Potosi should be
united with the intendancy established in its capital and
province. For this reason, in the procedure of confiscation,
the title of the intendant corregidor of San Luis Potosi is
assumed. This government by intendants continued until the
independence of Mexico. -(Hall's Mex. Law,  16.)
"The intendants were very high functionaries in the colony.
The king reserved to himself their appointment (see end of
Article 1). Their functions were various and of very different
nature from each other. In Article 7 it was ordered that they
should take charge of the Departments of Justice, of Police,
of Finance, and War. Each of these departments embraced
highly important business of various kinds, minutely mentioned
in the Ordenanza.
"Article 10 provides that the civi and military governors.
among them the governor of Texas, should subsist. These
governors still retained cognizance of judicial and police matters, together with the military command of their respective
territories and natters pertaining to the Departments of
Finance and War. The same article, at its close, provided
that the intendants should appoint as their sub-delegates the
said governors within the territories of their respective commands.
"Article 77 also says, in order that the mandates of the
intendants be complied with in relation to this matter (the Department of Finance) Ajd to that of War, . . . they shall

SABARTEGO

v. MAVERICK.

Opinion of the Court.

appoint
sub-delegates only for matters of controversy
connected with these two branches, it being understood that in
the capitals and the districts of the
government the
said sub-delegate shall be attributed to the governors themselves as is provided in Article 10.
"In the same Ordenanza, the matter of the Department of
Finance is included, in Articles 75 to 249, and, among them,
Article 82 is included. This article refers to confiscation
which, therefore, belonged to the Department of Finance, in
which the governor of Texas acted as sub-delegate of the
intendant; and, on this account, it is to be observed, in the
procedure of the confiscation of Losoya's property, that the
governor applied to the intendant of San Luis Potosi for
instructions, and acted according to the-orders of the latter.
As said before, the functions of the intendants were variousThe whole administration of the Department of War was.
entrusted to them; that which referred to taxation and fiscal
property also pertained to them; they were the superior
authority in the Department of Police; and, finally, they were
judicial authorities.
"In this latter capacity their functions were exceedingly
comprehensive. The intendants were Chief Justices in their
provinces, and were entrusted with the jurisdiction which formerly belonged to the corregidores and chief alcaldes (Art. 11).
Article 21 specifies the laws to which, in the admifiistration of
justice, they ought to subject themselves. Articles 22 and 23
confer upon them the power of supervision and vigilance over
the other justices of the province.
"Each intendant should have a ' Teniente Letrado' deputy versed in law. The powers of this ' Teniente Letrado,'
as a judicial functionary, had a dual character (Art. 15). By
himself, in civil and criminal cases, he exercised contentious.
jurisdiction; in this point of view he was independent of the
intendant's court, and his sentences were appealed from before
the audiencia (Art. 19). But, besides this, he was 'asesor'
(adviser) of the intendant; in this capacity all the intendancy's
busiiess; whether administrative or judicial, wherein a legal
question was involved, was referred to him for his opinion to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

enable the intendant to act. In this point of view the 'asesor'
was an integrant part and parcel of the intendancy's court.
For this reason in the procedure relating to the confiscation of
Miguel Losoya's property the intendant, Don Mfanuel de Acevedo, called for the opinion of the 'asesor,' Don Xose Ruiz de
Aguirre."
Axrticle 82 of the Ordenanza provides as follows:
"In cases of confiscation of property situated in their provinces (those under an intendant) and of which. a viceroy, the
commanding general of the frontiers, the audiencias, or other
tribunals have cognizance, they (the intendants) ought not to
intervene without a special permission or trust from them (the
viceroy, the commanding general, the audiencia or other tribunal) while the said property is kept sequestered; but, if the
same come to be confiscated by a sentence ordered to be
executed, it shall be the special duty of the intendant to proceed to the alienation thereof, and 'the collection of the proceeds, and also to take cognizance of all claims and controversies subsequently arising upon the confiscated property."
It is argued from this and the other provisions of 'the Ordenanza that the commanding general of the frontiers had the
right in the matter of confiscation to take cognizance and pronounce sentence, not only as acting in the exercise of his military command, but as in charge of civil administration as a
tribunal of justice; it being his duty in this matter to follow
the procedure established by law, and to exercise the powers
which the king himself exercises in the metropolis. It therefore pertained to him to inquire whether or not the crime was
notorious, in order that he might pronounce sentence of confiscation without an actual hearing of the accused. In the proceedings relating to the confiscation of Miguel Losoya's property it is stated that "the commanding general of the eastern
provinces" confiscated this property. The intendant corregidor of San Luis Potosi, and his 'asesor,' recognized him as
such. It is, therefore, inferred that the commanding general
of the eastern provinces was a commanding general of the
frontiers, in the sense of Article 82 of the Ordenanza, and consequently had power to take cognizance of matters of confiscation.

SABARIEGO

v. MAVERICK.

Opinion of the. Court.

Article 78 of the Ordenanza is also referred to. It reads as
follows:
"As to what pertains to the exercise of contentious jurisdiction in the proceedings and business of my revenue, the intendants shall take special and exclusive cognizance, with inhibition
of all magistrates, tribunals, and audiences of that kingdom.
. . . They shall also act in all causes in which any interest
may accrue . . . to my royal exchequer, or which may

pertain to any of the branches or rights thereof under administration or in lease, both in respect to collection and to all
matters incident thereto."
From this it appears that, confiscation once declared, the
property belonged to the fiscal, and, therefore, as property in
which the foyal exchequer held an interest, it remained subject
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the intendants, both in ordering
the sale and for taking cognizance of controversies raised concerning it. According to Article 77, the military governors
were sub-delegates to the intendant, and subordinate to him
in authority, and their powers, in reference to the two branches
of administration included under the head of finance and war,
extended only to the institution of proceedings by them until
they were placed in a position for final adjudication, when
their proceedings were required to be forwarded to the itendant of the province for his decision, in concurrence with his
asesor.'
In the present case-it is shown by the documents that the
governor of Texas instituted the proceedings in the condition
in which the confiscated property was in 1817. The purpose
of this procedure was to effect the sale of the property as confiscated. Under Article 77 it pertained to him to institute it;
but the sentence that had to be pronounced, as to whether or
iot it must be sold, whether or not there was a legal cause for
sale, and whether or not the condition of the property was
such as to require a sale, was- a judgment which could only be
pronounced by the intendant after having heard his Iasesor.'
The intendant and his 'asesor,' therefore, in the determination
of this point, were called upon to inquire whether the confiscation was legal, or, in other words, whether a competent
VOl. cxv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Courf.

authority had ordered it. In the present case, as appears by
the documents, the intendant and his ' asesor' assumed that the
commanding general of- the eastern provinces had made the
confiscation; they considered as sufficient proof of that fact
the statement contained in the proceedings instituted by the
governor of Texas. It is thence inferred and argued that
their decision in this case, directing the sale of the property,
was the exercise of jurisdiction in a judicial capacity, wherein
they were required to examine and settle the proofs of the
existence of the fact of confiscation, and that, therefore, the
order directing the sale adjudged the fact and the legality of
the confiscation, without which that sale could not have been
authorized. It is thus sought to give to the recitals contained
in the dbcuments the force of a judicial determination operating
as conclusive evidence of the fact supposed to be*contained
in it.
It will be observed, however, that this reasoning in, regard
to the probative force of the documents in question does not
rest upon any positive provision of the Spanish law then and
there in force giving that effect to such recitals. The only
positive provision on that subject to which we are referred is.
that contained in Ley 1, tit. 18, partida 3, which says: "Every
writing executed by the hand of a notary public of the council,
or sealed with the king's seal, or with that of any other person
having authority to affix his seal, is an authentic act (escrizbra)
which is of itself full proof. From the faith given to these
writings the greatest good arises; for they are the evidence of
what has taken place, and full proof of the contract they contain." 1 Mforeau and Carleton's Partidas, 222, tit. 18, law 1.
We do not, however, understand this provision as giving to.
such instrument any greater effect as evidence than similar
documents have in our own law. They are proof, in solemn
form, as ordained by the law, which defines the mode of their
dxecution and preservation, of the transaction which they
record and consummate. They certainly cannot be regarded
as conclusive proof as to all persons, whether parties or not,
of every fact to which they refer, or the existence of which
seems to be implied.

SA-BARIEGO v.

MAVERICK.

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the documents in question declare that
the property of Miguel Losoya is in the hands of public officers charged with its custody, as having been confiscated with
that of others described as rebels, and regular and appropriate
steps are officially taken to procure its sale as such. To justify the lawfulness of these proceedings unquestionably requires us to assume a prior and legal procedure against Miguel
Losoya, resulting in the confiscation of his property for the
alleged offence in accordance with existing law; but the legality of the procedure resulting in the sale of his property on
the basis of that assumption is the very thing in question to
be proved, and we are at last still confronted with the inquiry
whether the absence of proof of the principal fact, on which
the legality of everything succeeding it depends, can be supplied by a mere presumption.
In considering this question further, it is to be remarked
that the documents under consideration do not even expressly
recite that an judicial proceeding whatever was had against
Miguel Losoya charging him with treason, that he ever had
xiotice of such an accusation, or an opportunity to appear and
defend against it; or, in the alternative, that his offence was
found to be notorious, so as to dispense with any other notice
-than that given by the actual seizure of his property as the
proper subject of confiscation. Nor in fact is it expressly
stated that there had been any official seizure of the property
for purposes of confiscation in any judicial proceeding. All
these are the matters the existence of which we are asked to
infer from the simple fact, which these documents do attest,
that the property of Miguel Losoya was sold to Garcia by
order of the intendant of San Luis Potosi, as though it had
been regularly proceeded against and adjudged to be coniscated. In the absence of any positive provision of the local
law to the contrary, we are bound to determine this question
upon those principles of right reason and abstract justice which
are recognized in our own system of jurisprudence. The presumption to which we are asked to resort for an answer to the
question is, however, not peculiar to any system of law. It is
found in the law of all civilized States, and the phrases in

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

which the maxim is expressed are taken from the civil law,
the basis of the jurisprudence of Spain as of all other Euro-,
pean states, and imported into the common law of England
as adopted by us. Omnia rcmsumuntur Pite esse acta is its
familiar form, but as said by Mr. Best (Principles of Evidence,  353, 361): "The extent to which presumptions will
be made in support of acts depends very much on whether
they are favored or not by law, and also on thu nature of the
fact required to be presumed." It does not apply to give
jurisdiction to 'magistrates or other inferior tribunals; nor to
give jurisdiction in proceedings not according to the common
course of justice.
We are asked to assume that Miguel Losoya was guilty of
the offence of treason against the King of Spain, and that he
was so adjudged in regular judicial proceedings, on the basis
of which conviction his property was officially seized and confiscated; and this we are asked to do as a judicial tribunal,
sitting in a case wherein we are called to apply and administer
the laws of Mexico, our government being the successor of
that republic, as the republic was the successor of the Spanish
government, in order to justify the taking of Miguel Losoya's
property and transferring it to another for the sole offence on
his part of assisting to achieve the independence of his own'
country, whose justice is now invoked against him. If we had
before us an actual-and formal decree of a competent tribunal
adjudging him guilty of the offence, and confiscating, his
property in punishment therefor, that of itself would not
be sufficient to establish its own validity. We should still
require record evidence of the existence of those facts which
brought him and his property within the jurisdiction of the
tribunal pronouncing such a decree. "Wherever one is assailed in his person or his property," said this court in 3ritdsor v. 3.fc 37 ih, 93 U. S. 274, 277, "there he may defend, for
the liability and the right are inseparable. This is a principle
of natural justice, recognized as such by the common intelligence and conscience of all nations. A sentence of a court
pronounced against a party, without hearing him or giving
him an opportunity to be heard, is not a judicial determi-

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Opinion of the Court.

-

nation of his rights, and is not entitled to respect in any other
The jurisdiction acquired by the court by
tribunal.
seizure o the res was not to condemn the property without
further proceedings. The physical seizure did not of itself
establish the allegations of the libel, and could not, therefore,
authorize the immediate forfeiture of the property seized. A
sentence rendered simply from the fact of seizure would not
be a judicial determination of the question of forfeiture, but a
mere arbitrary edict of the judicial officer." To the sanie
effect is the case of Alexander v. Fai,'fax, 95 U. S. 774. The
subject was very thoroughly examined by Mr. Justice Story
in Bradbsteet v. Neptune In.urance Co., 3 Sumner, 600. In
that case, the question discussed had relation to the effect to'
be given to the decree and sentence of a foreign court of
gdmiralty and prize in ren. The learned justice said (p. 608):
"I hold, therefore, that if it does not appear upon the face of
the record of the proceedings in rem that some specific offence
is charged for which the forfeiture in rer is sought, and that
due notice of the prodeedings has been given, either person-,
ally, or by some public proclamation, or by some notification
or monition, acting in rem or attaching to the thing, so that
the parties in interest may appear and make defence, and in
point of fact the sentence of condemnation has passed upon
exoparte statements without their appearance, it is not a judicial sentence conclusive upon the rights of foreigners, or to be
treated in the tribunals of foreign nations as importing verity
in its statements or proofs." In another place he said: "It
amounts to little more in common sense and common honesty
than the sentence of the tribunal which first punishes and
then hears the party - castigakue auditjue."
This was said, it is true, of the effect to be given in our
courts to the decree of a court in a foreign jurisdiction. But
the rule is the same in regard to domestic judgments, the
'records of which, to be effective as evidence, must show upon
their face a case within the apparent jurisdiction of the court.
If the mere decree and sentence of a court standing by itself,
without the record of those prior proceedings necessary in law
to support the judgment, is not receivable in evidence as proof

OCTOBER TERM,, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of its own legality, a fortiori no effect can be given to the
,proceedings in this case, unless sustained by proof of the
actual proceedings against Miguel Losoya and his property
conducted according to law to a sentence of judicial confiscation. The mere recital of the fact in the doounments of sale is
not evidence of the fact.
The statement made by Captain Don Francisco del Prado y
Arce 'in the inventory dated October 27, 1814, that the property described in-the list was confiscated by order of the commanding general, Brigadier Joaquin de Arredondo, while, as
contended, it may be regarded as an affirmation on his part of
the fact connected with the exercise of his public functions,
is nevertheless not a certificate of the fact which he was by
law authorized to. make as proof of its existence. So when
the governor of Texas forwards that inventory to the intendant of San Luis Potosi, and in his communication states that
the property had been sequestered from the insurgents, who,
in 1811, took part in the revolution in Texas, it is a mere narration of a fact supposed to exist by him on the authority of
others, and not by virtue of any lawfhl authority on his part
to certify to its truth. Neither can the opinion of Don Jos6
Ruiz de Aguirre, the 'asesor' of the intendancy of San Luis
Potosi, and the order of the intendant, Don Manuel de
Acevedo, concurring in the opinion, be regarded as a judicial
finding of the fact that the property had been confiscated by
the order of the commanding general of the eastern provinces.
It is not shown, and is not pretended, that these officers had
any authority under the law to pass judicially upon the question of the fact or the regularity of proceedings for confiscating the property of offenders, which must have taken place
within the jurisdiction of another and a superior authority:
nor is anything to be inferred from the fact recited that a
report of the decision of these functionaries should be forwarded to the commanding general. It does not appear as a
fact that they were laid before him, or were approved by him,
and if they had been, his approval could not be construed to
extend beyond the formal regularity of their proceedings in
the sale. Notwithstanding all these recitals, and the infer-

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Opinion of the Court.

ences and implications that are sought to be drawn from them,
it still remains that the alleged confiscation of the property of
[iguel Losoya, if it ever took place, could have been lawfully
effected only by means of a formal judicial proceeding, which
must be primarily proved by the official record of the transdction or a duly certified copy thereof, and, secondarily, in
case of its. loss, by proof of its previous existence 'and of its
contents. The certificates of other officers referring to it only
incidentally and collaterally, although as the basis of their
own official action, are not legal proof of the fact itself.
This principle is illustrated by the case of Atwell v. Winterport, 60 Mahii, 250, where it was decided that a certificate,
officially signed by the provost-marshal of the district, that
the plaintiff "has this day been credited as a recruit in the
navy to the?' defendant town "by order of the A. A. Pro.Mar.-Gen. of Maine," was not legal evidence of his enlistment.
Appleton, C. J., said: "The fact of enlistment is a matter of
record. It must be proved by a duly authenticated copy
from the army records. A sworn copy is admissible, or a
copy certified by the proper certifying officer. But the certificate offered is not and does no4 purport to be a copy of
any recorded fact or of any record. It is the assertion of the
person certify'ng that the fact therein stated is true. A mere
certificate that a certain fact appears of record, without the
production of an authenticated copy of the record, is not
evidence of the existence of the fact."
There are certain departments of scientific kmowledge where
an entire series of facts or forms may always be inferred from
the existence of any one, according to the maxim ex pede llerelen-. The conclusion in such cases is deduced from the observed uniformity of physical nature, which by a necessity of
our own minds we believe to be invariable. But this mode of
reasoning has but a very limited application in the law of evidence as judicially applied to ascertain the facts and motives
of human conduct. It is the foundation of the doctrine of
presumptions to the extent to which they are admitted, the
limits of which in its application to the circumstances of this
case we have already considered. The principal fact in con-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

troversy in this case is one of that nature, which the policy of
the law requires to be proved by direct evidence of a formal
character. The absence of that proof cannot be supplied by
argument and inference- from casual and collateral circumstances.
It is further argued, however, that, admitting this to be the
case so far as Miguel Losoya is concerned, and those claiming
title under him, nevertheless the documents are sufficient evidence, in the first instance, against every one else, and that
consequently the defendants in this action are not entitled to
make the objection. In support of this contention it is said:
"Among the laws quoted by Escriche is Ley 50, tit. 5, partida 5, in the final part whereof it is said, that if a thing belonging to another person is sold to two persons at different
times, he who took possession first has the better right to it,
always reserving the right of the true owner; consequently,
color of title, coupled with possession, gave to the vendee a real
right against every one except the owner, and, therefore, it is
not lawful for third parties to impugn tl{e title, thus exercising
the right reserved alone to the owner or his successors.
"If subsequently to taking possession the vendee loses possession before prescribing the thing, his right is superior to
that of all persons except the owner. He may pursue his
action against third parties in the capacity of owner, resting
on the purchase and on subsequent possession, because third
parties have no right to question' the validity of the- title. In
such case judgment should be pronounced declaring ownership in favor of the vendee; but such judgment bears no
prejudice to the true owner who had not litigated, and who,
during the term of prescription, may either exercise his right
de dominio, or in case the thing has returned to his power,
oppose the exception de dominio against the person who
would sue him for it."
This is also the.rule of the common law as declared by this
court in the case of C6'Xisy v. Scott, 14 How. 282, where 'it
was applied to a case from Texas arising under a Mexican
title. The court, speaking by Mr. Justice Curtis, (p. 292,)
said: "According to the settled principles of the common

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Opinion of the Court.

law, this is not a defence to the action. The plaintiff says
he was seized in fee, and the defendant ejected him from the
possession. The defendant, not denying this, answers that if
the plaintiff had any paper title it was under a certain grant
which was not valid. He shows no title whatever in himself.
But a mere intruder cannot enter on a person actually seized
and eject him, and then question his title or set up an outstanding title in another. The maxim that the plaintiff must
recover on the strength of his own title, and not on the weakness of the defendant's, is applicable to all actions for the
recovery of property. But if the plaintiff had actual prior
possession of the land, this is strong enough to enable him to
recover it from a mere trespasser who entered without any
title. Ee may do so by a writ of entry, where that remedy
is still, practiced, (Jackson v. Boston and WForcester Rai road,
1 Cush. (Mfass.) 575,) or by an ejectment, (Allen v. Rivihgton,
2 Saund. 111; .Doe v. Read, 8 East, 356; Doe v. Dyoll, 1
Moo. & M. 346; Jackson V. Haren, 2 Johns. (N. Y.) 438;
Whitney v. Wright, 15 *Wend. (N. Y.) 171,) or he may maintain trespass (Catteris v. .Cowver, 4 Taunt.. 548; Graham v.
Peat, 1 East, 246). Nor is there anything in the form of the
remedy in Texas which renders these principles inapplicable
to this case."
This rule is founded upon the presumption that every possession peaceably acquired is lawful, and is sustained by the
policy of protecting the public peace against violence and
disorder. But, as it is intended to prevent and redress trespasses and wrongs, it is limited to cases where the defendants
are trespassers and wrongdoers. It is, therefore, qualified in
its application by the circumstances which constitute the origin
of the adverse possession, and the character of the claim on
which it is defended. It does not extend to cases where the
defendant has acquired the possession peaceably and in good
faith, under color of title. -Lessee of Fowe v. Whiteman, 2
Ohio St. 270; -Drew v. Swift, 46 N. Y. 204. And in the language of the Supreme Court of Texas in Wilson v. Palmer,
1.8 Texas, 592, 595, "The evidence must show a continuous
pdssession, or at least that it was not abandoned, to entitle a

, (CTOBER

TERM, 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff to recover merely by virtue of such possession." That
is to say, the defendant's possession is in the first instance presumed to be rightful. To overcome that presumption the
plaintiff, showing no better right by a title regularly deduced,
is bound to prove that, being himself in prior possession, he
was deprived of it by a wrongful intrusion by the defendant,
whose possession, therefore, originated in a trespass. This
implies that the prior possession relied on by the plaintiff
must have continued until it was lost through the wrongful
act of the defendant in dispossessing him. If the plaintiff
cannot show an actual possession, and a wrongful dispossession
by the defendant, but claims a constructive possession, he must
still show the facts amounting to such constructive possession.
If the lands, when entered upon by the defendant, were apparently vacant and actually unoccupied, and the plaintiff merely
proves an antecedent possession, at some prior time, he must
go further and show that his actual possession was not abandoned; otherwise he cannot, be said to have had even a constructive possession.
To the same effect are the cases of Jacksor v. Walker, 't
Cowen, 637; Jackson v. Denn, 5 Cowen, 200. In Smith v.
Lorilla'rd,10 Johns. 338, 356, Kent, Chief Justice, said: "A
prior possession short of 'twenty years, under a claim or assertion of right, will prevail over a subsequent possession of less
than twenty years when no'other evidence of title appears on
either side. There are many decisions of this court which
look to this point. Jackson v. Mazen, 2 Johns. 22; Jackson v.
Afyers, 3 Johns. 388; Jackson v. Harder,4 Johns. 202., It is,
however, to be understood in the cases to which the rule of
evidence applies, that the prior possession of the plaintiff had
not been voluntarily relinquished without the animus revertendi, (as is fiequently the case with possessions taken by
squatters,)and that the subsequent possession of the defendants
was acquired by mere. entry, without any lawful right. That
the first possession should in such cases be the better evidence
of right seems to be the just and necessary inference of law.
The ejectment is a possessory action, and possession is always
presumption of right, and it stands good' until other and

SABARIEGO v. MAVERICK.
Opinion of the Court.

stronger evidence destroys that presumption. This presumption of right every possessor of land has in the first instance,
and after a continued possession for twenty years under pretence or claim of right, the actual possession ripens into a right
of possession which will toll an entry; but until the possession
of the tenant -has become so matured, it would seem to follow
that if the plaintiff shows a prior possession, and upon which
the defendant entered without its having been formally abandoned as derelict, the presumption which arose from the tenant's possession is transferred to the prior possession of the
plaintiff, and the tenant, to recall that presumption, must show
a still prior possession; and so the presumption may be removed from one side to the other, toties quoties, until one party
or the other has shown a possession which cannot be overreached, or puts an end to the doctrine of presumptions founded
on mere possession by showing a regular legal title or a right
of possession."
In Jack on v. R2ightmyre, 16 Johns. 313, Chancellor Keht,
delivering the opinion of the Court of Errors, speaks of .the
rule expressed by himself in the case of Smith v. Lorillard,
and says that its qualifications are "that no other evidence of
title appeared on either side, and that the subsequent possession of the defendant was acquired by mere entry without
any legal right."
It therefore appears that prior possession is sufficient to entitle a party to recover in an action of ejectment only against
a mere intruder or wrongdoer, or a person subsequently entering without right. Another qualification of the rule is, that
the action to regain the prior possession must be brought within
a reasonable time after it has been lost. If there has been
delay in bringing the suit, the anim/us qevertendi must be
shown and the delay satisfactorily accounted for, or the prior
possessor will be deemed to have abandoned his claim to the
possession. Thus in Whitney v. WVight, 15 Wendell, 171,
it was held that where there was a prior possession of eleven
years, and then an entry by the defendants claiming under a
title adverse to such possessory title, the omission to bring a
suit for thirteen years, with knowledge of the adverse entry

OCTOBER.:rER

,1 1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and continuance of possession under it, would authorize a jury
to find an abandonment of claim by the prior possessor.
In Jack?-mb v. Denn, 5 Cowen, 200, the defendant hail
entered on a vacant possession, without any claim or color of
title, and it was held that the plaintiff was entitled to recover
on the strength of his prior possession, but the reason why the
premises had been left vacant was explained by proving that
the plaintiff did not know that his tenant had left the property
until he found the defendant in possession.
It follows that in cases where the proof- on the part of the
plaintiff does not show a possession continuous until actual dixpossession by the defendant, or those under whom he clairns,
the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to slow that his prior
possession had not been abandoned.
There is nothing in the record to show that the evidence
offered and rejected was tendered as proof of a possessory title
relied upon as the basis of recovery by the plaintiffs. There
was certainly no distinct statement to that effect made to the
court by counsel i/hen the offer was made, and, for aught that
appears, the sole ground of the offer may have been the supposition tha" in some way the facts testified to in the depositions might be used to supply that defect in the evidence of the
existence of a, confiscation decree, on which the court ruled
that the documentary title was not complete. It is, nevertheless, true that the court did rule upon the offer made "that all
the said evidence read, as well as that proposed to be offered,
showed no title in the plaintiffs which would warrant a verdict and judgment in their favor." It may, therefore, with
reason now b contended by the plaintiffs in error that this
was, in effect, a direction to the jury to return a verdict for
the defendants-upon the whole case as contained in the documentary evidence admitted, coupled with the testimony
offered and rejected, and that they are entitled to the benefit
of their exception in any aspect of the case as thus made; and
from this it is argued that, having shown color of title by the
defective documents relating to the confiscation, and an entry
into possession under them, they were entitled to prove a continuance of that possession so as to authorize a recovery upon
the strength of that title alone.

UNITED STATES v. BOND.
Syllabus.

Assuming this to be so, the question is presented upon the
whole testimony as offered, taken in connection with the documents read, whether the plaintiffs had thereby presented such
a case as, in the absence of all other testimony, would have
justified a verdict in their favor. The evidence on the subject
contained in the depositions did not tend to establish any possession of the premises in dispute later than the year 1835.
At that time Garcia himself had died, his daughter had married in the year 1833, and from the year 1835 the mother and
daughter, with the husband of the latter, had left Texas and
gone into Mexico, where they have ever after remained. There
is no evidence whatever that after the year 1835 they exercised any dominion or control over this property in San Antonio, or were in possession of it through tenants or agents.
The proof, therefore, does not satisfy the rule as stated by the
authorities cited, for, although it shows that the possession on
the part of the plaintiffs had been originally acquired undercolor of title, it does not show that that possession had been
continuous and had not been abandoned. On the contrary, so
far as the proof extends, it leaves a period of time, from 1835
to 1843, when, it is alleged in the petition, that the defendants,
or those under whom they claim title, entered into possession,
entirely unaccounted for, and during which, so far as the
plaintiffs are concerned, the possession appears to have been
vacant and abandoned. It follows, therefore, that the court
committed no error in rejecting the offered proof of a prior
peaceable possession under color of title. The judgment is
accordingly
______Afirned.

UNITED STATES v. BOND.
APPEA-L FROM THE COURT OF OLAThXS.
Submitted January9, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

Claimant was a private in the Marine Corps, and one of the marines who
composed the organization known as the Marine Band. He performed
on the Capitol grounds and on the President's grounds under proper

