TRASK v. JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO.

515

Statement of the Case.

in civil suits, if the judgment of the appellate court be against
the appellant, it shall be rendered against him and his securities
in the appeal bond;" and this court has adjudged that provision to be valid. Prince's Laws, c. 45, ยง 5; Comp. Stat.
ยง 2206; BeaU v. New .Mexico,16 Wall. 535; .oore v. Huntington, 17 Wall. 411.
By the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory,
affirming the judgment of the district court as to the principal
sum due, and also as to interest to the extent of six per cent,
upon the plaintiffs' remitting the excess of four per cent interest, the judgment of the district court was affirmed, within the
meaning of the territorial statutes and of the appeal bond.
Butt v. Stinger, 4 Cranch C. C. 252; Page v. Johnson, 1 D.
Chip. 338.
The result is, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory was rightly rendered for the plaintiffs against
the sureties in the bond as well as against the principal
defendant, and must be
Afflrmed.

TRASK v. JACKSO:NVILLE, PENSACOLA AND MOBILE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued January 5, 6, 1883.-Decided February 6,1888.

On the proof in this case the court holds that Coddington, from whom
appellant bought the bonds which form the subject matter of the stilt,
took them with knowledge of such facts as would prevent him from
acquiring any title by purchase which lie could enforce, as a bona fide
holder, against the Florida Central Railroad Company, one of the appellees herMn; and that appellant as purchaser of the bonds occupies no
better position than Coddington.

BILL IN EQUITY, to collect of the Railroad Companies, defendants, certain bonds of the State of Florida, described in
the opinion of the court, which are conceded to be inyalid as

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

-against the State. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant
appealed. The case is stated i the opinion of the court.
_.. Stephen P. -tash for appellant.
was with him on the brief.

M[r. . P. Holland

.Mr. TFayne .Ac Veagh for appellees.
steen was with him on the brief.

-Mr. A. IT Winter-

Ma.

CiIE

JusrTCE WA=r

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Spencer Trask to collect 192 of
the 1000 bonds of the State of Florida, issued to the Florida
Central Railroad Company, which were the subject of consideration by this court in Railroad Companies v. Schutte, 103
UT.S. 118. In that case it was decided that, although the
bonds were void as against the State, the railroad company
that sold them was estopped fron, setting up their invalidity
as a defence to an action brought by a bona de holder to
enforce the lien the company had given on its property to
secure their payment. Accordingly a decree was rendered
establishing the lien of the holders of 197 bonds on the railroad of the company, and ordering a sale to pay the.amount
due thereon. Trask now claims to be a bona fjde holder of the
192 bonds he sues for, and seeks the same relief as to them.
He concedes the invalidity of the bonds so far as the State is
concerned, but as against the railroad company and its property claims the benefit of the same estoppel that was adjudged
in the other case to exist in favor of those who recovered
there.
The general facts as to the issue of the bonds are stited in
the case of Schutte, beginning at page 127 of the volume in
which it is reported (103). The correctness of our findings then
is not denied now. Indeed, Trask relies upon that decision as
the basis of his .right to recover, and the only disputed question is, whether he does in law and in fact occupy the position
of a bona file holder. That is substantially. a question of fact
only, and it presents itself in a double aspect. Trask got his
title from Thomas B. Coddington, and the inquiry is, first, as

TRASK

ii.

JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO.

517

Opinion of the Court.

to his own position separate from that of Coddington, and if
that is not sufficient then next as to that of Coddington, under
whom he claims.
We have carefully considered the testimony bearing on these
questions, both in the record as it has been printed in the
present case, and in that of the Schutte case brought into this
also by stipulation. It would serve no useful purpose to refer
to this testimony in detail, and it is sufficient to say that we
have had no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that Trask,
as a purchaser of the bonds, occupies no better position than
Coddington, from whom he bought. His purchase was made
September 12, 1881, at an auction sale in the city of New
York The bonds had then been running ten years and mbre,
and no interest had ever 'been paid upon them." As the sale
was made under the agreement of August 29, 1872, Trask is
chargeable with notice of the contents of that instrument,
which showed on its face that the bonds had been the subject
of litigation and had not been obtained by Coddington in the
ordinary course of bu~iness. His debt, for which they were
held, was $40,000, and the bonds, without interest, which had
been running ten years at eight per cent per annum, amounted
to $192,000. As the bonds were state bonds, the mere fact
that no interest had ever been paid furnished the strongest
presumptive evidence that they were dishonored. The interest
alone, if collected, would much more than pay the debt for
which the bonds were held. The circumstances connected
with the sale also were entirely inconsistent with the idea of a
purchase of commercial paper in good faith for a valuable
consideration without notice. No one present at the time
could have had any other understanding than that the sale
was of bonds which had been commercially dishonored.
We are equally well satisfied that Coddington was never in
any commercial sense a bone fide holder of the bonds. According to his own testimony he was originally the mere agent
of those who were engaged in perpetrating the fraud upon
the railroad company, and employed by them to get the bonds
from Florida to London, so that they might be sold and a
]arge part of the proceeds applied to the payment of the per-

OCTO18ER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sonal debts of one of the guilty parties. He undoubtedly did
this because he had been told that it would enable "the parties
in interest" to pay him the csh for $24,465 of coupons of
another company for which they were bound. He entered
into no contract with the Florida Central Company, and it
could never have been supposed by him that any part of the
proceeds were to be paid into its treasury or for its use. He
could not but have known that the whole purpose of his
employment was to get the bonds to London, where they had
been contracted to be sold at a price that would yield less
than half their fade value, and that he was himself to apply
more than half of this to the payment of the individual
debts of one of the large stockholders of the company, by
whose influence and in whose interest the railroad bonds had
been executed to be exchanged for the state bonds, which he
was to take away. Under such circumstances, it is certain
that he could have acquired no lien on the bonds as security
for any services he might render in transferring them to London, or for any liability he had incurred to third parties in
order to get the bonds away. His contract for the service,
and for the compensation he was to receive, was not with the
railroad company itself, but with the president of the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company, who was
engaged in appropriating the bonds issued to the Florida Central Company to his own use. This disposes of his claim of
lien on account of his services and liabilities as agent. He
was not the agent of the Florida Central Railroad Company,
and as it must be conceded that those for whom he was acting
had no title as against this company, there was nothing in his
hands to which any lien could attach in his favor any'more
than in favor of his principals.
As to the contract made with the Jacksonville, Pensacola
and Mobile Company on the 29th of August, 1872, by which
the 192 bonds were given to Coddington as security for a
debt owing to him by that company, little need be said. The
Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company had no legal
right to the bonds, and it could not, therefore, pledge them as
security for its debts. All this Coddington knew or ought to

FAYOLLE v. TEXAS &c. RAILROAD CO.

519 '

Statement of the Case.

have known. And besides, when this contract was made the
fraud and illegality in the original issue of the bonds, both by
the railroad company and the State, had become notorious,
and it is impossible that Coddington, situated as he was,
could have been ignorant of the facts. In order to get the
bonds away from Florida he was compelled to arrange with
certain stockholders of the Florida Central Company, who
had begun a suit to prevent their removal by the president of
the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company, on the
ground that he had no right to use the road of the Florida
Central Company "and cover it with liens to raise money to
pay private debts, notwithstanding he is the owner of a
majority of the stock." It is unnecessary to refer more particularly to the evidence. It is full and conclusiVe and leaves
no doubt on our minds as to the knowledge of Coddington of
such facts as would prevent him from acquiring any title to
the bonds he took away by purchasing them from any of the
parties engaged in the transaction, which he could enforce as
a majfe holder agaist the Florida Central Company.'
The decree of the Circuit Court is fJ 'med.

FAYOLLE

v.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC
COMPANY.

RAILROAD

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMIA.
Submitted January 30, 1888. - Decided February 6, 1888.

This appeal having become inoperative through failure to docket the case
here at the return term, and the excuse presented iot being sufficient to
give the appellants the benefit of the exceptions recognized in Grigsby
v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505, the court dismisses it.

THE following motion to dismiss was made in the cause:
"The appellee in the above entitled cause, by W. D. Davidge
and William H. Trescott, its solicitors, appearing specially for
the motion, now moves the court to dismiss the said cause for
the want of jurisdiction, because,

