OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, shall be.
reversed and the said cause remanded to the Circuit Court,
and a judgment be entered against said defendant for costs
herein, and that said mandate shall be issued at once."
It is, therefore, Qn motion, orderOd that the jidgment be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, costs in'this court to- be _paid
by the pllaintiff in error, and the cause remanded,with instructions to lproceed in accordancewith sucA stpulation.

IN RE CRAFT.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 16,1888. - Decided January 23, 1888.

An injunction restraining the prosecution of an action of replevin in a courtestablished under the authority of the United States involves of itself
no question of the validity'of an authority exercised under the United
States.

MR. R. H.

STEELE,

of counsel ior petitioners, moved the

court for leave to file a petition, for a writ of mandamus to
the Supreme Court of the Distilct of Columbia to compel the
allowance of an appeal in accordance with the prayer of*the
petitionem; whereupon, the Chief Justice announced that an
application had been made to him for the allowance of an
appeal in the cause, which application he now refers to the
court for its consideration, and directed that counsel for the
moving parties file a brief in behalf of their application.
Thereupon the counsel filed a paper entitled "brief," of.
which the following are the material parts.
"Your petitioners respectfully represent and submit thefollowing:
"That the .capse herein considered is entitled on the docket
record of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, thecourt bel6w, as Mary F. Crist, Complainant, v. Henry C. Craft,
Philip A. Crist, and Albert .A. Wilson, Defendants, Equity,
No. 10036, Cal., No. 80.
"-That, upon June 11th, 1886. the above named complainant

IN

RE CRAFT.

Statement of the Case.

filed her bill in the said court below, against the above named
defendants and appellants, which, substantially, contains the
following allegations, averments, and prayers, namely;
"1That the defendant, Philip A. Grist, is the husband of the
complainant; that they were married in 1869, and had living,
at the commencement of the action, four children, the eldest
of whom was sixteen, and the youngest was four years old;
that the said husband, Grist, ill treated her, and, although having a'comfortable income, furnished but little towards the support of the complainant, and of their children; that, for three
years prior to the filing of the bill, said defendant had treated
her so cruelly as to endanger her life and health, and make it
unsafe for her to live with him; that, in consequence of said,
acts of cruelty, and for the reasons of fault on the part of.said
defendant, the complainant, in order to avoid the public scandal of a divorce proceeding, entered into an agreement of separation with said defendant on October 11th, 1884; that the
complainant and her husband are living separate and apart
from each other, and that said agieement is now in full force
and effect; that complainant shows that said defendant has
persistingly evaded and endeavored to evade the terms of said
agreement; that, on May 18th, 1886, said defendant took forcible possession of his house and home, without the consent
and against the will of complainant; that her said husband
and the said defendant, Henry C. Craft, are now and have
been for a long time confidential friends, and that said Craft
is familiar with the details of said agreement of separation;
that the complainant has been in possession of the chattels,
hereinafter described, for a long period of time; that said
Craft, in pursuance of a conspiracy with her husband, on June
10th, 1886, filed at law in this honorable court, a declaration
of replevin, and had issued against complainant and her husband, jointLy, a writ of replevin, directed to said defendant
Wilson, as marshal, commanding him to take possession of all
of the household furniture described in said agreement of separation; that complainant has no remedy at law whatever in
the premises; that, therefore, for the above and other divers
reasons and complaints, by said complainant in said bill, she

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

prays that subpoena, may issue against each of said defendants,
to appear and answer the exigency of said bill; and that said
Wilson, his agents, &c., I be forever -enjoined from executing
the said writ of replevin, and from recovering said chattel,
and from delivering the same to either of said defendants,
Craft and her husband; and that said Craft and Crist may be
jointly and severally enjoined and forever restrained from
receiving said chattels under said proceedings, and from at-tempting in any manner to obtain possession or control of the
same;' that 'the title of said goods and chattels be vested
in complainant,' and 'such further relief as the nature of the
case may require.
"The bill, substantially as aforesaid, was filed on the same
day with and just after the filing of the declaration in said
action at law, namely, June 11th, 1886; and on the very
same day, and presumably just after the filing of the bill, a
' restraining order' was made and issued without notice to the
adverse parties, by the judge of said Supreme Court sitting in
'special term,' which order was ' returned as served,' simulta.
neously with the subpoena, on June 12th, 1886, the day after
said 'special injunction' was issued.
"The answer of the defendant Craft to said bill was filed on
June 18th, and that of the defendant Crist on July 7th, 1886.
"After due proceedings had by said court in ' special term,'
as fully shown by the docket files and record of said court, on
April 11th, 1887, the usual form of decree of perpetual injunc
tione, ' in accordance with Uhe prayers of said bill,' was ordered
and declared, with the exception of an appended paragraph,
namely : ' At the trial the court excluded all the testimony
of the complainant, except that portioti of it as against the
defendant Craft, which showed that he was aware of the
existence and terms of the articles of separation between the
plaintiff and her husband.'
"An appeal was duly taken, from said court in ' special
term' to the court in ' general term,' on April 14th, 1887 ; and
after a partial hearing in open court, - in the absence of the
original record from the files of the court, and against the
urgent plea of the same by the counsel for the appellants in

IN RE CRAFT.
Opinion of the Court.

the premises, - the briefs and the 'printed statement of

record' being afterwards duly submitted, the decree of the
court in 'special term' was affirmed by said appellate court,
on November 7th, 1887, and the opinion of the court, in writing, was delivered by the chief justice thereof.
"Your petitioners, therefore, claim that the more especial
grounds, among many others, for the allowance of the appeal
to the Supreme .Court of the United States in said cause, are
as follows, namely:
"That the said appeal was duly sought in said court for
this district, in open court and .under its prescribed practice
therefor; and that said alipeal was formally denied in open
court, - on November 28th, 1887;-- on the stated ground that
'this cause did not come within the statute so as to give any
right of appeal;' and that said denial was thus formally
maintained, notwithstanding that the second section of the
statute now in force, namely, the act. of March 3d, 1885, c.
355, 23 Stat. 443, was duly and urgently pressed upon the
attention and consideration of said court, in direct connection
With the aforesaid claim, then and there made, 'that the
authority of the proceedings had, and upon which the said
decree depended, were challenged and dtawn in question. I"
The brief made at length several other claims why the
request of the petitioner should be granted, the substance of
each and all being that the 'action of the court below had
drawn in question the validity of an authority*exercised under
the United States, citing: Willson v. Blackbird Creek .7iarsh
6o., 2 Pet. 245; -Davis v. Packard, 7"Pet. 276; Crowell v.

Randal, 10 Pet. 368; Hollingsworth v. Barour,4 Pet. 466;
lV
o eigA v. United States, 11 Wall. 259; Windsor v. .McVeigh,
93 U. S. 274; Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat.
738; Harding v. Handy, 11 Wheat. 103; Vlattier v. Hinde,
7 Pet. 252; Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1; Hff v. Babin, 19
]low. 271.
IMm CmF JusxcE

WAriT

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied. The amount in dispute is less than
$5000, and we cannot discover that the decree involves the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

decision of any such federal question as will authorize an
appeal to this court under ยง 2 of the act of March 3, 1885, 23
Stat. 443, c. 355. An injunction restraining a person from
prosecuting an ordinary suit in replevin in a court established
under the authority of the United States, does not necessarily
involve a question of "the validity of a treaty or statute of or
an authority exercised under the United States."
Dei6id.

IRQN SILVER MINING OOKPANY v. REYNOLDS.
ERROR TO

THE

ciROi

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 4, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

Plaintiff's complaint alleged that he was owner and in possession of a tract
of mining land described by metes and bounds and known as the Wells
and Moyer placer claim, and that while he was thus owner and possessor
defendant entered upon a.portion of it and *r'vongfully ousted him therefrom. Defendant denied these allegations and set up that at"the times
named he was owner and in possession of two lode mining claims known
as the Crown Point and the Pinnacle lodes, and that in working and following them he entered underneath the exterior surface lines of the placer
claim, and had not otherwise ousted plaintiff, and that these two lodes
were known to exist at the time of the application for plaintiff's patent,
and were not included in it. Plaintiff's replication traversed these defences, and further set up that at the times named he was owner, and in
possession, of two claims known as the Rock lode and the Dome lode,
immediately adjoining the Crown Point and Pinnacle lodes, and that
within their boundaries there was a mineral vein or-lode, which, in its.
dip , entered the ground covered by those claims, and that any portion of
any vein or lode, developed underneath the surface of the Crown Point
and Pinnacle lodes, was part of the Rock and Dome lodes. On these
pleadings plaintiff at the trial, in addition to the patent of the placer
claim, which was admitted without objection, offered in evidence a patent
for the Rock and Dome lodes, and a deed of them to him, to show tbt
the lode which, since the issue of the patent for the placer claim, had
been ascertained to dip into the -boundarie. of that claim, had its apex
within the boundaries of those lode claims. The court refused to admit
this evidence. Reld, that this was error, as the facts thus. offered to
be proved, if established, would force defendant from his position of

