BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of the Case.

seems to me, should receive a negative answer. I do not
understand the court to decide that the Circuit Court could
not, under any circumstances, or by any mode of proceeding,
enforce the rights which the plaintiffs contend are about to be
violated by the defendants; but only, that the court below,
sitting in equity, had no authority to interfere with the proposed action of the defendants. It seems to me that this
question would properly arise upon appeal from any final
decree rendered in the cause, and is not determinable upon
writ of Aabeas corpu.
Upon the delivery of the opinions in this case, Mr&. Attorney
General stated to the court, in open court, that he would take notice
of the order awarding the writ, and that he would order the discharge of the prisoners, without requiring the issue of the writ.

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE -UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted December 6, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

The entry of final judgment on demurrer concludes the parties to it, by way
of estoppel, in a subsequent action between the same parties on a different claim, so far as the new controversy relates to the. matters litigated
and determined in the prior action.
A final judgment for defendant in an action against a municipal corporation
to recover on coupons attached to bonds purporting to have been issued
by the corporation, entered on demurrer to an answer setting up facts
shoving that the bonds were never executed by the municipality, concludes the plaintiff in a subsequent action against the municipality to
recover on other coupons cut from the same bonds.
Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S. 351, distinguished.

THE following was the case, as stated by the court.
In October, 1880, the plaintiff below, who is also plaintiff in
error here, commenced an action in the Circuit Court of the
VOL. CXXIV-15

OCTOBER TERM, -1887.
Stdtement of the Case.

United States for the District of Kansas, to recover the amount
due on several interest coupons of seventy-three bonds- of one
thousand dollars each, purporting to have been issued by
Spring Valley Township, a municipal corporation of Kansas,
to aid the Atlantic and Pacific Railway Company in the construction of a railroad through the limits of the township. The
petition alleged that pursuant to the act of the Legislature of
the State, entitled " An act to enable municipal townships to
subscribe for stock in any railroad, and to provide for the
payment of the same," approved February 25, 1879, and in
pursuance of an order of the Board of County Commissioners
of the County of Cherokee, in the State of Kansas, and a vote
of more than three-fifths of the qualified voters of the township, voting at an election held for that purpose, the township
issued,'among others, seventy-three negotiable bonds, bearing
date December 15, 1871, by each of which it promised to pay,
fifteen years after date, to the railroad company or bearer,
one thousand dollars, with interest at the rate of seven per
cent per annum, with coupons for the interest attached; that
afterwards each of the bonds, with the coupons, was put upon
the market, and sold and delivered to boncftde purchasers for
full value; that in April, 1872, each of the said bonds, with
the coupons attached, was registered in the office of the Auditor of the State, and on each a certificate of such registration
was indorsed; that after the issue and delivery of the bonds,
and before their maturity, or the maturity of either of them,
or of the coupons sued upon, they were sold and delivered to
the plaintiff for the price of ninety cents on the dollar thereof;
and that when said coupons became due, they were presented
for payment at the place where they were made payable, and
payment was refused. The plaintiff therefore asked judgment
for the amount due upon them. Attached to the petition was
a copy of one of the coupons and of one of the bonds, the
several coupons and bonds being, except in their numbers,
similar to the copies annexed. The bonds were signed "William H. Clark, Chairman Board of County Commissioners,"
and "J.G. Dunlavy, County Clerk." The coupons were signed
in the same way, except that preceding the name of. Dunlavy

-

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of the Case.

was the word "attest." The act of Kansas, under which the
bonds. pprported to be issued, required that they should "be
signed by the chairman of the Board of County Commissioners,
and attested by the clerk, under the seal of the county."
To that petition the defendant answered, setting up various
matters of defence, and among others that J. G. Dunlavy,
whose name appeared on the bonds as county clerk, never
signed or authorized his name to be signed to the bonds or
to the coupons, nor did he affix to them, or authorize to be
affixed, the seal of the county.. A demurrer was interposed
to several of the defences, and among others to the one containing this allegation respecting the alleged signature of Dunlavy. The Circuit Court overruled the demurrer so far as it
related to this defence, holding that the municipality could
not be.bound upon an instrument of that character unless it
was executed by the officers named in the statute; that a purchaser must inquire whether the bonds and coupons were so
executed; that if the instruments were not signed by the
proper officers, but by persons having no authority, or color
of authority, they were void; and that the allegation charged
this in substance.
The defendant then filed an amended answer, setting up
among other things the same matter -that Dunlavy, whose
name appeared on the bonds as county clerk, never signed or
authorized his name to be signed to said bonds or coupons, nor
did he affix or authorize to be affixed the seal of the county to
them. .To this answer the plaintiff replied, admitting that the
bonds to which the interest coupons sued upon belonged, were
not attested by J. G. Dunlavy, county clerk of the county of
Cherokee, in the State of Kansas, in person, but alleged the
fact to be that, at the time of issuing the bonds, Dunlavy was
sick and unable to discharge the duties of his office, and by
reasoni thereof authorized his brother, John Dunlavy, to attest
the bonds for him, by signing his name as county clerk and
affixing the seal of the county to them. Subsequently it was
agreed between the parties, and the agreement was signed by
their attorneys and filed as part of the record in the case, that
this reply and the answer of the defendant should be with-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

drawn, and that the defendant should file an answer, setting
out the question of defence as to the signature of Thunlavy
and the affixing of the county seal, and also a plea of the statute of limitations as to coupons barred, such answer to be verified; that the plaintiff should forthwith file his demurrer to
this answer; and that the whole question should be submitted
to the court, and judgment rendered in accordance with the
pleadings, upon its sustaining or overruling the demurrer.
This stipulation was carried out. An amended answer, duly
verified, setting up those matters, was filed, to which the plaintiff demurred. The court overruled the demurrr, but the
plaintiff refused further to plead -and stood upon it. Final
judgment was thereupon entered for the defendant. On appeal to this court this judgment was affirmed. See Bissel v.
prying Valley Townshikp, 110 U. S. 162.
In April, 1885; the plaintiff brought the present action in
the Circuit Court against the township on certain other of the
coupons attached to the same seventy-three bonds, alleging an
execution of the bonds andi coupons and a complete registration in the office of the Auditor of 'the State. To this petition the defendant answered as follows:
"1st. As a first, defence, said defendant says that it ought
not to be charged with the said supposed debt by virtue of
said supposed bonds and coupons, because it, by its attorneys,
says that J. G. Dunlavy, whose name appears on said bonds
and coupons as county clerk, never signed his name thereto or
thereon, nor ever authorized any party or parties to sign. his
name thereto or thereon, and that said signature is not his signature, nor did he affix or authorize to be affixed the seal of
said county of Cherokee to said bonds or coupons.
"2d. Said defendant, further answering and pleading in bar
of this action, says that said plaintiff ought not to maintain
his said action herein, because on the 13th day of October,
1880, the said-plaintiff, Charles R. Bissell, filed: his certain petition against this defendant in this court in debt, wherein and
whereby he sought to charge this defendant with liability upon
certain of. the pretended bonds knd coupons attached thereto,
claimed by said plaintiff to have been issued by this defendant,

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Statement of the Case.

and to recover judgment against this defendant thereon. Said
pretended bonds so sued upon in said action begun in 1880
were the identical pretended bonds sued upon in this present
action, and the said pretended coupons declared upon in this
action were of the same series and detached from the-identical
pretended bonds sued upon in the said action begun in 1880 as
aforesaid, said action being No. 3242, to the record of which
reference is hereby made.
"That said defendant appeared and answered to the said
first mentioned petition in substance and effect as it has
aiswered herein, to which answer said plaintiff, admitting the
same to be true, demurred, and thereupon the said cause was
tried upon its merits, and by the consideration of said court
said defendant obtained a judgment in said action against said
plaintiff, which, on appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, was duly affirmed.
"Wherefore said defendant prays judgment and its costs
herein expended."
To the first defence-set up in this answer the plaintiff demurred, and the demurrer was sustained on the ground that a
complete registration alleged in'the petition was conclusive of
the validity of the bonds, on the authority of Lewis v. Comm
nssioners, 105 U. S. 739, the question of 'es adjudicata,presented in the second count, being unaffected. To the second
defence the plaintiff replied by a general denial. Afterwards
a trial by jury was waived, and the plaintiff withdrew from
his petition the allegation concerning registration, thus leaving
the issue to be tried on the plea of res adjudicat. In support
of this plea on the part of the defendant the record of the
former action was introduced, against the objection of the
plaintiff. Testimony was also offered by the plaintiff to prove
the due execution of the bonds, and their purchase by him,
before maturity, without notice of any defeiace to them by the
township, but it was excluded against his objection. The
court thereupon rendered judgment for the defendant, giving
full effect to the evidence sustaining the plea of res adjudicata.
To review this judgment the case is brought to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

_-r. Villiam Barry for plaintiff in error.
Ros&sngton, -Mr. J Ri. Rallowell, and -M.
-Yr.. W. I
Charles B. Smith for defendant in error.
MR. 'JUSTICE FI LD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The plaintiff was defeated in his former action against the
municipality, because the coupons, upon which its liability
was asserted, were adjudged to be invalid instruments. It
appears from the record of that action, as well as from the
opinion of the Circuit Court in passing upon the demurrer, and
of this court in I'eviewing its decision, that their invalidity was
adjudged because the seventy-three bonds, to which they were
attached, were themselves void instruments, the county clerk,
whose signature appears upon them, never having signed them
or authorized any one to sign his name to them, and ,,ever
having affixed or authorized any one to affix the seal of the
county. By stipulation of the parties, the pleadings in that
action were so amended and arranged as to present this
defence, and obtain the decision of the court thereon. The
new answer, as agreed; was verified, it evidently being designed by the parties to obtain the judgment of the court
upon the validity of the bonds, notwithstanding the fact which
existed, that their were not in truth signed by the county
clerk, or by any one authorized by him. The judgment of the
court sustaining the demuirrer to this answer was, therefore, an
adjudication that the bonds thus defectively executed were
not binding obligations of the municipality. The Circuit
Court held that the allegation of the defendant was in substance that the bonds were not signed by the proper officers
of the county, and; if so, that they were void. This court, in
affirming the judgment of the Circuit Court, held that the
township had no power to bind itself for the purpose of aiding
in the construction of a railroad by subscription to its capital
stock and the issue of bonds to pay for the same, except as
authorized by the statute of the State; that the Board of

BISSELL v. SPRLNG VALLEY TOWNSHIP.

231

Opinion of the Court.

County Commissioners did not represent the township for any
other purpose, and could not execute its power to issue bonds
by instruments not conforming to the substantial requirements
of the law ; that the law required the bonds to be executed in
a particular manner; and that the signature of the clerk was
essential to the valid execution of them, even though he had
no discretion to withhold it.
The final judgment entered upon that demurrer is a bar to
any further action upon the specific coupons in suit. This is
conceded; their validity cannot be again litigated in any form
between the parties. The question for determination in this
case relates to the effect of the former judgment upon the
present action, which is upon different coupons, though
attached to the same series of bonds. Does that judgment
preclude any ihquiry as to the validity of these latter coupons,
that is, of the bonds to which they axe attached? In Crom,-well v. County of ,9ac, 94: U. S. 351, we drew a distinction
bbtween the effect of a judgment as a bar or estoppel against
the. prosecution of a second action upon the same claim or demand,-and its effect as an estoppel in another action between
the same parties upon a different claim or demand. In the
latter case, which is the one now before us, we held, following
numerous decisions to that effect, that the judgment in the
prior action operates as an estoppel only as to those matters in
issue, or points controverted, upon the determination of which
the finding or verdict was rendered. The inquiry in such case,
therefore, we said, must always be as to the point or question
actually litigated and determined in the original action, for
only upon such matters is the judgment conclusive in another
action between the parties upon a different demand. Lumer
axector v. Deen, 121
(b. v. Buchtelp 101 U. S. 638; 1Vi& 'ons E
U. S. 525.
If the fact admitted by the demurrer in the former action that the signature of the county clerk, appearing on the bonds
of the township, was not signed by him, or by any one authorized by him-had been found by a jury, or been admitted in
open court by the plaintiff, there is no doubt that the judgment thereon would have been conclusive in any other action

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

between the same parties in which the validity of those bonds
was drawn in question. It would have been an adjudication,
both upon the fact established and upon the law applicable to
the fact, concluding future litigation upon those matters. Is
the litigation any the less concluded because the fact upon
which the judgment rested was established by the demurrer?
There are undofib qdly many cases where a final judgment
upon a demurrer will not conclude as to a future action. The
demurrer may go to the form of the action, to a defect of
pleading, or to the jurisdiction of the court. In all such
instances the judgment, thereon will not preclude future litigation on the merits of the controversy in a court of competent
jurisdiction upon proper pleadings. And it has been held that
where a demurrer goes both to defects of form and also to the
merits, a judgment thereon, not designating between the two
grounds, will be presumed to rest on the former. But where
the demurrer is to a pleading setting forth distinctly specific
facts touching the merits of the action or defence, and final
judgment is rendered thereon, it would be difficult to find any
reason in principle why the facts thus admitted should not be
considered for all purposes as fully established as if found by
a jury, or admitted in open court. If the party against whom
a ruling is made on a demurrer wishes to avoid the effect of
the demurrer as an admission of the facts in the pleading
demurred to, he should seek to amend his pleading or answer,
as the case may be. Leave for that purpose will seldom be
refused by the court upon a statement that he can controvert
the facts by evidence which he can produce. If he does not
ask for such permission, the inference may' justly be drawn
that he is unable to produce the evidence, and that the fact is
as alleged in the pleading. Courts are not established to
determine what the law might be upon possible facts, but to
adjudge the rights of parties upon existing facts; and when
their jurisdiction .is invoked, parties will be presumed to represent in their pleadings the actual, and not supposable, facts
touching the matters in controversy.
The law on'this subject is well stated in Gould's Treatise on
Pleading, a work of recognized merit in this country, as fol-

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

lows: "1Ajudgment, rendered upon demurrer, is equally conclusive (by way of estoppe) of the facts confessed by the
demurrer,, as a verdict finding the same facts would have
been; since they are established, as well in the former case as
in the latter, by way of record. And facts, thus established,
can never afterwards be contested, between the same parties,
or those in privity with them." Chap. IX, part 1, sec. 43.
The case of Bouoliaud v. Dia&s, 3 Denio, 238, decided by
the Supreme Court of New York, is an authority upon this
point. It appears from the statement in the report of that
case, that in 1822 one Castro had executed two bonds to the
United States for payment of duties; in which the testator
and the defendant were sureties, and bound themselves jointly
and severally. The bonds were alike in penalty and condition, but were payable at different periods within the year.
In 1838, the plaintiff, as executor of one of the sureties, paid
to the United States one of the bonds and brought an action
to recover one-half of that sum from the defendant as cosurety with the testato. The defence was that the defendant,
with the consent of the plaintiff, had been released from his
obligation by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to acts
for the relief of certain insolvefit debtors of the United
States; and on the trial he produced a release under the hand
of the Secretary. He also gave in evidence a judgment record
from which it appeared that the plaintiff had sued the defendant for contribution in the Superior Court of the city of New
York, the declaration in the case being like that in the second
case, except that the other bond was set out as a part of the
ground of action. In that case the defendant pleaded in bar
the foregoing release and consent. The plaintiff demurred to
the plea, and the court rendered judgment thereon for the
defendant. The plaintiff in the second case objected to the
introduction of this record because the boinds were not the
same in both suits; but the court admitted the record and
charged the jury that the judgment of the Superior Court
upon the same matter, being on a bond for duties on the same
importation with that which was in question in the second
case, was a bar to the action. The case being taken to the

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the State, the judgment was affirmed, thai
court holding that although there was a difference in the
actions, as they were upon different bonds, yet as those bonds
were parts of the same transaction, and the principal question
in controversy was the same in the two cases, the matter
which the plaintiff attempted to agitate in the second case
was res adjudicata. A distinction was suggested between the
cases on the ground that the former judgment between the
parties was rendered on a demurrer to the defendant's plea.
But the court answered that "it can make no difference, in
principle, whether the facts upon which the court proceeded
were proved by deeds and witnesses, or whether they were
admitted by the parties. And an admission by way of
demurrer to a pleading, in which the facts are alleged, must
be just as available to the opposite party as though the admission had been made ore tenus before a jury. If the plaintiff
demurred for want of form, or if for any other reason he
wished to controvert the facts alleged in the plea, he might,
after learning the opinion of the court, have asked leave to
withdraw the demurrer and reply. But he suffered a final
judgment to be ente'ed against him. He probably thought
that the facts were truly alleged in the plea, and therefore
did not wish to amend. But however that may be, the judginent is a bar to this action." p. 244. See also Coffl v.
-Knott, 2 Greene, (Iowa,) 582; Birolekhead v. Brown, 5 Sandford, Sup. Ct. N. Y. 134.
The plaintiff seems to consider the case of Cromwell v.
County of Sac as authority for his contention, that in the present action he is at liberty to show that the bonds issued were
valid obligations of the municipality, nbtwithstanding the
former adjudication against their validity. That case was
brought on four bonds of the county of Sac, issued for the
erection of a court-house, and coupons for interest attached to
them. To defeat the action the county relied upon the estoppel. of.a judgment rendered in its favor in a prior action
brought by one Smith upon certain earlier maturing coupons
upon the same bonds, accompanied with proof -that the plaintiff Cromwell was at the time the owner of the coupons in that

BISSELL v. SPRING VALLEY TOWNSHIP.
Opinion of the Court.

action, and that the action was prosecuted for his sole use and
benefit. It appeared on the trial in that action, and it was so
found, that there were such fraudulent proceedings in the issue
of the bonds to which the coupons were attached, followed by
the failure of the contractor, to whom the bonds were delivered, to construct the court-house, as, in the opinion of the
court, to render them void as against the county; and there
was no finding that the plaintiff had given any value for the
coupons, although he had become their holder before maturity.
Judgment, therefore, was given for the county, and on appeal
it was affirmed, this court holding that the fraud and illegality
in the inception of the bonds, disclosed by the findings, were
sufficient to call upon the plaintiff to show that he had given
value for the coupons; that the bonds were void as against
the county in the hands of parties wfio did not acquire
them before maturity, and give-value for them; that the
plaintiff, not having proved that he gave such value for the
coupons, was not entitled to recover on them; for whatever
illegality or fraud there was in the issue and delivery of the
bonds equally affected those coupons. It was therefore adjudged that the finding and judgment in that case, upon the
invalidity of the bonds as against the county, estopped the
plaintiff in the second case from averring to the contrary;
unless he obtained them .for value before maturity. But the
bonds being negotiable instruments, and their issue being
authorized by a vote of the county, and they reciting on their
face a compliance with the law providing for their *issue, they
were valid obligations against the county in the hands of a
bonafde holder, taking them for value before maturity; and
so this court said, that if the plaintiff received the bonds and
coupons in suit in the second case before maturity for value,
as he offered to prove, he should have been permitted to show
that fact; and that there was nothing adjudged in the former
action in the finding that the plaintiff had not made such
proof in that case, which could preclude him from making
such proof in the second case. The fact that a party may not
have shown that he gave value for certain coupons before
their maturity plainly was not conclusive evidence that he

OCTOBER TERMi,

1887.

Syllabus.

may not have given value before maturity for other coupons
of the same bonds, or that he may not have given value for
the bonds before they became due.
There is nothing in that decision which can be made to support the contention of the plaintiff in this case. In the former
action against the present defendant the adjudication was
that the bonds themselves were never signed by the proper
officers required by the statute of the State to sign them, and
therefore they were, not legal obligations of the township.
Their invalidity equally affected the coupons attached to them,
and not merely those in suit, b4 all others. If the plaintiff
could give any evidence consistent with that adjudication,
there would be no objection to his doing so, and the former
action would not estop him; but the bonds being found to be
invalid and void, he is precluded from attempting to show the
contrary, either of the fact of their wanting the signature of
the county clerk, or of the law that for that reason they were
not binding obligations of the municipality. The fact and the
lay are adjudged matters between the parties, and not open,
therefore, to any further contest.
Judgment 4fined.

UNITED STATES v. JOHNSTON.
ERROR TO TUE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
.Argued December 15, 16, 1887.-Decided January9, 1888.

The entire administration of the system devised by Congress for the collection of captured and abandoned property during the war was committed
by the acts regulatin3 it to the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to
the "President's approval of the rules and regulations relating thereto
prescribed by him, and with no other restriction than that the expenses
charged upon the proceeds of sales be proper and necessary and be
approved.by hin-; and his approval of an account of expenses incurred
on account of any particular lot of such property made before the passage of the j4int resnwition of March 31, 1869, '15 Stat. 251, is conclusive
evidence that they" were proper and necessary, unless it appears that

