OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Counsel for Parties.

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Argued December 22, ISS7. -Decided

January 9, 1888.

In 1857 F. and L. entered into an agreement whereby F. was to convey to L.
two tracts of land at an assumed value of $26,000, on which was an
indebtedness estimated at about $18,000. L. was to assume and pay
that indebtedness, and was to convey to F. " five town lots" and "about
1000 acres of land," "being all the lands owned by said L." at that place,
all valued at $10,000; and F. was to pay to L. what might be found due on
these assumed values after adjusting the indebtedness. Each party took
possession of the lands acquired by the exchange. F. conveyed to L.
and L. assumed and paid the indebtedness.
L. retained title of the
lands to be conveyed to F. until F. should pay the difference. In 1871.
the amount being unpaid, L. brought suit against F. and J. to whom F.
had 'onveyed a portion of the land. This suit was compromised by it
further agreement in which the tract was described as land" sold by said
L. to said F. estimated to contain 1000 acres." On a survey had after
that compromise it 'vas found tlat the tract in question fell much short.
of 1000 acres. F. filed this bill in 1877, seeking, among other things, to
prevent the collection of the difference found due to L. in the original
exchange, on the ground that the 'contract was for a conveyance of
1000 acres, and that the representations of, L. in this respect had been
false and fraudulent. Held:
(1) That, taken in connection with all the facts proved, L.'s representation could not be regarded as fraudulently made;
(2) That, the governing clement in the transaction being that it was an
exchange of several tracts of land between the parties, the contract was not to be construed by the strict rule which might govern its interpretation if it were an independent purchase to b(
paid for in money;
(8) That, thus construed, it was not an agreement by L. that the trac(t
contained 1000 acres, which bound him to make good the diflirence between 1000 acres and the quantity found within the boundaries by actual survey.
BILL IN EQUITY. Decree for the complainant. Respondent

appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
M'. James JH, Ferguson for appellant.
M
.Mr. Cornelius C. Watts for appellee.

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE

TLLER delivered

the opinion of the court.

On the second day of December, 1857, George R. 0. Floyd,
the appellee in this case, and Anthony Lawson, the appellant,
entered into a written agreement for the exchange of several
tracts of lauid which were owned by Floyd for another tract
of land owned by Lawson. These tracts were in different
parts of the country, and those held by Floyd were encumbered by an indebtedness amounting to over $18,000, which
Lawson assumed to pay. In adjusting the exchange of these
tracts, those which were to be conveyed by Floyd to Lawson
were esthnated at $26,000, and the property which Lawson
agreed to convey to Floyd at $10,000. The balance which by
these estimates would be due from Floyd to Lawson, after
Lawson had paid the encumbrances on the Floyd property,
some two or three thousand dollars, was left a little uncertain
by reason of the necessity of ascertaining the amounts due on
some of the liens, and was to be paid by Floyd. in cash.
The contract for this exchange, which is appended to the
bill in this suit as Exhibit A, is as follows:
"Memorandum of an agreement, made this 2d day of December, 1857, between George R. 0. Floyd, of the one part, and
Anthony Lawson, of the other part, witnesseth: That the said
Floyd has sold to the said Lawson, for $26,000, two several
tracts of land lying in the west end of Burke's Garden, in the
county of Tazewell, one known as the Waterford Place and
supposed to contain eight hundred and two acres, and the
other known as the Smith Place, adjoining the other, and
supposed to contain four hundred and sixty-seven acres; the
title to the Waterford Place is in John B. Floyd; and the
said George R. 0. Floyd binds himself to procure a deed
therefor to the said Lawson; with general warranty and
relinquishment of dower; and the title to the Smith Place is
in one Ballard P. Smith, who will make a deed therefor, with
general warranty and relinquishment of dower, upon the payment of the purchase money hereinafter named; and the said
Floyd is to deliver possession of said tracts of land at once;

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

and the said Lawson for the said tracts of land binds himself
to pay as follows, viz.: To Ballard P. Smith the amount for
which~said Smith Place sold for under a decree of the Circuit
Court of Washington County, which is supposed to be $8410,
but if that is not the correct sum, it is to be ascertained, and
to pay to A. S. Gray the sum of $9850, which may be paid in
three instalments of $3283.33 each -one
due January 1st,
1859, one due January 1st, 1860, and the other due January 1st, 1861, each bearing interest from January 1st, 1858,
-and also to convey to the said Floyd the property of said
Lawson at Logan Court House, consisting of five half-acre
lots, viz., Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in the original plan of the
town of Lawnsville, now Aracoma, and about 1000 acres of
land lying on the east side of Guyandotte and north of Aracoma, being all the lands owned by said Lawson below or
north of Kezer's Branch, lying back of lots Nos. 6 and [, and
below the public square, and down as far as _cDonal's land,
and the said Lawson puts the property at $10,000, and the said
Lawson is to make the said Floyd a deed, with general warranty and relinquishment of dower, to the above described
property, except one recent grant and part of another tract
lying back from the river, which he is only to convey specially,
and the said Lawson is to deliver possession of the lands and
lots by 1st March next, except the storehouse and dwellinghouse, and -of
them by the 1st of May next; and whereas
the above payment to Gray and Smith, and the above property at $10,000, makes more than the sum of $26,000, which
the two tracts of land in the garden are rated .at, it is agreed
that the difference, whatever it may be, between $6000 and
the sum necessary to be paid to Smith shall be due from said
Floyd to said Lawson, to be paid when said Lawson delivers
possession of the lands, lots, &c., at Aracoma, and the said
Lawson has the-privilege of retaining the title to the land to
be conveyed by him till the said balance is paid.
"Witness the following signatures and seals.
"GEc. R. C. FLOYD.
"A. LAwsoN.

[Seal.]
[Seal.]"

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

Each party took possession of the property which he acquired
under this exchange, and Lawson paid the liens on the property which he received from Floyd and had the title conveyed
to himself. The balance which was due from Floyd to Lawson remained unpaid for fourteen years, when Lawson brought
suit in the Circuit Court of Logan County, West Virginia, to
collect the debt by the enforcement of the lien which he held
on the land, the title remaining in him up to this time.
It seems that Floyd had sold the whole or a large part of
the property he received from Lawson to one Johnston, who
was made a defendant to that suit. This action was compromised on the third day of August, 1871, by a written agreement of that date, signed by Lawson, Floyd and Johnston.
This compromise recognized that there was due to Lawson
from Floyd the sum of $5051.30, which was a lien on the real
estate described in the contract, and Johnston- assumed and
bound himself to pay to Lawson that sum in three instalments, with six per cent interest, and it was agreed that the
property and control of the land should be in Johnston as an
indemnity to him for the payment of this purchase money.
This agreement is marked Exhibit B in the bill, and is as
follows:
"This coitract, made this 3d day of August, 1871, between
Anthony Lawson, Geo. R. C. Floyd, and John W. Johnston,
witnesseth: That whereas a certain suit is pending in the
Circuit Court of Logan County, West Virginia, in which
Anthony Lawson is plaintiff, and said Floyd and Johnston
and others defendants, touching a balance of purchase money
claimed by said Laws-n for a tract of land near Logan CourtHouse: Now, therefore, the said suit is to be dismissed at the
next term of the court, each party paying his own costs, and
all matters in said suit are settled on the following terms, viz.:
A note executed by A. Lawson to Geo. R. C. Floyd, which
was filed by said Floyd as an offset against said Lawson in the
said suit, is to be credited with the sum of $2760, as of the
date of June 30th, 1858, being the amount, principal and
interest, at that date, of the legacies given by the will of MNrs.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Letitia Floyd to Letty P. Lewis and Mikattie P. Johnston,
which legacies were paid by said Lawson, the said payments
so made being hereby ratified by said Floyd; and it is further
agreed that said Johnston shall assume, and he does hereby
assume and bind himself, to pay to Anthony Lawson the
balance of said purchase money, amounting, principal and
interest, at this date, to $4851.30, and the costs of said suit,
estimated to be $200, maldng in all $5051.30, as follows,
viz.: One-third on or before the first day of January, 1873,
one-third on or before the first day of January, 1874, and
one-third on oi before the first day of January, 1875, all bearing interest at six per cent per annum from this date; and it
is further agreed thht said Lawson and said Floyd shall each,
and they do hereby, bind themselves that the property and
the control of the tract'of land herein mentioned, sold by the
said Lawson to said Floyd, estimated to contain. 1000 acres,
shall be in said Johnston as an indemnity to him, which is
described as follows, viz.: All the land owned by said Lawson,
lying below Kezer's Branch above Aracoma, lying back of the
lots Nos. 5, 6, and 7, in the original plan of the town of
Lawnsville (now Aracoma), including the following town lots,
as laid down in said plan of the'town of Lawnsville, viz.: Nos.
8, 9, 10, 11, and 12; thence down the river to box-elders, -at
the lower end of said Lawson's land; thence with the division
line between said Lawson's land'and McDonald's land; thence
up the point of the ridge below the sugar-camp hollow
to the
back line of said Lawson's land; thence with the back line to
said Kezer's Branch, and thence down the same to the beginning; but the said Lawson is to retain the legal title to said
lands and lots as a security for the payment of the said pu Fchase money; except the land and lots sold to Isaac Morgan
and John and.Urias Buskirk; and it is further agreed: that
said portions of said land as may be sold by said Johnston or
his agent shall be conveyed by the said Lawson to the purchaser, upon the payment to him of the purchase money of the
said portion, and the balance of the land, if any, not sold by
the said Johnston or his agent to third parties, is to be conveyed by the said Lawson -to the said Floyd when the said

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
Qpinion of the Court.

sum of $5051.30 is paid, with its interest; and it is further
agreed that the portionsof land sold by Geo. R. C. Floyd to
Isaac Morgan, being about fifty acres, at the lower end of the
tract, and-lots Nos. 11 and 12 in the original plan of the town
of La,vnsville, now Aracoma, lying between the river and the
present street, and extending down to the lower corner of the
stable, and thence to the river, sold to Urias Buskirk, shall be
ratified, and the legal title shall be conveyed by said Lawson
to the said Morgan and to the said Buskirk, respectively, or to
such persons as they shall hi writing direct, whenever requested
to do so by said Floyd. And the said Lawson shall convey
all the old patent lands with general warranty and the back
lands with special warranty.
"Witness the following signatures and seals.

"A.

LAwsoN.

[Seal.]

"GEo. R. C. FLoYD.

[Seal.]

"JOHN W. JOHNSTON.

[Seal.]"

In October, 1877, the present bill in chancery was brought
by Floyd against Lawson and Johnston, and divers persons
who had purchased from Johnston parts of the land. The
case being removed into the District Court of the United
States for the District of West Virginia, various proceedings
were had, all the parties answered, and the record presents
considerable complexity and irregularity.
The purpose of Floyd's bill was to enjoin Johnston from
making any further sales of the land, and to enjoin Lawson
from any further enforcement of his claim for the -sum recognized to be due by the agreement of 1871. He based the
relief thus sought on the ground -that the sale to him of the
Lawson property was by a contract for a thousand acres of
land, and that in the compromise agreement of 1871 this provision was repeated.
His contention is, that by the language of the contract
Lawson sold him a thousand acres of land, which he is bound
to make good; also, that in the conversations preliminary to
the execution of that contract, Lawson represented to him
that there was a thousand acres in the tract which he was
vOL. CxxV--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

selling to him, and that he, Lawson, knew very well about
how much land there was, while Floyd himself was utterly
ignorant of the extent of the tract, and relied upon Lawson's,
statements upon that. subject. He also alleges that these
statements of Lawson were false and fraudulent, and intended
to deceive him; that before bringing this suit he, the plaintiff,
had an accurate survey made of the land according to the
boundaries mentioned in the contract, and that, instead of
there being a thousand acres, as represented by Lawson, there
were only 592 acres, leaving a deficieny of 408 acres. He
claims that Lawson should be held to account for this defibiency, at the average value of ten thousand dollars for the
thousand, and that Lawson and Johnston had been selling off
parts of the land, the purchase money on which went to Lawson to pay the amount supposed to be due to hihn If deduction is made for the deficiency in quantity, he prays that
Johnston and Lawson be held to account, and for such relief
as may be just and right.
..Lawson answers this bill by denying emphatically that the
land was a sale by the acre, or th ..it was ever considered
to be such; denies that the contract on its face is susceptible
of any construction which binds him for the quantity of a
thousand acres, that he ever made any representations with
regard to the quantity that was in the tracts which he sold,
or that he knew anything more about the quantity within
the boundaries mentioned in the contract than Floyd did,
and denies any fraudulent purpose or intent. He says that
the sale was an exchange of lands in the lump, and the phrase
"about 1000 acres of land lying on the east side of Guyandotte and north of Aracoma," and particularly described by
its boundaries, was understood by both parties to be a conjectural estimate Pf the quantity contained therein, and neither
a warranty nor a representation that there was that much land
there. He also avers that the repetition of the description
in the compromise agreement fourteen years afterwards,
where it is said that the land "sold by said Lawson to said
Floyd," the boundaries of which are given with more precision, is "estimated to contain 1000 acres," cannot fairly be-

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

construed to be a warranty of sale of that many acres of land.
Testimony was taken on this subject, mainly consisting of
that of Floyd and Lawson, and the court, after deciding that.
Lawson was bound to make good the quantity of a thousand
acres of land or account for the aeficiency, had a resurvey
made, in which it was ascertained that the amount of the
deficit was 368 instead of 408 acres, for which the court de
cided Lawson to be responsible. The case was then referred
to a master, who made two or three reports, which were excepted to, and then to. another master to state the accounts
between the parties on the basis of the court's decision that
Lawson should account for the quantity which was lacking.
Further reports were made and exceptions taken, and reports
filed after the decrees, in a very irregular manner., A final
decree was rendered by the court in favor of Floyd ard against
Lawson for'the sum of $5046.40, With interest thereon from
the first day of November, 1883, from which decree Lawson
tikes the present appeal.
It is proper to state that a cross-bill wai filed by Lawson,
insisting upon his right to recover the sum found to be due in
the compromise of 1871, and that it be held to be a lien on the
property and enforced against it by decree of the court.
The principal contest, and indeed the only one, necessary to
be decided in this court, is, whether Lawson should be held
responsible for the 368 acres, which the land he put into the
exchange with Floyd fell short of the amount of a thousand
acres; for it does not seem to be disputed that upon an actual
survey of the boundaries according to the contract there was
that much less than that quantity within its area. The question of this responsibility of Lawson presents itself in two
aspects:
First, whether, apart from the written contract of 185T, and
at or about the time it was made, Lawson. made representations in regard to the number of acres within the boundaries
of the tract which he was selling, under circumstances that
authorized Floyd to rely upon them as true, and that these
representations were either intentionally false and made to
deceive or were in fact untrue and known to Lawson to be so.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Second, whether, upon a fair donstruction of the contract,
it is an agreement to sell and convey a thousand acres of land
for the sum of ten thousand dollars, or whethef it is a contract
t,convey the tract Iof land describeal in the agreement, which
was supposed by the parties to contain about a thousand acres,
without any obligation on the part of Lawson that there
should be that much.
It would serve no profitabie purpose to go over the testimony concerning representatiops or statements made by Lawson at the time of the making of the priginal contract, or at
the time the compromise of 1871 was entered into, with regard
to the quantity of land in the tract. . The evidence is almost
exclusively that of Floyd and Lawson, and it will be suffie et
for the purposes of this decision to say that it does not leave
upon us the impression that Lawson made any positive representations as to the quantity of land within the boundaries
described, and especially as to the tract containing a thousand
acres, much less any statements on that subject which were
intended to deceive, and which he knew to be false or untrue.
Johnston, who was a brother-in-law of Floyd, as he states,
and a lawyer, and who drew the compromise agreement of
1871, was introduced as a witness in the case. He says that
he does not recollect hearing Mr. Lawson make any statement
or representation to Mr. Floyd at that time about the land.
He then says:
"I wrote the contract, Messrs. Floyd and Lawson sitting at
the table. When I came to-that part of the contract where I
had-to describe the number of acres I asked the question,
addressed-to both of them, how many acres there were. Mr.
Floyd said, 'A thousand.' Mr. Lawson said, I No; I won't be
bound to any particular number of acres; there are several
tracts, and I don't know how they would run out.' Then I
used the :anguage contained in the contract describing the
land, which seemed to be satisfactory to them both."
It is not easy to resist the conclusion that at this moment,
when they were compromising a troublesbme lawsuit, the fag
end of the controversy about all these lands, and the writing
embracing that compromise was being drawn up for both of

LAWSON v. FLOYD.

ill

Opinion of the Court.

them to sign, and when the scribe put to them both the question as to the number of acres to be inserted in this description,
their attention must have been called to that matter as one of
importance, if either of them looked upon the number of acres
as an ssential part of the contract. And when Floyd suggested the words "a thousand," and Mr. Lawson said "No; I
won't be bound to any particular number of acres; there are
several tracts, and I don't know how they would run out,"
and Floyd made no objection to that statement, but consented
to the use of the words "estimated to contain 1000 acres," the
evidence seems to us satisfactory that, at least at that time, it
was not considered that Lawson was bound for the thousand
acres, or for any particular quantity of land.
As regards the question of law arising on the construction
of the words "about 1000 acres'of land" in the original contract, and especially the'similar expression used in the compromise agreement, if there was nothing but the language to
be looked to, it muit be confessed that under the state of the
authorities on that subject it,
would not be very easy to arrive
at a conclusion entirely satisfactory. But in a case of this
kind it is eminently proper to consider the circumstances surrounding the parties, and which would probably influence
them in making the *contract, at the time it was entered into.
These, we think, throw much light on the question in this
case, and leave but little doubt that it was not intended to
bind Lawson to any particular number of acres in the transfer
which he made to Floyd, but that the transaction was an
exchange of different tracts of land between the parties to the
contract, the parcels belonging to each of them being estimated in the lump or indicated by the boundaries and alescriptions given in the instruments.
The case is not that of a purchase, standing alone, of a tract
of land by one person from another, which isto be paid for
by a particular sum of money. It is a case of an exchange of
several tracts of land between the parties. This was a governing element in the transaction. The consideration received
by Lawson for the land which he was to convey to Floyd was
not $10,000 in money, but two distinct pieces of land described

'

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

by the names of the places, to which Floyd agreed to give
hinr a good title.
It is obvious that the parties in making this exchange also
had reference to the further circumstance that Lawson would
have to pay out over $18,000 to relieve the land he was to
receive from Floyd from liens, a part of which were in judgments or decrees. The contract, then, is not to be construed
by that strict rule in regard to the quantity of land which
Lawson was to convey to Floyd that might govern its interpretatica if it were an independent purchase to be paid for in
money.
In the description of the land that Floyd sold to Lawson it
is described as "two several tracts of land, lying in the west
end of Burke's Garden, in the county of Tazewell, one known
as the Waterford Place and supposed to contain 802 acres,
and the other known as the Smith Place, adjoining the other,
and supposed to contain 467 acres." The value of these parcels was estimated at $26,000. There is also an uncertainty in
the suggestion as to the amount of liens on these lands. It
was " supposed to be $8410" as to one tract, and, $9850 as to
the other. It is in accordance with this loose and general
way of describing these lands that the phrase "about 1000
acres of land" is used in the original contract in 'regard to
that belonging to Lawson.
After the statement of the agreement of Lawson to pay the
liens on the lands conveyed to him by Floyd, the contract
proceeds : "And also to convey to the said Floyd the property
of said Lawson at Logan Court louse, consisting of five halfacre lots, viz : Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 in the original plan of
the town of Lawnsvile, now Aracoma, and about, 1000 acres
of land lying on the east side of Guyandotte and north of
Aracoma; being all the lands owned by said Lawson below
or north of Kezer's Branch, lying back of lots, Nos. 6 and 7
and below the public square, and down as far as McDonald's
land and the said Lawson puts the property at $10,000."
It is not easy to see that, under the circumstances of this
exchange of property, either party was binding himself by
this loosQ language to a definite number of acres in the land

LAWSON v. FLOYD.
Opinion of the Court.

which he was conveying to the other; and it seems probable
that the sum of $26,000, said to be the value of the Floyd land,
and $10,000, ihe value at which the tract of Lawson was put,
was conventional, and adopted as a mode of adjusting the
terms of the exchange, and was not intended or supposed by
either party to be the actual value of the property so described.
It will be observed, also, that the description of the lands to
be conveyed by Lawson is, "all the lands owned by said Lawson" in that place, with a sufficient designation of the locality
to enable anybody to find out where it is. It is also evident
that a small part of this land was bottom land, lying on the
Guyandotte River and near the town, and therefore of considerable value, while the larger part of it ran up on to the
mountain ridges. In accordance with this understanding, the
original contract states that "Lawson is to make the said Floyd
a deed, with general warranty and relinquishment of dower, to
the above described property, except one recent grant and part
of another tract lying back from the river, which he is only
to convey specially;" thus showing the difference in value
attached to different parts of the land.
In the description found in the articles of compromise, which
were made fourteen years after Floyd had obtained possession
and control of the parcels allotted to him, and after legal proceedings to collect the purchase 'money, they seem to have
made a more definite description of the land by metes and
bounds and by corners and objects than was made in the original contract; and, according to the statement of the conversation which took place at that time, as testified to by Johnston.
it is fair to suppose that this more definite description was
intended to stand as the only means of ascertaining what was
sold, leaving no obligation as to the particular quantity of
land that might be found within its limits.
It is also to be noted, that in addition to the timo which had
elapsed while the property was under Floyd's control and
possession, between the time of the original sale and the compromise of 1871, seven years more passed during which he was
selling off portions of it to raise money to pay Lawson, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

that during all this time he made no complaint of any deficiency in the quantity, nor of any other fault which he found
in regard to the property received by him from Lawson. It
is true that this consideration is not conclusive, as the contract
still remained an executory one, the title remaining in Lawson
as security for the unpaid purchase money, but it affords a
strong presumption that with such a large deficit Floyd had
ample opportunity to discover that there was only about twothirds of the quantity which he claimed to have purchased,
and that if he had understood the contract as obliging Lawson
to convey or make good to him the full amount of one thousand acres of land he would long before have ceased to pay
Lawson that which he did not owe him, under the construc'tion of the contract which he now asserts, and would not have
submitted to a forced sale of the property by Johnston to
raise money for that purpose.
Nor do we think it unimportant to consider that this compromise agreement of 18M1, made fourteen years after Floyd
was in the full possession and actual control of the land, and
executed in an adjustment of a suit for the very purchase
money, which Floyd now seeks to recover back, must have
been made with a fair knowledge of the location, boundaries,
and description of the land in controversy, and that it was
determinf'd at that time to describe it with more particularity
as to metes and bounds, and to reject a phrase by which Lawson might have been bound for a thousand acres, substituting
in its place an expression which left it in the form of a conjectural estimate of the quantity therein contained.
Under all these circumstances we are of opinion that Lawson is under no obligation to make good the difference between
the amount of a thousand acres and the quantity found within
the boundaries by actual survey. The decree of the court,
based upon the erroneous idea that he should be held so
accountable, must therefore be reversed.
As this error pervades all the accounting, and all the reports
of the referees to state the accounts between the-parties, it is
not possible for this court to make a correct accounting and
state what the decree should be, taking into consideration the
cross-bill and the original bill.

SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY v. HALL.

121

Statement of the Case.

The case is therefore
Bernanded to the District Court, with, directions to take an
account on the principles here establis]ed,and to render a
decree accordingly.

INLAND AND SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY v.
:ALL.
BEHoR TO THE SUPREME COUeT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTUBIA.
Submitted December 22, 1887:-Decided January 9, 1888.

An appeal lies to the general term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia from a denial by that court in special term of a motion for a
new trial, made on the g-round that the verdiet was against the weight of
evidence.
2fecropolitan Railroad Co. v. Moore, 121 U. S. 558, affirmed to this point.

CASE to recover damages for injuries caused to plaintiff by
defendant's negligence. Verdict for plaintiff for $4000. Defendant thereupon moved for a new trial on exceptions taken
at the trial, and also on the following grounds: (1) Because
the verdict was against the weight of evidence. (2) Because
the verdict was against the instructions of the court. (3) Because the damages awarded by the jury were excessive.
This motion was heard by the .justice before whom the case
was tried and was overruled, and from the order overruling
and denying the motion an appeal was taken to the court in
general term. The order and appeal are as follows:
"The motion for a new trial coming on to be heard upon
the pleadings, testimony, and rulings of the court, as set forth
in the pleadings, and the stenographic report containing the
whole of the evidence in said case, and being a case stated,
said report being filed herewith and made Exhibit A, the same
is overruled, and from the order of the court overruling said
motion the defendant hereby appeals to the court in general
term.
"By the court.
"M.&cArRHun, fustice."

