OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

FRENCH v. HOPKINS.
i

ERROR TO,'TRERSUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 30, 1888.-Decided February 6, 1888.

The case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction as the record fails to show,
expressly or by implication, that any right, title, privilege, or immunity
under the Constitution or laws of the United States was specially set up
or claimed in either of the courts below.
The jurisdiction of this court under Rev. Stat. ยง 709, for the review of the
decision of the highest court of a State is not dependent upon the citizenship of the parties.
M OTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
.rM. W.l.

Stewart for the motion.

.. r. J. TV..Douglass and Xr. C. M.. Jennings opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted. The record fails to show, either
expressly or by implication, that any "right, title, privilege, or
immunity," under the Constitution or laws of the United
States, was "specially set up or claimed" in either of the
courts below. This is fatal to our jurisdiction. Spies v. 111;nois, 123 U. S. 131, 181. The olnly question below was, whether
a sale of mortgaged property under a decree of foreclosure
should be set aside because the property hgd been sold "as a
whole and in one parcel," when it was capable of division into
parts. The court of original jurisdiction set aside the sale,
but the Supreme Court, on appeal, confirmed it, and gave judgment accordingly. In doing this, it was held to be i- within
the jurisdiction.of the court by its judgment to direct that the
property should be sold in one or several parcels," and that
there was nothing in the statutes of the State to the contrary
of this. That was the only decision in the case, and it cer"tainly i.v.lved.no question of federal law.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

Counsel are in error in supposing that our jurisdiction, under

ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes, for the review of a decision of
the highest court of a State is dependent at all on the citizenship of the parties. In such cases we look only to the questions involved.
________1ismised.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 16, 1888.-Decided February 6,1888.

Section 3639 of the Revised Statutes does not apply to clerks of a collector

of customs.
Clerks of a collector of customs are not appointed by the head of a department, and are not officers of the United States in the sense of the Constitution.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This case comes from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York, on a certificate of division of opinion
between its judges. The defendant was a clerk in the office of
the collector of customs for the collection district of the city
of New York, and in 1886 was indicted for the unlawful convension to his own use of public money, an offence designated
in the Revised Statutes as embezzlement of such money. The
indictment contains seventy-five counts, each charging the
defendant with a separate act of embezzlement. The counts
were all in the same form, and the objections to one are equally
applicable to the whole of them. The' first one isas follows:
"The jurors of the United States of America within and for
the district and circuit aforesaid, on their oath present that
Douglas Smith, late of the city and county of New York, in
the district and circuit aforesaid, heretofore, to wit, on the
eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-three, at the southern district of New
York, and within the jurisdiction of this court, he, the said
Douglas Smith, being then and there a person charged by an

