UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

Counsel are in error in supposing that our jurisdiction, under

§ 709 of the Revised Statutes, for the review of a decision of
the highest court of a State is dependent at all on the citizenship of the parties. In such cases we look only to the questions involved.
________1ismised.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION OF OPINION FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January 16, 1888.-Decided February 6,1888.

Section 3639 of the Revised Statutes does not apply to clerks of a collector

of customs.
Clerks of a collector of customs are not appointed by the head of a department, and are not officers of the United States in the sense of the Constitution.

THE court stated the case as follows:
This case comes from the Circuit Court for the Southern
District of New York, on a certificate of division of opinion
between its judges. The defendant was a clerk in the office of
the collector of customs for the collection district of the city
of New York, and in 1886 was indicted for the unlawful convension to his own use of public money, an offence designated
in the Revised Statutes as embezzlement of such money. The
indictment contains seventy-five counts, each charging the
defendant with a separate act of embezzlement. The counts
were all in the same form, and the objections to one are equally
applicable to the whole of them. The' first one isas follows:
"The jurors of the United States of America within and for
the district and circuit aforesaid, on their oath present that
Douglas Smith, late of the city and county of New York, in
the district and circuit aforesaid, heretofore, to wit, on the
eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-three, at the southern district of New
York, and within the jurisdiction of this court, he, the said
Douglas Smith, being then and there a person charged by an

OCTOBER' TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

act of Congress with the safe keeping of the public moneys,
to wit, a clerk in the office of the collector of customs for the
collection district of the city of New York, appointed by the
collector of customs, with the approbation of the Secretary of
the Treasury, and having then n4 there in his custody a large
sum of public money, to wit, the sum of ten and ,%Qf dollars,
did unlawfully fail to keep the same, but the same did unlawfully convert to his own use, against the peace of the United
States and their dignity, and contrary to the statute of the
United States in such cases made and provided."
The indictment is founded on § 5490 of the Revised Statutes,
which is as follows:
"Every officer or other person charged by any act of Congress with the safe-keeping of the public moneys, who fails to
safely keep the same, without loaning, using, converting to his
own use, depositing in banks, or exchanging for other funds
than as specially allowed, by law, shall be guilty of embezzlement of the money so loaned, used, converted, deposited, or
exchanged; and shall be imprisoned not less than six months
nor more than ten years, and fined in a sum equal to the
amount of money so embezzled."
The law providing for the safe-keeping of the public moneys
is found in § 3639 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"The Treasurer of the United States, all assistant treasurers,
and those performing the duties of assistant treasurer, all collectors of the customs, all surveyors of the customs, acting also
as collectors, all receivers of public moneys at the several land
offices, all postmasters, and all public officers of whatsoever
character, are required to keep safely Without loaning, using,
depositing in banks,, or exchanging for other funds than as
specially allowed by law, all the public money collected by
them, or otherwise at any time placed in their possession and
custody, till the same is ordered, by the proper department or
officer of the Government, to be transferred or paid out; and
when such orders for transfer or payment are received, faithfully and promptly to make the same as directed, and to do
and perform all other duties as fiscal agents of the Government which may be imposed by any law, or by any regulation

UNITED' STATES v. SMITII.
Argument for Plaintiff.

of the Treasury Department made inconformity to law. The
President is authorized, if in his opinion the interest of the
United States requires th6 same, to regulate and increase the
sums for which bonds are, or may be, required by law, of all
district attorneys, collectors of customs, naval officers, and surveyors of cifstoms, navy agents, receivers and registers of
public lands, pay-masters in the army, commisary general,
and by all other officers employed in the disbursement of the

public moneys, under the direction of the War or Navy Departments."
The law providing for the employment of clerks by collectors
of customs is found in § 2634: of the Revised Statutes, which

is as follows:
"The Secretary of the Treasury may, from time to time,
except in cases otherwise provided, limit and fix the number
and compensation of the clerks to be employed by any collector, naval officer, or surveyor, and may limit and fix the
compensation of any deputy of any such collector, naval officer,
or surveyor."
To the indictment the defendant filed a demurrer, and upon
its hearing the, following questions occurred, upon which the
judges were divided in opinion:
"1. Does the indictment sufficiently charge an offence under
5490, Revised Statutes?
"2. Is a clerk in the office of the collector of customs for
the collection district of the city of New York, appointed by
the collector of customs, with the approbation of the Secretary
of the Treasury, by virtue df § 2634 of the Revised Statutes,
a person charged by any act of Congress with the safe-keeping
of public moneys?
"3. Was the defendant appointed by the head of a department, within the meaning of the constitutional provisions (Art.
II, Sec. 2) upon the subject of the appointing power? "
Thereupon, on the request of the District Attorney, the questions were certifie. to this court, with a copy of the indictment and an abstract of the record, for final decision.
.Xr. Solicitor General for the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argumenit for PIaintiff.

The second question assumes the clerk was appointed by the
collector with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury.
The legality of such appointment under the Constitution is
raised by the next question. The real inquiry involved in this
is: is such a person as is described in the question charged by
any act of Congress with the safe keeping of public money?
Section 3639 of the Revised Statutes expressly charges "all
public officers of whatsoever character" by declaring they
"are required to keep safely -. .
all the public money
, . .at any time- placed in their possession." The words
of whatsoever character" are sufficiently comprehensive to
embrace any and every officer in the public service. The
enumeration in the fori)er part of the section of a number of
those who are bonded officers, and whose express duties are
to collect and keep public money, does not imply that they
only were intended to be the persons liable to the penalties of
the section. Such an interpretation would be equivalent to
striking out of the section the clause "and all public officers
of whatsoever character." It would be doing no less violence
to the intent of the section to add to those words a clause
I"who by law are charged with the collection, holding, and
paying out of public money." That these nor any equivalent
words are not found in the enactment, when the lawmakers
had all the words of the English language at their disposal, is
sufficient evidence to the judiciary that such a limitation was
not intended. No more apt words could have been selected
to include any and ev'ery public officer thai those used; nor
could a more clear charge have been made on any and every
such person than that they- "ctrerequired to keep safely."
To narrow the requirements of the statute would clog the
transaction of the public businessi-and unduly-burde.n,.without
sufficient protection of law, the chief officers charged with the
collection, holding;,and1 payment of public moneys.
In The magnitude of..the governmental hu'iness it is impossible for the Treasu.em of-th "United States to personally carry
rd
L'disburse to the-numerous recipients.
the funds he is .c
;afe'necessarily at. is. desf, aiid others
of them. His
under his direction.'"Jis clerks, hi messengers, and his .watch-

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Argument for

laintiff.

men, must and do, practically, have the funds 'plaied in their
charge. If he were required by law to do all his counting,
transmitting, and carrying, the governmental business would
be practically stopped. To relieve the public officers under
him from the sanction of punishment, in case they convert the
money which he must from necessity place in their possession
and custody, would subject him to risk without affording him
the protection which the law clearly intended he should have.
The same difficulties and hardships would, in a greater or less
degree, exist with reference to every receiving and disbursing
officer of the government.
UnitecZ States v. HartwelZ, 6 Wall. 385, furnishes an affirmative answer by the court to the question under consideration.
As to the.third question, the second section of Article H of
the Constitution so far as material is: The President
shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and
consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers of
the United States; whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be established by law: but
the Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior
officers, as they think proper, in the President alone, in the
courts of law, or in the heads of Departments.
The President shall have power to fill up all vacancies that
may happen during the recess of the Senate, by granting commissions which shall expire at the end of their irext session.
The indictment alleges, and the demurrer admits, the defendant was a "clerk in the office of the collector of customs
for the collection district of the city of New York, appointed
by the collector of customs, with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury." The constitutional provision above
quoted does not prescribe a mode of procedure - it only establishes a principle. The mode by which Congress is to execute
the principle has not been uniform. Sometimes an office has
been established in express terms, but much more frequently
the ijaferior subordinate offices have been established by clauses
in the appropriation bills providing for the payment of salaries,
VOL. cxxV-31

-- OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff.

from which the law, by implication, has been construed to
establish the office.
Section 2634: of the Revised Statutes establishes the office of
clerk in the office of the collector of customs by authorizing
'the Seiretary of the Treasury to fix the number to be employed
and the compensation to be paid them. This implies the
appointment of such officers, and that compensation shall be
paid them. Section 368[ of the Revised Statutes, by a permanent appropriation, provides for the payment of the expenses
of collecting the revenue from customs, and § 2639 includes in
those expenses clerk hire. The office is, therefore, established,
with a permanent provision for the payment of the salary.
Section 169-of the Revised Statutes authorizes each head of a
Department to "employ in his Department such number of
clerks

.

.

. and at such rates of compensation respectively

as may be appropriated for by Congress from year to year."
This last section has been accepted and acted upon without
dispute as a sufficient vesting under the Constitution of the
power of appointment in the heads of the several Departments,
the word "employ" in the section having been interpreted as
equivalent to "appoint."
Section 249 of the Revised Statutes declares: "The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the superintendence of the
collection of the duties on imports and tonnage as he shall
judge best." The power thus vested, authorizing the Secretary
of the Treasury to fix t-he number and compensation of the
clerks, with general power of superintendence as he should
judge best, is fully as comprehensive as the word "employ"
or "appoint," and is a sufficient grant of power under the Constitution to the Secretary of the Treasury to .appoint. The
appointment was made in this case "by the collector of customs, with the approbation of the Secretary of the Treasury."
The case of , United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, rules
substantially: (1) That one engaged in the public service,
appointed pursuant to law, with his compensation fixed by
law, and his duties continuing and permanent is a public
officer; (2) That a clerk in the office of the assistant treasurer
of the United States at Boston is a public officer; (3) That

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

an appointment by the assistant treasurer at Boston, with.
the approbation of the Secretary ot the Treasury, is a legal
appointment under the Constitution.
.See also United States v. Germaine, 99 U. S.508; Un~ited
'States v. Ha'-1welZ, above cited.
-Yr.0Elhu Root for defendant.
Mkn.

JUsTIcE

FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The indictment in this case is in form sufficiently full and
specific in its averments to embrace the offence prescribed by
the statute, and yet the defendant charged is not within its
provisions. He is designated as a clerk in the office of the
collector of customs, and is thus shown not to be charged by
an act of Congress with the safe-keeping of the public moneys,
contrary to the averments of the indictment. The courts of
the United States are presumed to know the general statutes
of Congress, and any averment in an indictment inconsistent
with a provision of a statute of that character, must -necessarily fail, the statute negativing the averment. No clerk of a
collector of customs is, by § 3639 of the Revised Statutes,
charged with the safe-keeping of the public moneys.. That
section requires the treasurer of the United States, assistant treasurers, and those performing the duties of assistant
treasirer, collectors of customs, surveyors of customs, acting
also as collectors; receivers of public moneys at the several
land offices, postmasters, and all public officers of whatsoever
character, to keep safely all public money collected by them,
6r otherwise at any time placed in their possession and custody, ,till the same is ordered by the proper department or
offic6r of the government to be transferred or paid out.
They are also required to perform all other duties as fiscal
agents of the government which may be imposed by law, or
by any regulation of the Treasury Department made in conformity to law. A clerk of the collector is not an officer of
the United States within the provisions of this section; and it

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

is only to persons of that rank that the term public officer, as
there used, applies. . An officer of the United States can only
be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, or by a court of law, or the head of a
department. A person in the service of the government who
does not derive his position from one of these sources is not
an offider of the United- States in the sense of the Constitution. This subject was considered and determined in United
States v. Germaine, 99 U. S. 508, and in .the recent case of
United States v. .Mouat, ante, 303. What we have here said'
is but a repetition of what was there authoritatively declared.
The number of clerks the collector may employ may be
limited by the Secretary of the Treasury, but their appointment is not .made by the Secretary, nor is his approval
there6f required. The duties they perform are as varied as
the infinite details of the business of the collector's office,
each taking upon himself such as are assigned to him by the
collector. The officers specially designated in § 3639 are all
charged by some act of Congress with duties connected with
the collection, disbursement, or keeping of the public moneys,
or to perform other duties as fiscal agents of the government.
A clerk of a collector holding his position at the will of the
latter, discharging only such duties as may be assigned to him
by that officer, comes neither within the letter nor the purview of the statute. And we are referred to no other act of
Congress bearing on, the subject, making a clerk of the collector a fiscal agent of the governmenut, or bringing him
within the class of persons charged with the safe-keeping of
any public moneys.
The case of United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385, does
not militate against this view. The defendant there, it is
true, was a clerk in the office of the assistant treasurer at
.Boston, but his appointment by that officer under the act
of Congress could only be made with the* approbation of
the Secretary of the Treasury. This fact, in the opinion
of the court, rendered his appointment one by the head of
the. department within the constitutional provision upon the
subject of the appointing power. The necessity of the Sec-

I UNITED STATES v. SITH.3

533"

Opinion of the Court.

retary's approbation to the appointment distinguishes thpt
case essentially from the one at the bar. The Secretary, ,as
ah'eady said, is not invested with the selection of the clerks
of the collector; nor is their selection in any way dependentupon his approbation. It is true the indictment alleges that.
the appointment of the defendant as clerk was made with
such approbation, but as no law required this approbation,
the averment cannot exert any influence on the mind- of the
court in the disposition of the questions presented. The fact
averred, if it existed, could not add to the character, or
powers, or dignity of the clerk. The Constitution, after providing that the President shall nominate andi by and with
the advice, and consent of the Senate, shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme
Court, and all other officers of the United States, whos-e
appointments are not otherwise provided for, which should be
established by law, declares that "the Congress may by law
vest the appointment of such inferior officers as they think
proper in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the
heads of departments." There must be, therefore, a law
authorizing the head of a department to appoint clerks of the
collector before his approbation of their appointment can be
required. No such law is in existence.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that § 3639 of the Revised
Statutes does not apply to clerks of the collector, and that
such clerks are not appointed by the head of any department
within the meaning of the constitutional provision.
It follows that our answers to the second and third questions
certi)ed to us must be in the negative. An, answer to the
Jirst question is therefore immaterial.

