DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GALLAHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Under these circumstances, we think the Supreme Court of
the Territory was correct in its conclusion that the long acquiescence of the minor, after he became of age, in the proceedings had for the sale of his property, was equivalent to an
express affirmance of them, even were they affected with such
irregularities as, upon his prompt application after becoming
of age, would have justified the court in setting them aside.
Judgment aJflrmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GALLAHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 23, 1888.lDecided February G,1888.

When, in the performance of a written contract, both parties put a practical construction upon it which is at variance with its literal meaning,
that construction will prevail over the language of the contract.
In this case the defendant in error having under a written contract with
the agents of the plaintiff in error constructed a sewer which in the
course of construction was, by mutual consent, and for reasons assented
to by both parties, made to vary in some respects from the plans which
formed part of the contract, but without any agreement a, to a change
in the contract price; Held, for the reasons given by the Court of Claims,
that the judgment of that court awarding the contract price for the work
is affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Ar. Assistant Attorney General HToward for appellant.
Attorney General was with him on the brief.

Xr.

.Mr. Thomas Hughes and Xr. Woodbury Blair for appellee.
MR. JUsTICE

MATTHEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought against the District of Columbia for
the recovery of the sum of $138,459.55; of this $35,433.49
were alleged to be payable as the balance due upon a contract
for building and completing the brick arch upon stone abutments of Tiber Creek sewer, as set out and described in the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

contract and specifications attached to the petition, at the
price of $113 per lineal foot. The additional sum of $98,130.44
was alleged to be due on account of extra work and materials
furnished by the contractors beyond the requirements of the
contract in and about the same work. This indebtedness was
denied, and the defendant also filed a plea of set-off in the sum
of $82,176; of this, $7176 was for the value of stone alleged
to have been sold by the defendant to the claimants; $35,000
on account of deficiencies in the construction of the sewer, and
$40,000 as the reasonable cost and expense of filling the canal
for the whole length of the sewer, which the defendant claimed
the petitioners were bound by their contract to do. Upon the
facts found by the court, it was held that the claimants were
entitled to recover upon their claims the sum of $43,935.74;
that the defendant was entitled to recover upon the set-off
and counterclaim the sum of $1479; and judgment was rendered in favor of the petitioners for the difference, being the
sum of $42,456.74.
The facts as found by the court, so far as material, are as
follows:
The Tiber Creek, prior to the year 1871, was a natural
stream of water flowing through the city of Washington and
discharging into what was then known as the Washington
Canal, on Third Street west, between Maine and Missouri avenues, and by that into the Eastern Branch.
Among the improvements projected by the Board of Public
Works was that of utilizing this stream in connection with the
sewerage system of the city, and the general plan adopted
was that of constructing a main sewer of masonry and brickwork along its course, through which the stream. should flow,
receiving and conducting the sewage from lateral connections
on either side.
It was constructed for the most part in sections by contract
with different parties, and the part here in controversy was
the final or outlet section. It was commonly styled the Tiber
Creek sew;er or arch.
On and before July 14, 1873, a portion of this sewer had
been completed, which (so far as is here material) extended

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GALLAHER.
Opinion of the Court.

from the north side of Pennsylvania Avenue, across the Botanical Garden, into Third Street, and along and under Third
Street to a point 3 feet north of the south building line of
Maryland Avenue, at which terminus the sewer was (so far as
here material) of the following construction and size, namely:
The side walls were of masonry, about 3 feet high and 5 feet
; inches thick, supporting an approximate semi-elliptic arch of
• 0 feet span and I feet 10 inches rise. The extrados of the
arch, including the skew-back course, was backed up with
rubble masonry to the level of its crown.
The timber sleepers for the foundations were 41 feet in
length.
Proposing to continue the sewer to its outlet with the same
construction and size, the Board of Public Works, on July 14,
1873, sent to H. L. Gallaher & Co., consisting of Hugh L.
Gallaher and Edwin H. Smith, a written proposal for continuing the Tiber Creek sewer from its existing terminus at Maryland Avenue and Third Street southwest, along the line of the
Washington Canal to its junction with the James Creek Canal,
the size and manner of construction of the sewer to be the
same as that of the portion of the same sewer constructed on
Third Street southwest, and to be paid for at the rate of $113
per lineal foot; and they were requested by return mail to
notify the board of their acceptance or rejection of the proposal. On the same day H. L. Gallaher & Co., by writing,
accepted it. A written contract, bearing date July 19, 1873,
was executed between the parties in the same terms as that
set forth in the petition. Before work was commenced under
it the District engineer was instructed to give the grade of the
sewer, to be laid out with the same dimensions as of the existing sewer, which he did in the summer of 1873. It was proposed, however, and consented to by both parties, to deviate
from the contract, by which the continuation of the sewer
was to follow and be laid in the bed of the canal, so as to take
it by a curve from the point of connection on the westerly
bank and then proceed parallel with and along said bank to
the terminus. :,About the time of giving the grade Gallaher
applied for a plan of the sewer, when by direction of the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

engineer a plat or working drawing of the structure in transverse section, exhibiting its form and dimensions according to
a fixed scale, and representing a structure similar to that of
the completed section at the point of connection, was furnished. Gallaher and Smith then proceeded with the work in
accordance with that platn, and completed some part of the
excavation, and procured and brought on the ground material,
but had not constructed any portion of the arch, when Joseph
G. and Henry E. Loane, two of the petitioners, bought out
the interest of Smith in the contract, and thereupon the original contract was cancelled and one in similar terms executed
on December 22, 1873, by the Board of Public Works with
the claimants, composing the firm of Gallaher, Loane & Company, a copy of which is set out with the petition. The claimants on entering into said contract received from Gallaher &
Smith the working plan furnished to them by the Listrict
engineer. It represented the plan and dimensions of the several parts of the structure of the sewer to be built under their
contract, and was similar to the completed section with which
it was to connect, as provided by the contract, and was the
plan under which the "workhad been coimnenced and carried
on. They proceeded with the work in accordance with the
plan, and without calling the attention of the board to any
alleged or apparent variation of the same from the contract,
and constructing the flooring, masonry, and arch according to
the dimensions appearing thereon, and had finished about 680
lineal feet thereof when the Board of Public Works was abolished by act of Congress of June 20, 1874. The work as thus
far done was constructed under the direction of the District
engineers, but neither they nor the Board of Public Works
intimated to the claimants that the work was not progressing
to their satisfaction and in accordance with the former sample
work, in which the skew-back was constructed of rubble
masonry.
Under the new form of government established by that, act
for the District, Richard L.,Hoxie was detailed as engineer on
July 6, 1874, and forthwith made a careful examination of the
work being done by claimants, as to its character and con-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. GALLAHER.
Opinion of the Court.

formity with the specification of the contract, in the presence
of one of the claimants.
He found that, generally, it was being built in conformity
with the specifications, but there were several departures.
The flooring and sleepers were, as he thought, inferior to the
quality i 2quired; the masonry was not strictly in conformity
with the specifications; there were too few bond stone used;
the inside walls were not dressed, and the stones generally
were small. But what attracted his attention, and was of the
most importance, was the manner of constructing the skewback. It was made, of small stones, spalls,, and mortar, while
it should have been made, as he thought, of large dimension
stone. He called the attention of the party present to these
alleged variations, and particularly to the skew-back, which he
wished constructed of dimension stone. He was informed
that to procure the stone would cause considerable delky in
the prosecution of the work. Thereupon he directed that the
skew-back might be made of brick, and added that he should
make a deduction in price, but named no sum. Thereafter
claimants proceeded with their work, making the skew-back
of brick, under the direction of defendant's engineers, without
further complaint.
In August, 18-71, the claimants applied for measurement of
the work so far as completed and a partial payment. The
engineer thereupon transmitted to the board of audit, which,
by the act of June 20, 1874, was charged with the settlement
of such accounts, a statement with theimasurement requested.
In that statement the engineer represented that the contract
required the inside sewer face of the stone wall rough-dressed,
4nd a skew-back stone not less than a three-foot six-inch bed,
and in length of not less than four feet; and that these
requirements of the contract had not been complied with.
He, therefore, on this account, recommended -a deduction of
$8.91 per lineal foot of the sewer. The board of audit audited
,the account with that deduction from the contract price, in
accordance with the statement of the engineer. The claimants
received the partial payment under protest. The amount of
this deduction upon the entire work performed by the claimants constitutes the sum of $35,436.49, for.which they sue.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

The whole controversy between the parties as to this item,
and also for -aportion of the claimants' demand on account of
extra work and material, arises out of the fact that the letter
of the contract and specifications does'not correspond with
the plan of the work as furnished by the District engineer
and the sample of the work which had been done previously
by other contractors, and with which that of the present
claimants wai to connect. The work as actually done was
done under the direction and supervision of the District engineer and was performed in accordance with the plan and
sample which was supposed and understood to be what was
required by the contract, and to be paid for at the contract
,price. We think that the practical construction which the
parties put upon the terms of their own contract, and according to which the work was done, must prevail over the literal
meaning of the contract, accoraing to which the defendant
seeks to obtain a deduction in the contract price. The other
items allowed by the Court of Claims, both to the claimants
and the defendant, we think well established upon the facts
as ascertained by it. The reasons for its judgment, as set
forth in the opinion of the court, we think entirely satisfactory. 19 C. C1. 564.
T judgment is affirmed.

HOPKINS v. -O-R.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
Argued January 20, 23, 1888.-Decided February 6, 1888.

A promissory note, upon which the defendant is shown to have admitted
his indebtedness to the plainti', may be given in evidence under a count
for money had and received.
The omission of the word "dollars," in a verdict for the plaintiff in an ac* tion of assumpsit, does not affect the validity of a judgment thereon.
Under a statute authorizing an appellate court "to examine the record, and,
on the facts therein contained alone, award a new trial, reverse or affirm

