SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY v. HALL.

121

Statement of the Case.

The case is therefore
Bernanded to the District Court, with, directions to take an
account on the principles here establis]ed,and to render a
decree accordingly.

INLAND AND SEABOARD COASTING COMPANY v.
:ALL.
BEHoR TO THE SUPREME COUeT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLTUBIA.
Submitted December 22, 1887:-Decided January 9, 1888.

An appeal lies to the general term of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia from a denial by that court in special term of a motion for a
new trial, made on the g-round that the verdiet was against the weight of
evidence.
2fecropolitan Railroad Co. v. Moore, 121 U. S. 558, affirmed to this point.

CASE to recover damages for injuries caused to plaintiff by
defendant's negligence. Verdict for plaintiff for $4000. Defendant thereupon moved for a new trial on exceptions taken
at the trial, and also on the following grounds: (1) Because
the verdict was against the weight of evidence. (2) Because
the verdict was against the instructions of the court. (3) Because the damages awarded by the jury were excessive.
This motion was heard by the .justice before whom the case
was tried and was overruled, and from the order overruling
and denying the motion an appeal was taken to the court in
general term. The order and appeal are as follows:
"The motion for a new trial coming on to be heard upon
the pleadings, testimony, and rulings of the court, as set forth
in the pleadings, and the stenographic report containing the
whole of the evidence in said case, and being a case stated,
said report being filed herewith and made Exhibit A, the same
is overruled, and from the order of the court overruling said
motion the defendant hereby appeals to the court in general
term.
"By the court.
"M.&cArRHun, fustice."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The court in general term dismissed the appeal, and entered
the following judgment:
"Now again come here as well the plaintiff as the defendant, by their respective attorneys; whereupon it appearing to
the court the order of the court below overruling the motion
for a new trial on a case stated upon the ground that the verdict of the jury was against the weight of evidence is not an
order from which an appeal lies to this court; and it also appearing to the court that the plaintiff's exceptions to the
-admissibility of evidence and to the rulings of the court were
not well taken, the said appeal is hereby dismissed, and the
motion for a new trial on' exceptions is now overruled, and the
judgment of the court is affirmed, with costs."
The defendant then sued out this writ of error.
*ir.

Nathaniel Wilson for plaintiff in error.

Xr. I. G. Hine and Xi-. ?idney T. Thomas for defendant
in error.
UP. CHmr JUSWcE WArTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This judgment is reversed on the authority of .Metropolitan
Railroad Co. v. Mfoore, 121 U. S. 558 and the cause remanded
with directions to take further proceedings therein isi accordance with the opinion in that case, that is to say, to consider
the appeal from the order at-special term denying the motion
of the Inland and Seaboard Coasting Company for a new trial,
made on the ground that the verdict was against the weight
of the evidence.
Reversed.
-

