WOODMAN v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.

161

Statement of the Case.

WOODIMAN v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY OF THE
METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE BROUGHT HERE BY WRIT OF ERROR
TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
Argued December 19, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

Upon the application of a party interested to vacate the entry of an order
dismissing a cause made in vacation pursuant to Rule 28, and after
hearing both parties, the court amends the entry by adding "without
prejudice to the right of" the petitioner,, to proceed ashe may be advised
in the court below for the protection of his interest."

THE petition of Albert X. Henry, entitled in this cause, set
forth the commencement of this action in a state court of
Michigan; its prosecution there to final judgment in the
Supreme Court of the State; the writ of error from this court
and the docketing of the cause here; the purchase in April
and May, 1887, by the petitioner of the right, title, and interest
of various of the plaintiffs in error in the suit, some of whom
agreed that the cause should not be discontinued, or any further proceedings had therein, without the consent of the petitioner ; the filing on the 8th of June, 1887, in this court of the
stipulation set forth below in the opinion of the court, signed
by Frank T. Lodge and De Forest Paine as attorneys of record
of the plaintiffs in error, and by the attorney of record of the
dlfendant of error; the entry'in this court of an order of
dismissal, under Rule 28 (108 U. S. 590), pursuant to the stipulation; and the remittitur from this court to the Supreme Court
of Michigan, "where the order of dismissal was also entered
and the decree of the Supreme Court affirmed." The petition then concluded as follows:
"At the time said stipulation was signed by said Frank T.
Lodge and said De Forest Paine, neither of them represented
your petitioner, and if said Lodge and said Paine represented
any person or persons in said controversy, they represented
said complainants and plaintiffs in error only, who at that
time had no interest in said controversy. Immediately after
VOL. cxxIv-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

your petitioner discovered the fact of said dismissal, heapplied to said Colton and Roberts to have said cause reipstatce', and said-Colton and Roberts, by their agent, informed
your petitioner that they would do all they could to reinstate
said cause, and expressed a desire that your petitioner indennify them for any costs they might thereafter incur in said
cause, and your petitioner agreed to file a satisfactory bond
for that purpose, but said Colton and Roberts thereafter
refused to do anything further in the matter and refused to.
have said stipulation recalled or said order vacated, and said
stipulation to dismiss still remains of record in this court, and
said order disniissing said cause, still xemains of record. Immediately after receiving notice from said Colton and Roberts:
that they would do nothing further in said matter, your petitioner proceeded to prepare this petition, and he submits that
said stipulation was entered into without authority and is
void, and the order entered upon it is void, and that neither.
said complainants Colton and Roberts, nor their attorneys,.
counsellors or solicitors, had any right to file said stipulation
or to dismiss said cause. Your petitioner submits that while.
said stipulation and order of dismissal are void under the circumstances of this case, yet they are not void upon their face,
and are apparently a bar to the complainant's right of action
and might be used to wrong and injure your petitioner in the.
suit he is about to institute for the purpose of reviving said
cause and having his rights, acquired under said assignment,
adjudicated. Your petitioner is ready and willing to indemnify any of the parties to this suit in any manner, and to any
amount that this court shall direct.
"Your petitioner therefore asks: (1) That an order may be
entered in this cause setting aside and vacating said order of
discontinuance, so that your petitioner may have said cause
revived as to himself as the grantee and assignee of said complainants Colton and Roberts. (2) That your petitioner may
have such other and further relief as shall be just and equitable. (3) That the parties to this suit and each and all of
them may be cited to appear in this court and cause at a time
to be namied, and show cause, if any there be, why the prayer
of your petitioner should xiot be granted."

WOODMAN v. MISSIONARY SOCIETY.

163

Opinion of the Court.

This petition was presented 'to the court October 24, 1887,
and thereafter the following notice issued, signed by the attorney for the petitioner, entitled in the cause, and directed to
each and all the parties, and the attorneys of record.
"Take notice. A petition, of which the foregoing is a true
copy, was on October 24th, 1887,fied in said court and cause,
and the same was presented to the court in open court, and
an order was then and there made by said court in said cause,
that you and each of you do show cause if any there be, why
the prayer of said petitioner should not be granted. You and
each of you are therefore hereby notified to be and appear
before the Supreme Court of the United States, at the court
room in the City of Washington, District of Columbia,- on
Mfonday, December 19th, 1887, at the opening of court on that
day, and show cause, if any there be, why the prayer of the
petitioner should not be granted."
The plaintiffs in error appeared at the return day, and filed
affidavits in response to some the allegations in the petition.
irM. George

iliam -Moore for petitioner.

.r. De .ForestPaine opposing.
Rfn.
CHIEF JusTIcE WrrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error Was docketed here October 12, 1885. On
the 8th of June, 1887, the parties of record entered into the
following stipulation:.
"It is hereby stipulated and agreed by and between the
parties to this cause, by their respective attorneys, that the
writ of rror and appeal herein be dismissed and the said cause
discontinued without costs to either party; that each party
pay his owvn costs in this court and in the courts below; that
the bond for damages executed by plaintiffs in error and
sureties be cancelled and the liability of the obligors discharged."
"An order shall be entered with the clerk accordingly."
Our Rule 28 is as follows:
"Whenever the plaintiff and defendant in a writ of error

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

pending in this court, or the appellant and appellee in an appeal, shall in vacation, by their attorneys of record, sign and
file with the clerk an agreement in writing directing the case
to be dismissed, and specifying the terms on which it is to be
dismissed as to costs, and shall pay to the clerk any fees that
may be due to him, it shall be the duty of the clerk to enter
the case dismissed, and to give to either party requesting it a
copy of the agreement filed; but no mandate or other process
shall issue without an order of the' court."
Pursuant to this rule the stipulation of the parties was presented to the clerk of this court, on the 8th of June, 188T, in
vacation, and he entered the case dismissed. No mandate or
other process has as yet been ordered by the court.
Albert Mv.Henry claims to have purchased from Charles B.
Colton and Lester A. Roberts, two of the plaintiffs in error,
their respective inferests in the land which is the subject matter of the controversy in the suit, on the 16th of May, 1887,
before the stipulation was signed. He now comes here and
by petition asks "that an order be entered in this court setting
aside and vacating said order of discontinuance, so that your
petitioner may have said cause revived as to himself as the
grantee and assignee of said complainants, Colton and Roberts,"
on the ground that the stipulation was signed after his purchase and without authority from him.
Upon consideration of this petition it is
Ordered that the entry of dismissal made in vacation be
amended by adding thereto these words : " without _Vrqjudice to the right of Albert X Henry to proceed as he may
be advised in the court below for the protection of his interest."l

