FAYOLLE v. TEXAS &c. RAILROAD CO.

519 '

Statement of the Case.

have known. And besides, when this contract was made the
fraud and illegality in the original issue of the bonds, both by
the railroad company and the State, had become notorious,
and it is impossible that Coddington, situated as he was,
could have been ignorant of the facts. In order to get the
bonds away from Florida he was compelled to arrange with
certain stockholders of the Florida Central Company, who
had begun a suit to prevent their removal by the president of
the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company, on the
ground that he had no right to use the road of the Florida
Central Company "and cover it with liens to raise money to
pay private debts, notwithstanding he is the owner of a
majority of the stock." It is unnecessary to refer more particularly to the evidence. It is full and conclusiVe and leaves
no doubt on our minds as to the knowledge of Coddington of
such facts as would prevent him from acquiring any title to
the bonds he took away by purchasing them from any of the
parties engaged in the transaction, which he could enforce as
a majfe holder agaist the Florida Central Company.'
The decree of the Circuit Court is fJ 'med.

FAYOLLE

v.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC
COMPANY.

RAILROAD

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMIA.
Submitted January 30, 1888. - Decided February 6, 1888.

This appeal having become inoperative through failure to docket the case
here at the return term, and the excuse presented iot being sufficient to
give the appellants the benefit of the exceptions recognized in Grigsby
v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505, the court dismisses it.

THE following motion to dismiss was made in the cause:
"The appellee in the above entitled cause, by W. D. Davidge
and William H. Trescott, its solicitors, appearing specially for
the motion, now moves the court to dismiss the said cause for
the want of jurisdiction, because,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"First. The transcript of the record was not filed in this
court, and the cause docketed at the term next after the appeal
was prayed and allowed.
",Second. No citation was issued.
"W. D. DAvIiGE,
I'WILL
H. TESCOT,
"9Solicitorsfo' Affellee.

"The decree appealed from bears date November 12, 1883.
On the same day the appeal was prayed in open court and
allowed. The transcript of the record was filed, and the
cause docketed in this court, January 1T, 1887, more than

three years after the appeal was prayed and allowed. The
term of this court next after the allowance of the appeal, and
to which the appeal was returnable, ended May 4, 1885, when

the court adjourned.

The appeal then became functus officio

and of no avail."
The following affidavit was filed by the appellant in answer
to the motion:
".ANSWER

OF THE APPELLANTS TO THE M-OTION.

"Affidavit.
'1!UNITED STATES OF A

iusARIC
,

District of Columbia,

"JmEs CoLEmMi, being duly sworn, doth depose and say:
"That he was formerly of the firm of Carpenter & Coleman,
consisting of Hon. Matt. H. Carpenter and himself, doing
business in the city of Washington.
"That this deponent is informed and believes, that the said
Mffatt. H. Carpenter was retained in the above entitled cause
prior to such partnership. That he, the said Senator Carpenter, filed the bill. in equity herein, and to the time of his death,
in February, 1881, had the exclusive care, and management
and control of the said cause.
"This deponent further says, that subsequent to the death of
Senator Carpenter he was requested to take the appeal from

FAYOLLE v. TEXAS &c. RAILROAD CO.
Statement of the Case.

the order sustaining the demurrer in said cause to the Supreme
Court of the United States. That he was not retained in said
cause further than as aforesaid, and was requested to and did
perfect said appeal more for the reason that it was unfinished
business left by Senator Carpenter, at the time of his death,
than any other.
"This deponent further says, that in perfecting said appeal
in the clerk's office of the district court, he found that many
of the papers necessary to complete the transcript of the
record in the cause had been lost or mislaid and could not
be found. That finally he was enabled to perfect said appeal
by substituting for the lost papers others which were furnished
him to enable him to perfect said appeal by the counsel for
the defence, so that said appeal was perfected and the transcript pf the record in the said cause ready to be filed in the
Supreme Court on the 24th day of Mlarch, A.D. 1885.
"That at the time aforesaid this deponent had an office in
Wisconsin, and was then remaining in Washington, mainly
for the purpose of closing up the business of the said firm of
Carpenter & Coleman.
"That after he had procured said appeal to be perfected as
aforesaid, the deputy clerk of the said district court agreed
with this deponent that he, the said clerk, would take the said
record and file the same with the clerk of the Supreipe Court,
and this deponent, relying upon said agreement, left the same
with him for that purpose, as he was then expecting to leave
the city for Wisconsin, where deponent then resided.
"This deponent further says, that his name appears on the
docket of this court as Attorney of Record in said cause, and
he may have entered an appearance therein, but that if so, it
was merely formal, as what he did in said cause was without
fee or compensation; and that he, at the time he was requested to take said appeal, understood that it was the intention of the coitplainants to retain other counsel in the case who
were familiar with the same. That as deponent wasinformed
and believes, Hon. Jeremiah S. Black was counsel in said cause
after Senator Carpenter's death, and remained such down to
the time of the death of the said Jeremiah S. Black, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument against the Motion.

this deponent is informed and believes occurred in the month
of
A.D. 1883.
"J. COLEMAIN.

"Sworn and subscribed before me January 24, 1888.
9[L. '.S]
A. S. TAYLOR, -ot"' PubZic."
Yr. WaZter D. Javidge and M.
If iam H Tre8cot for
the motion.
.Ms. 1V. D. Shia

n opposing.

It is proper to state at the outset that the present counsel
for the appellants had no connection with or knowledge of
this case till November 9th, 1887, when they were retained
by the appellants by letter from France, where all the appellants, except one, reside. We have been and are still ignorant
of the address of the single appellee, who resides in Vermont.
We have not the slightest reason to suppose that any of the
appellants were or even now are aware of the alleged defect.
After diligent inquiry we have been unable to obtain any
definite facts in regard to the appeal, except those contained
in the foregoing affidavit.
From that it appears that, notwithstanding the death of
two counsels of the appellees, and the loss of the papers from
the files of the court below, the appeal, which had been prayed
and allowed in open court, and the required bond given, was
perfected March 24, 1885; it was then ready to be fied in this
court, and was left with the clerk of the court below for that
purpose. In due course it should have been filed on or before
this court adjourned, which was May 4, 1885, the end of the
term to which the appeal was properly returnable.
But the transcript does not appear to have reached the
clerk's office of this court till June 12, 1885, a month and
more after the close of the foregoing term.
I. It, of course, must be conceded, under the repeated decisions of this court, that if the delay to transmit the record on
or before May 4, 1885, is chargeable as laches to the appellants,
then their appeal must be dismissed.
. But, as their appeal was prayed out in open court, and al-

FAYOLLE v. TEXAS &c.

RAILROAD CO.

Opinion of the Court.

lowed, their bond filed, the transcript of the record completed
and left with the clerk below in time, with the understanding
that he was to send it up, we submit that his omission to-do
so ought not to be charged to the appellants as laches under
the circumistances. We do not understand this to be a mere
question of jarisdiction. Grigsby v. Purcell,99 U. S. 505, 507.
II. As to the absence of a citation. This appeal having
been prayed for and allowed in open court, the appellee had
notice, and no citation was necessary. The object of the citation is to give notice of th6 appeal to the appellees. Dodge v.
Jknowles, 114 U. S. 430, 438. Not only was the appeal taken
in open court notice, but as late as March, 1885, the prosecution of the appeal was brought to. the notice of appellees' counsel, when he courteously stipulated that a copy of a large part
of the record might be substituted for the original, which had
been lost. This' stipulation forms part of the record, and is
prefixed to the bill in the transcript.
We submit, therefore, that the want of a citation furnishes
no support to this motion.
1MR. CHLEF JUsTicE

WArTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is granted. The decree was rendered November 12, 1883. An appeal was taken at the same time in open
court returnable to our October Term, 1884, which ended May
4, 1885, but it was not docketed here until January 17, 1886.
That was too late, as the appeal had become inoperative
through the failure of the appellants to docket the case here
at the return term. Grigsby v. Purcell, 99 U. S. 505, and
cases there cited; 4illian, v. Clark, 111 U' $. 784; Caillot v.
Deetkenr, 113 U. S. 215. The excuse presented for the failure
to docket in time is not sufficient to give the appellants the
benefit of any exception to this rule which was recognized in
Grigsby v. Purcell,p. 501. Neither does the case come within
that of Edwards v. United States, 102 .U. S. 575, because the
transcript of the record was not lodged in the office of the
clerk of this court until after the return term of the appeal, and
no attempt was made to get it upon the docket until another
term had passed and still another had begun.
Dimissed.

