OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

KNIGHT v. PAXTON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCOIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 4, 1888.-Decided February 6,1888.

An ante-nuptial settlement was excuted prior to 1867, by which J.M. conveyed to his brother T. M., land in Illinois, in trust for his intended wife,
for her life, and in case of her death leaving a child or children, to such
child or children, and in case of her death without a child, then to S. I.
and O. L. for life, withremainder to J.M. and his heirs, In~lay, 1867, J.M.,
S. M., and 0. L. joined in conveying the premises to thewife for the purpose of determining the trust and vesting their respective rights under
the settlement in her absolutely. In 1872 J. 31. and the wife joined in a
trust deed of the premises, in the nature of a mortgage, to secure the
payment of a debt of the husband. The trust deed purported to be acknowledged by the husband and wife; but after foreclosure and sale, the
husband and wife, being in possession of the premises, set up as against
the purchaser, that the wife had never acknowledged it, and that by
reason thereof she had never parted with the homestead right in the
premises secured to her by the law of Illinois. The purchaser filed this
bill in equity, to have the wife's homestead right set ol to her on a division, or, if the property was incapable of division, to have it discharged
of it on the payment into court of $1000. Held:
(1) That, without deciding the effect of the birth of a child, after the deed
of May, 1867, as a restraint upon the alienation of the fee, the trust
deed of 1872, under the Illinois statute of March 27, 1869, respecting
deeds of femes covert, operated to convey the life estate of the wife
to the grantee, and that no acknowledgment was necessary to its
validity.
(2) That, the master having reported that the property could not be divided, the complainant was entitled to the possession of the whole
premises, under the laws of Illinois, upon payment into court of
$1000.

BILL in EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
Xr1.

George L. Paddock for appellant.

Al. 1. H. Boutell for appellee.
19R. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by James W. Paxton, the complainant below, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the

KNIGHT v. PAXTON.
Opinion of the Court.

Northern District of Illinois, to obtain a decree that so much
of certain described real property, situated in Chicago, as was
of the value of one thousand dollars, be set off to the defendants for their homestead, and that the possession of the residue
be delivered to him; or, if the premises could not be divided,
that the possession of the whole be delivered to him on his
paying into court for the use of the defendants the sum of one
thousand dollars. The facts, as set forth in the bill, are in
substance as follows: On the 13th of February, 187,2, James
M. Marshall, of Chicago, being indebted to the complainant in
the sum of $10,000, executed and. delivered to one Francis
Bradley his bond of that date, in the penal sum of $20,000,
conditioned to pay the amount of that indebtedness on.the
13th of February, 1877, with semiannual interest;, and also
ten coupon notes, each for $450, payable to the order of the
said Francis Bradley. The bond and coupon notes were on
the same day assigned to the complainant, and Marshall and
his wife at once executed a deed of the real property mentioned to one Lyman Baird, in trust for the security of the
principal and interest of the bond and the coupon notes, and
subject to a condition of defeasance on their payment according -to their terms, and the performance of the covenants mentioned therein. This deed purported to be acknowledged by
Marshall and his wife, and was on the following day recorded
in the recorder's office of the county. Default having been
made in the payment of the principal sum, the trustee, Baird,
at the request of the complainant, and by virtue of the pover
contained in the trust deed, on the 8th of March, 1879, sold
the premises and the title and equity of redemption of the
grantors therein, for the sum of $10,000, to the complainant,
he being the highest bidder therefor. A deed thereof was
executed to him by the trustee. Immediately afterwards he
demanded possession of the premises from Marshall and his
wife, who were, when the trust deed was executed, in the
occupation of the premises as a residence. But they refused
to surrender them, and about a year afterwards set up that
Susan Marshall, the wife, had never acknowledged the deed
of trust, and by reason of this fact her homestead right in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

premises had never been released. The bill alleged that this
was the first knowledge the complainant ever had of any such
claim, and that he always believed the trust deed was properly
acknowledged by both Marshall and his wife, and that thereby
they had released all their right in the premises under the
homestead laws of Illinois.
The bill also alleged that the value of the premises .was
greatly in excess of the value of the homestead rights therein,
and that the complainant was entitled to the possession of so
much thereof as might not be set off to the defendants for t
homestead, or, in case the premises were incapable of division,
he was-entitled-to the whole of them on payment into court of
the sum of one thousand dollars for the use of the defendants,
which payment he offered to make. The bill concluded with
a prayer for a decree ip accordance with these averments, as
stated above, and for such other and further relief as the
nature of the case might require.
Soon after the bill was filed, James M. M[arshall died, and his
widow filed a separate answer, setting up four defences: frst,
that the premises in question were conveyed on the 21st of
November, 1860, by James M. Marshall, prior to her marriage
with him, and in consideration thereof, to his brother, Thomas
E. M arshall; in trust, as an ante-i .I4ial settlement, and therefore she was incapable of executing the trust deed of February
13, 1872; second, that at the time this latter deed was signed
she was confined to her bed by sickness, and by reason thereof,
an(I the effect of narcotics prescribed by her physician to relieve
her pain, she had not sufficient mental capacity to read and
understand it; third, that when she signed it, her husband
falsely stated to her that it related to other property which
was situated in a different part of the city of Chicago; and,
fourth, that after the bond secured by that deed became due,
The time for payment was extended by the complainant in
consideration of a rate of interest greater than that originally
stipulated.,
Of these objections, the first is the only one which requires
consideration by this court. The other three are not sustained
by the evidence in the case. That which bears upon them is

KNIGHT v. 'PAXTON.

555

Opinion of the Court.

vague and conflicting, seldom engendering a doubt, and never
producing conviction.
The deed of trust constituting the ante-nuptial settlement
was executed by James M. Marshall to his brother, Thomas E.
Marshall, in trust for 'the appellant, Susan 0. Larmon, whom
he was about-to marry, for her life, and in case of her death,
leaving any child or -children of the intended marriage,-for
such child or children, and in case she died without child or
children, then for Susan 0. M-arshall and Ophelia K. Larmon
for life, with remainder to James M. Marshall and'his heirs.
On the 18th of May, 1867, Thomas E. Marshall, the trustee
named in the deed of marriage settlement, and the said Susan
0. Marshall and Ophelia K. Larmon, conveyed the premises to
the wife,.for the purpose, as stated in the deed, of determining
the trust, and vesting in her absolutely all rights, legal or
equitable, which they might have under the deed of marriage
settlement. James M. Marshall, the husband, witnessed this
deed, and at the time there were no children born to her.
This deed was properly acknowledged by all the grantors, and
recorded soon afterwards in the recorder's office of the county.
In it all parties then living, interested in the properfy, or who
could by any possibility become interested, united, except
James M. Marshall, the husband, who was a witness to its
execution. Whether there could afterwards be any restraint
upon her alienation of the fee of the property by reason of the
subsequent birth of a child or children of the Mnarriage, it is
unnebessary to decide. There was none upon the alienation
of the life estate when the trust deed in the nature of a mortgage was executed to the complainant in February, 1872.
Was she bound by that deed, assuming, as found by the court,
that she never acknowledged its execution before the officer
whose certificate of acknowledgment it bore ? This question,
we think, is answered by the statutes of Illinois. Previous to
March 27,1869, an acknowledgment by a married woman before
a qualified officer was essential to the valid execution of her
conveyance of real property. But on that date an act was
passed, the first section of which is as follows: Ill. Sess. Laws
of 1869, 359.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

".Any feme covert being above the age of eighteen years,
joining with her husbtnd in the execution of any deed, mortgage, conveyance, poieyr 6f attorney, or other writing of oi
relating to the sale, conveyance, or other disposition of lands
or real estate as aforesaid, shall be bound and concluded by
the same, in respect to her right, title, claim, interest, or dower
in such estate, as if she were sole and of full age as aforesaid;
and the acknowledgment or proof of such deed, mortgage, conveyance, power of attorney, or other writing may be the same,
as if she were sole."
After the passage of this act the execution of a conveyance
of real property by a married woman joining with her husband
was sufficiently authenticated by her signature. It wiould seem
that her, acknowledgment of its execution before an officer
authorized to take acknowledgments was only required to
render it admissible as evidence without further proof, or to
release her homestead right in the property. For its validity
as a transfer of the grantor's interest, except as to the homestead rights therein, the acknowledgment was unnecessary.
In HMogan v. Hogan, 89 Illinois, 427, the Supreme Court of
Illinois had occasion to speak both of the statute contained in
the revision of 18415 and of that of 1869. Of the statute in
the revision of 18415 it said:
"tUnder said statute it was only in the precise mode prescribed thereby, by the husband joining in the execution of
the deed, and by a certificate showing an acknowledgment in
substantial compliance witl the statutory requirements, that
the wife could convey her real estate. It was the acknowledgment of the ferme covert which was the operative act to pass
the title, and not the delivery of the, deed."
And of the statute of 1869 it said:
"This latter statutory enactment worked a marked change
in the law. Thereafter the acknowledgment ceased to be the
effective means to work' the transfer of title. The certificate
of her acknowledgment might thenceforth have been the same
as that required in the case of a feme sole; and without any
acknowledgment whatever, proof of her execution of a con•veyance might have been made as at common law.' So also,

KNIGHT v. -PAXTON.

557

Opinion of the Court.

from- that time forth, her contract in writing, made jointly
with her husband, for the disposition of her lands, became
binding upon her, and might have been enforced in a court of
chanceiy, and she compelled to a specific performance of the
same. One only distinction between her condition and that of
an unmarried woman, in reference to the alienation or disposition of real property, was still retained. The law still required,
before she could convey or make any valid contract for the
disposition of her lands, her husband should join with her in
the deed or other writing," See, also, B "adshaw v. Atki?4,
110 Illinois, 323, 329; Edwards v. Shoeneman, 104 Illinois,
278.
It follows that by the trust deed of 1872 in the natureof a
mortgage to. the complainant, in which .her husband u~ited,'
her estate in the mortgaged premises passed as completely as
if she had been a feme 8ole, subject .to any homestead right
therein which they possessed under the laws of Illinois. An,
act of the State, passed in 1851, provided for exemption from
levy and forced sale, under judicial process or order, for debts
contracted after its date, of the lot of ground and buildings
thereon, occupied as a residence and bwned by the debtor,
being a householder and having a family, to thz value of one
thousands-dollars. And the amendatory act of 1857 provided
that no r6lease or waiver of such exemption should be valid
unless the same should be in writing, subscribed by the holder
and his wife if he had' one, "and acknowledged in the same
manner as conveyances of real property are requied to be
acknowledged;" the act declaring that its object was "to
require in all cases the signature and acknowledgment of the
wife as conditions to the alienation of the homestead." An act
passed in 1871 provided that in the enforcement of a lien upon
premises including the homestead, if the homestead right was,
not waived or released in the manner required, the court might
set off the homestead and decree the sale of the balance of the
premises, or, if the value thereof exceeded the. exemption, and
they could not be divided, might order the sale of the whole
and the payment of the amount of the exemption to the party
entitled. 1 Starr & Curtis's Annotated" Statutes of Illinois, c.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

52. The payment by the holder of the lien, seeking its enforcement by sale of the premises, of the amount of the homestead
exemption, would of course obviate the necessity of the sale
in the case mentioned, where the property was incapable of
division, and authorize a decree for the delivery of the entire
property to the party otherwise entitled to it. The master,
to whom it was referred to ascertain whether the premises
could be divided so as to set off to the widow a portion
equivalent to the sum of $1000, having reported that they
could not be divided, the complainant was entitled to the possession of the whole premises upon paying the required amount
into court for her benefit. The decree of the Circuit Court is,
therefore,
Aflrmed.
THE STRATH.,IRLY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOIR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argued February 1, 1888.-Decided February 13, 1888.

The fine imposed upon the master of a vessel, by Rev. Stat. § 4253, for a
violation of that and the preceding section, is, by § 4270, made a lien
upon the vessel itself, which may be recovered by a proceeding in rem;
but it is the same penalty which is to be adjudged against the master
himself, in the criminal prosecution for misdemeanor, and payment by
either is satisfaction of the whole liability.
Section 4264 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by the act of February
27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 250, subjects vessels propelled in whole or in part
by steam, and navigating from and to, and betiveen the ports therein
named, to the provisions, requisitions, penalties and liens included within
Rev. Stat. § 4255, as one of the several sections of the chapter relating
to the space in vessels appropriated to the use of passengers.
A penalty imposed upon a master of a vessel arriving at a port of the United
States, for a violation of the provisions of Ret. Stat. § 4266, is not
- charged as a lien upon the vessel by the operation of Rev. Stat. § 4264,
as'amefided by the act of February 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 240, 250.

Ti

case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

This was a libel of information in rem, filed in the District
'Co urt of the United States for'the District of California, July

