OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

The whole controversy between the parties as to this item,
and also for -aportion of the claimants' demand on account of
extra work and material, arises out of the fact that the letter
of the contract and specifications does'not correspond with
the plan of the work as furnished by the District engineer
and the sample of the work which had been done previously
by other contractors, and with which that of the present
claimants wai to connect. The work as actually done was
done under the direction and supervision of the District engineer and was performed in accordance with the plan and
sample which was supposed and understood to be what was
required by the contract, and to be paid for at the contract
,price. We think that the practical construction which the
parties put upon the terms of their own contract, and according to which the work was done, must prevail over the literal
meaning of the contract, accoraing to which the defendant
seeks to obtain a deduction in the contract price. The other
items allowed by the Court of Claims, both to the claimants
and the defendant, we think well established upon the facts
as ascertained by it. The reasons for its judgment, as set
forth in the opinion of the court, we think entirely satisfactory. 19 C. C1. 564.
T judgment is affirmed.

HOPKINS v. -O-R.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
Argued January 20, 23, 1888.-Decided February 6, 1888.

A promissory note, upon which the defendant is shown to have admitted
his indebtedness to the plainti', may be given in evidence under a count
for money had and received.
The omission of the word "dollars," in a verdict for the plaintiff in an ac* tion of assumpsit, does not affect the validity of a judgment thereon.
Under a statute authorizing an appellate court "to examine the record, and,
on the facts therein contained alone, award a new trial, reverse or affirm

HOPKINS V. ORR.
Statement of the Case.
the judgment, or give such other judgment as to it shall seem agreeable
to law," a judgment on a general verdict may be affirmed, if the evidence
in the record supports any count in the declaration.
Under a statute requiring an appellant to give bond, with sureties, to prosecute his appeal to a decision in the appellate court, and to perform the
judgment appealed from, if affirmed; and enacting that if the judgment
of the appellate court be against the appellant, it shall be rendered against
him and his sureties; a judgment of the appellate court, affirming a
judgment below for a sum of money and interest, upon the appellee's
remitting part of, the interest, may be rendered against the sureties, as
well as against the appellant.

Tmis was an action of assumpsit, brought April 3, 1882, by
Orr and Lindsley adgainst Hopkins in a district court of the
Territory of New Mexico. The declaration contained a special
count on a promissory note for $1314.65, made by the defendant on October 1, 1881; and the common counts for the like
sum due on that day for goods sold, for money lent, for money
paid, and for money had and received. The plaintiffs fied
with their declaration the following note:
St. Louis, October 1st, 1881.
"$1314.65.
"Four months after date I, the subscriber, of Ft. Wingate,
State of New Mexico,. promise to pay to the
county of -,
order of Orr and Lindsley (a firm composed of William C.
Orr and De Courcey B. Lindsley) thirteen hundred and fourdollars, with exchange, for value received, with inteen _%%terest at the rate of ten per cent per annum after maturity
until paid, without defalcation or discount, negotiable and payible at 1st National Bank Santa F6, N. M.
"L. N. RoPRms, Jn."
The description of the note in the special count corresponded
with, the note.filed, except that it did not state that the note
was payable with exchange and at a particular place. The
defendant pleaded non assumpsit and paymeat.
At the trial, the plaintiffs put in evidence the note filed,
and were permitted to read it to the jury, notwithstanding
the defendant objected that there was a variance between the
note and the declaration. The only other evidence introduced
was testimony of the plaintiffs' attorney that on March 7,1882,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

he presented this note to the defendant, and the defendant
admitted the indebtedness, and asked him not to bring suit
upon it before April 1, and on that day he would pay it, but
he failed to do so. The defendant objected to the evidence
as incompetent and immaterial. But the court overruled the
objection, and instructed the jury to find for the plaintiffs for
$1399.48, being the amount of the note with interest computed
at the rate of ten pek cent.
The jury returned a verdict saying that "they find for the
plaintiff in sum of thirteen hundred and ninety-nine and

.t%."

The court overruled motions for a new trial and in arrest of
judgment, and gave judgment "that the said plaintiffs do have
and recover from the said defendant, Lambert N. Hopkins,
the said sum of thirteen hundred and ninety-nine and %-($1399.48), and also the costs in their behalf laid out and expended, to be taxed, but that execution shall not issue therefor until further order of the court."
The defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and executed to the plaintiffs a bond, with sureties, the
condition of -which was that "the said Lambert N. Hopkins
shall prosecute his said appeal with due diligence to a decisidn
in the Supreme Court, and thaftif the judgment appealed from
be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, he will perform the
judgment of the district court, and that he will also pay the
cost and damage that may be adjudged against him upon his
said' appeal." Thereupon the district court allowed the appeal, ordered execution to be stayed while it was pending, and
allowed a bill of exceptions tendered by the defendant to the
rulings aforesaid.
The Supreme Court of the Territory held that there was a
variance between the special count and the note offered in evidence, but that the note was admissible in evidence under the
common counts, ad that under those counts and the statutes
of the Territory the plaintiffs were entitled to recover the sum
of $1314.65, with interest thereon computed at the rate of six
instead, of ten per cent; and ordered that, if the plaintiff
should file a reniittitur of the excess of four per cent interest,
the- judgment of the district court be affirmed, but, if they

HOPKINS v. ORR.
Opinion of the Court.

should fail to do so, the judgment be reversed and the case
remanded for a new trial. Thereupon the plaintiffs filed such
a remittitur; and the Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed
the judgment of the district court against the defendant and
the sureties on his appeal bond, and adjudged that the plaintiffs recover against them the sum of $1314.65 and interest at
the rate of six per cent. The defendant and the sureties sued
out this writ of error.
r. 0. 1). Barrett and Mr. John H. Xnaebel for plaintiffs
in error.
. f. Benny Wise Garnett for defendant in error. Mr. IF.
B. Childers was with him on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
It was not contended in either of the courts of the Territory
that any question of fact should have been submitted to the
jury; but the contest was upon the sufficiency of the evidence
and the verdict, in matter of law, to support a judgment for
the plaintiffs.
Upon the testimony that the defendant admitted his indebtedness on the note given in evidence, that note, though varying from'the description in the special count, was admissible
under the common counts as evidence of money had and
received by the defendant to the plaintiffs' use. Grant v.
Vaughan, 3 Burrow, 1516; Page v. Bank of Alexandria, T
Wheat. 35; Goodwin v. 7rorse, 9 Mlet. 278. And by the
statutes of the Territory the sum so admitted to be due bore
interest at the rate of six per cent. Prince's Laws, c. 79, § 4;
Comp. Stat. § 1734.
The omission of the' word "dollars" in the verdict was not
such a defect as to prevent the rendering of judgment according to the manifest intent of the jury, although it might have
been niore regular to amend the verdict before ..judgment.
Parks v. Turner, 12 How. 39; B eall v. Territory, 1 New
Mexico, 501, 519.
VOL. cxxrv-33

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

It was argued for the defendant that under the rule recognized in Xfa yland v. Baldwin, 112 U. S. 490, the verdict being
general on all the counts, and the evidence not supporting the
special count, no judgment could be rendered on the verdict
without first amending it so at to limit it to -the common
counts. But the technical rule of the common law in this
matter has been changed by statute in many parts of the
United States. Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604. In New
Mexico, that rule has been abrogated by the statute of the
Territory, by which "the Supreme Court, in appeals or writs
of error, shall examine the record, and on the facts therein
contained alone shall arard a new trial, reverse or affirm the
judgment of the district court, or give such other judgment
as to them shall seem agreeable to law." Prince's Laws, c. 16,
§ 7; Comp. Stat. § 2190. The manifest object of the statute
is, not merely to restrain the appellate court. from going outside of the record, but to enable it to render such a judgment
as upon a consideration of the whole record justice may
appear to require.
The Supreme Court of the Territory was therefore authorized to affirm the judgment rendered by the district court upon
the general verdict for the plaintiffs, if the facts 'contained in
the record supported any count in the declaration, as we have
seen that they did. And there can be no doubt of its authority to make its affirmance of the judgment conditional upon
the plaintiffs' remitting part of the interest awarded below.
Bank of Xenuck y v.Ashley, 2 Pet. 327.
The statutes of the Territory further enact that, on an
appeal from the judgment of a district court, execution shall
be stayed upon the appellant's giving bond, with sureties, such
a's was given in this case, "conditioned that the appellant shall
prosecute his appeal with due diligence to a decision in the
Supreme Court, and that if the judgment or decision appealed
frcm be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, he will perform
the judgment of the district court, and that he will also pay
the costs and damages that may be adjudged against him upon
his appeal." Prince's Laws, c. 16, § 4; Comp. Stat. -§2194.
They also contain a general provision that "in case of appeal

TRASK v. JACKSONVILLE &c. RAILROAD CO.

515

Statement of the Case.

in civil suits, if the judgment of the appellate court be against
the appellant, it shall be rendered against him and his securities
in the appeal bond;" and this court has adjudged that provision to be valid. Prince's Laws, c. 45, § 5; Comp. Stat.
§ 2206; BeaU v. New .Mexico,16 Wall. 535; .oore v. Huntington, 17 Wall. 411.
By the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory,
affirming the judgment of the district court as to the principal
sum due, and also as to interest to the extent of six per cent,
upon the plaintiffs' remitting the excess of four per cent interest, the judgment of the district court was affirmed, within the
meaning of the territorial statutes and of the appeal bond.
Butt v. Stinger, 4 Cranch C. C. 252; Page v. Johnson, 1 D.
Chip. 338.
The result is, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Territory was rightly rendered for the plaintiffs against
the sureties in the bond as well as against the principal
defendant, and must be
Afflrmed.

TRASK v. JACKSO:NVILLE, PENSACOLA AND MOBILE
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued January 5, 6, 1883.-Decided February 6,1888.

On the proof in this case the court holds that Coddington, from whom
appellant bought the bonds which form the subject matter of the stilt,
took them with knowledge of such facts as would prevent him from
acquiring any title by purchase which lie could enforce, as a bona fide
holder, against the Florida Central Railroad Company, one of the appellees herMn; and that appellant as purchaser of the bonds occupies no
better position than Coddington.

BILL IN EQUITY, to collect of the Railroad Companies, defendants, certain bonds of the State of Florida, described in
the opinion of the court, which are conceded to be inyalid as

