PHILLIPS v. MOUND CITY ASSOCIATION.

605

Statement of the Case.

in the plaintiff's scheme; inasmuch as the only difference between it and the earlier scheme of Warren was that in Warren's books there was no place for the bonds, and the coupons
were grouped according to their dates of payment, instead of
being grouped together with the bonds to which they respectively belonged. The providing of spaces for the bonds, and
the change in the order of arrangement of the coupons, cannot,
upon the most liberal construction of the patent laws, be held
to involve any invention.
Decree reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the. bilZ; the origina plaintif
to pay the costs in both courts.

PRILLIPS v. MOUND CITY LAND AND WATER
ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'iHE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 6,1888.-Decided February13, 1888.

An adjudication by the highest court of a State that certain proceedings
before a Mexican tribunal prior to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo were
insufficient to effect a partition of a tract of land before that time granted
by the Mexican Government to three persons who were partners, which
grant was confibmed by commissioners appointed under the provisions
of the act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, "to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California," presents no federal question which is Subject to review here.

THIs suit was brought for a partition of two adjacent tracts
of land in the county of Los Angeles, known respectively as
Rancho "San Jos6 and "San Jos6 Addition." The facts
were these:
In 1837, the Mexican Govermnent granted to Ygnacio Palomares and Ricardo Vejar the rancho known as "San Jos6."
Afterwards, these grantees formed a partnership with Luis
Arenas, and the Mexican Government granted to the three

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement, of the Case.

the rancho known as "San Jos6 Addition," which adjoined
the other. Arenas also in some way acquired an undivided
*one-third interest in "San Jos6," and then conveyed whatever
right he had in the two grants to Henry Dalton.
After this had been done, it is claime;d that a partition was
made under the authority of an appropriate Mexican tribunal,
by which the share of each of three owners in common was
set off to him in severalty, and possession taken accordingly.
This all occurred before the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo,
which was pgoclaimed July 4, 1848. 9 Stat. 922.
On the 29th of September, 1852, Ygnacio Palomares presented his claim.to the commissioners appointed under the act of
March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, c. 41, to an undivided one-third
part of the two ranchos, and asked its confirmation. Henry
Dalton, on the -same day, presented his claim on account of
the two grants, and asked for the confrmation of the specific
tracts allotted to him in the alleged partition. On the 9th of
October Vejar presented his claim and asked a similar confhmation to that prayed by Dalton. The commissioxiers confirmed the claims in accordance with the requests of Dalton
and Vejar, so as to give each claimant the lands which had
been set off to him in severalty by the partition. From these
orders of the commissioners appeals were taken by the United
States, under the provisions of the statute, to the district
court, where decrees were rendered, by which it was ordered
and adjudged "that said -decision of said board of commissioners be, and the same hereby is, affirmbd;" and the title of the
appellees adjudged to be good and valid, each to 'one equal
undivided third part of the two tracts, which were then described by metes and bounds.
In accordance with these several decrees of confirmation
patents were issued'bythe United States,-that for "San Jos&"
being "unto Henry Dalton, Ygnacio Palomares, and Ricardo
*V~jar, and to their heirs," for "the tract of land known by the
name of 'San Jos6' embraced and described in the foregoing
survey," (being that set out in the decree,) "but with the stipulation that in virtue of the fifteenth section of the said act,"
that of March 3, 1851, "neither the confirmation of this said

PHILLIPS v. MOUND CITY ASSOCIATION.
Statement of the Case.

claim, nor this patent, shall affect the interest of third persons;
to have and to hold the said tract known by the name of San
Jos6, with 'the appurtenances, unto the said Henry Dalton,
Ygnacio Palomares, and Ricardo Vejar, and to their heirs and
assigns forever, with the stipulation aforesaid." The patent
for "San Jos6 Addition" .was in all respects the .same except
as to the description of the land.
At the hearing of the present suit it was contended that the
patents thus issued inured to the benefit of the several grantees
according to their respective interests as set off to them in severalty in the alleged partition m~de under Mexican authority
before the treaty, but the Supreme Court of the State decided
that no sucl4 partition had in fact been made by any judgment
of a competent Mexican tribunal, and that both the ranchos
were "held and owned by the Mound City Land and Water.
Association, Louis Phillips, and Lugardo A. de Palomares,"
who had succeeded to the title of the original patentees, "as
tenants in common, each owning an undivided third of said
ranchos." It was then ordered that partition be made among
the owners, "allotting to each one in severalty one-third of the
area of the two ranchos, quantity and quality considered, and
so locating the said allotments as to give to each of the said
persons the benefit of any improvements he may have placed
on any part of said premises, so far as the same may be done
without injury to the cotenants, and so as to include in said
allotment to said Phillips" certain specified parcels, which it
was found he had sold,." so far as the same may be done without injury to the cotenants."
To reverse that decree this writ of error was brought, the
object of the plaintiffs in error being to defeat a new partition
on the ground that the alleged Mexican partition was valid
and bijading on the present parties, and that they now hold in
severalty what was then set off to their respective grantors,
and not as tenants in common of the whole tract.
The case was submitted at the present term on printed arguments, under Rule 20, but at a former term a motion was made
by the defendants in error to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
because no federal question was involved. That motion was

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument against the Motion.

continued for hearing with the case on its merits, and is now
to be considered.
.'. A. T. Britton, Xr. A. B. Browne, and Xr. TWalter H.
Smith for the motion cited: Owings v. .Norwood's Lessee, 5
Cranch, 344; 2IVw Orleans v. Dc Armas, 9 Pet. 224; Choteau
v. 2farguerite, 12 Pet. 507; Xaney v. Porter, 4 How. 55;
.eiedy v. Ent, 7 How. 586; .Doe v. Eslava, 9 How. 421;
Uhited States v. king, 3 How. 773; Gill v. Oliver, 11 How.
529; Romie v. ( asanova, 91 U. S. 379 ; Ro th v. Ehman, 107
U. S. 319; -SanFranciscov. Scott, 111 U. S. 768; Hastings v.
,ackson, 112 U. S. 233.
97&. George H. Smith, opposing, cited: United- States v.
Arredondo, 6 Pet. 691, 727; nited)tates v. Delassus, 9 Pet.
117, 134; Strotker v. Lucas, 12 Pet. 410; United States v.
Perata,19 How. 343, 347; Graham v. United States, 4 Wall.
259, 261; Un"ited &ates v. Pico, 5 Wall. 536, 539; Lessee v.
Olark, 18 California, 574; Waterman v. Smith, 13 California,
410; United States v. Sutter, 21 Row. 170; Castro v. Hendricks, 23 Row. 438, 442; Steinbach v. &ewart, 11 Wall. 566,
574; Hickie v. Starke, 1 Pet. 94-; .fatthews v. Zawe, 4 Cranch,
382; Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How. 311; Berthold v. 21e-Donald,22 Row. 334; United States v. .oreno, 1 Wall. 400.
.1r. George F. Edmunds also opposing.
The brief of my associate, -Y. Smith, is so complete that I
only wish to add one or two considerations.
The fifteenth section of the act of March 3, 1851, providing
for settling land claims in California, is as follows: "That the
final decrees rendered by the said commissioners, or by the
District or Supreme Court of the United States, or any patent
to be issued under this act, shall be conclsve between the
United States and the said claimants only, and shall not affect
the interests of third persons." The effect, therefore, of the
confirmation of the Mexican grant in respect of which the
question arises, was simply to show that the United States

PHILLIPS v. MOUND CITY ASSOCIATION.

609

Opinion of the Court.

recognized the Mexican grant, and to leave the rights of the
parties under it precisely as they were before. The land commissioners had no power under the law to determine whether
the title should be confirmed in severalty or in common, and
their confirmation had no effect upon the decree of the Mexican court. making partition between the original grantees.
Now, in this case, the plaintiffs claim a title in severalty derived by a judgment of the Mexican court before the cession,
while the defendants claim against that separate title, and
claim a common ownership in the land thus exclusively
claimed by the plaintiffs, on the ground that the foreign decreewas in some way invalid or inoperative; so that on one
side the claim is of a title derived directly from the foreign
decree and on the other a claim against that title. The parties, there'fore, do not recognize a common source of title derived from the foreign Government. This case, then, is distinguishable, it is thought, from all those cited in the brief of the
other side.
The treaty provided for the security and recognition and
protection of existing titles to property. The title in severalty
of the plaintiffs in error to the land in question had been established pursuant to Mexican law, and that title it is the duty of
the tribunals of the United States to protect when it is assailed.
The question, therefore, is not one of the construction of a decree as between two parties, each of whom claims under it, but
it is the question of the right of one party claiming against it
to overthrow it, and thus destroy the plaintiffs' title arising
under it. This, it is submitted, is clearly a question that belongs to this court.
Whether the decree of partition can be maintained, I do
not now go into at all, as that question will arise on the
merits.
MIR. CHIEF

JUSTICE WAITE,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
Both parties claim under the Mexican grants confirmed by
the United States. The patents vested the legal title in the
VOL. cx=v-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

grantees. By an express provision of the act o March 3, 1851,
(ยง 15,) they are conclusive "between the United States and
such claimants only," and do "not affect the interests of third
parties."
The patents, like the original Mexican concessions, are to the
grantees as tenants in common. That is not denied. But it is
claimed that after the original concessions were ipade and
before the treaty, the title of the parties holding under them
was changed from a tenancy -in common, each holding an
undivided one-third interest in the whole of the tracts, to a
divided interest, each holding in severalty for his one-third
part the tract which had been allotted to him in the division.
That this presents the real question in the case is shown by
the assignments of error, which are in their effect no more than
that the court erred in holdiiig the alleged Mexican partition
to be invalid, when ina fact it was good and binding on the
parties. The result of the motion to dismiss depends upon
whether this is or is not a federal question. '
Article VIII. of the treaty protected all existing property
rights within the limits of the ceded territory, but it neither
created the rights nor defined them. Their existence was not
made to depend on the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States. There was nothing done but to prbvide that if
they did in fact exist under Mexican law, or by reason of
the action of Mexican authorities, they should be protected.
Neither was any provision made as to the way of determining
their existence. All that was left by implication to the ordinary judicial tribunals. Any court, whether stae or national,
having jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter of
the action, was free to act in the premises.
iHere the United States have recognized the existence of the
right of the original Mexican grantees to the land which -has
'been patented, and by the patents invested them with any title
which passed under the treaty from the Mexican Government
to that of the United States. As to this there is no controversy now. Neither is there any dispute about the construction of the patents or the decrees on which they rest. Indeed,
it was substantially conceded in argument that a decree could

PHILLIPS v. MOUND CITY ASSOCIATION.

611

Opinion of the' Court.

only be given by the District Court, "in view of the controversy disclosed by the petitions," for an -undivided interest to
each claim ant, leaving it to be determined in some other way
whether there had been a.partition or not. The following is
the language of counsel on that subject: "The effect of the
decrees of the district court was

.

.

.

simply to leave the

question of partition undetermined; that is to say, if, as
claimed by Palomares, there was no partition, then the land
was confirmed to the parties interested as cotenants; but if,
as claimed by 'Vejar and Dalton, there was a partition, then
upon well-established principles it was in effect confirmed to
them in segregated portions as allotted to them by the partition."
This is undoubtedly a fair statement of the effect of the decrees and of the patents, and the single question presented to the
court below for determination was, whether there had in fact
been such a partition. To establish this fact proof was made
of what had been done by and before the Mexican tribunal in
that behalf, and the court held that it was insufficient. In so
doing it decided no question of federal law, but only that the
legal effect of what had been done was not such as was required
to bind the parties by the partition. In this particular the case
stands precisely as it would, if, instead of a partition under the
form of a jndicial'proceeding, one had been made by the voluntary conveyances of the parties after the original gTants
and before the treaty. Had the effort been in this case to
establish such a partition instead of one through judicial
action, we can hardly believe it would be claimed that a
federal question was presented by a decision that the con-

veyances which were put in evidence did not furnish the
necessary proof. Yet that is substantially this case. A valid
partition before the treaty would have created rights which
the United States would be bound to respect. That is not
denied. Indeed, it is conceded that if apartition was in fact
made, as is claimed, the patents as they now stand inure to,
the benefit of the parties according to their respective interests
in severalty, and that a court of equity can give full effect to
what was done by decreeing the necessary conveyances to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

perfect the legal titles. The only question is, whether such a
partition was made, and upon that the decision of the state
court is final, and not subject to review. It "drew in question
no act of Congress, nor any authority exercised under the Constitution or laws of. the United States, and therefore the decision of the state court could not be opposed either to the laws
or to any authority exercised under the laws of the United
States." This was said in Ye'nnedy v. Runt, 7 How. 586, 593,
in reference to the construction which had been given to a
Spanish title by a state court, and is equally applicable here.
It follows that
-Temotion to dismiss must be granted,and it is so ordered.

THORNTON v. SCHREIBER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVAIA.
Argued January 19, 20, 1888.- Decided February 13,1888.

An employ6 of a business house, who, having a principal place in the establishment, is entrusted by his employers under their direction and on their
behalf with the custody and possession, but in a building occupied by
them and subject to their control, of printed copies of a copyrighted
photograph, printed in violation of the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 4965, has
not such possession of them as will entitle the proprietor of the copyright to proceed against him for a forfeiture of one dollar for every sheet
under that section.
The words "found in his possession" in ยง 4965 of the Revised Statutes do
not relate to the finding of the jury that the articles in question were in'
the defendant's possession, but require that there should be a time before
the cause of action accrues, at which they are found in his possession.
Whether the provision in Rev. Stat. ยง 4965 that one-half of the profit shall
go" to the propeietor, and the other half to the use of the United States"
does not relate solely to the " case of a painting, statue, or statuary,"
quccre.

TrrE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

