OCTOBER TERIM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

as agent for the latter as vendee under any contract of sale
with the plaintiff.
On the whole, we are well satisfied that there was no evidence of a, receipt and acceptance of the securities in question
by the defendant to -authorize a recovery against him upon the
alleged contract of sale. It was error in the Circuit Court to
refuse to charge the jury to that effect as requested by the
counsel for the defendant. For that error the judgment is,
Reversed, and the casee remandedwith directions to grant a
new trilZ.

BEESON v. JOHN S.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE E COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Submitted December 6, 1887. -Decided

January 9,1888.

In an action tp set aside and have declared void a tax deed, made upon a
sale for taxes of the plaintiiks land, upon the ground of a discrimination
in the assessment against the plaintiff as a non-resident, it appearing that
the laws under which it was made did not require the assessment to be
more favorable to resident owners than to non-residents, and that the
question to be decided related only to the action of a single assessor, or
to the action of a board of equalization, and there being no sufficient
evidence of such a discrimination against the owner of the lands;
Held, that mere errors in assessment should be corrected by proceedings which the law allows before such sale, or before the deed was
finally made.

Tnis was an action to set aside a tax sale of lands in Iowa.
The Federal question is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Nathaniel -Baconior plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Galusha Parsonsfor defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa. In one of the inferior courts of that State Strotber M.

BEESON v. JOHNS.
Opinion of the Court.

Beeson brought suit against Henry Johns and Henry Ohrt;.
the defendants in error. Beeson having died, the present
plaintiffs, as his executors, were substituted, and, as the record
comes to us from the Supreme Court of the State, there was
filed in that court an ,bstract of the case from the court below.
The object of the suit was to set aside and have declared void
three tax deeds purporting to have been made upon sales for
taxes on lands of the plaintiff, Beeson.
The original petition relied mainly upon the fact that there
was fraud in the. tax sale by reason of a combination of bidders
to prevent a fair competition and sale. An amended petition
set out, first, that there was no legal and valid assessment for
taxes of the land so sold, neither to plaintiff or his grantor
nor to unknown owners, and that in fact there was no assessment of the land for that year.
" Second. That said lands belonged, at the time of the
assessment for the year 1869 and on the 1st day of January,
A.D. 1869, to a non-resident of the State of Iowa, and that if
any assessment of said land for the year 1869 was ever made,
it, together with all the lands belonging to non-residents of
the State in the township in which said land is situated, was
assessed and valued, and equalized and taxed, by the officers
and authorities making such assessment and equalization and
taxation, at a higher price and value and at a higher rate of
tax than the property and lands. of resident owners of property and lands in said township and county for the same year,
and that all the other lands and property in said township,
except the lands of non-residents of Iowa, were assessed, equalized, and taxed at a value and rate far below its actual cash
value, and the said assessment was void, and was, in fact, no
legal assessment of said land, and the proceedings based
thereon and sale are void.
"Third. That at the time the assessment of said land was
made there was a rule established by the board of supervisors and equalization of said county, and recognized and followed
by the assessors of the different townships, including the township where said land was situated, to assess improved lands
belonging to resident owners and personal property at from

OCTOBER TERM1, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

-one-third to one-half of its actual cash value, and that said
.assessmnt for the year 1869 was made on that basis and
value, and at from one-third to one-half its value, and the
same was illegal and void."
These allegations were put in issue by a general denial.
It is in regard to these last two charges in the amended
petition that the plaintiff in error claims a right to bring the
case to this court. That right he bases in his brief, first, upon
a provision of the Ordinance of 1787, to the effect that in no
case shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher than residents, and also to a similar proyision contained in the act of
Congress of March 3, 1845, providing for the admission of the
States of Iowa and Florida into the Union.
As the case was decided against the right set up by the
plaintiffs in error under this act of Congress, we must inquire
whether the decision of the Supreme Court of the State on
that subject is sound. After carefully examining the testimony on .this subject, as found in the record, it does not
appear to us, as it did not appear to the Iowa Supreme Court.,
that there was any clear discrimination in the valuation of
the property of this non-resident o~wner in the State of Iowa,
nor any purpose to discriminate against citizens of other States
in favor of those residing in that State. The only evidence
on this subject which bad any tendency whatever in that
direction was the statement of one witness that lands which
had valuable improvements upon them were not estimated so
near their real cash value taken altogether as were the lands
which had no improvements upon them; and the following
extract from the proceedings of the board of equalization of
the county in which the lands in controversy lay, to wit:
"On motion, the board proceeded to the equalization of
assessments. A motion was made that all lands in the county
assessed to unknown owners be assessed at six dollars per
acre, and an amendment -was offered that said lands be assessed at five dollars per acre, which motion carried; after
which the motion, as amended, was adopted."
It is true that one witness testified that the improved lands
were mainly owned by residents. The language of the Su-

BEESON v. JOHNS.
Opini6n of the Court.

preme Court of the State on this subject in its opinion is as
follows:
"Conceding the land in controversy belonged to non-residents and that it-was assessed at a greater value than similar
land belonging to residents, is the tax title void under the
Ordinance of 1787 or the act of Congress admitting the State
of Iowa into the Union ? We are not prepared to say if such
an assessment was objected to at the proper time and manner
it could be sustained, but we do not believe, under the facts in
this case, the title of fhe purchaser at the tax sale by reason
thereof is vdid. The authorities cited by counsel for appellant
do not go to this exteit. Fraud is not alleged or shown, nor
is it claimed there was an actual intent to discriminate against
non-residents. At most it appears the improved lands of residents were not assessed as high in proportion as the unimproved lands. No discrimination was made between the unimproved lands of residents and non-residents. For aught that
appears. the relative value of the improved and unimproved
lands was erroneous only. Under such circumstances a correction or abatement should have been apiplied for as provided for
by law. The assessment and levy were not void, and for the
correction of the error the remedy provided by law is ample
for the complete protection of the tax-payer."
Wlile we do not decide that in no case of a settled purpose
to discriminate in the taxation of lands in a county or State
against owners residing in another State would such a sale be
held void, we do not see in the case before us any reason for
holding the tax sale complained of here to be void oil that
account. If a tax were levied under a law of the State which
required either the assessment, or the rate levied upon that
assessment, to be more favorable to the resident owners of the
property than those who resided in another State, all assessments and sales under such a statute might possibly be declared
to be void. But where the question relates to the action of a
single assessor, or of a township or county board of equwlization, and does not profess to be carried on with any purpose
of making such discrimination, the mere errors in assessment
should be corrected by proceedings which the law allows be-

OCTOBER TERM, "1887.
Opinion of the Court.

fore such sale or before a deed is finally made. There is no
sufficient evidence in this case of any purpose to discriminate
against the owner of the lands in controversy, nor of any
actual injury to him by the assessment which was made upcn"
his property.
The only discrimination made was between improved and
unimproved lands, without regard to the residence of the owners and the accidental circmnstance that more improved lands
were owned by residents than by non-residents, does not show
a violation or a purpose to violate the act of Congress.
T/he judgment of the Supreme Court qf Iowaz is zfflirmed.

DREYFUS v. SEARLE.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT

OF

CALIFORNIA.

Argued December 20, 21, 1887.-Decided January 9, 1888.

The claim of letters-patent No. 48,728, granted to John Searle, July 11, 1865,
for an "improvedprocess of imparting age to wines," namely, "The introducing the heat by steam, or otherwise, to the wine itself, by means of
metallic pipes br chambers passing through the casks or vessel, substantially as set forth," is not valid for a process, because no different
effect on the wine is produced from that resulting from the old method of
applying heat to the wine, and is not valid for the apparatus, because
that had before been used in the same way for heating a liquid.

BILL N EQUITY to restrain infringement of letters-patent.

Decree for complainant. Respondent appealed.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

.A:r. J.Rubley Ashton for appellant.
X11.A. C. Bradley for appellee.
with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHrFORD

Hr. F T..

ewton' was.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of California, by Sophia Searle,

