KING BRIDGE CO. v. OTOE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

KING IRON -BRIDGE AND MANUFACTURING
OOMPANY v. OTOE COUNTY.
ERROR TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

Submitted December 22, 1887.--Decided January 30, 1888.

In Nebraska the cause of action upon a county warrant issued by a board of
county commissioners does not accrue when the warrant is presented for
payment and indorsed "not paid for want of funds," but at a later date
when the money for its payment is collected or when sufficient time has
elapsed for the collection of the money; and as matter of law it cannot
be said that about two years is such a" sufficient time," so as to cause
the statute of limitations to begin to run.

THIS was an action to recover upon two county warrants
issued by defendant. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued
out this writ of error. The case i. stated in the opinion of the
court.
.f.

ff. S. Hcrxwood and .Ar. John H. Ames for plaintiff in

error.

.X'. John

. TFatson for defendant in error.

M R. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought to recover the amount due upon two
warrants of the county of Otoe, one dated October 9, 1878,
for $1605, and the other, for the same amount, dated January
9, 1879. The petition contains two counts, one of which, upon
the warrant dated October 9, 1878, is as follows:
"11For a second cause of action plaintiff says that at Nebraska
City, the county seat of Otoe County, Nebraska, on the 8th
day of October, 1878, said county being then justly indebted
to one Z. King in the sum of $1605.00, which indebtedness
was at that time due and unpaid, the board of county commissioners of said county then beiag regularly in session, did audit,
find, allow, adjudge, and determine that there was due the

OCTOBER TERMI,

.1887.

Opinion of the Court.

said Z. King in the premises from said county the sum of
$1605.00 to be paid on account of the said sum. of $1605.00;
and thereupon the said board of county commissioners did
allow, draw, and issue to the said Z. King certain warrants of
said county, numbered 622, dated October 9th, 1878, signed by
Frederick Beyschlay, who was then chairman of the said
board of county commissioners, countersigned by C. MacCuaig,
county clerk of said county of Otoe, and attested by the seal
of said county, which commanded said treasurer to pay to said
Z. King, or order, the sum of $1605.00 out of the general fund
and charge to the account of the 'Special Bridge Fund,' a
copy of which warrant, with all the indorsements thereon, is
hereto attached, marked 'Exhibit B.'
"Plaintiff further says that on the 23d day of October, 1878,
said warrant was by said Z. King presented to the county
treasurer and payment thereon demanded. The same was by
said treasurer indorsed 'not paid for want of funds.' A fterwards the same said warrant was, on the 26th day of December, 1878, registered for payment, numbered oi. the register
156.
"Plaintiff further says that subsequent thereto, but prior to
the commencement of this action, the said warrant was by
said Z. King, for a valuable -consideration, sold, transferred,
and delivered to the plaintiff, who is the lawful holder and
owner thereof; that no part of said warrant has been paid by
the treasurer of said county or by any dne in its behalf, either
to said Z. King or to this plaintiff, or to any person whomsoever.
"Plaintiff further says that Z. King was at the time said
warrant was isaued and still is a citizen and resident of the
State of Ohio, -residing at Cleveland, Ohio, and president of
the plaintiff's company.
"That said defendant has at all times neglected and now
does neglect and refuse, -bY,levy of the-taxes or otherwise, to
pay or to provide for the payment of said warrant or any part
thereof, and there isnowv due the said .plaintiff thereon the
sum of $1605.00 and .en per cent interesi thereon from the
23d day of.October, 18.78.5'

KING BRIDGE CO. v. OTOE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

The other count was in the same general form upon the
other warrant, but alleging its presentment for payment January 15, 1879.
The answer set up as a defence that the causes of action did
not accrue within five years next before the commencement of
the suit.
To this a demurrer was filed upon the ground that the answer did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defence, and
"that by the statutes of Nebraska and the construction given
thereunder by the court of Nebraska the statute does not run
against a county warrant."
This demurrer was overruled, and judgment given for the
couinty. To reverse that judgment this writ of error was
brought, the amount claimed to be due on the warrants being
more than $5000.
The statute of limitations relied on is. § 10 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, Comp. Stat. 1881, p. 532, as follows:
"Within five years an action upon a specialty, or any agTeemeat, contract, or promise in writing, or foreign judgment."
In Nebraska at the time these warrants were issued the
board of county, commissioners was .the governing body of the
county. Gen. Stat. Neb. 1873, p. 232, c. 13, § 2. This board had
power "to examine and settle all accounts of the receipts and
expenditures of the county, and allow all accounts chargeable
against the county; and, when so settled, county warrants
may be issued therefor as provided by law." Id. § 14. "The
commissioner, whose term of office expires within one year,
shall be chairman of the board for that year, and he shall
sign all warrants on the treasurer for money to be paid out of
the county treasury. Such warrants shall be countersigned
by the county clerk, and sealed with the county seal." Id.
§ 23. "Any person who shall be aggrieved by any decision of
the board of county commissioners, may appeal from the decision of the board to the district court of the same county."
Id. § 34. "Such clerk shall not issue any county warrant unless ordered by the board of commissioners authorizing the
same; and every such warrant shall be numbered consecutively
as allowed from the first day of January to the thirty-first day

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

oi December in each year, and the date, amount, and number
of the same, and the name of the person to whom it is issued,
shall be entered in a book called 'Warrant Book,'-to be kept by
the clerk in his office for that purpose." Id § 40. "All warrants issued by the board of county commissioners shall upon
being presented for payment, if there are not sufficient funds
in the treasury to pay the same, be indorsed by the treasurer,
'not paid for want of funds,' and the treasurer shall also indorse thereon the date of such presentation and sign his name
thereto. Warrants so indorsed shall draw interest from the
date of such indorsement, at the rate of ten per cent per annum until paid." Id. § 54.
Another statute provided that "all warrants upon the state
*treasurer, the treasurer of any county, or any municipal corporation therein, shall be paid in the order of their presentation
therefor." Gen. Stat. Neb. 1873, 891, c. 65, § 1. "It shall be
the duty of any such treasurer, upon the payment of a fee of
ten cents by the holder of any warrant, or by any person presenting the same for registration, in the presence of such person,
to enter such warrant in his ' warrant register,' for payment in
the order of presenting for registration, and, upon every warrant so registered, he shall indorse 'registered- for payment,'
with the date of such registration, and shall sign such indorsement: _Provicled,That nothing in this act shall be construed to
require the holder of any warrant to register the same, but such
warrant may be presented for payment and indorsed ' presented
and not paid for want of funds,' and shall draw interest from
the date of such presentation, as now provided by law." Id.

§3.
In a suit upon a county warrant issued under statutes not
materially different from these the Supreme Court of Nebraska,
while holding that a statute of limitations substantially like
that aboye quoted applied to actions where counties or other
municipal corporations were parties as well as to those between
private perswis, said: "But these warrants do not, nor was it
the intdntion of the legislature that they should, fall within
the operation of this act. When a demand or claim against a
county is presented to the commissioners for settlement, they

KING BRIDGE CO. v. OTOE COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

hear the proofs and determine whether it is one which the
county is bound to pay, and the amount due thereon. In this
they act judicially, and, within the scope of the authority conferred on them, their decision is a judgment binding upon the
county. If they decide in favor of the claimant, an order is
drawn on the treasurer for the a~iount, designating the fund
out of which it is to be paid. If there is money in the treasury
belonging to the fund against which it is to be drawn, not
otherwise appropriated, it is the duty of the treasurer to pay
the warrant; but if there be none he must indorse upon it the
fact of its presentation,' and non-payment for want of funds,
and the holder must wait for his money until such time as Jt
can be raised through the means which the legislature provides
for the collection of revenue. Nor can any action rightfully
be brought on such warrant until the fund is raised, or at least
sufficient time has elapsed to enable the county to levy and
collect it in the mode provided in the revenue laws." Then,
after referring to certain statutes, which it was thought showed
that the limitation act did not apply to such warrants, the
opinion proceeds: "From these as well as numerous 9 ther
enactments of the legislature that might be cited, I have
reached the conclusion that the plea of the statute of limitations
cannot be successfully made against these warrants, and that
whenever it can be shown that the funds have been collected
out of which it can be paid, or sufficient time has been given
to do so in the mode pointed out in the statutes, their payment may be demanded, and, if refused, legally coerced.
*Whoever deals with a county and takes in payment
of his demand a warrant in the character of these, no time of
payment being fixed, does so under the implied agreement
that if there be no funds in the treasury out of which it can
be satisfied, he will wait until the money can be raised in the
ordinary mode of collecting such revenues. He is presumed
to act with reference to the actual condition of the laws regulating and controlling the business of the county. He cannot
be permitted, immediately upon the receipt of such warrant,
to resort to the courts to enforce payment by judgment and
execution, without regard to the condition of the treasury at

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion rf the Court.

the time, or the laws by which t he revenues are raised and
disbursed." Brew~r v. Otoe County, 1 Nebraska, 373, 382, 384.
We have not been referred to any case in Nebraska which
qualifies this decision, and it stands to-day, so far as we have
been advised, as the settled law of that State. It was recognized and followed by this court in Chapman v. County of
.Douglass, 107 U. S. 348, 354, 359. The petition in..this case
appears to have been drawn with express reference to its rulings and with a view of showing that the action could be
rig! ',fully brought, as the county had neglected for so long a
time to levy and collect the necessary taxes to provide a fund
for the payment of the warrant. The-purpose of the suit was
to coerce payment, as a sufficient time had already been given
to enable the county to do so voluntarily in the mode pointed
out in the statutes.
The record as printed does not show when the suit was begun, but it is stated in the brief of the counsel for the county
to have been November 10, 1885. This was abbut seven years
after the warrants were indorsed "not paid for want of funds."
According to theile established in Brewer v. Otoe County,
the cause of actic Alid not accrue when the payment was
refused, "but only when the money for its payment is collected, or time. sufficient for the collection of the money has
elapsed." We cannot say, as matter of law, that this was more
than five years before the commencement of the action.
It follows that the court erred in overruling the demurrer to
the answer, and for that reason
[The judgment is 'eversed and the cause reemandedfor jurtheroroceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

