MUNSON v. NEW YORK CITY
Statement of the Case.

MUNSON v. MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND COMMON1,LTY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.
MAYOR, ALDERMEN AND COMMONALTY OF THE
CITY OF NEW YORK v.,TM-UNSON" APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED 'STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued' February 2, 3, 1888. -Decided February 13, 1888.

A blank book, with pages numbered and ruled into spaces, in which bonds
and their coupons on being presented and paid, may be pasted in the order
of their numbers -the bonds on successive pages, and each bond and its
coupons on the same page -or, when any bond or coupon is paid without being surrendered, memoranda concerning it may be made, if under
any circeuMtances a patentable invcntion, is not so if similar books have
been in use before, differing only in grouping the coupons according to
their -dates of payment, and in having no spaces for the bonds.

Tis was a bill in equity by Francis Munson against the
Mayor, Aldermen and Commonalty of the City of New York
and the comptroller of the city, for the infringement of letters
patent granted to Munson on April 2, 1861, for "new and useful improvements in preserving, filing and cancelling bonds,
coupons, certificates of stock, &c.," consisting, as described in
the specification, "in providing a book or other register with
pages corresponding in size, style and number with the bonds,
coupons, certificates, &c., to be used, on which pages the said
bonds, coupons, or other certificates, when paid, are pasted or
otherwise attached, and thus preserved and cancelled, as hereinafter more fully explained."
The specification then, after observing that bonds and coupons, when paid, are usually either filed" away or destroyed,
and that, before or after being paid, they are often lost or
stolen, by which the community is constantly being defrauded
more or less, proceeded as follows: "To prevent this, I have
invented a system of preserving, filing and cancelling such

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

documents, which system will not only prevent such fraudulent practices, but also present at all times a full and perfect
history or record of all transactions in relation to each and all
of said documents. To accomplish this, I provide a book or
set of books, having each page printed or ruled to correspond
in size and style with the bond 'and its coupons, or other
document, whatever it may be, with a heading showing the
number, date when issued, to whom issued, when and where
payable, amount, what issued for, rate of interest and when
and where payable, together with such other facts as may be
necessary to form a perfect record of the document. The
pages are numbered consecutively with the numbers corresponding to the numbers on the bonds or other documents.
When any of the coupons are presented and paid, they are
cancelled and then pasted or otherwise secured in their proper
place upon the page, each place for them being numbered.
When the bond itself is paid, it is likewise attached in the
place on the page provided for it.If the holder should by
any means be dispossessed of one or mor of the coupons or
bonds, upon presentation of the proper evidence he would be
paid, but not-having the eii pon or bond to surrender, there
would be entered in-its piace upon the page a record of the
facts in the case, so~tht if at any future time said coupon or
bond should be presented for payment by-a person not entitled
to it, the record of all the facts relating to it would be ready
at hand, and could be referred to at once by examining the
proper page. By this method of arranging them, the number
is always an index, so that if it is desired at any time to
ascertain any fact -inrelation to any particular bond or its
coupons, it is only necessary to turn to the page having the
same number. In case a large series of bonds or certificates
are used, several books would be required, and in that case the
pages of each succeeding book would commence with the
number next following that of the last page of the preceding
volume, so as to make the numbers of the pages continuous
from the beginning of the first book to the ending of the last.
It will, of course, be understood that each separate set or
series of bonds, certificates of stock, or other similar docu-

MUNSON v. NEW YORK CITY.
Statement of the Case.

ments, will require a set of books specially prepared for them
to correspond with the peculiar character of the document,
the system or general plan, however, being the same in all
cases, the details only being varied to suit the circumstances of
the case."
The patentee claimed as his invention: "1. The preserving,
filing and verifying of bonds, coupons, certificates and all
similar documents, by the means and in the manner substantially as herein set forth. 2. The book or register, constructed
and used as and for the purposes set forth.",
The defences set up in the answer were that the plaintiff
was not the first and original inventor of the alleged improvement; that long before his alleged invention it was known to
and used by William E. Warren and three other persons
named, all residing in the city of New York; that the defendants had made no profits from its use; and that it was not
patentable.. The plaintiff filed a general replication.
By the evidence taken in the case, it appeared that from
1872 there had been used, in the office of the comptroller of
the city of New York, books like those described in the plaintiff's patent, except that the coupons were pasted on each
alternate page and the bond on the opposite page; and that
as early as 1853 Warren devised and used books for preserving
the coupons of a railroad company, in which all the coupons
payable -on the same date were pasted in succession in the
order of the numbers of the bonds to which they belonged, in
ruled spaces of the proper size, above which the numbers of
the coupons and of the bonds had been previously written or
printed, and with a description of the bonds and the date of
payment of the coupons written at the beginning of each series
of coupons payable at the same date, but the bonds themselves
were not pasted in, except a single one at the beginning of
each book.
Upon the pleadings and proofs, the Circuit Court held that
the plaintiff was the first and original inventor of the improvement, and that the patent was valid; and entered an interlocutory decree in his favor for an injunction and an account.
18 Blatchford, 237. The case was then referred to a master,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

who reported that upon the evidence taken before him (which
need not be stated) the plaintiff was entitled to recover the
sum of $6202.40 as pr6fits. Ezceptions taken by the defendants to his report were sustained. -21 Blatchford, 342. A final
decree was entered, awarding to the plaintiff the sum of six
cents damages, and oidering- that the costs. before the interlocutory decree be paid by the defendant, and the costs since
that decree by the plaintiff. Both parties appealed to this
court.
.M. Royal S. -Crane for Munson cited, to the point of the
patentability of his improvement: Hlawes v. TWas]9burne, 5 Pat.
Off. Gaz. 491; -Dewey v. Ewing, 1 Bond, 540.
Mfr. Frederic H. -Betts fpr, the other parties.
Hindon,Hyde was with him on the brief.

2-r. J. E.

MR.JUSTICE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.

What the plaintiff, in different parts of his specification, calls
his "improvement," his "system," and his "invention," consists
in providing one or more blank books, resembling common
scrap-books, of which each page will hold a bond and its coupons, and has a heading describing the bond, and all the pages
are numbered and ruled, into spaces, in which the bonds and
the coupons, on being presented and, paid, may be pasted in
the order of their numbers '- the bonds on the successive
pages, and the coupons of each bond on the same page with it
-or, when any bond or coupon is paid without being surrendered, memoranda concerning it may be made. The claim is for
the so preserving, filing and verifying of the bonds and coupons, and for the book so constructed and used.
If upon the face of the specification this could be ccnsidered
as an "art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter,"
within the meaning of the patent laws, (upon which we express
no opinion,) it is quite clear that, in the state of previous
knowledge upon the subject, there was no patentable novelty

PHILLIPS v. MOUND CITY ASSOCIATION.

605

Statement of the Case.

in the plaintiff's scheme; inasmuch as the only difference between it and the earlier scheme of Warren was that in Warren's books there was no place for the bonds, and the coupons
were grouped according to their dates of payment, instead of
being grouped together with the bonds to which they respectively belonged. The providing of spaces for the bonds, and
the change in the order of arrangement of the coupons, cannot,
upon the most liberal construction of the patent laws, be held
to involve any invention.
Decree reversed, and case remanded to the Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the. bilZ; the origina plaintif
to pay the costs in both courts.

PRILLIPS v. MOUND CITY LAND AND WATER
ASSOCIATION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF 'iHE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted January 6,1888.-Decided February13, 1888.

An adjudication by the highest court of a State that certain proceedings
before a Mexican tribunal prior to the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo were
insufficient to effect a partition of a tract of land before that time granted
by the Mexican Government to three persons who were partners, which
grant was confibmed by commissioners appointed under the provisions
of the act of March 3, 1851, 9 Stat. 631, "to ascertain and settle the private land claims in the State of California," presents no federal question which is Subject to review here.

THIs suit was brought for a partition of two adjacent tracts
of land in the county of Los Angeles, known respectively as
Rancho "San Jos6 and "San Jos6 Addition." The facts
were these:
In 1837, the Mexican Govermnent granted to Ygnacio Palomares and Ricardo Vejar the rancho known as "San Jos6."
Afterwards, these grantees formed a partnership with Luis
Arenas, and the Mexican Government granted to the three

