OCTOBER TERM,' 1887.
Syllabus.

There te claim of the patent, which was for an improvement
in permutation 'locks, claimed the arrangement of two or more
rollers, of varying eccentricity, resting upon the periphery of
a cam, for the purpose of preventing the picking of the lock.
In the defendant's lock, the rollers were indentical with each
other in eccentricity and shape, but it was claimed by the
plaintiff that, when in revolution, they varied in eccentricity in
reference to the cam which operated them, so that, in action,
their eccentricity varied, and the same result was produced.
But this court held that the description in the patent, and the
claim, required that the variation of eccentricity should be
between the rollers themselves, and not a variation in action
in reference to the cam; that, although the same result might
be produced, it was not produced by the same means; and
that there was no infringement.

D)ecree fl~rmed.

iINOCHXN v. LINCOLN.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THB

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued November 18, 21, 1887. -Decided

January 9, 1888.

In general it is for the jury to determine whether, under all the circumstances, the acts which a buyer does or forbears to do amount to a
receipt and acceptance within the terms of the statute of frauds.
Where the facts in relation to a contract of sale alleged to be within the
statute of frauds are not in dispute, it belongs to the court to determine
their legal effect.
A court may withhold from the jury facts relating to a contract of sale
alleged to be within the statute of frauds, when they are not such as can
in law warrant the finding of an acceptance, and this rule extends to
cases where, though there may be a scintilla of evidence tending to.show
an acceptance, -the court would still feel bound to set aside a verdict
which finds an acceptance on that evidence.
In. order to take an alleged contract of sale out of the ,operation of the
statute of frauds there must be acts of such a character as to place the
property unequivocally within the power and under the exclusive dominion of the buyer, as absolute owner, discharged of all lien for the price.
Where, by the terms of the contract, a sale is to be for cash, or any other
condition precedent to the buyer's acquiring title in the goods be
imposed, or the goods be at the time of the alleged receipt not fitted for
delivery according to the contract, or anything remain to be done by the

HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Citations for Defendant in Error.
seller to perfect the delivery, such fact will be generally conclusive that
there was no receipt by the buyer.
The receipt and acceptance by the vendee under a verbal agreement, otherwise void by the statute of frauds, may be complete, although the temns
of the contract are in dispute.
In this case, on the faefs recited in the opinion of the court, the court
held, (1) that there was sufficient evidence of a verbal agreement between the parties for the sale of the securities at the price named; (2)
that the delivery of the property by the plaintiff was not such a delivery
of it to the defendant as to amount to a receipt and acceptance of it by
him, satisfying the statute of frauds; and (3) that that inchoate and
complete delivery was not made perfect by the subsequent acts of the
parties.

Ar law, in contract, to recover the value of certain securities alleged to have been sold by the plaintiff to the defendant. Judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued but this writ
of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r. Wayne Mc VFeagh (with whom was N'. A. H. .Winter.steen on his brief), for plaintiff in error, cited: Wharton on
Agency, § 125, note 6-; People's Bank v. Gayley, 92 Penn. St.
518, 528; 6Jaulkins v. Hellman, 47 N. Y. 449; ileermalnce v.
Taylor, 14 Hun,149 ; Gorham v. .Fisher, 30 Vt. 428.
Jr. [Theodore F. H. Xeyer filed a brief for plaintiff in error,
citing: Shindlerv.Houston, 1 N. Y. (1 Comstock) 261 ; S. C.49
Am. Dec. 316; Brandv. Focht, 1 Abb. (N. Y.)App. 185; Rodgers v. Phillips,40 N. Y. 519; .Marshv. Rouse, 44 N. Y. 643;
Baldey v. Parker,2 B. & (. 37; S.C. 3 D. & R. 220; Bushell v. Weeler, 15 Q. B. 442; Cusack v. Robinson, 1 B. & S.
299 ; Stone v. Browning, 51 N. Y. 211 ; .Mechaniesand Trader's Bank v. Farmer's and ffechanio's Bank, 60 N. Y. 40;
Vright v. Cabot, 89 N. Y. C70; Butler v. Evening -MailAssoviation, 61 N. Y. 634; Brabin v. Hyde, 32 N. Y. 519; Wil6ox
Silver Plate Co. v. Green, 72 N. Y. 17; Cross v. O'.Donnell,
44 N. Y. 661; Cooke. v. Millard, 65 N. Y. 352; rornzan v.
Phillips,14 M. & W. 277; Aforton v. Tibbett, 15 Q. B. 428.
.A. Augustus. C. Brown for defendant in error, cited:
Wharton on Agency, § 490; Pentz v. Stanton, 10 Wend. 271;
&C. 25 Am. Dec. 558; Gregg v. XAoss, 14 Wall. 561; Basset

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

v. United States, 9 Wall. 38; Zabriskiev. &nith,13 N. Y. 322;
S. C. 64 Am. Dec. 551; Betz v. Conner, 7 Daly, 550; Walsh v.
Helly, 40 N. Y. 556; Ayrault v. Paceft Bank, 47 N. Y. 570;
Schile v. Brockhaus, 80 N. Y. 614; Garfield v. Parois,96 U. S.
557; Cross v. O'Donnell, 44 N. Y. 661; Jackson v. Tupper ,
101 N. Y. 515; Cusack v. Robinson, 1 B. & S. 299; Boutwell
v. O'Keefe, 32 Barb. 434; Toodford v. Patterson,32 Barb. A30;
3lcYig]t v..Dunlop, 5 N. Y. (1 Selden) 537; S. a 55 Am.
Dec. 370; Tompkinson v. -Straight,17 C. B. 697; Wilcox Silver
Plate Co. v. Green, 72 N. Y. 17; Pinkham v. .Mattox, 53 N. H.
600; Chaplin v. Rogers, 1 East, 192; Parkerv. Wallis, 5 El.
& B1. 21; Bushell v. TWeeler, 15 Q. B. 442.

MR. JJSTicE M_Tm ws delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action at law brought by lRufus P. Lincoln, a citizen of New York, against Charles S. Hinchman, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, to recover $18,000 as the agreed price and value
of certain securities; stocks, and bonds alleged to have been
sold and delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant. The sale
is alleged to have taken place on July 8, 1882. It is set forth
in the complaint that the plaintiff acquired title to the securities in question by purchase of one John R. Bothwell, subject
to any claim Wells, Fargo & Company had upon the same for
advances made by them to or for the account of the said Bothwell; "that thereafter this plaintiff paid to Wells, Fargo &
Company the amount of their said advances and took possession of said securities, stocks, and bonds, but stated to the
above named defendant that he was willing and would pay
over to the Stormont Siler Mining Company, which company
was a large creditor of the said Bcthwell, and in which company said defendant was very largely interested, any surplus
which he derived in any way from said securities, stooks, and
bonds, after having reimbursed himself in the sum of about
$26,000 and interest for advances theretofore made by him to
and for the account of the said Bothwell."
The answer denied the alleged sale and delivery. The
action was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York by a jury. There

HINCHNAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

was a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, on *hich judgment
was rendered, to reverse which this writ of error is prosecuted.
A bill of exceptions sets out all the evidence in the cause,
together with the charge of the court, and the exceptions taken
to its rulings. At the close of the testimony, defendant's counsel, among other things, requested the court to charge the
jury "that there is no evidence in the case of a completed sale
of the securities to the defendant, and the plaintiff therefore
cannot recover." This request was refused, and an exception
taken by the defendant. This raises the general question
whether there was sufficient evidence in support of the plaintiff's case to justify the court in submitiig it to the jury. The
defence rested upon two propositions: 1st, that there was no
evidence of any agreement between the parties for a sale and
purchase; and 2d, that, if there were, the agreement was not
in writing, and there had been no receipt and acceptance of
the subject of tie sale or aify part thereof by the defendant,
and that consequently'the agreement was within the prohibition of the statute of frauds in New York.
In regard to the first branch of the defence, we think there
was sufficient evidence of a verbal agreement between the
parties for the, sale of the securities at the price named. It
appeared in evidence that the plaintiff, having acquired title
and possession to the' securities previously belonging to Bothwell by paying off the advances due to Wells, Fargo & Company, agreed with the defendant, as representing the Stormont
Silver Mining Company, to give to that company and other
creditors of Clark and Bothwell the benefit of any surplus
there might be after the payment of the amount due to the
plaintiff. There is evidence tending to show that thereupon,
a suggestion having been made that the defendant should purchase the securities from the plaintiff, it was agreed between
them that the 'plaintiff would sell and the defendant would
take them at the price of $18,000, and the next day at three
o'clock was appointed as the time for delivery. By way of
explanation, and as having a bearing upon other items of evidence in the cause, it is proper to say that the defendant's tes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

timony in denial of the fact of the agreement tends to the
point that the proposed purchase by him was not in his individual capacity, but as the representative of the Stormont
Silver Mining Company, of which he was one of the trustees,
and was made conditional on his procuring the ssent thereto
of the other trustees. We assume, however, in the further
consideration of the case, that the jury were warranted in finding the fact of a verbal agreement of sale as alleged by the
plaintiff. The question as thus narrowed is, whether there was
sufficient evidence, to submit to the jury, of a receipt and
acceptance by the defendant of the securities sold.
It appears that on July 8, 1882, in pursuance of the appointment made the day previously, the plaintiff handed the securities in question, at the office of the Stormont Silver Mining
Company in New York, to Schuyler Van Rensselaer, who
was the treasurer of that company, and took from him the
following receipt:
"OFICE OF STORMONT SILvERn MnIM CoMPANY,
No. 2 Nassau, cor. of Wall Street,;
"President: William S. Clark.
New York, July 8, 1882.
"Secretary: John R. Bothwell.
"Received of Dr. Rufus P. Lincoln the following certificates of stock on behalf of C. S. Hinchman, and to be delivered to him when he fulfils his contract with Dr. Lincoln to
purchase said stocks for $18,000 for
.28,400 shares Stormont Silver M'g Co.
24,300 " San Bruno Copper M'g Co.
800 " Eagle Silver M'g Co.
500 " Hite Gold Quartz M'g Co.
1,819 " Starr Grove Silver M'g Co.
1,410 " Menlo Gold Quartz Co., & order on Wells, Fargo"
& Co. for 45,000 shares Quartz Co.
600 " Satemo Gold Quartz Co.
100 " N. Y. & Sea Beach R. R. Co.
Also $9500 in first mortgage bonds of the Battle Mn. & Lewis
R. R. Co.
"SHUYLs_

"Witness: M. W. TYLER."

VAN RENSSELAER.

HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendant was not present. The receipt, signed by
Van Rensselaer, and which he-gave to the plaintiff, was witnessed by M. W. Tyler, the plaintiff's attorney, and had been
prepared by him. The securities mentioned therein are the
same with those described in the complaint. For the purpose
of proving the authority of Van Rensselaer to receive and
receipt for the securities, some correspondence between the
paLrties was put in evidence by the plaintiff, the material parts
of which are as follows:
On July 21, 1882, Tyler, as attorney for the plaintiff, wrote
to the defendant as follows:
"I was much disappointed in receiving your letter this afternoon, postponing your appointment with me in re Lincoln
negotiation. When Dr. Lincoln accepted your offer of $18,000
for his position in reference to the Bothwell securities, he did
so unqualifiedly, without even suggesting a modification of
your offer, in the hope that in this way. he would expedite a
conclusion of the matter, and believing tit nothing was open
except the delivery of the securities, and the receipt of the
price. This was on July 7th. On July 8th, learning from
Mr. Van Rensselaer that you had left word with him to
receive the securities, Dr. L. called on Mr. Van R. and left
with him the securities just as he received them. Now,
under these circumstances, Dr. L. feels as if there was nothing
left to be done except the payment of the money, and that
ought not to take very long. Now, I will do anything to accommodate you in this matter in the .way of an 'appointment. If
it is inconvenieilt for you to see me in New York, if you will
appoint an early day I will meet you in Philadelphia. If you
desire anything in particular should be signed or done by Dr.
Lincoln in addition to what he has done already in delivering
the securities to Mr. Van R., if you will write me what you
request, I will prepare it and take it on with me for delivery
to you."
On the same day the plaintiff wrote to the defendant as
follows:
"Agreeable to a note from Colonel Tyler, I went down town
this P.m., to meet you as per appointment and receive payment

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

for Stormont and other stocks in accordance with your offer.
I was especially disappointed, for I had promised to apply
this money this week to cancel that which I borrowed when
I took up the stock. I hope nothing will prevent your carrying out our arrangement by Monday or Tuesday at the furthest, and I will esteem it a favor if, on receipt of this, you.will
telegraph me when I shall receive a check for the amount of
the consideration."
In answer to this, the defendant wrote to the plaintiff from
Philadelphia, July 22i 1882, as follows:
"Dear Sir - Your favor of the 21st, as well as Mr. Tyler's,
duly received. I did not understand that the negotiation
between us was finally concluded, but, as I explained to 2Mr.
Tyler, there were some other questions which would have to
be settled before I could act in the matter on account of my
being a trustee. I told Mr. Van Rensselaer that he could
receive the Stormont stock, held by you for joint account of
yourself and Stormont, without requiring you to advance any
more money, and that I would arrange with you about it; and
he, knowing that I was in negotiation with you, took charge
of the whole as handed to him by Mr. Tyler, your counsel.
There are several questions whifh come up in regard to it, and
I cannot give you any definite reply until I have conferred with
counsel and my co-trustees on the subject. My advice to you
is to exchange the Stormont stock for receipts, as a majority
have already done, on. receipt of this; and if you do so and
not convenient for you to advance the contribution for additional stock, I will see that it is carried until we .have an
opportunity to fix up the whole matter."
It is ,further in evidence, that, a short time after the date of
Van IRensseraer's receipt, it was seen by the defendant, but he
said or did nothing to repudiate it. Tyler also testifies that
on July 20,.1882, he met the defendant, and had this conversation with'him:
"I said to 11r. Hinchman that I had been looking for him
for several days, and that I supposed he knew we had delivered
the securities - the Bothwell securities - to '[r. Van Rensselaer, as he had directed; and he said, ' Yes, that was all right;'

HINCHMAN v. LfNCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

and I said, 'Well, now, when will you be able to close this
matter 1,. Well,' he says, II am in a great hurry this morning, but I will come to your office certainly this afternoon or
to-morrow afternoon, at three o'clock You can rely upon my
comingand seeing you upon one or the other of those days."'
The plaintiff also testified that he had an accidental meeting with' the defendant at Long Beach about the 1st .of
August, 1882. The defendant was in company with his attorney, Mr. Meyer. The interview is stated by the plaintiff as
a witness as follows:
"I spoke to him. I do not know that he recognized me,
for I was not well acquainted with him before, and he introduced me to Mr. Meyer, and he said, ' This is Dr. Lincoln,
from whom I have the Bothwell securities; ' and we had some
conversation about it, but nothing very definite, although
there came up during the conversation a statement that there
was some.controversy about it. I don't know whether I made
the statement, or Mr. Meyer, or Mr. Hinchman. I remarked
that there might be some difference -had heard something
about some difference-of opinion about it, but that I. had
none; and I told Mr. Meyer that the idea of turning them
over to the Stormont company was an afterthought of Mr.
Hinchman; that I conceded nothing of the kind. I never
had."
The following letter also' is in evidence:
"OFFICE

OF STOR MONT MINIIG COMPA-NY OF UTAH,

INo. 2 Nassau, cor. 9f Wall St.,
"President: Charles S. Hinchman.
"Secretary and Treasurer:
Ew YORK, Aug. 24, 1882.
Schuyler Van Rensselaer.
-

"ScmjyLER V&lx RENssELA-ER, Esq.,

Sec'y and Treas. Stormont S. M. Co.,
No. 2 Nassau St., N. Y.
"Dear Sir - Dr. Lincoln, through his attorney, CoL M. W.
Tyler, having seen fit to disavow the understanding and agreement by which he obtained 'his position' in carrying, the J.
R. Bothwell securities in your hands left there by Col. Tyler,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

after conference with a majority of our trustees, I am instructed to notify you to retain possession of said. securities
until a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct you whit
to do with them, I claiming, as trustee, for the benefit of
Stormont treasury, an equitable and bonajfide interest therein.
Please acknowledge safe receipt.
"Yours truly

CHAS. S. HI

H,
HCnM

"Prest. and Trustee S. S. MN.
Co."
There was some other correspondence between the parties
not material to the present point, but nothing further was
done until November 16, 1882, when a written demand was
made by the plaintiff upon Van Rensselaer for the return of
the securities. This demand was read in evidence on the part
of the plaintiff. The following is a copy of it:
i' To Schuyler Van lRengselaer:

"As Mr. Charles S. Hinchman refuses to fulfil his contract
with Dr. Lincoln to purchase certain securities delivered to
you on the 8th day of July, 1882, for Mr. Hinchman, I hereby
demand the immediate return of the securities to me, to wit,
certificates for
28,400 shares of the Stormont Co.'s stock, or its equivalent.
"
"
San Bruno Mining Co.'s stock.
24,300
800
-500
1,819
46,410
600
100

"
"

"
"

"

"

"
"

"
"

"

"

cc
Eagle Silver
C
Hite Gold Quartz"
Star Grove Silver"
Menlo Gold Quartz Co.'s
CC
Satemo
N. Y. & Sea Beach IR. R. Co.'s stock.

$9,500 in First Mortgage bonds of the Battle Mountain &
Lewis 1. 1. Co.
"Dated New York, November 16, 1882.
"Yours, &c.
Rupus P. LincoLw,
"By M. W. TYLER, Atty."
The. reply to it by Van Rensselaer, as proven, is as follows :

HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

" N.w YoRK, November 20, 1S82.
"Dr. R. P. Lincoln:
"Sir "-In answer to the demand made upon me through
lfi. M. W. Tyler, I beg to say that I hold the securities
mentioned therein on behalf of yourself and -Mr.C. S. Hinchman, and I have no interest-in or claim upon them personally.
I have been gotified by Mr. Hinchman not to deliver them to
you, and for that reason shall not be able to accede to your
demand. Any arrangement agreed to by yourself and Mr.
Hinchman shall have my prompt acquiescence.

"I am, &c., &c.,

S. VA"v R- sELAER,
"per NAsH & KnmGsFoBD, his Attys."

Nothing further occurred until the bringing of this suit on
November 25, 1882.
It is conceded by the counsel for the plaintiff that the
delivery of the securities in question by the plaintiff to Van
Rensselaer was according to the terms of the receipt taken
from him at the time, and of itself was not sufficient evidence
of a receipt and acceptance by the defendant to satisfy the
statute of frauds. The jiry were so instructed by the court.
In speaking of it in his charge, the judge said:
"You will recollect that it recites that the property was to
be delivered to Mr. Hinchman; I will simply state the language in substance, ' when he had performed his contract with
Mr. Lincoln;' in other words, it attached a condition. If you
find upon the evidence that that was all there was of this
transaction, I think it my duty to say as matter of law, that,
there was not such delivery as would take the case out of the
statute, because, if that were true, if he simply delivered the
stock to Mr. Van Rensselaer, to be delivered to Mr. Hinchman, upon the payment of the sum by 'Mr. Hincliman, it
would not be a receipt and acceptance by him, the possession
would not be in him, he could exercise no dominion over it
until he had performed the act which it was necessary for him
to perform in order to obtain the title.
"To put it more plainly, perhaps the plaintiff would have
in that event made Mf. Van Rensselaer his agent as well a
the agent of the defendant."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

* The position of the plaintiff's counsel on this part of the
case is stated by him in a printed brief, as follows:
"That receipt was put in evidence not as conclusive of a
delivery to finchman, but as a fact to be taken into consideration, after the jury had determined the question of defendant's capacity, in connection with his admission that he had
given Van Rensselaer some authority in the premises; his admission to Tyler after he saw the receipt that the delivery to
Van Rensselaer was ' all right,' his admission at Long Beach
that he had the securities, and his direction to Van Rensselaer
on August 24th, not to surrender any of the securities. If the
jury should find, as it actually did find, that llinchman was
acting in his individual capacity, and *thathis claim of a representative capacity, first intimated in his letter of July 22d,
was an afterthought and false, then the authority given by
him to Van Rensselaer was not the limited authority he said
it was, and in view of the admission to Tyler that the delivery
was 'all right,' the admission at Long Beach of possession,
and the subsequent assertion of dominion over the securities,
it was a fair inference for the jury that Van Rensselaer's
authority was a general one to receive the securities for
llinchman. If the jury should so find, then, under the terms
of the receipt, the delivery to Van Rensselaer was a delivery
to Hinchman" and an acceptance by him sufficient to satisfy
the statgtet for nothing remained but for him to pay the purchase price."
In dealing with the question arising on this record we keep
in view the general rule that it is a question for the jury
whether, under all the circumstances, the acts which the buyer
does or forbears to do amount to a receipt and acceptance
within the terms of the statute of frauds. HBus]ell v. WFeeler,
15 Q. B. 442;. M'orton v. i"bbett, 15 Q. B. 428; Borowscale
v. Bosworth, 99 Mass. 8, 381; Tfartman v. Breed, 117 Mass.
18. But where the facts in relation to a contract of sale
alleged to be within the statute of frauds are not in dispute,
it belongs to the court to determine their legal effect. Shepherd v. Pressey, 32 N. H. 49, 56. .And so it is for the court
to withhold the facts from the jur.y when they are not such as

HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

can in law warrant finding an acceptance, and this includes
cases where, though the court might admit that there was a
scintilla of evidence tending to show an acceptance, they
would still feel bound to set aside a verdict finding an acceptance on that evidence. Browne on the Statute of Frauds,
§ 321; -Den~iyv. Williams, 5 Allen, 1, 5; oward v. Borden,
13 Allen, 299; Pinkham v. -3fattox,53 N. H. 600, 604.
In order to take the contract out of the operation of the
statute, it was said by the New York Court of Appeals in
Marsh v. 2ouse, 44 N. Y. 643, 64:7, that there must be acts
"of such a character as to unequivocally place the property.
within the power and under the exclusive dominion of the
buyer" as absolute owner, discharged of all lien for the price.
This is adopted in the text of Benjamin on Sales, § 179, Bennett's 4th Am. ed., as the language of the decisions in America. In S&hndler v. Houston, 1 N. Y. (1 Comstock) 261, (49
Am. Dec. 316,) Gardiner, J., adopts the language of the court
in Phillips v. Bristol, 2 B. & C. 511, "that to satisfy the
statute there must be a delivery by the vendor with an intention of vesting the right cl possession in the vendee, and there
must be an actual acceptance by the latter with the intent of
taking possession as owner." And adds: "This, I apprehend,
is the correct rule, and it is obvious that it can only be satisfied by something done subsequent to the sale unequivocally
indicating the mutual intentions of the parties. Mrere words
are not sufficient. Baiy v. Ogden, 3 Johns. 421 (3 Am. Dec.
509). . . . In a word, the statute of fraudulent conveyances and contracts pronounced these agreements, when made,
void, unless the buyer should ' accept and receive some part of
the goods.' The laiguage is unequivocal, and demands the
action of both parties, for acceptance implies delivery, and
there can be no complete delivery without acceptance." p.
265. In the same case Wright, J., said: "The acts of the
parties must be of such a character as to unequivocally place
the property within the power and under the exclusive dominion of the buyer. This is the doctrine of those cases that
have carried the prin6iple of constructive delivery to the
utmost limit. . . . Where the acts of the buyer are eqiiivVOL. CXxV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.,
Opinion of the Court.

ocal, and do not lead irresistibly to the conclusion that there
has-been a transfer and acceptance of the possession, the cases
qualify the inferences to be drawn from them, and hold the
contract to be within the statute. . . . I think I may
affirm with safety that the doctrine is now clearly settled that
there must not only be a delivery by the seller, but an ultimate acceptance of the possession of the goods by the buyer,
and that this delivery and acceptance can only be evinced by
unequivocal acts independent of the. proof of the contract."
This case is regarded as a leading authority on the subject
in the State of New York, and has been uniformly followed
there, and is recognized and supported by the decisions of the
ighest courts in many other States, as will appear frbm the
note to the case as reported in 49 Am. Dec. 316, where a large
number of them are collected. - So in Remick v. Sandfor'd,
120 M,ass. 309, 316, it was said by Devens, J., speaking of the
distinction between an acceptance which would satisfy the
statute and an acceptance which would show that the goods corresponded with the warranty of the contract, that "if the buyer
accepts the goods as those which he purchased, he may afterwards reject them if they were not what they were warranted
to be, but the statute is satisfied. But while such an acceptance satisfies the statute in order to have that effect, it must
be by some unequivocal act done on the part of the buyer
with intent to take possession of the goods as -owner. The
sale must be perfected, and this is to be shown, not by proof
of a change of possession only, but of such" change with such
intent. When it is thus definitely established that the relation
of vendor and vendee exists, written evidence of the contract
is dispensed with, although the buyer, when the sale is with
warranty, may still retain his-right to reject the goods if they
do not correspond with the warranty. . . . That there
has been an acceptance of this character, or that the buyer
has conducted himself in regard to the goods as owner .
is to be proved by the party setting up the contract."
Ar. Benjamin, in his Treatise on Sales, § 187, says: "It will
already have been perceived that in many of the cases the test
for determining whether there has been an actual receipt by

HINCRMAK v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

the purchaser his been to inquire whether the vendor has lost
his lien. Receipt implies delivery, and it is plain that so long
as vendor has not delivered there can be no actual receipt by
vendee. The subject was placed in a very clear light by Holroyd, J., in the decision in Badey v. Parker, 2 B. & C. 37:
' Upon a sale of specific goods for a specific price by parting
with the possession, the seller parts with his lien. The statute
contemplates such a parting with the possession, and therefore,
as long as the seller preserves his control over the goods so as
to retain his lien, he prevents the vendee from accepting and
receiving them as his own within the meaning of the statute.'
No exception is known in the whole series of decisions to the
proposition here enounced, and it is safe to assume as a general
rule that whenever no fact has been proven showing an abandonment by the vendor of his lien, no actual receipt by the
purchaser has taken place. This has been as strongly insisted
upon in the latest as in the earliest cases. The principal
decisions to this effect are referred to in the note."
In accordance with this, the rule is stated in Browne on the
Statute of -Frauds, § 317a, as follows: "Where, by the terms
of the contract, the sale is to be for cash or any other condition precedent to the buyer's acquiring title in the goods be
imposed, or the goods be at the time of the alleged receipt not
fitted for delivery according to the contract, or anything
remain to be done by the seller to perfect the delivery, such
fact will be generally conclusive that there was no receipt by
the buyer. There must be first a delivery by the seller with
intent to give possession of the goods to the buyer."
It is clear, and, as we have seen, is conceded, that the original delivery by the plaintiff to Van Rensselaer of the securities, according to the terms of tihe receipt taken at the time,
was not a delivery to the defendant in the sense of the rule
established by the authorities, and that consequently there was
not and could not have been at that time a receipt and acceptance of them by the defendant to satisfy the statute of frauds.
How far can it be claimed that that inchoate and incomplete
delivery was made perfect by any subsequent act or conduct
of the parties?

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The first circumstance relied on by the plaintiff as material
to that point is, that, shortly after the receipt was given, the
defendant was informed of it and made no objection to it; but
certainly this is insignificant. It added nothing to the transaction stated in the receipt that the defendant assented to it.
That assent was simply that the securities had been delivered
to Van Rensselaer to be delivered to him when paid for. It
did not alter the implied contract between Fan Rensselaer and
the plaintiff arising upon the terms of the receipt that the subject of the sale should not be delivered to the defendant until
he had paid the agreed price.
The next circumstance relied upon is the conversation testified to by Tyler as having taken place on July 20th between
him and the defendant. In that conversation Tyler testiftes
that he said to the defendant "that I supposed he knew we
had delivered the securities - the Bothwell securities - to Fan
Rensselaer as he had directed, and he said, 'Yes, that was all
right.'" Here certainly nothing was added to the transaction.
Both these circumstances are also fully met by the wellestablished rule that mere words are not sufficient to constitute 4 delivery and acceptance which will take a verbal
contract of sale out of the statute of frauds. Shindt r v. Youston, ubi & lyra.
The next item of evidence in support of the plaintiff's contention is the conversation on August 1, 1882, at Long Beach,
between the defendant and the plaintiff, in which the defendant, introducing IMeyer to the plaintiff, said: "This is Doctor
Lincoln, from whom I have the Bothwell securities." This
declaration of the defendant is treated in the'argument as an
admission by him distinctly of the fact that he had at that
time possession of the securities in question, which he could
only have by a delivery from Fan Rensselaer, either actual or
constructive. This, construction of the statement, however, in
our opinion, is entirely inadmissible. The context plainly shows
such not to have been its meaning, for, as appears by the testimony of the plaintiff relating it, the conversatioA immediately
turned to the controversy between the parties as to whether
the defendant had been negotiating for the securities in his

- HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

individual capacity or- as trustee for the Stormont Silver
Mining Company. The expression testified to cannot fairly
be extended beyond a casual reference to the transaction as it
had taken place, and as it then stood upon the terms of the
Van Rensselaer receipt. There is nothing whatever in the
conversation to justify the inference that there had been a
subsequent delivery by Van Rensselaer to the defendant,
whereby the possession of the securities had been changed,
or whereby the control and dominion over them had been
given to the defendant by Van Rensselaer, contrary to the
terms of his agreement with the. plaintiff as contained in the
receipt.
And such was .and must have been the understanding of the
plaintiff himself, for subsequently, on the 16th of November,
he made the written demand upon Van Rensselaer for the
immediate return of the securities to him on the ground that
up to that time the defendant had refused to fulfil his contract for their purchase. This is certainly an unequivocal act
on the part of the plaintiff entirely inconsistent with the assertion that there had bUen, prior to that time, any delivery by
him or by his authority to the defendant of the subject of the
alleged sale. Its legal effect goes beyond that; it was a distinct rescission of the contract of sale; it was a notice to Van
Rensselaer not to deliver to the defendant thereafter, even if
he should offer to complete the 6ontract by payment of the
consideration; it put an end, by its own terms, to the relation
between the parties of vendor and vendee; it made it unlawful in Van 'ensselaer thereafter to deal with the sectrrities,
except by a return of them to the plaintiff as their owner.
The refusal of Van Rensselaer to' comply with the terms of
the demand subjected him to-an immediate action by the
plaintiff for their recovery specifically, if he could reach them
by process, or otherwise, for damages for their conversion.
This certainly is conclusive of the question of a prior delivery
to the defendant, and a receipt and acceptance by him. Taylor v. Wahkefted, 6 El. & Bl. 765; Benjamin on Sales, § 171.
To meet thfs view, however, the letter of the defendant to
Van Rensselaer of-August 24th is relied on as evidence of a

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

receipt and acceptance by the defendant at that time, being, as
it is argued, the exercise of control and dominion over the
securities by the defendant as owner. That letter, it will be
observed, is addressed to Van Rensselaer as secretary and
'treasurer of the Stormont Silver :Mining Company by the
defendant, signing himself president and trustee of the same.
It declares that the plaintiff had seen fit to disavow the understanding and agreement by which, as claimed by the defendant, he had obtained control of the securities in question which
had been left in Van Rensselaer's hands; that after conference with a majority of the trustees of the company he had
been instructed to notify Van Rensselaer to retain possession
of them until a court of competent jurisdiction should direct
him what to do with them, adding, "I claiming, as a trustee,
for the benefit of Stormont treasury, an equitable and bona
dide interest therein." Clearly there is iothing in the sending
of this document or in its contents which can have the effect
contended for, whether considered alone or in connection with
the subsequent refusal of Van Rensselaer to return the securities to the plaintiff in pursuance of his demand. Taken together, they do not constitute either the assertion or exercise
of any right in respect to the securities under any contract of
sale between the plaintiff and the defendant as individuals.
It is quite true, and the authorities so declare, that the
receipt and acceptance by the vendee under a verbal agreement, otherwise void by the statute of frauds, may be complete, although the terms of the contract are in dispute.
Receipt and acceptance by some unequivocal act, sufficiently
proven to have taken place under some contract of sale, is
sufficient to take the case out of the prohibition of the statute,
leaving the jury to ascertain and find from the testimony
what terms of sale were actually agreed on. XarsV.Iyde,
3 Gray, 331; Townsend v. l~a'graves,118 Mass. 325; Benjamin on Sales, § 170. But, as was said by Williams, X., in
Tomkinson v. Staigh(t, 17 0. B. 697, the acceptance by the
defendant must be in the quality of vendee. "The statute
does not mean that the thing which is to dispense with the
writing is to take the place of all the terms of the contract,

HINCHMAN v. LINCOLN.
Opinion of the Court.

but that the acceptance is to establish the broad fact of the
relation of vendor and vendee." The act or acts relied on as
constituting a receipt and acceptance, to satisfy the statute,
must be such as definitely establish that the relation of vendor
and vendee exists. Bernick v. Sandford, 120 M\Iass. 309.
In the present case the notice of the defendant, as president
and trustee of the Stormont company, to Van :Rensselaer
to retain possession of the securities, and Van Rensselaer's
refusal to return the securities to the plaintiff on his demand
in consequence thereof, certainly are not facts which tend to
establish the existing relation of vendor and vendee between
.he plaintiff and the defendant. The defendant in his notice
makes no claim as such, and certainly no assent on the part of
the plaintiff to his exercise of any such dominion is shown.
It is clear beyond all controversy, so far as this record shows,
that the plaintiff had never consented that Van Rensselaer
should deliver the securities to the defendant except upon payment of the price, nor is there a particle of proof thai Van
Rensselaer has ever done so.
It is further and finally urged, however, by his counsel, that
it was competent for the plaintiff to waive the condition of a
previous payment of the consideration, and to authorize Van
Rensselaer to deliver the securities to the defendant without
performance of the contract on the part of the latter, and
that the bringing of the present action was such a waiver.
If, in point of fact, Van Rensselaer had transferred the manual
possession of the securities to the defendant, or if, contrary to
the terms of his original receipt, he had agreed with the defendant to hold the securities subject to his oy'der as his agent,
free from the conditions of the purchase, and as his absolute
property, the plaintiff's assent to this new arrangement might
be well implied from his bringing an action against the defendant to recover the consideration. But the .premises on which
this conclusion rests are not to be found in the present case.
There was no transfer of possession from Van Rensselaer to
the defendant, nor has there been any change in the relation
of Van Renssela(r to his possession of the securities, whereby
he has agreed, with the consent of the defendant, to hold them

OCTOBER TERIM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

as agent for the latter as vendee under any contract of sale
with the plaintiff.
On the whole, we are well satisfied that there was no evidence of a, receipt and acceptance of the securities in question
by the defendant to -authorize a recovery against him upon the
alleged contract of sale. It was error in the Circuit Court to
refuse to charge the jury to that effect as requested by the
counsel for the defendant. For that error the judgment is,
Reversed, and the casee remandedwith directions to grant a
new trilZ.

BEESON v. JOHN S.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE E COURT OF THE STATE OF IOWA.
Submitted December 6, 1887. -Decided

January 9,1888.

In an action tp set aside and have declared void a tax deed, made upon a
sale for taxes of the plaintiiks land, upon the ground of a discrimination
in the assessment against the plaintiff as a non-resident, it appearing that
the laws under which it was made did not require the assessment to be
more favorable to resident owners than to non-residents, and that the
question to be decided related only to the action of a single assessor, or
to the action of a board of equalization, and there being no sufficient
evidence of such a discrimination against the owner of the lands;
Held, that mere errors in assessment should be corrected by proceedings which the law allows before such sale, or before the deed was
finally made.

Tnis was an action to set aside a tax sale of lands in Iowa.
The Federal question is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Nathaniel -Baconior plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Galusha Parsonsfor defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa. In one of the inferior courts of that State Strotber M.

