PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
Statement of the Case.

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
SAME v. WHlITN-EY.
SAME v. DEMMON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
'ME

STATES FOR-

DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

BUTLER v. COLEMAN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNTrED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Argued January 9, 10, 11, 1888-Declded February 20, 1888.
No attachment can issue from a Circuit Court of the United States, in an
action against a national bank before final judgment in the cause; and if
such an attachment is made on mesne process and is then dissolved by
means of a bond with sureties conditioned to pay to plaintiffthe judgment
which he may recover, given in accordance with provisions of the law of
the State in which the action is brought, the bond is void, and the sureties are under no liability tC plaintiff.
The assets of a national bank having been illegally seized under a writ of
attachment on mesne process, and a bond with sureties having been
given to dissolve the attachment, which bond was invalid by reason of
the illegality of the attachment, and the sureties having received into their
possession assets of the bank to indemnify them against loss, and the
bank having passed into the hands of a receiver appointed by the comptroller of the currency, a bill in equity may be maintained by the receiver
to discharge the sureties and to compel them to transfer their collateral
to him.

THE court stated the case as follows All of these cases involved the same general question, and
they may properly be considered and decided together. From
the records it appeared that the Pacific National Bank of Boston was an association for carrying on the business of banking, organized under the national bank act. On the 20th of
November, 1881, it became embarrassed, and was placed in
charge of a bank examiner, in whose control it remained until
March 18, 1882, when its doors were opened for business with
the consent of the comptroller of the currency.
VOL. CX,V-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

By statute, in Massachusetts civil actions are begun by
original writ, which "may be framed either to attach the
goods or estate of the defendant, and, for want thereof, t6
take his body; or it may be an original summons, with or
without an order to attach the goods or estate." Mass. Pub.
Stat. 1882, c. 161, §§ 13, 14. "All real and personal estate
liable to be taken on execution

.

.

.

may be attached

upon the original writ in any action in which debt or"damages are recoverable, and may be held as security to satisfy
such judgment as the plaintiff may recover." § 38. "A person or corporation whose goods or estate are attached on
mesne process in a civil action may, at any time before final
judgment, dissolve such attachment by giving bond withr
sufficient sureties,

.

.

.

with condition to

pay to the

plaintiff the amount, if any, that he may recover within
thirty days after the final judgment in such action." § 122.
At the time the bank resumed business, it was indebted to
George Mixter in the sum of $15,000 ; to Henry M. Whitney
also in the sum of $15,000; to Daniel L. Demmon in. the sum
of $25,000; and to Calvin B. Prescott in the sum of $5000.
On the 24th of March, 1881, Mixter and Prescott each
began a suit against the bank in the Circuit Court of- the
United States for the District of 'Massachusetts, by writ directing an attachment to recover the amounts due them respectively. Demmon also began a suit in the same court and in
the same way on the 28th of March, to recover the amount
due him, and Whitney another on the 28th of April; upon the
claim in his favor. At the time these suits were begun, the
bank had money on deposit to its credit in the Mlaverick
National Bank and in the Howard Nitional Bank, and the
necessary steps were taken to subject these deposits to the attachments which were issued in the several suits.
The bank arranged with Lewis Coleman-pnd John Shepard
to become its sureties upon bonds to dissolve attachments in any
actions that might be brought against it, and placed in their
hands a certificate of deposit in the Avaverick National
Ink
for $100,000, to be held as their protection against all liabilities which should be thus incurred. This certificate wAs

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
Statement of the Case.

afterwards exchanged for $121,000 of the bonds of the Nantasket Company, $2U7,000 of the bonds of the Toledo, Delphos
and Burlington Railroad Company, and $15,000 of the bonds
of the Lebanon Springs Railroad Company.
Immediately after each of the attachments in the above
actions had been made, the bank executed a bond to the plaintiff in a penal sum suited to the amount of the claim, with
Coleman and Shepard as its sureties, reciting the attachment,
and that the bank "desires to dissolve said attachment according to law," and conditioned to be. void "if the Pacific
National Bank of Boston shall, within thirty days after the
final judgment in the aforesaid action, pay to the plaintiff
therein named the amount, if any, which he shall recover in
such action." Upon the execution of the bond in each case,
the attachment was dissolved.
After this the bank closed its doors a second time, and on
the 22d of May, 1882, a receiver was appointed by the comptroller of the currency in accordance with the provisions of.
§ 5234: of the Revised Statutes, and at once took possession
of its assets and proceeded to wind up its affairs.
When the receiver was appointed he found the several suits
which had been commenced still pending. In the cases of
Mixter, Whitney, and Demmon he appeared, answered for the
bank, filed motions to discharge the attachments, and motions
to dismiss the suits. His motions were all -overruled, and, his
defences not being sustained, judgments were rendered against
the bank in each of the cases f61the amounts found to be due
the several plaintiffs respectively. For the review of the
action of the court in these cases the writs of error which are
now under consideration were brought.
The suit of Prescott. still remains undisposed of in the Circuit Court.
Failing in his motions and in his defences at law, the receiver
filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court against the several attaching creditors, and the sureties on the bonds given to dissolve
the attachments, the object of which was to reduce to his possession the securities which-were held by the sureties for their
protection against liability, and to restrain the several attaching

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

creditors from enforcing the attachment bonds on the ground
among others "that the attachments made in said actions were
unauthorized, illegal and void." This bill was dismissed by the
Circuit Court, 22 Fed. Rep. 694, and from that decree the
appeal which is now one of the subjects of consideration was
take, .
.Mr. A. A. Ranney for Butler, receiver.
Mrh. Josha D. Ball for Mixter.

Mr. A fred D. -Fosterfor Whitney.
1r. Richard Stone for Coleman and Shepard.
Xr. genry Wheeler for Demmon.
was with him on the brief.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE WAITE,

X. E. W. Hutchine

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of thd court.
In the view we take. of the case, the most important question to be considered is whether an attachment can issue against
: national bank before judgment in a suit begun in the Circuit
Court of the United States. Section 5242 of the Revised Statutes of the United States contains this provision: "No attachment, injunction, or execution shall be issued against such association or its property before final judgment in any suit, action,
or proceeding, in any state, county, or municipal court." The
original national bank act contained nothing oT this kind, but'
the prohibition first appeared in the act of March 3, 1873,
17 Stat. 603, c. 269, § 2, 13 Stat. 116, c..106, as a new proviso
added to § 57 of the act of June 3, 1864. That section was
originally as follows:
"That suits, actions, and proceedings against any association
under this act, may be -had in any circuit, district, or territorial
court of the United States held within the district in which
such association may be established, or in any state, county, or
municipal court in the county or city in which said association
is located, having jurisdiction in similar cases: Provided, how-

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
Opinion of the Court.

ever, That all proceedings to enjoin the comptroller under this
act shall be had in a circuit, district, or territorial court of the
U nited States, held in the district in which the association is
located."
The amending act was as follows:
"That section fifty-seven . . . be amended by adding
thereto the following: ' Andlprovidedfarther, That no attachment, injunction, or execution shall be issued against such asso-ciation, or its property, before final judgment in any such suit,
action, or proceeding in any state, county, or municipal court.'"
Section 52 of the original national bank act was as follows:
"That all transfers of the notes, bonds, bills of. exchange,
and other evidences of debt owing to- any association, or of
deposits to its credit; all assignments of mortgages, sureties on real estate, or of judgments or decrees in its favor; all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable thing for its use, or
for the use of any of its shareholders or creditors; and all payments of money to either, made after the commission of an -act
of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, with a view to prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribed by
this act, or with a view to the preference of one creditor to
another, except in payment of its circulating notes, shall be
null and void." 13 Stat. 115.
This was evidently intended to preserve to the United States
that "first and paramount lien upon all the assets of such association" which was given by § 47 as security for the repay.mentof any amount expended by them to redeem the circulating notes, over and above the proceeds of the bonds pledged
for that purpose, and to place all the other creditors on that
.equality in the distribution of the-assets of an insolvent bank
which was clearly provided for in § 50, where .the comptroller
of the currency is required to make .ratable dividends of the
proceeds of the assets of the association realized by the receiver "on all such claims as may have been proved to his satisfaction, or adjudicated in a court of competent-jurisdiction."
]ANational Bank v. Colby, 21 Wall. 609, 613.
In the Revision of the Statutes § 52 of the original act, and
the amendment of § 57 adopted in 18Uh, relating to attach-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ments and injunctions in state courts, were regnacted as § 5242,
the amendment of § 57 being put in the revision at the end of
what had been the original § 52. As the Revised Statutes
were first adopted, the proviso of § 57, which related specially
to proceedings to enjoin the comptroller, was reenacted as §
736, but all the rest of the original section was left out. That
omission was, however, supplied by the act of February 18,
1875,18 Stat. 316, 320, c. 80, which regnacted it as part of §
5198, putting it at the end of that section as it originally stood
in the revision.
The fact that the amendment of 1873 in relation to attachments and-injunctions in state courts was made a part of §
5242 shows the opinion of the revisers and of Congress that it
was germane to the other provision incorporated in that section, and was intended as an aid to the enforcement of the
principle of equality among the creditors of an insolvent bank.
But however that may be, it is clear to our minds that, as it
stood originally as part of § 51 after 1873, and as it stands
now in the Revised Statutes, it operates as a prohibition upon all attachments against national banks under the authority of
the state courts. That was evidently its purpose when first
enacted, for then it was part of a section which, while providing for suits in the courts of the United States or of the State,
as the plaintiff might elect, declared in express terms that if the
suit was begun in a state court no attachment should issue until
after judgmrnt. The form of its reenactment in the Revised
Statutes does not change its meaning in this particular. It
stands now, as it did originally, as the paramount law of the
land that attachments shall not issue from state courts against
national banks, and writes into all state attachment laws an
exception in favor of national banks. Since the act of 1873
all the attachment laws of the State must be read as if they
contained a provision in express terms that they were not to
apply to suits against a national bank.
The prohibition does not in express terms refer to attachnients in suits begun in the Circuit Courts of the United
States, but 'as by § 91'5 of the Revised Statutes those courts
are not auth6rized to issue attachments in common law causes

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
Opinion of the Court.

against the property of a defendant, except as "provided by
the laws of the State in which such court is held for the courts
thereof," it follows that, as by the amendatory act of 1873,
now part of § 5242 of the Revised Statutes, all power of issuing
attachments against national banks before judgment has been
eliminated from state statutes, there cannot be any laws of
the State providing for such a remedy on which the Circuit
Courts may act. The law in-this respect stands precisely as it
would if there were no state law providing for such a remedy
in any case. It was suggested in argument that the prohibition extended only to the use of the remedy by state courts,
and that thl remedy itself still *remainedto be resorted to in
the courts of the United States. But we do not so understand
the law. In our opinion the effect of the act of Congress is to
deny the state remedy altogether so far as suits against
-national banks are concerned, and in this way it operates as
well on the courts of the United States as on those of the
States. Although the provision was evidently made to secure
equality among the general creditors in the division of the proceeds of the property of an insolvent bank, its operation is by
no means confined to cases of actual or contemplated insolvency. The remedy is taken away altogether and cannot be
used under any circumstances.
It was further said that if the power of issuing attachments
has been taken away from the state courts, so also is the power
of issuing injunctions. That is true. While the law as it stood
previous to the act of July 12, 1882, 22 Stat. 163, c. 290, § 4,
gave the proper state and federal courts concurrent jurisdiction
in all ordinary suits against national banks, it was careful to
provide that the jurisdiction of the federal courts should be
exclusive when relief by attachment or injunction before judgment was-sbught. Until the act of 1882 the federal courts had
ample authotity to grant injunctions in p roper cases, and all a
person need do to invoke that a-thority was to bring his suit
in one of those courts. Whether since the act of -1882 this
remains so is a question for the consideration of Congress.
Some amendment to existing legislation may be necessary, but
this does not shed any light on the interpretation of the old

728

OCTOBER TERMIN,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

law. The difficulty arises from the change that has been
made, not from the law as it stood originally.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the attachments in all the
suits wbre illegal and void, because issued without any authority of law. But it is insisted that notwithstanding this the
bonds are valid and may be enforced.
It is undoubtedly true that the sureties on a bond of this
kind are estopped from setting up, as a defence to an actiondor
a breach of its condition, any irregularities in the form of proceeding to obtain an attachment authorized by law which
would warrant its idischarge upon a proper application made
therefor. As the purpose of the bond is to dissolve an attachment, its due execution implies a waiver both by the defendant and his sureties of all mere irregularities. So, too, it is no
defence that the property attached did not belong to the defendant, or that it was exempt, or that the defendant has
become bankrupt or is dead. In all such cases, where there
was lawful authority for the attachment, the simple question
is, whether the condition of the bond has been broken; that is
to say, whether there has been a judgment in the action
against the defendant for the payment of money which he
has neglected for thirty days afterwards to make.
In the present case, however, the question is whether the
bond creates a liability when the attachment on which it is
predicated was actually prohibited by law. In other words,
whether an illegal and therefore a void attachment is sufficient
to lay the foundation for a valid bond to secure its formal dissolution. The bond is a substitute for the attachment, although
not affected by all the contingencies which might have discharged the attachment itself. Ca2penter v. Turr'el, 100
Mass. 450, 452 ; Tapley v. GoodsellZ, 122 Mass. 176, 182. Such
being the case, it necessarily follows that if there was no
authority in law for the attachment, there could be none for
taking the bond. If the attachment itself is illegal and therefore void, so also must be the bond which takes its place.
Objections can be made to an attachment issued on proper
legal authority, which cannot be used as a defence to a bond
taken under the statute for its dissolution; but if there can be

PACIFIC NATIONAL BANK v. MIXTER.
Opinion of the Court.

no lawful attachment, there can be no valid bond for its dissolution. The case is -to be considered as though there was no
law whatever for the seizure of property by attachment before
judgment in any case. As the taking of the property under
such circumstances would be unlawful, so also would be the
act of the magistrate in accepting the bond.
Neither is the bond binding as a common law bond. .If the
attachment had been valid, and the bond taken had not been
in all respects such as the statute hhd required, it could nevertheless have been enforced as a common law bond, because it
was executed for a good consideration, and the object for
which it was given had been acdomplishei. But here the difficulty is that there was no lawful attachment, and therefore no
lawful. authority for taking any bond whatever. The bond.
is consequently neither good under the statute nor at common
law, because there is no *sufficient foundation to support it.
Objection is made to the relief which is sought in equity,
because if the attachment bonds are void there is an adequate
remedy at law in the suits that may be brought for their enforcement. If the suit in equity had been brought by the
sureties to get rid'of their obligation, this objection might be
good; but such is not its character. The sureties have in their
hands assets of the bank which the receiver seeks to reduce to
his possession, and which they claim the right to hold until
they have been fully indemnified against or discharged from
liability on the bonds. The receiver says there is no liability,
because the bonds are invalid; and to have that question settled once for all he has brought the persons interested, creditors as well as sureties, before the court in order that it may
be conclusively adjudicated between them. Such a suit is
clearly cognizable in equity. The sureties are in a sense stakeholders. They do not claim the securities unless they are liable
on the bonds, and the suit, although not brought by them, is
in the nature of an interpleader to save ihem "from the vexation of two proceedings on a matter which may be s6ttled in a
single suit." The decree will bind all alike, and if the suretieg
are held not to be liable it will conclude the creditors from all
further proceedings against them on the bonds, and leave them

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

free to surrender the securities to the receiver. This will not
affect the judgments that the creditors have recovered, any
further than to limit their operation, so far as the rc ceiver and
the sureties on the attachnient bonds are concerned, to the
adjudication of the debts as claims entitled to dividends from
the proceeds of the assets of the bank. To that extent, certainly, the court had jurisdiction in each of the suits after the
insolvency; but as the attachments were void the judgments
are inoperative as a basis of recovery upon the bonds.
The judgment in each of the suits at law is affirmed, but the
decree in the suit in equity is reversed, and the cause remanded with instructions to enter a decree setting aside
and annulling the bonds which were given to dissolve the
attachments, and enjoining each and all of the creditors,
and those claiming under them, from _roceeding in any
mannuerto enforce the same against the sureties, and directing the sureties to surrender to the receiver the securities
they holdfor their indemnity.

SHOECRAFT v. BLOXHAM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE INORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued and Submitted February 2,1888.-

Decided February 20, 1888.

A suit to enforce the performance of a contract is a suit to recover the
contents of a chose in action, within the meaning of § 629 of the
Revised Statutes.
A deed of trust, in the nature of a mortgage, set out in full a contract
between the mortgagor and certain parties for the conveyance of several
parcels of land to him, and then conveyed to the mortgagee all the right,
title, and interest which he, the mortgagor, had, or might thereafter
acquire, "in and to" the lands embraced by the contract: Held, that the
conveyance was in legal effect an assignment of the contract; and that
the assignee could not maintain a suit for the enforcement of this contract in the Circuit Court of the United States, under § 629 of the
Revised Statutes, if the assignor could not have maintained the suit
In such Circuit Court if no assignment had been made.

