VETTERLEIN v. BARNES.
Syllabus.

decisions." That is to say, after the decision of the presiding
circuit judge has been rendered and final judgment entered by
him (as the record in .Roddv. Heart shows was the case),
the cause is disposed of, and the granting of an appeal from
that judgment by the district judge cannot, under any possible
construction, be said to be a partidipation in the proceedings
on the appeal from his decision below.
-Mr. James H. Davidon and Xr. -en7y 1. Williams opposing.
MR?. CHRIEF

JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This motion is denied. If it be true, as is alleged, but
which, is by no means clear, that the decree appealed from
was rendered by the district judge when he had no vote in
the cause, we still have jurisdiction of the appeal. Although
the district judge may have had no right to a vote, he was rightfully a member of the Circuit Court, .Rodd v. Heartt, 17 Wall.
354, 357, and a decree of that court entered under his super-'
vision and by his direction would be a decree of the court,
good until reversed or otherwise vacated. From such a decree
an appealtcan be taken.
D~enied.

VETT.ERLEIN v. BARNES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 8, 1887.-Decded January 9, 1888.

In a suit by a stranger against a trustee, to defeat the trust altogether, the
cestui que trust is not a necessary party, if the powers or duties of.the
trustee with respect to the execution of the trust are such that those for
whom he holds will be bound by what is done against him as well as by
what is done by him.
In a suit in equity by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside a fraudulent
transfer of the bankrupt's assets, this court agrees with the court below

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
that the evidence shows, that the transferee had no valuable pecuniary
interest in the transferred property, and that the transfer was made to
prevent it from coming into the hands of the assignee in bankruptcy.

BiLL rN EQUITY. The case as stated by the court, was as
follows: In and prior to the Tear 1867, the firm of Vetterlein & Co.
- composed of Theodore IT. Vetterlein, Bernhard T. Vetterlein, Theodore J. Vetterlein, and Charles A. Meurer, and
.doing business in Philadelphia-assisted one J. Kinsey Taylor by lending him money and acceptances. In the summer
-of that year, for the security of the firm, Taylor caused his life
to be insured, the policies taken out by him being assigned to
Theodore H. Vetterlein as security for Taylor's liability to the
[fim. In -July,1869, M[eurer retired from the firm, Taylor's
indebtedness, to it being, at that time, nearly $50,000. In
December, 1869, Theodore J. Vetterlein also left the firm.
The remaining partners went on with the business, at the
same place, under the same name, and with the same stock of
merchandise, taken at valuation.
On or about the 18th of July, 1870, the policies -which,
under some arringement, had been reduced in amount -were
assigned by Theodore H. Vetterlein to Bernhard T. Vetterlein
and Theodore J. Vetterlein, as trustees for the wife and children
of the assignor.
In the District Court of the United States for the Southern
'District of New York, sitting in bankruptcy, Theodore H.
Vetterlein and Bernhard T. Vetterlein were adjudged bankrupts. The adjudication was made February 7, 1871, 'upon ,a
petition of certain creditors of the bankrupts, filed December
28, 1870.
Taylor died July 1, 1871. Due proof of his death was made
by B. T. Vetterlein and T. J. Vetterlein, and they were proceeding to collect the insurance moneys, when the present suit
was brought in the District Court, August 10, 1871, by Barnes,
.assignee in bankruptcy of Theodore H. Vetterlein and Bernhard T. Vetterlein, against the bankrupts, Theodore J. Vetterlein, and the insurance companies. The principal object of the
suit was to enjoin B. T. and T. J. Vetterlein from collecting

VETTERLEIN v. BARNES.
Opinion of the Court.

the amounts due on the policies. Barnes contended that, as
assignee in bankruptcy, he was entitled to receive these insurance moneys, which are less in amount than Taylor's indebtedness to the bankrupts. His claim was sustained by the District Court, and, upon appeal to the Circuit Court, the decree
of the former court was affirmed.
.A&. Calderon Carlsle and Xr. T. .Xitehell Tyng for appellants. .A/,. John .. ZoPAeson was.with them on their brief.
Xr. arrington Ptnam for appellee. XP/. James and Xr. HBfnmd T. Wing were with him on his brief.
MR. JUSTICE .H[A-uL,

B1Z

after stating the case, deliveret the

opinion of the court.
1. The District Court correctly held, upon the evidence, that
at the time of the transfer by Theodore H. Vetterlein of the
policies in question for the benefit of his wife and children,
neither Meurer nor Theodore T. Vetterlein had any valuable
pecuniary interest in the assets of the former firms, and that
the firm of Yetterlein & Co., composed of Theodore H. Yetterlein and Bernhard T: Vetterlein, held the entire beneficial
interest in the policies taken out to secure Taylor's debts. That
interest passed to their assignee in bankruptcy.
2. Such transfer- which was within six months before the
-filing of the petition in bankruptcy -was made in contemplation of the insolvency of Theodore H. Vetterlein and Bernhard J. Vetterlein; and according to the weight of evidence
the transferees, at that time, not only had reasonable cause to.
believe that Theodore H. Vetterlein was acting in contemplation of insolvency, but that such transfer was made with a view
to prevent the moneys due on the policies from coming into
the hands of an assignee in bankruptcy.
3. It is contended that the wife, and children of Theodore
H. Vetterlein were indispensable parties, and that it was error
to proceed to a final decree without having them made defendants. The general rule undoubtedly is that all persons materially interested in the result of a suit ougiht to be made parties,
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

so that the court may "finally determine the entire controversy, and do complete justice by adjudging all the rights
involved in it." Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359, 375; S ied.
v. Barrow, 17 How. 130, 139. Bat in a suit brought against
a trustee by a stranger, for the purpose of defeating the trust
altogether, the beneficiaries are not necessary parties, if the
trustee has such powers or is under such obligations, with
respect to the execution of the trust, that "those for whom he
holds, will be bound by what is done against him, as well as by
what is done by him." In such cases of representation by
trustee§, the beneficiaries will be bound by the judgment,
"unless it is impeached for fraud or collusion betweenhim and
the adverse party." .Kerrison v. Stewart, 93 U. S. 155, 160.
In Sears v. Hardy,120 Mass. 521, 529, the court, after observing that who shall be made parties to a suit in equity cannot
always be determined by definite rules, but rests to some
degree in the discretion of the court, said: "Generally speaking, however, to a suit against trustees to enforce the execution of a trust, cestuis que trust, claiming present interests
directly opposed to those of the plaintiff, should be made
parties, in order that they may have the opportunity themselves to defend their rights, and not be obliged to rely upon
the defence made by the trustees, or to resort to a subsequent
suit against the trustees or the plaintiff, or to take the risk of
being bound by a decree rendered in their absence." But the
yrule is different where the claim of the plaintiff antedates the
creation of the trust, and the suit is brought, nbt in recognition
or furtherance of the trust, but in hostility to it, as fraudulent
and void. In Rogers v. Rogers, 3 Paige, 379 - which was a
suit by a judgment creditor to set aside as fraudulent an
assignment by the debtor of his personal estate in trust for the
payment of a debt to a particular bank, and to pay the
residue of the proceeds thereof to other creditors of the
assignor -it was objected,- at the hearing, that the bank was
not made a party defendant. The objection was held to, be.
untenable, the chancellor observing: "As a general rule, the
cestui8 que trust, as well as the trustee, must be parties,
especially where the object is to enforce a claim consistent

UNION RAILROAD CO. v. DULL.
Syllabuks.

with the validity of the trust. But where the complainant
claims in opposition to the assignment or deed of trust, and
seeks to set aside the same on the ground that it is fraudulent
and void, he is at liberty to proceed against the fraudulent
assignee or trustee, who is the holder of the legal estate in the
property, without joining the cestui guo trust." W&akeman v.
fGrover, 4 Paige, 23; Irwin v.*een, 3 Wharton, 347, 354, 355;
Therassom v. ffio7ok, 37 Vt. 454; Hfunt v. Weiner, 39 Ark. 70,
76; Winslow v. 3finnesota, & Paoci) Railroad Co., 4 Minn.
313, 316; Tucker v. Zimmermn , 61 Geo. 601.
The assignment of the policies in question in trust for the
wife and children of the assigor-the trust having been
accepted- carried with it, by necessary implication, authority
in the tiustees, by suit or otherwise, to collect the insurance
moneys for the beneficiaries. Indeed, they could not otherwise have fully discharged the obligations they assumed as
trustees. They were entitled to represent the beneficiaries in
their claim for the insurance'money, and were under a duty to
defend any suit, the object of which was to prevent the discharge of that duty, and set aside the transfer of the policies
as fraudulent and void. It results that the wife and children of Theodore I. Yretterlein. were not necessary parties
defendant.
We perceive no error in the record, and the decree is

.AJirmd.

UNION RAILROAD COMPANY V'. DULL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
Argued lovember 15, 16, 1887. - Decided January16, 1888.

In a suit in equity the court, in determining the facts from the pleadings
and proofs, the answer being under oath, applies the rule stated in Vigel
v. Hopp, 104 U. S. 441.
The fact alone that after a contract was entered into by a'railroad company
for the construction of a tunnel, one of its employ~s who neither rep-

