UNITED STATES v. HESS.
S.tatement of the Case.

to contravene the Constitution of the United States, to be a
valid law.
1heju igme t of the Supreme Court of Alama is therefore
ffirrned.

MfI3. JuscE BRADLEY dissented.

-UNITED STATES v. HESS.
CERTIICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINON BETWEEN THE JUDGES OF THE
CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW, YORE.
Argued January 16, 1888. -Decided

January 20, 1888.

In an indictment for committing an offence against a statute, the offence
may be described in the general language of the act, but the description
must be accompanied by a statement of all the particulars essential to
constitute the offence or crime, and to acquaint the accused with what
he must meet on trial.
A count in an indictment under Rev. Stat. ยง 5480, which charges that the
defendant, "having devised a scheme to defraud divers other persons to
the jurors unknown, which scheme he" "intended to effect by inciting
such other persons to open communication with him" "by means of the
post-office establishment of.the United States, and did unlawfully, in attempting to execute said scheme, receive from the post-office" "a certain
letter" (setting it forth), "addressed and directed" (setting it forth),
"against the peace,' &c., does not sufficiently describe an offence within
that section, because it does not state the particulars of the alleged
scheme to defraud; such particulars being matters of substance, and not
of form, and their omission not being cured by a vprdict of guilty.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of New York on a certificate of division of
opinion between the Judges. The defendant was indicted in
that court for an aleged offence, described in general terms as
that of devising "a scheme to defraud divers other persons,"
'to the jurors unknown, and intending to effect it by inciting

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

them to open communication with him through the post-office
establishment.
The indictment contained two counts, but upon the plea 'f
not guilty the case was submitted to the jury upon the second
count alone. That count was as follows:
"And the jurors aforesaid, on their oath aforesaid, do further preseht that Sigismund Hess, otherwise called Samuel
Hayes, late of the city and county of New York, in the district
and circuit .aforesaid, yeoman, heretofore, to wit, on the third
day of March, in the year of-our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-seven, at the Southern District of New Yorl
and within the jurisdiction of this court, having theretofore
devised a scheme to defraud divers other persons to the jurors
aforesaid as yet unknown, which said scheme he, the said
Sigismund Hess, otherwise called Samuel Ha'yes, then and
there intended to effect by inciting such other persons to open
communication with him, the said Sigismund Hess, otherwise
called Samuel Hayes, by means of the post-office establishmerit of the said United States, did unlawfully, in and for
attempting to execute said scheme, receive from the post-office
of the United States at the city of New York a certain letter
in the words and figures following, that is to say:
D. T. 2, 25, '87.
"'Dr. Sir: If there is any money to be made at it, then
count me in. Send on all the confidential terms you have, and
you will never be betrayed by
"'Yours truly,
J. M. DAvIs.
"'IReturn this letter.'
".' BONILLA,

which said letter was then and there inclosed in a sealed envelope, addressed and directed in words and figures following,
that is to say: I S. Brunk, Esq., 270 West 40th St., New York
City, New York,. c. o. Boot-Black;' against the peace of the
United States and their dignity, and contrary to the form of
the statute of the said United States in such case made and
provided."
The jury found the defendant guilty, and a motion was

UNITED STATES v. HESS.
Statement of the Case.

made for a new trial and in arrest of judgment, when the follbving questions occurred, upon which the judges holding the
court were divided in opinion:
"I. Does the second count of the indictment sufficiently
describe an offence under ยง 5480, Revised Statutes?
" II. If there is any defect or imperfection in the second
count of the indictment, is it in matter of form only, not tending to the prejudice of the defendant, and within the provisions
of ยง 1025, Revised Statutes?
"II. If there is a defect or imperfection in the second
count of the indictment, is it aided and cured by the verdict? "
Thereupon, on motion of the District Attorney, it was
ordered that the points upon which the judges disagreed
should, be certified, with a copy of the indictment, and an
abstract of the record, to this court for final decision.
The following is ยง 5480 of the Revised Statutes, upon which
the indictment was founded:
"If any person havinig devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or be effected by either opening
or intending to open correspondence or communication with
any other person, whether resident within or outside of the
United States, by.ineans of the Post-Office Establishment of
the United States, or by inciting such other person to open
communication with the person so devising or intending,
shall, in and for executing such scheme or artifice, or attempting so to do, place any letter or packet in any post-office of
the United States, or take or receive any therefrom, such person so misusing the Post-Office Establishment, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars, and
by imprisonment for not more than eighteen months, or by
both. such punishments. The indictment, information, or
compldint may severally charge offences to the number of
three when dommitted within the same six calendar months;
but the court thereupon shall give a single sentence, and shall
proportion the punishment especially to the degree in which
the abuse of the Post-office Establishment enters as an instrument into such fraudulent scheme and device."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinioii of the Court.

Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Y.

George Y. .A

MR.

JusTIcE

er for defendant in error.

FinLD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The statute upon which the indictment is founded only describes the general nature of the offence prohibited; and the
indictmnit, in repeating its ]-uguage without averments disclosing the particulars of the alleged offence, states no matters upon which issue could be formed for submission to a
jfry. The general, and, with few exceptions, of which the
present is not one, the universal rule, on this subject, is, that
all 'the material facts and circumstances embraced in the
definition of the offence must be stated, or the indictment
will be defective. No essential element of the crime can be
omitted without destroying the whole pleading. The omission cannot be supplied by intendment, or implication, and
the charge must be made directly and not inferentially, or by
way of recital.
- The statute is directed against " devising or intending to
devise any scheme or artifice to defraud," to be effected by
communication through the post-office. As- a foundation for
the charge, a scheme or artifice to defraud must be stated,
which jthe accused either devised or intended to devise, with
all zuch particulars as are essential to constitute the scheme or
artifice, and to acquaint Limwith what he must meet on the
trial.
. The averment here is that the defendant, "having devised
a scheme to defraud divers other persons to the jurors un'mown," intended to effect the same by inciting such other
persons to communicate with him through the post-office, and
received a letter on the subject. Assuming that this averment of "havin g devised" the scheme may be taken as sufficiently direct and positive, the absence of all particulars of the
alleged scheme renders the count as defective as would be 'an
indictment for larceny without stating the property stolen, or
its owner or party from whose possession it was taken.

UNITED STATES. v. HESS.
Opinion of the Court.

The doctrine invoked by the solicitor general, that, it is sufficient, in an indictment upon a statute, to set forth the offence
in the words of the statute, does not meet the difficulty here.
Undoubtedly the language of the statute may be used in the
general description of an offence, but it must be tecompanied
with such a statement of the: facts and circumstances as will
inform the accused of the specific offence, coming under the
general description, with which he is charged. One or two
cases will serve as an illustration of the doctrine. In United
States v. Cru" shank, 92 U. S. 542, the counts of the indictment in general language charged the defendants with an intent
to hinder and prevent citizens of the United States of African
descent, named therein, in the free exercise and enjoyment of
all the rights, privileges, and immunities, and protection
granted and secured to them respectively as citizens of the
United States and of the State of Louisiana, because they
were persons of African descent, but did not specify any particular right, the enjoyment of which the conspirators intended to hinder or 'prevent; and it was held that the averments of the counts were too vague and general, and lacked
the certainty and precision required by the established rules of
criminal pleading, and were therefore insufficient in law. In
speaking of the necessity of greater particularity of statement,
the court said (p. .558): "It is an elementary principle of
criminal pleading, that where the definition of an offence,
whether it be at common law or by statute, ' includes generic
terms, it is not sufficient that the indictment shall charge the
offence in the same generic terms as in the definition; but
it must state the species; it must descend to particulars.'
I Arch. Cr. Pr. and Pl. 291. The object of the indictment is,
first, to furnish the accused with such a description of the
charge against him as will enable him to make his defence,
and avail himself of his conviction or acquittal for protection
agamst a further prosecution for the same cause; and, second,
to inform the court of the facts alleged, so that it may decide
whether they are sufficient in law to support a conviction, if
one should be had. For this, facts are to be stated, not conclusions of law alone. A crime is made up of acts and in-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

tent; and -these must be set-forth in the indictment with
reasonable particularity of time, place, and cir6umstances."
In ,United States v. Siimmons, 96 U. S. 360, the indictment
was for violations of certain provisions of the Revised Statutes relating to distilled spirits. The, second count, pursfing
the words of the statute, charge, that the defendant "did
knowingly and unlawfully cause and procure to be used a
still, boiler, and other vessel, for the purpose of distilling,
withii the intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of
the United States, in a certain building and on certain premises where vinegar was manufactured and produced." Upon
this count this court was asked two questions, one of which
was whether it was sufficient in an indictment drawn under
the act which prohibited the use of a still, boiler, or other
vessel for the purpose of distilling in any building or on premises where vinegar was manufactured or produced, to charge
the offence in the words of the statute. The court answered
this question in the negative, observing that "where the
offence is purely statutory, having no relation to the common
law, it is, 'as a general rule, sufficient in the indictment to
charge the defendant with acts coming fully within the statutory description, in the substantial words of the statute, without any further expansion of the matter,"' but adding that
"to this general rule there is the qualification, fundamental
in the law of criminal procedure, that the accused must be
apprised by the indictment, with reasonable certainty, of the
nature of the accusation against him, to the end that he may
prepare his defence, and plead the judgment as a bar to any
subsequent prosecution for the same offence. An indictment
not so framed is defective, although it may follow the language of the statute." It accordingly held that, tested by the
rules thus lajd down, the second count was insufficient. (See
also Unted States v. Carll, 105 Y. S. 611)
Following this .rule,it must be held that the secord count of
the indictment before us does not sufficiently describe anoffence within the statute. The essential requirements, indeed,
all the particulars constituting the offence of devising a scheme
to defraud, are wanting. Such particulars are matters of sub-

BROWN v. AlcCONNELL.

489

Opinion of the Court.

stance and not of form, and their omission is not aided or
cured by the verdict.
It follows that
Tle three questions certified to us must be answered in the
negative; and it is so ordered.

BROWN v. McCONNELL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
WASHINGTON.
Submitted January 9, InS3.-Decided January 30, 1888..

The signing of a citation returnable to the proper term of this court, but
without the acceptancb of security, nevertheless constitutes an allowance
of appeal which enables this court to take jurisdiction, and to afford the
appellants an opportunity to furnish the requisite security here, before
peremptorily dismissing .the case.
Castro v. United States, 3 Wall. 46; and United States v. Curry,6 How. 106;
distinguished.
MOTION TO

DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion of the

court.
-Yfr. Attorney General Garland for the motion.
-f.

Leander Holmes opposing.

Mr.

CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE. delivered

the opinion of the court.

The facts on which this motion rests are these:
A judgment was rendered by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington July 18, 1885, dismissing an appeal. On
the 15th of July, 1886, Lorenzo D. Brown and Leander Holmes
presented a bond as security for an appeal from this judgment
to one of the justices of that court, and he, on the 21st of that
month, indorsed upon it his approval. On the 17th of November, 1886, a citation was signed by the same justice, requiring
McConnell, as appellee, to appear in this court to answer the

