UNION MUTUAL .LIFE INS. CO. v. WATERS.

369

Opinion of the Court.

District of New York to set aside an order granting a motion
to remand a suit against him, which he had caused to be
removed from a state court, and to proceed to a rehearing, on
the ground that at the former hearing the court did not have
before it and did not see the complaint in the case on which
he relied to show his right to a removal. The petition makes
it apparent that the motion was submitted by both parties,
and decided on the papers then furnished. If, in point of
fact, the complaint was not included among those papers, and
it had been omitted by mistake, a rehearing might have been
granted in the discretion of the court upon a showing to that
effect, but this court has no power to require that court to do
so by mandamus.

UNION M[UTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
WATERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCGUT

COMPANY v,

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Announced January 23, 1888.

In accordance with a stipulation of the parties the judgment of the cQurt
below is reversed and a mandate issued.

Mr. J.

0. Winshzkp for plaintiff in error.

Ar. J. H. Hoyt for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUST=IE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case the parties-have stipulated as follows:
"The controversy between the parties hereto, having been
amicably adjusted, it is now stipulated and agreed between
us, that as to the proceedings now pending in the Supreme
Court of the United States, docketed as case No. 356, wherein
the Union Mutual Life Insurance Co. of Maine is plaintiff in
error, and Electa L. Waters is defendant in error, an entry
shall be made by said court, as upon the trial thereof, that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
VOL, Cxxiv-24

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division, shall be.
reversed and the said cause remanded to the Circuit Court,
and a judgment be entered against said defendant for costs
herein, and that said mandate shall be issued at once."
It is, therefore, Qn motion, orderOd that the jidgment be, and
the same is hereby, reversed, costs in'this court to- be _paid
by the pllaintiff in error, and the cause remanded,with instructions to lproceed in accordancewith sucA stpulation.

IN RE CRAFT.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 16,1888. - Decided January 23, 1888.

An injunction restraining the prosecution of an action of replevin in a courtestablished under the authority of the United States involves of itself
no question of the validity'of an authority exercised under the United
States.

MR. R. H.

STEELE,

of counsel ior petitioners, moved the

court for leave to file a petition, for a writ of mandamus to
the Supreme Court of the Distilct of Columbia to compel the
allowance of an appeal in accordance with the prayer of*the
petitionem; whereupon, the Chief Justice announced that an
application had been made to him for the allowance of an
appeal in the cause, which application he now refers to the
court for its consideration, and directed that counsel for the
moving parties file a brief in behalf of their application.
Thereupon the counsel filed a paper entitled "brief," of.
which the following are the material parts.
"Your petitioners respectfully represent and submit thefollowing:
"That the .capse herein considered is entitled on the docket
record of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, thecourt bel6w, as Mary F. Crist, Complainant, v. Henry C. Craft,
Philip A. Crist, and Albert .A. Wilson, Defendants, Equity,
No. 10036, Cal., No. 80.
"-That, upon June 11th, 1886. the above named complainant

