OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

CHAPIN v. STREETER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Submitted January 4, 1888. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

The owner of an undivided half interest in personal property in possession
of the whole of it, is liable for the entire tax upon it, and is not released
from that liability by the payment of one-half of the tax upon the
whole.
A and B.were joint owners of the furniture of a hotel. A carried on the
hotel, and leased of B his half interest in the furniture at an agreed rent,
which was not paid as it became due. The taxes on the furniture being
unpaid; A paid one-half of the lanount due for taxes and the officer distrained, advertised and sold to C the undivided half of B therein for the
other half. A then hired this undivided half of C at an agreed rental, and
the rent was paid. B brought suit against A to recover the rent due under
the lease from him. Held, that A was liable for the *hole tax, and being
in exclusive possession of the property under his contract with B, it was
his duty to pay it, and that the officer was as much bound to satisfy the
tax out of A's interest In the property as out of B's, and that the facts
above stated constituted no defence against B's action for the rent; nor
the further fact that B notified A that if he paid his half of the taxes,
he would not allow it in settlement.

THIS was an action on a contract to recover rent. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.
t r. 1. C. Rockwell for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Sam uel P. Rose for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court,

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado.
James Streeter,. who was plaintiff below, recovered a judgment against Howard 0. Chapin, the defendant below, for the
sum of $7113.44. The case was tried by a jury, and the court
instructed them to find for the plaintiff. To this instruction
the exception was taken upon which the case turns here.

CHAPIN v. STREETER.
Opinion of the Court.

It appears from the bill of exceptions that in the years 1880
and 1881 the plaintiff and defendant were copartners in the
business of keeping the Clarendon Hotel in Leadville, Lake
County, Colorado, each owning an undivided one-half of the
hotel and the furniture and personal property, therein; that
on the 31st day of October, 1881, this partnership was dissolved,
and the defendant rented of the plaintiff the undivided half of
this hotel and the furniture and personal property therein, for
the term of two years. This contract was evidenced by a
written instrument, which was introduced at the trial, and by
other evidence it was shown on the. part of the plaintiff that
at that time there remained due and unpaid, for rent and interest on the several instalments as they became due, the sum
of $7113.44. The defendant offered evidence to show that on
the 1st day of May, 1882, the plaintiff and defendant "were
indebted to the county of Lake, for taxes assessed against
them on their joint property, to wit, the said.hotel property
and furniture, for the years 1880 and 1881, the slum of six hundred and thirty dollars:
"1 That, to satisfy the sum of three hundred and fifteen dollars of said taxes and the c6sts of. sale, the treasurer of said
Lake County distrained, advertised, and sold the undivided
one-half of the furniture and other personal property in and
about the said hotel, owned by the said .Streeter and Chapin
jointly."
At that sale one John W. Jacque purchased the undivided
one-half of this furniture and other personal property in and
about the hotel, owned by said Streeter and Chapin jointly,
for $106, which was paid by him to the county treasurer.
It further appeared that previous to such distraint and sale
Chapin, the defendant, had paid said treasurer one-half of the
amount of $630 assessed against the property.. The advertisement of the sale is copied in full in the bill of exceptions. The
most important part of it is the notice by the treasurer .of
Lake County that he distrained the personal property of Streeter for delinquent personal taxes, ani would sell the same on the
16th day of May, 1882, at the Clarendon Hotel, in the city of
Leadville, or so much theieof as would be necessary to satisfy

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the sum of $315.90. The property was described as the furniture of sixty-five bedrooms in that hotel, consisting of beds
and bedding, chairs, washstands, bureaus, and carpets in each
room; also the furniture of thirty-two bedrooms in the Tabor
Opera House building, on the upper floor, three billiard tables
and fixtures,. bar fixtures, other, office and kitchen furniture,
and all the other personal property of Streeter in those build.ings.
The defendant also proved that he afterwards rented the
undivided one-half of the property so sold from Jacque at the
rate of $975 per month, and that from the time of the sale
until this suit was brought such rent amounted to the sum of
$5575.
The defendant also offered to prove by his own statement
that prior to the sale of this property for taxes; Streeter freqdently notified him not to pay any taxes on his part of the
property owned by them in common, either real or personal,
and that he had declared that if he did pay such taxes on his
half of the property, he would not allow it to him in their
transactions as partners, nor would he pay it to him, but the
court refused to allow the introduction of this testimony.
This being all the evidence, the court charged the jury that
the plaintiff was entitled to reco'ver the rent according to the
contract, as to the amount of which there was no controversy.
They were, therefore, directed to find a verdict for the sum of
$7113.44, which was done.
It was the duty of Chapin, who was in possession of the
property and in use of it at the time, to have paid the taxes.
The $315 of taxes for which the distraint was made was,
notwithstanding the payment of one-half of the' original
amount by Chapin, a joint liability upon the property of the
firm. So much of the property a was necessary to pay
the taxes should have been sold; being personal property,
the proceedings under distraint contemplated a seizure by the
treasurer, and when a sale was made a delivery by him to the
purchaser.
Again, this being the joint or partnership debt of both, the
payment of one-hal of it by Chapin did not discharge him

CHAPIN

iv.

STREETER.

Opinion of thq Court.

from the obligation of paying the other half to the treasurer
of Lake County. The sale, therefore, was a sale for the payment of his debt, a debt for which he was as liable to the
county as Streeter, and which the officer was as much bound
to make out of his property, or out of that of the partnership,
as he was out of that which belonged to Streeter. Being. in
the exclusive possession and. control of it during the term of
the lease, by virtue of his own written contract, it was his
duty to have paid this tax; and thus protected the property,
from sale.. Through this ppssession, and the rent. which he.
was paying monthly tp Stredter, he had the means 6f protecting his own interest, and seouring the repayment to himself of
Streeter's half of the taxes. The obligation which he was
under to protect that prperty by thd payment of a debt for
which he was personally liable is clear. This obligation was not satisfied or discharged by the stateinent of Streeter to him, that if he paid Streeter's half of the,
taxes he would not allow it to him. . Streeter could nbt thus
make a law for the conduct of this partnership property, and
governing the rightsgrowing out of the contract of lease; nor
would, this statement of his, if it had been permitted to be.
Proved, have discharged. Ohapin from his ..obligation to the
county to pay the taxes levied on this property. . Instead of
paying the taxes, as appears from the evidence, Ohapin, under
A sale of this property which it was his duty to have prevented
by such payment, and without any disturbance of his possession, or any attempt to disturb it by force or by legal proceedings, has voluntarily paid to Jacque over five thousand dollars
as rent upon that which the latter pretended to buy for the
price of $106.
The folloying authorities, if any are needed, support this
view of the subject:
Section 2819 of the General Laws of Colorado, eCd1883, provides that "all taxes levied or assessed upon personal property
of any kind whatsoever, shall be and remain a perpetual lien
upon the property so levied upon, until the whole amount of
such tax is paid; and if such tax shall' not be paid on or before
the first day of January next succeedipg such levy, it is hereby

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

made the duty of the county treasurer to collect the same by
distress and sale of any of the personal property so taxed, or
of any other personal property of the person assessed." See,
also, Stockwell v. Brewer, 59 Maine, 286; Frost v. Parker,34
N. J. Law, 71; Eberstein v. Oswalt, 47 Michigan, 254; Xeyers
v. -Dubuque County, 49 Iowa, 193.
The judgment of-the Circuit Court is affirmed.

IN RE SHERMAN.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 9, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

If a Circuit Court of the United States, in granting a motion -to remand a
cause to the state court, has not before it, by mistake, the complaint in
the action, it is within the discretion of that court, upon a showing to that
effect, to grant a rehearing; but this court has no power to require that
court by mandamus to do so.

RoGER M. Snm~ANr, the plaintiff in error .inSherman v.

Grinnel, 123 U. S. 679, after the announceienf of that decision presented to this court his petition as folioi-s:
To the Honorable, the Justices of the S preme Court of the
United States:
The petition of Roger M. Sherman respectfully represents:
On the 28th day of October, 1885, in the city court of
New York, in the Southern District of New York, an
action was commenced by the service of a summons and
complaint, by Irving Grinnell and George S. Bowdoin, as
executors, against this petitioner, to recover the sum of
$1778.95, and on the 30th day of said October, your petitioner presented his petition and a bond to said city court,
and prayed the removal of said action to the Circuit Court of
the United States for said district. Said city court on that
day made its order thereupon, accepting said petition and ap-

