OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

UUMISTON v. WOOD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNIT3 D

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Argued November 29, 1887. -Decided January 9, 1888.

In its obinion this court reviews the evidence offered by the plaintiff on the
trial of the case in the court below, none being offered there by the
defendants, and finds it sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to have the issue
submitted to the jury; and as the court below directed the jury to find
.a verdict for the defendants, which was done, and a judgment was entered on the verdict, this court reverses the judgment and remands the
cause, -with directions to grant a new trial.

AssumPSIT. Plea: Non assumpsit. Verdict for defendant,
and judgment on the verdict. Plaintiff sued out this wei,. of
error. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Francis E. Brewster .and .jfr. F. Carroll Brewster for
plaintiff in error. Mr. David W. Sellers was with them on
the britf.
11r. Wayne Zo J7eagh for defendants in error.
Wintersteen was with him on the brief.
MR.

JUSTICE AIATTHEWS-

21r. A. IL

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of assumpsit brought by the plaintiff in
error to recover the sum of $25,000 as consideration for the
sale and transfer to the defendants below of the exclusive
right for the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to make,
use, and vencl to others " Humiston's Atmospheric Hydrocarbon Apparatus" for generating light and heat, under letterspatent dated. June 24, 1879, NVo. 216,853, issued to Ransom
F. Humiston.
The defence relied upon was the plea of non-assumpsit. The
cause was tried to a jury, and the testimony having closed on
the part of the plaintiff, the defendants offering none, the
judge charged the jury to return a verdict for the defendants,.

HUMISTON v. WOOD.

Opinion of the Court.

which was accordingly done. This ruling being duly excepted
to, is now assigned for error, all the evidence iii the cavse
being brought into the record by a bill of exceptions.
The principal witness on the part of the plaintiff below was
Ransom F. Humiston, the patentee. He testified that, having
received his patent on June 24, 1879, he was introduced to
the defendants on the 2d of July by their superintendent, they
being manufacturers of ranges and heaters. Having tried
and tested the patented apparatus at their manufactory, a
negotiation was entered into for the sale of the patent. In
answer to the question how he proposed to sell it, the witness
stated that he had no experience, but understood that the
usual way was to form a stock company, and that if he did
not find a purchaser he should organize one. One of the
defendants asked him if he was particular about forming a
stock company, and whether he would be willing to sell it to
the firm. He said he would prefer to do this, and named
$20,000 as the price for Pennsylvania, $5000 cash and $5000
in monthly instalments. After some further conversation, the
defendant said that it would be easier to raise the money by
forming a stock company, and went to the office of an attorney
for the purpose of having the papers drawn to contain their
agreement. At this time it was further agreed to include
New Jersey at an additional price of $5000 on the same terms.
The interview at the attorney's office when the papers were
drawn was on July 31, 1879, and they were signed on the 2d
of August. The witness added: "The substance of what was
said by defendants was, that we will be the owners of the
patent, but it is necessary to have certain names to an application for a charter, and we (myself, Myers, and Feltwell) consented to go on application articles." Th6 papers referred to
by the witness and put in evidence are two. The first is an
agreement concluded July 31, 1879, the parties to which are
Joseph Wood, James P. Wood, B. M. Feltwell, William H.
Myers, and R. F. Humiston. It was thereby agreed that the
parties named would "associate themselves together for the
object of obtaining a charter of incorporation under the name
and title of the 'American Light and Heat Company of

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,' said organization to be perfected,
and to be for the manufacture and sale of Humisto"'s atmospheric hydrocarbon apparatus for generating light and heat,
and for the manufacture and sale of fixtures for the same; also,
for the preparation and sale of oil suitable forthe use of the said
apparatus, and for any other business or matter necessary in
carrying out the purposes aforesaid." The capital stock of
the company was placed at $200,000, and it was provided
that each of the parties should use :his best endeavors in disposing of the stock. It was also provided "that the said party
of the fifth. part (Humiston) shall forthwith transfer to the
other parties hereto the sole right of the improvement, in
apparatus for burning hydrocarbons for the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey, letters-patent for said improvement
being No. 216,853, and bearing date the 24th day of June, A.D.
1879, said transfer to cover any and all improvements hereafter to be made on said apparatus. That the said party of
the fifth part shall 'receive. from the concern or association or
corporation for said patent; right for said States the sum of
$25,000, to-be paid to him as follows, to wit: Five thousand
dollars thereof within thirty days from the date hereof; the
further sum of five thousand dollars in sixty days from the
date hereof; the further sum of five thousand dollars in ninety
days from the date hereof; the further sum of five thousand
dollars in one hundred and twenty days from the date hereof;
and the balance of five'thousand dollars in one hundred and
fifty days from the date hereof.; the said payments to be
made to the said party of the fifth part, or his legal representatives."
The other paper, also dated July 31, 1879, and signed by
R. F. Humiston alone, is as follows:
"Whereas, by a certain agreement madb the 31st day of
July, 18'19, wherein James P. Wood, Joseph Wood, Benjamin
M. Feltwell, William H. Mfyers, and Ransom F. Humiston
agreed to form a company for the manufacture and sale of
HIumiston's improvement in apparatus for burning hydrocarbons, and also agreed to pay the said Ransom F. Humiston
for all his interest in the letters-patent for said improvement

HUMISTON v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

for the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey the sum of
$25,000, to be raised 1from sales of the stock of said company,
in payments of $5000 each, the first payment to be made in
thirty days after the execution of the agreement, and $5000
every thirty days thereafter until the whole sum be paid;
therefore, iii consideration of said agreement, I hereby agree
with the said James P. Wood, Joseph Wood, Benjamin F.
Feltwell, and William H. Myers, that I will not hold them
personally responsible for the payment of the said sum of
$25,000, but will look to them only as trustees for the sale of
the stock of the said company and the payment to me of such
moneys as may be received for such sales until the whole is
paid; and I further agree, that if sufficient money be not received to pay the first instalment of $5000 when it becomes
due, that I will extend the time of payment for ten, twenty,
or thirty days, as may be necessary."
The witness further testified, that finding difficulties in the
way of obtaining a charter in Pennsylvania that idea was
abandoned at a meeting of the parties held on the 7th of October at the office of the 4efendants, when a committee was
appointed to ascertain the laws of New Jersey relative to corporations in that state, to report at a subsequent meeting on
November 3d. At that interview, the witness testifies "I
spoke to Joseph Wood, asked him when the committee would
report, and Joseph said to me if you are perfectly satisfied we
don't care about the company; we will take the ownership
ourselves on the same terms (I mean as to price and payment).
I cannot, give the exact language; the substance was that
James and Joseph Wood would take the patent on the same
terms as the company had." In the meantime, as the witness
further stated, the defendants received offers from various
parties to buy territorial rights; amongst others, an offer, as
he learned, from Joseph Wood for the county in which Newark, New Jersey, was, of $10,000, and asked the witness what
he thought of it. He testifies that he replied: " I would take
it, as it was twice as much as he had given for the whole stock.
He said it was no one's business what they had given for it.
He said Jersey City was in it. It is worth $40,000." The wit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887..
Opinion of the Court.

ness further testified that Joseph said "that parties in Pennsylvania were proposing to buy the state west of the Allegheny
Mountains, and'talked of $25,000 for about one-third of the
state. He said it was worth more. I said it was his business
and not mine. I wanted my pay." He also testified that
Mr. Moran had seen the apparatus at the state fair, and entered
into an agreement in writing with James P. Wood in reference to the patent. This writing Moran brought to the witness, and thereupon he says: "I told Mr. Wood that Moran
had brought an article to me to be signed, and I stated that
I was not the owner, but that they were, and then the agreement was signed. When I told James Wood this, he said to
Moran, draw up the contract and I will look it over !" The
witness fUrther testified that the defendants issued circulars
advertising the apparatus as their own, and employed him to
go to Western Pennsylvania to make sales of rights under it
for them. le remained in Pittsburg for that purpose about
a month, corresponding with the defendants in reference to
the subject. He also went- to New York, upon letters of introduction from the defendants, to see about putting in the
apparatus there. The witness further testified as follows: "In
March, 1880, I called on defendants for some money and they
handed me $200; I told them I needed money; I think $200
'vas the amount; defendants had paid me $640 on account
of purchase money; the last payment in June or July, 1880,
of $40. Defendants said they could not pay it 5hen; this was
in 5une, 1880. They gave no reason at that time. At a subsequent time, late in June, they called to see me, and said the
reason'they could not pay me was because there had been a
great deal of competition in their business, and they had made
nothing in two or three years, but that they had some contracts which were better, and if I would not press them they
would pay me from time to time. I did not press the matter for the time being; that was the end at that time.
I called on them for some money and they paid me this $40.
I called on them again, and they said it was impossible. I
told them $1000 was wanted. They said they were getting
some money from some institution, but they were disappointed.

HUMISTON v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.-

I asked them if they could let me have $500, and they said no;
$200, no; $50, no; $10, and they said no; they had men to
pay off and could not let me have $10, and I saw it was time
to be looking after my securities. This was the last interview."
In the meantime, on the 30th of September, 1879, the witness had executed an assignment of the patent, reciting that
"whereas James P. Wood, Joseph Wood, Benjamin 11. Feltwell, and William H. Myers, of the city of Philadelphia and
State of Pennsylvania, and said Ransom F. Humiston, have
associated themselves together for the purpose of forming a
company to manufacture and sell said apparatus and territorial
rights under said patent, and have appointed the said Joseph
Wood their trustee to take the title of said patent on behalf
of said association, and are desirous of acquiring an interest
therein," and assigning 'the patent accordingly for the States
of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to Joseph Wood, trustee
for the said association. The witness also testified to having
received at various times from the defendants the sum of $616;
of this $100, paid July 2C, 1879, was before the execution of
the'contract, and for which he gave his due bill. He gave
another due bill for $15Q, paid on the 8th of November, 1879.
For the other sums no due bills were given. He testified that
he understood that all the payments, except the first $100,
were on account of purchase money.
The only other witness called was William H. Myers, a
notary public, in whose office the agreements were drawn up,
and whose name was put in, as he says, to furnish the number
to get the charter, though he had no interest in the business or
in the patent. He says the charter did not go through because
money had to be paid, and that at a meeting of the parties in
interest at his office he and James P. Wood were appointed a
committee to obtain information in regard to getting a charter
in New Jersey, but nothing further was done. Later in 1879,
he says that he saw Joseph Wood, who told him it might be a
good thing; the territory might be sold probably for sufficient
to pay for the patent. "During the bonversation we spoke of
the difficulty of raising the company. Joseph said they had
VOL. Cx'xwIv-2

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

thought something of taking it themselves and of abandoning
the company; they thought territory sufficient might be sold
to pay Humiston. Defendants spoke to me of sending the
plaintiff to Pittsburg.

.

.

When they said they thought

of abandoning the company, defendants employed me to make
sale, and they said they would give me a commission - $5000
if $25,000 were realized, or a less sum a proportionate commission. This was about the 10th of December, 1879."
In the correspondence between the parties put in evidence
there is a letter from Ilumiston, dated February 12, 1880,
addressed to J.P. Wood & Co., in which it is stated that the
writer had an interview with the superintendent of the elevated railroads in New York in regard to the use of the invention in running locomotives on the railroads. In that letter it
is also stated that a party had called upon him "to know if I
had yet sold the right to use my apparatus for railroad purposes in any of the states. I told him that I had sold the
right for all purposes for Pennsylvania and New Jersey. He
told me that I had made a great mistake, for that sale almost
shut up New York City from her LoIst important outlets. I
told him that I felt confident that I could buy back the right
for railroad purposes for those states at a reasonable figure.
Now, I feel confident that this man means business, and he is
known to be connected with a wealthy corporation, and I
believe that if you will authorize me to sell just so much of the
right as is applicable to railroad purposes alone for Pennsyliania and New Jersey, that I can do it within thirty days
from this date, and bring you money enough to pay me off,
and still you will own the right for the above-named states
for all purposes except for use on railroads. Now, I want you
to name yotir lowest price for sixty days. I mean that you
shall give the refusal for sixty days at the price you name,
selling only the railroad right. He is to call for my answer on
Saturday r. m. at 3 o'clock. . . . Give me your minimum
price, and I will get as much more as possible."
On the next day, February 13, 1880, the defendants, by a
letter signed J. P. W. & Co., per Hinkle, addressed to Prof.
IR F. Humiston, say: "Yours of yesterday received. We are

HUMISTON v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

pleased to learn of your prospective success with railroads.
With reference to price for our interest in Pennsylvania and
New Jersey for railroad purposes, we leave it entirely with
you to make such arrangements as you may deem best for the
interest of all concerned."
On the 18th of February, 1880, at New York, Humiston
writes again to James P. Wood & Co.on the subject of trying
the heating apparatus for running locomotives, in which he
says: "Please do not forget to talk with James about the
money matters. I should not trouble you now, but I need it
more than ever; send what you can spare." And also:
"James will remember saying to me that until sales were
made that I could have such small sums as I needed for my
current expenses."
This was the substance of all the testimony in the case, so
far as necessary to the determination of the question involved.
We think that this evidence was sufficient to entitle the
plaintiff to have the issue submitted to the jury. We assume
that the original negotiations prior to July 31, 1879, were
merged in the written agreements of that date, which contemplated the organization of a corporation to receive an
assignment of the patent for the States of Pennsylvania and
New Jersey in consideration of $25,000, to be paid by the corporation, and the contemporary agreement by which the individual corporators, including the-defendants, were exonerated
from any personal responsibility for the payment of the consideration; Humiston thereby agreeing that he would 'look to
them only as trustees for the sale of the stock of the company,
and the payment to him of such moneys as might be received
for such sales until the whole was paid. But this project was
abandoned, and the tendency of Humiston's testimony certainly was to establish an agreement, between himself on the
one part and James and Joseph Wood .on the other, that
the defendants would take the patent on the same terms as it
had been agreed that the company should, tbat is to say, that
the defendants were to stand in the matter precisely as it had
been agreed that the corporation should if it had been formed.
That being so, the defendants would succeed to the obligation

-OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of the company to pay the consideration of $25,000 absolutely
and unconditionally. The collateral agreement of July 31,
1879, by which the individual corporators were not to be personally responsible for the consideration, would thus be rendered nugatory, as it was only intended to have effect in the
event of the organization of the corporation.
Upon this state of facts, if proven to their satisfaction, the
jury would have been warranted in finding a verdict for the
plaintiff. It was error, therefore, in the Circuit Court to direct
a verdict for the defendants. For this error its
Judgment is reversed, and the cause is -remandedwith directions to grant a new trial.

NORTONq v. HOOD.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN" DISTRICT OF LOUISIA2NA.
Argued December 14, 1887. -Decided

January9,1888.

In a suit i equity by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside transfers of
land by the bankrupt, alleged to have been made in fraud of his cred-.
itors, this court held that the allegations of the bill were not established.

BILL n EQUITY. The complainant appealed from the final
decree. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3 r. J. D. Rouse and -Mr. .' H. Farrarforappellant submitted on their brief.
.Xr. John A. Campbell for the executors of Frellsen, one
of the appellees.
IJR. JUSTICE BLATORFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 15th of February, 1862, Govy Hood, a planten Tesiding in the parish of Carroll, in the State of Louisiana, made
his seven promissory notes, payable to the order of the mer-

