OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

amount in satisfaction of his judgment against Coster. But
the averment in the petition, that the proposal of the Commissioner, which was approved by the Secretary of the Treasury,
was a proposal to allow the claim to be paid to Frerichs upon
due entry of satisfaction of the judgment, is an adoption by
Frerichs of the terms upon which the allowance was made,
and is, in substance, an agreement by Frerichs to receive the
amount in satisfaction of the judgment. Nothing more could
be required of Frerichs, under the award, than to enter satisfaction of the judgment simultaneously with the receipt of the
money.
The payment of the amount of the judgment would ivpso
facto satisfy the demand of Frerichs against the United States,
because it is provided by ยง 1092 of the Revised Statutes that
"the, payment of the amount due by any judgment of the
Court of Claims, and of any interest thereon allowed by law,"
"shall be a full discharge to the United States of all claim
and demand touching any of the matters involved in the
controversy."
The judgment of the Court of Oaims is affimed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MoBLAIR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted January 5,1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

tJnder the act of August 18, 1856, 11 Stat. 118, c. 163, the cestuis que trust
under a will devising real estate in the District of Columbia to trustees,
with limitation over, filed a bill in equity in the Supreme Court of the
District praying for a sale of a portion of the lands'held in trust, in order that the sums received from the sale might be applied to the improvement of the remainder. Such proceedings were had therein that a trustee
was appointed by the court to make the sale as prayed for, and a sale was
made by him to J. M., husband of one of the cestuis que trust, for the sum
of $24,521.50.
He gave his promissory notes to the trustee so appointed for this sum, and the sale was ratified and confirmed by the court.
J. M. then sold the tract thus sold to him, to the District of Columbia as
a site for a Market, and received in payment thereof market bonds of

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McBLAIR.
Statement of the Case.
the District, of the nominal value of $27,350, from which he realized
$22,700. Instead of paying the sum derived from the sale of these bonds
to the trustee in part payment of his note, and to be applied to the improvement of the remainder as prayed for in the bill, J. Al. applied it
directly to such improvement. The District of Columbia then filed its
petition in the cause, setting forth the facts, and praying that, as the
proceeds of the bonds had in fact been applied, although irregularly, to
the improvement as contemplated, an account might be taken of the
amount so expended, and J. M.'s notes be cancelled as paid, and the trustee ordered to convey directly to the District. Held, that the District
had an equity which entitled it to have the $22,700 credited on J. M.'s
notes in the hands of the trustee, and a further equity on payment to the.
trustee of the balance of the agreed price, to have those notes cancelled,
and to have a conveyance of title from the trustee, discharged of all lien
on account of unpaid purchase money, and that no resale would be ordered until there should be a default by the District in making the additional payment within some reasonable time to be fixed by the court.

BnLL ix EoUiTy. The case, as stated by the court, was as
follows:
An act of Congress to authorize the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia *to decree the sale of real estate in certain cases, approved August 18, 1856, 11 Stat. 118, c. 163, provides: "That in all cases in which real estate within the
District of Columbia shall have been limited heretofore, or
shall be limited hereafter, by the provisions of any deed or
will, to one or more, for life or lives, with a contingent limitation over to such issue of one or more of the tenants for life as
shall be living at the death of their parent or parents, and the
said deed or will containing the limitation shall not prohibit a
sale, the Circuit Court for the District, of Columbia, upon the
application of the tenants for life, shall have power to decree
a sale of such real estate, if, upon the proofs, it shall be of
opinion that it is expedient to do so, and to decree to the purchaser an absolute and complete title in fee simple."
Section 2 enacts: "That application for the sale of such
real estate shall be by bill in equity, verified by the oath or
oaths of the party or parties, in which all the facts shall be
distinctly set forth, upon the existence of which it is claimed
to be expedient that such sale should be decreed; which facts
shall be proved by competent testimony. Such of the issue
VOL. cx r -21

OCTOBER- TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

contemplated by the limitation as shall be in existence at the,
time of the application for the sale of such real estate shall
be made parties defendant to the bill, and, if mindrs, by guardian ad litem, together with all who would take the estate in
case the limitation over should never vest. Stich of the parties defendant as shall be of the age of fourteen years ormore ,shall answer in proper person, on oath, and all evidence
shall be taken upon notice to the parties and to the guardian
ad lierm."'
Section 3 requires: "That the proceeds of the sale of suchr
real estate shall be held under the control and subject to the
order of the court, and shall be vested under its order and
supervision, upon real and personal security, or in government
securities; and the same shall, to all intents and purposes, be
deemed real estate, and stand in the place of the real estate
from the sale of which such proceeds have arisen, and, as such
real estate, be subject to the limitations of the deed or will.".
To obtain the benefit of this act, on July 30, 1868, Augusta
McBlair, wife of J. H. McBlair, and Julia Ten Eyck, wife of
John 0. Ten Eyck,filed a bill in equity in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, in which it was alleged that
John Gadsby, the father of the complainants, died in the.
District of Columbia in the year 1844, leaving a last will and
testament whereby he devised to trustees, and the survivors of
them, certain real estate in the city of Washington, known aslots Nos. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19, in
square No.78, in trust, after the expiration of twelve months.
from his death, to- permit his daughters to receive the rents,
issues, and profits thereof, for their sole and separate use and
enjoyment, in equal moieties for life, respectively, so that
neither said property no' the income thereof should be subject
to the control or disposition of the respective husbands of his
said daughters, or responsible for their debts; and in case
either of his said daughters should die leaving no issue livingat her death, that the interest or estate of her so dying without issue should become forthwith vested in the survivor, in
the same manner as her own moiety was before held and
enjoyed; and. in case both or either of said daughters should'

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McBLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

die leaving issue living at the time of her death, then the said
trustees should hold the property to the use of said issue, one
moiety to the issue of each of his said daughters; and in case
one only of them should die leaving such issue, then, after the
death of the other daughter, the whole of said estate should
vest in said issue in fee simple. The contingency of the death
of both of his said daughters withouit issue was not provided
for in the will, thereby leaving a contingent reversion in his
right heirs. It was also alleged in the bill that the complainant Augusta McBlair had children, viz.: John G. McBlair,
Virginia Smith, wife of Smith, J. H. McBlair, Jr., Julia
I. McBlair, C. Ridgeley MoBlair, and S. Jackson McBlair, of
whom said last two were minors under twenty-one years of
age; and that said complainant Julia Ten Eyck also had
children; viz.:'. Augusta Ten Eyck, Julia Ten Eyck, Jane Ten
Eyck, May Ten Eyck, and John C. Ten Eyck, of whom the
last three were minors under twenty-one years of age; that
besides the complainants John Gadsby left as his heirs at law
his son William Gadsby, and his other daughters, Ann Sophia
Newton and Margaret S. Chapman, and of these Ann Sophia
Newton had died before the filing of the bill, leaving as her
heirs at law Albert Newton, Maria McCommick, and Margaret
Wallach, wife of W. Douglas Wallach; and that William
Gadsby had died leaving as his heirs at law William Gadsby,
Sallie Gadsby, Eakin Gadsby, and Mary Gadsby, the last of
whom was a minor under twenty-one years of age. It was
also alleged that of the trustees named in the will the survivor,
Alexander McIntyre, had also died before the filing of the
bill, leaving heirs at law, who are therein named as defendants.
It was also alleged in the bill, that of the lots of ground
enumerated those numbered 8, 9, and 10 front upon north ,
Street, in the city of Washington, and are improved by a substantial row of dwellings, six in number, and all the others
are vacant and unimproved, except where partially occupied
by outbuildings; that said dwelling-houses are of considerable
value, and if properly improved and modernized, would yield
a good income and revenue, which would enure to the benefit

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the. Case.

of all parties interested, but that at present they are much out
of repair, old fashioned, and unprovided with modern conveniences ; that the vacant lots in the rear, front upon K Street
north, and at present, yield no income, but would sell, and it
would be greatly to the advantage of all parties to make sale
of said lots and apply the proceeds to the improvement of said
dwelling-houses; that the complainants have not the means
to make such improvements, the income now accruing to them
from their father's estate being wholly inadequate to their
support; that as an additional reason for such sale it is alleged
that said vacant lots are burdensome to the complainants by
reason of the heavy municipal taxes to which they are subject,
so that their retention defeats the prmary object of said testator, which was nQt to burden the complainants as devisees,
but to provide them an ample revenue for their comfortable
support.
The prayer of the bill is, that the parties named therein be
made defendants, and that, pursuant to the act of Congress
of August 18, 1856, a decree be granted for a sale of said vacant lots for the object aforesaid, and for general relief.
On this bill such proceedings were thereafter had that a
decreepro confesso was entered against the non-resident defendants, served by publication, and the resident defendants,
served with process, who had made default, and the cause was
set for hearing as against such defendants as had answered;
and thereupon it was ordered that the cause be referred to a
special auditor "to inquire and report whether it will be expedient, and for the benefit of all parties interested, that the
property described in the proceedings be sold, and that the
prayer of the bill as to the application of the proceeds should
be granted."
On M\fay 8, 1869, the auditor filed his report in writing that
the disposition of the property in the manner sought by the
bill would be for the interest and advantage 6f all parties concerned, and recommending that the prayer of the bill be
granted. On May 10, 1869, a. decree was entered directing a
sale of the property by Walter S. Cox, as trustee appointed
for that purpose, who was directed -thereby "to make sale of

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McBLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

said property at public auction or at private sale, as he may
find expedient, and if at public auction, after giving at least
three weeks' previous notice by advertisement in some convenient newspaper of the time, place, and terms of sale, which
terms shall be, one-third of the purchase money to be paid in
cash, and the residue in two equal instalments at six and twelve
months after date, with interest, to be secured by approved
notes and a lien reserved, and on the ratification of such sale
and full payment of the purchase money he shall convey the
property sold to the purchaser, with all the title of the parties
to this cause, and, as soon as convenient after any such sale,
he shall make report of the same and of the fairness thereof
to this court, under oath, and shall bring into court the proceeds of sale to abide the court's future order in the premises."
On June 13; 1872, Walter S. Cox, the trustee, reported that
he had made sale "of the lots of ground described in the bill,
being lots 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21, and the north
twenty-three feet five inches of lot 13, in square INo. 78, to
J. H. ZMecBlair, for the sum of twenty-four thousand five
hundred and twenty-one _r0 dollars; for which sum the said
fcBlair has passed to the undersigned his two promissory
notes, each for twelve thousand two hundred and sixty dollars, payable, respectively, in three and six months after
date, with interest." A rule to show cause why this sale
should not be confirmed having been entered on June 13,
1872, and no cause having been shown, the court, on July 16,
1872, entered a decree ratifying and confirming the sale.
On June 15, 1874. the District of Columbia, then being a
corporate body for municipal purposes by virtue of the act of
Congress of February 21, 1871, filed its petition in the cause,
wherein, after reciting the proceedings therein, including the
sale of the said premises to il]Blair, it alleged that by virtue
of an act of the legislative assembly of the District of Columbia, approved August 23, 1871, entitled "An act to provide
for the purchase of certain market sitos and the eitection
thereon of certain markets," Henry D. Cooke, then Governor
of the District of Columbia, on July 26, 1872, had purchased
the said lots numbered 14, 15, 16. 17, 18, 19, 20, and 21, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

part of lot 13, in square No. 78, from said XcBlair, who,
together with his wife, Aug.usta iMeBlair, one of the complainants, had executed and delivered a deed in fee simple
conveying the said premises to the District of Columbia, with
covenants of general warranty, for the consideration, as expressed in said deed, of $26,521.50, which consideration, the
petition alleged, was paid in certain market-stock bonds of
the District of Columbia computed at ninety-seven cents on
the dollar, and said bonds to the amount of $27,350 were
delivered to said MocBlair in satisfaction thereof.
It was further alleged in the petition that "the said IVcBlair
made a sale of said premises to the petitioner, and forthwith
and long before receiving payment therefor entered into a
contract. for the repair of certain buildings in whish the
parties to said cause are interested, to be paid for out of the
proceeds of said sale, and, upon receiving payment for said
property from the petitipners, as hereinbefore stated, proceeded to expend the money upon said buildings. Said contract and payment 'having been made and said deed executed
by TvMcBlkir to the petitionee without the knowledge or concurrence of said trustee, regularly said McBlair ought to have
paid the amount of his notes to said trustee in order that the
money should be disbursed under directions of the court, without which payment his title to said property did not become
technically complete, and said trustee could not convey to
him. But the petitioner shows that the object of the bill in
this cause was to have the proceeds of said property applied
precisely as they were applied, to wit, to the improvement 6f
the buildings aforesaid so as to increase the rental value
thereof; and if the proceeds of said ground, to the amount of
said McBlairs notes to said Cox, trustee, were, in fact, applied
to said object, as petitioner avers was the case, then, however
irregular such proceeding, the said notes are virtually paid,
and said trustee ought to execute a deed for said premises to
the petitioner as assignee of said McBlair."
The petition therefore prayed that an account might be
taken of the expenditures from the proceeds of the bonds
upon said buildings; that said notes of McBlair to the trustee

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MoBLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

'be cancelled as paid, and said trustee be directed to convey
the premises to the District of Columbia, and for general
relief.
On the filing of this petition, the matter thereof was referred
to the auditor to state an account in respect to the expendi-"
tures from the proceeds of the bonds in the petition mentioned; and by consent of counsel, on April 22, 1875, this
,order of reference was enlarged so as to require the auditor
also to report his conclusions in respect to the subject matter
of the petition on the evidence heretofore taken under the
pending reference of the cause. On July 26, 1875, the auditor
filed his report, in which he finds that the purchase price
agreed upon for the lots mentioned to be paid by the District
-

of Columbia was $26,521.50 cash, payable in the market-stock

bonds, of the District of Columbia, of- the nominal value, of
$27,350, guaranteed to produce ninety-ven cents on the
dollar; that in point of fact those bonds had realized not
more than $22,700, and that the purchase money of the property, therefore, had not been paid by the amount of the difference between that sum and the agreed price, equal to $3821.50.
The report, therefore, recommended that the prayer of the
petition for a decree directing the trustee to convey the premises to the petitioner should be denied. Exceptions were filed
on behalf of the District of Columbia to this report, and on
August 7, 1875, they were sustained by the court, and the
prayer of the petition of the District of Columbia was granted,
and the trustee, Walter S. Cox, was directed to execute and
deliver a conveyance of the premises in said petition mentioned to the District of Columbia, and to surrender the notes
of .1. H. MecBlair in said petition mentioned to said McBlair as
though they had been paid. From this decree of the court at
special term an appeal was taken by J. H. McBlair to the
general term, and on March 4, 1876, the decree of the special
term of August '7,1875, was reversed, and the cause remanded
to the special term to. be further proceeded with as the parties
might be advised.
The record further shows that on July 14, 1876, Williams
and Gallant filed a petition in the cause, setting up a lien as

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

builders under a contract made with McBlair for work done
in erecting back buildings and remodelling main buildings on
lots Nos. 8, 9, And 10 in square No. 78, mentioned in the original petition, whereby they were to receive therefor the sum of
$18,000, with additional compensation for extra work. The
petitioners admit they had received from lvfcBlair on account
thereof the sum of $17,205, and claimed a balance due of
$2299.20, with interest from April 30, 1873. It is alleged in
the petition that the parties in the cause had knowledge that
the petitioners were doing work on the dwelling-houses under
the contract with MoBlair, and that the amount due on
account thereof was to be paid for out of the proceeds of the
sale of the vacant lots. It was also alleged that John 0.
Harkness had been appointed trustee under the will of Gadsby
and the prayer of the petition was, that he should be directed
to pay to the petitioners the amount of the balance due them
out of the trust estate in his hands. Harkness, as trustee
under the will, answered this petition, denying its equity.
The matter was referred to the auditor of the court, who
reported a balance due the petitioners of $2050.70, with interest from April 30, 1873. On this report, on December 13,
1877, a decree of the court at special term was made confirming the auditor's conclusion finding the balance due to the
petitioners, which was declared to be a lien on the proceeds of
the sale of the vacant lots mentioned and described in the
cause and sold by Walter S. Cox, as trustee; and thereupon
the said Walter S. Cox, as trustee, was directed and ordered
to proceed to'collect from the purchaser of said vacant lots
the purchase money and interest due thereon, and .pay the
amount found due to the petitioners; "and, further, if said
purchase money and interest be nt paid to him, said Walter
S. Cox, as trustee, be, and he is hereby, instructed to proceed
to advertise and sell said vacant lots, -under the same terms
and conditions in the original decree of sale irescribed, at the
cost and risk of said purchaser or purchasers." On February
20, 1880, Walter S. Cox resigned his office as said trustee, and
the court appointed William J. Miller as trustee in his stead,
who was required to proceed to perform the duties required of

DISTRICT. OF COLUM1BIA v. McBLAIR.
Statement of the Case.

the former trustee.

William J. Miller, the new trustee, on

February 27, 1880, receipted to Cox, hil predecessor, for the
two promissory notes of McBlair given for the purchase money
of the property sold to him; and on June 1, 1880, the court
at special term "ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said
trustee proceed to readvertise and sell the real -estate heretofore sold to John H. MoBlair, at the cost and risk of said John
I. McBlair, the defaulting purchaser." From this decree of
June 1, 1880, an appeal was taken in behalf of the defendants
John G. McBlair, Virginia Smith, J. H. McBlair, Julia I.
McBlair, Charles Ridgeley McBlair, A. Jackson McBlair,
Augusta Ten Eyck, Julia Ten Eyck, Jane Ten Eyck, Mary
Ten Eyck, May Ten Eyck, John C. Ten Eyck, and John C.
Iarkness, trustee, which, however, does not appear by the
record, to have been prosecuted. On July 1, 1880, a separate
appeal was taken from the same decree on behalf of the District of Columbia.
On December 27, 1880, it appears that another petition was
filed by Williams and Gallant, setting up 11 the previous matters that had occurred in the course of the cause, and the failure on their part to obtain satisfaction of the amount- due to
them, and asking for a decree against John C. Hiarkness, as
trustee of the estate of Gadsby, for payment of the same' out
of the funds in his hands as such. A decree to that effect was
entered, from which Harkness appealed, and in the general
term, on June 14, 1881, it was affirmed; and thereupon, the
amount having beehi paid, it was ordered that satisfaction of
the claim should be entered on July 16, 1881.- On November
19, 1885, the appeal taken by the District of Columbia on July
1, 1880, from the- decree of June 1, 1880, was placed on the
calendar of the general term, and on February 1, 1887, that
decree was affirmed, and it was ordered that "William J.
Miller, the trustee appointed by the court for the purpose, be,
and he hereby is, authorized and directed to readvertise and.
resell the real estate heretofore sold to John HI. McBlair, at
the risk and cost of the said John H. IvfoBlair, the defaulting
purchaser." From this decree the District of Columbia took
the present appeal to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henr.y E .Davis for appellant.
M1r. J. J. -arlington for appellee.
-MR. JusTIcE. A[ATTHEWS,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the. court.
An objection is taken by counsel for the appellees to the
consideration of the merits of the present appeal, on the
ground that the matter involved therein had been previously
and finally adjudged against the District of Columbia by the
decree of the general term of February 4, 1876, reversing the
decree of the special term directing a conveyance of the title
of the premises in controversy to 'the appellant. It is alleged
that this decree was' final against the District of Columbia
upon the right claimed in its petition, from which no appeal
having been taken, it has thereby become conclusive. The
point, however, is not well taken. The decree in question
reversed th decree of the special term of August T, 185, and
remanded the cause to the special term to be further proceeded
with as the parties might be advised. It did not direct a dismissal of the petition of the District of Columbia, and was,
therefore, not a final adjudication upon its right to some relief
in accordanfce with the prayer of the petition.
Proceeding to consider the appeal upon its merits, we find that
it involves but a single question, to wit, whether, because the
District of Columbia has not fully paid the consideration for the
conveyance made by Mc~lair and wife of the title to the premises in controversy, it has lost all right to obtain from the
trustee, by order of the court, a conveyance of the title. The
auditor, to whom the matter had been referred, reported that
the market-stock bonds delivered by the District of Columbia
to McBlair as the consideration for his deed produced only
.$2,700. It seems to be assumed in this rep6rt and elsewhere
throughout the case that the cash proceeds of these bonds were
applied by McBlair to the repair and improvement of the buildings upon the remaining lots, to the benefit of the estate and
the beneficiaries under the will, in the same manner and to the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McBLAIR.
Opinion of the Court.

same extent as if those proceeds had gone into the hands of
the trustee and been directly applied by him according to the
order of the court. This certainly constitutes an equity in
favor of the appellant to the extent of these payments, entitling it to have them credited upon NcfBlair'g notes in the hands
of the trustee, in satisfaction of that much of the original
amount due on accouiht of the sale. The appellant also has
a further equity, on payment to the trustee of the additional
amount necessary to make good the whole amount of the
agreed price of the property sold, to have the JvfcBlair notes
cancelled and a conveyance of the title by the trustee, discharged of all lien, on account of unpaid purchase money.
This amount is the difference between $24,521.50, for which
the property was sold to McBlair, and $22,700, the amount of
cash actually received from the proceeds of the bonds, being
$1821.50, with interest thereon from the time of the sale to
MecBlair. It is, indeed, contended on the part of the District
of Columbia that the consideration agreed upon between it and
McBlair has been fully satisfied by the delivery of the bonds,
the guaranty that. they should produce ninety-seven cents on
the dollar being denied as a matter of fact. The auditor, however, has reported otherwise upon the fact, and the record does
not furnish us with a means of testing the accuracy of his
conclusion. We are of opinion, however, independently of that
controversy, that the District of Columbia cannot avail itself of
any agreement with AlceBlair to accept bonds instead of cash."
Its obligation as the assignee of his bid is to pay his notes in
full in money according to their tenor, and it is, therefore,
bound to make good the difference between what ]IfoBlair
actually received from it in money and the amount called for
by his notes. Any resale of the property ordered by the court
should be only in case of a default on the part of the appellant
in making this additional payment within some reasonable time
to be fixed by the court. The decree orde.:'ng a resale, without
regard to the previous payments, and the right to make such
additional payments as should be ascertained to be due and
required to be paid, Was therefore erroneous.
Counsel for the appellees contend in argument that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

application of the proceeds of the sale to repair and improve
the buildings upon the unsold portions of the real estate, was
not a legitimate investment of such proceeds within the purview of the third section of the act of Congress of August 18,
1856, which requires that the proceeds of such sale shall be held
under the control and subject to the order of the court, and
invested under its order and supervision upon real and personal
security or in government securities. But that question was
finally passed upon by the court below in the decree of May
10, 1869, directing the sale for the purpose prayed for. This.
decree, it is true, directs that the proceeds of the sale be
brought into court to abide its future order, but the actual
application of the proceeds of sale to the improvement of the
other property was distinctly brought to the notice of the court
by the petition of the District of-Columbia, and was assumed as.
rightful throughout the whole history of the case, without
objection from any of the parties in interest. It would be
grossly inequitable to permit the appellees, at this stage of the
cause, to insist upon the objection. The discretion to make
such an investment of the proceeds of the sale is conferred
upon the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. by the
act of Congress authorizing the Sale. The, District of Columbia, as purchaser from McBlair, of course had full notice that
the purchase money was unpaid, and was bound as purchaser
to see to tlie application of its own payrments; but as no question has been made upon the fact that the money paid by it
has gone to benefit and improve the estate of the appellees in
the manner and to the extent contemplated by the court in
ordering the sale of the unimproved lots, the appellant has
a right, upon payment of the additional amount due from
McBlair on account of the sale, to have a conveyance, under
the order of the court, by the trustee.
The decree-of the &reme Court of the Districtof Columbia
apealed'from is, therefore, reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to ascertain the amount still due
from fMoBlair on his notes, given on account of his purchase, after creditingthereon the amount realized by him
from the sale of the market-stocek bonds; and, on payment

STATE BANK v. DODGE.
Opinion of the Court.

of the amount thereof by the appellant, to decree a conveyance of the title of the parties to this cause by the trustee -to

the Districtof Columbia; and in default of sueh payment,
within a reasonable time to beffixed therefor, to direct a resale of the saidpremigesfor the satisfaction thereof.

STATE

NATIONAL

BANK

OF

SPRINGFIELD

v.

DODGE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 9, 1888. -Decided

January 23, 1888.

A District Court of the United States deposited in a national bank bankruptcy moneys, which were entered by the bank to the credit of the
court, in an account with the court. Each entry of a deposit in the books
of the bank, and in the deposit book of the court, had opposite to it a
number, consisting of four figures, which the bank understood to indicate a particular case in bankruptcy - in the present instance, No. 2105.
A check was drawn on the bank by the court, to pay a dividend in case
No. 2105. Payment of it was refused by the bank, on the ground that it
had no money on deposit to the credit of the court, it having paid out all
money deposited by the court. Some of such money deposited with the
number 2105 had been paid out by the bank on checks drawn beaihig
another number than 2105. There was enough money deposited with the
number 2105, and not paid out on checks bearing .he number 2105, to
pay the check in question. In a suit against the bank by the payee in
such check to recover the amount of the dividend, Held, that the bank
was not liable.
AT LAw.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

eMr. 20ton Hay and Mr. Henry

. Greene for plaintiff in

error.

Mr. George tunt for defendant in error.
MM. JUSTICE BLATCHFOiD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois, by John L.

