SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiffs that articles, the produce and manufacture of
the island of San Domingo should be admitted free of duty
hecause similar articles, the produce and manufacture of the
Hawaiian Islands, are thus admitted.
Judgment5 affirmed.

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO
Argued December 20, 1557. -Decided

January 16, 1888.

The proceeding, authorized by the statutes of Colorado, for condemning
land to public use for sclool purposes, is a suit at law, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States and the acts of Congress
conferring jurisdiction upon the courts of the United States, which may
be removedinto a Circuit Court of the United States from a state court.

Tuns was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court,
remanding a cause to the state court from which it had been
removed. The cae is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr. Walter H. Sith for plaintiff in error. -Mr. A. .
Britton and -Mr.A. B. Browne were with him on the brief.
.k. Sarnuel.P. Rose and Xr. F. W: Owers also filed a brief
for same.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mm.

JUsTICE MATTEWS

delivered the opinion of the court.

On June 2, 1884, School District No. 2 in the County of
Lake' and State of Colorado fied a petition in the county
court of that county against IR.S. Searl, the owner of a certain lot of land in the city of Leadville, therein described, for
the purpose of condemning the same to public use for school
purposes. and praying that the amount to be paid as compensation therefor should be assessed according to the statute in

198

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

such cases provided. .On June 10, 1884, the defendant appeared, and being a citizen of the State of Kansas, filed his
petition and bond for the removal of said cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States for that district, on the ground that
the controversy therein was between citizens of different States.
An order for the removal of the cause was thereupon made
by the state court. On June 28, 1884, the plaintiff moved to
remand the same, which motion was granted, and the cause
was thereby remanded. To review this judgmeiit the present
writ of error is prosecuted.
By ยง 3035 of the General Statutes of the State of Colorado,
the plaintiff is a body corporate, and authorized to hold property and be a party to suits and contracts "the same as municipal corporations in this State." The code of civil procedure
of that State provides for the*appropriation of private property for public use, and authorizes a judicial proceeding in the
district or county court for the purpose of ascertaining and
awarding the amount of compensation to be paid therefor.
It requires the filing of a petition setting forth the authority
of the plaintiff to acquire the property in that mode, the pur.pose for which it is sought to be ta.ken, a description of the
property, and the names of all persons interested therein, who
axe to be made defendants and brought into court by the
service of a summons or other process, as in other cases is
provided ly law. It provides, in .the first instance, for the
ascertainment of the amount of compensation or damages by
a commission of three freeholders, but also that before the
appointment of such commissioners any defendant may demand a jury of six freeholders residing in the county, to
ascertain, determine, and appraise the damages or compensation to be allowed, and prescribes 'in such case the mode of
trial, at which the court or judge shall preside in the same
manner and with like power as in other cases'; that evidence
'shall be admitted or rejected by the court or judge according
to the rules of law; and at the conclusion of the evidence that
the matters in controversy may. be,argued by counsel to the
jury, and at the conclusion of the argument that the court or
judge shall instruct the jury in writing in 'the same manner as

SEARL v. SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 2.
Opinion of the Court.

in cases at law; that motions for a new trial, and to set aside
the verdict, may be made and heard as in other cases; that an
appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court in the same manner as provided by law for taking appeals from the District
Court to the Supreme Court; and that a writ of error from
the Supreme Court shall lie in every such case to bring in
review the final determination. Such a proceeding, according
to the decision of this court in "KoUv. United States, 91 U. S.
367; is a suit at law, within the meaning of the Constitution
of the United States and the acts of Congress conferring
jurisdiction upon the courts of the'.United States. In Boom
Co. v. Patterson, 98 U. S. 403, 406, speaking of a judicial
proceeding to appropriate private property to a public use
and to fix the compensation therefor, it was said: "If that
inquiry take the form of a proceeding before the courts, between parties, the owners of the land on one side, and the
company seeking the appropriation on the other, there is a
controversy which is subject to the ordinary incidents of a
civil suit;" and amobig such incidents, it was held in that
oase, was the right, on the ground of citizenship, to remove it
from a state to a federal tribunal for hearing and determiation. The same point was ruled in the Pac gc Bairoad
Removal Casdq, 115 U. S. 1, 18. In Gaines v. Fuentes, 92
U. S.10, it was held that a controversy between citizens is
involved in a suit whenever any property or claim of the
parties capable of pecuniary estimation is the subject of
litigation and is -presented by pleadings for judicial determination.
The fact that the Colorado statute provides for the ascertainment of damages by a commission of three freeholders,
unless at the hearing a defendant shall demand a jury, does
not make the proceeding from its, commencement any the
less a suit at law within the meaning of the Constitution and
acts of Congress and the previous decisions of this court.
The appointment of the commissioners is not, as in the case
of Boorm Co. v. Pattersonand the Pacific Rail'oad Removal
Cases, a step taken by the party seeking to make the. appropriation exparte and antecedent to the actual commencement

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Syllabus.

of the adversary proceeding in e artes, which constitutes a
suit in which the contrdversy takes on the form of a judicial
proceeding. Because under the Colorado law the appointment of the commissioners is a step in the suit after the filing
of the petition and the service of summons upon the defendant. It is an adversary judicial proceeding from the beginning. The appointment of commissioners to ascertain the
compensation is only one of the modes by which it is to be
determined. The proceeding is, therefore, a suit at law from
the time of the filing of the petition and the service of process
upon the defendant.
The precise question involved here was passed upon and
satisfactorily dealt with by the Circuit Judge in the Circuit
-Court for the District of Colorado in the case of the Colorado
M2idland Rai way Co. v. Jones, 29 Fed. Rep. 193, and by the
Circuit Court for the Western District 6f Michigan by the
District Judge, Brown, in the case of The fineral Range
Railroad Co. v. The Detroit and _Lake Suerior Copver Co.,
25 Fed. Rep. 515.
The case was properly removed, and the motion to remand
erroneously granted.. The judgment of the Circuit Court
thereon is accordingly
Revered, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Cwrt with
directions to proceed therein.

IN RE SAWYER and Others.
ORIGIN'AL.
.Argued December 12, 1887. - Decided January9, 1888.

A court of equity has no jurisdiction of a bill to stay criminal proceedings.
A court of equity has no jurisdiction of a bill to restrain the removal of a
public officer.
The Circuit Court of the United States has no jurisdiction or authority to
entertain a bill in equity to restrain the mayor and committee of a city

