0 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

thd time th6 court gave defendant to make proof of the matter set up in the motion 4vhich was filed in time, and in view
of the length of time consumed in the trial, we would be unwilling to say that the court exercised its Aiscretion arbitrarily
"inrefusing such ali application."
UIt thus appears that, while upholding the statute, the court
Alo put its decision on another ground which was equally conclusive against the defendant, to wit, that even if the trial
eourt could, in its discretion, allow the additional reason for a
hew.trial to be presented after the expiration of the four days,
there had been no such abuse of that discretion in this case as
would justify a- reversal of the judgment on that account.
That 'part of th*e decisi6n is certainly not repugnant to any
provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States,
and it is of itself coceusive. It was fairly presented and necessarily involved in the case. It disposed of the supposed con-,
stitutional question' presented in-the argument with6ut a direct
decision, upon a groLlndwhich cannot be reviewed by us, and
which Was not evasive merely but real. Chouteau v. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Aidams VduCty v. 2u-rlingtdh & Aissouri
R-ailroad, 11.2 U. S. 123, 126, 127 ; Ckapnan v. Gbodnow, 123
U. S. 540, 548. Such being' the case, the decision of the
alleged federal question was nat' necessary to the judgment
rendered, and consequently is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Murdock v. ]fYem] is, 2-0 Wall. 590, 636.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

WIDDIOOMBE v. CHILDERS.
ERROR

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued Deceniber 1, 13S7.-Decided January 23, 1888.

A applied.at a public lgnd office for a S.E. I section of land. By mistake the
register in the applcation described it as the S.W. , and A signed the'
application so written, but the entry in the plat and tract books showed,
Tlhat he had bought and paid for the S.E. . He immediately went into'

WIDDICOMBE' v. CHILDERS.
Opinion of the Court.
possession of the S.E., 4, and he and those under him remained In
undisputed possession of it for more than 35 years. About 22.years
after his entry some person without authority of law changed the entry
on the plat and tract books, and- made it to show that his purchase was
of the S.W. I instead of the S.E. 4, thus showing two entries of the
S.W. 4. W., then, with full knowledge of all these facts, located agricultural scrip on this S.E. 4. S., or those claiming under him, did not
discover the mistake until after W. had got his patent. Held, that W,
was a purchaser in bad faith, and that his legal title, though good as
against the United States, was subject to the superior equities of S. and
of those claiming under him.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.

_31r. S. S. Burdett for plaintiff in error.
M3r. James H-agerma for defendants in error submitted on
his brief.
MR. COFr

JUSTICE

WAmrE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This was a suit brought by Albert C. Widdicombe to recover the possession of the S.E. I see. 36, T. 6i, R. 6, Clarke
County, Missouri. He claimed title under a patent of the
United States bearing date December 15, 1811, issued upon a
location of agricultural scrip on the 10th of May, 1871, under
the act of July 2, 1862. 12, Stat. 503, c. 130. As an equitable defence to the action, such a defence being permissible
by the laws of Missouri, the defendants alleged in substance
that they claimed title under Edward Jenner Smith, who, on
the 6th of July, 1836, went , to the proper land office and made
application for the purchase of the land in dispute; tfiat his
application was duly accepted, and he completed the purchase
by the payment of the purchase money as required by law;
that the entries made at the time by the proper officers in the
plat and tract books kept in the office showed that he had
bought and paid for the S.E. , but that the register, in writing
his application, described the S.W. I by mistake; that he
signed the application without discovering the error; that he
immediately went into the possessioh of the S.E. , as and for
VOL. CXX IV-26

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

-

the lands he had purchased, and he and those claiming under
him have asserted title thereto, and paid taxes thereon ever
since ; that afterwards the entries on the plat'and tract books
were changed, without authority of law, so as to show that
his purchase had been of the S.W. I instead of the S.E. 1;
that Widdicombe located his scrip on the S.E. I with' full
knowledge of all the facts, and that he now holds the legal
title under his patent in trust for those claiming under Smith,
whom the defendants represent in the suit. The prayer of
the answer was that su~h trust might be established, and
Widdicombe decreed to convey the legal title to those who.
had acquired Smith's rights.
The trial court found the facts to be substantially as stated
in the answer. The Supreme Court, on appeal, affirmed this.
finding, and rendered judgment in favor of the defendants,
iequiring Widdicombe to convey in accordance with the prayerof the answer. Fiom that judgment this writ of error was
brought.
We entertain no doubt whatever as to the correctness of
the findings of fact in the courts below. The evidence establishes beyond all question that Smith intended to buy, and the
officers at the land office intended to sell the -S.E. . That
tract was then unsold, -while the S.W. I had been purchased
by Robert Wooden at private entry on the 8th of November,
1834, and this was shown by the records of the office. The,
written application, by mistake, described the wrong land,
and the certificates of the registdr and receiver followed the
application; but the entries upon the records of the office
were correct. The officers supposed they had sold, and Smith
supposed he h£A paid for, the S.E. . This was in 1836. Far
twenty-two years afterwards, certainly, and, as we are satisfied, for a much longer time, the plat and tract books showed
,that this quarter setion was not subject to entry or sale. At,
some time, but*exactly when or by whom does not distinctly
appear,- the entry of Smith was changed from the S.E.
to
the S.W. , -thus showing two entr4es of the S.W. I-one by
Wooden in 1834, and, the o.her by Smith in 1836. The fact
of the change, as N#el .as what it was, appeared on the face of

WIDDICOMBE v. CHILDERS.
Opinion of the (3burt.

the records, and no one could have been misled by it unless
he wilfully shut his eyes to what was before him.
Widdicombe was sworn as a witness in his own behalf, and
the following is the whole of his testimony:
"I am plaintiff in this cause. I applied for and entered the
land in controversy at the Boonville l*aifd office, as shown by
my application in evidence, in the early part of 1871. Never
was in Clarke County, M[o., or the northeastern part of the
State prior to June, 1874. Never saw th6 Hampton map of
Clarke County, referred to in evidence, prior to that time.
Never saw any records, other than the governnient or United
States records, having referenc6 to the land in controversy
prior to that time.. I had heard of no person claiming the
land in controversy prior to the time I went to Clarke County,
in 1874. The defendant, Childers, was cutting timber upon
the land when I went there, in June, 1874, and was cutting
about the middle of the tract; so he informed me.
"Cross-examined by defendants:
"i discovered the southeast quarter 36, 64,. 6 W., was vacant
while employed in making an examination of the records to
purchase for a party in' Scotland County an 80-acre tract,
where there were three applicants at the same time for the
same piece of land, one of whom was the sheriff of Scotland
County. There had been a correction, alteration, or erasure,
call it as you please, on the plat and tract books in the registers office, in section 36, township 64, range 6 west, and I saw it
before I made the entry. [On] The plat book, wheron the
numbers of entries are posted, in section 36, and on the southeast quarter of said section, there is a perceptible erasure. On
the tract book the letter 'W,' in' the Smith entry, appears to
have been made with a heavy stroke of the ren, and has a much
heavier and darker appearance than the letter ' S' pre6eding it,
and has the appeaiance of having been. changed from some
other letter, and the letter ' E ' is the only letter over which the
letter IW' could have been written so as to have formed a correct description of any other entry, either in that or any other
section, or in the description of lands similarly situated."
The evidence shows..clearly and distinctly that Widdicombe

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

had been for many years familiar with the books of the office
and their contents as well as with the way in which the business was done there. He must have known that $he original
entry by Smith was of the S.E. J, and that it could not be
changed to the S.W. - without putting the entry on a quarter
section that had already been bought and paid for. Under
these circumstances the conclusion is irresistible that' he is
legally chargeable with notice of Smith's prior entry and of
the rights which had been acquired under it.
Such being the case the judgment below was clearly right.
There cannot be a doubt but that if the mistake in the written
application and in the certificates of the register and receiver
had been discovered before the patent was issued to Widdicombe, it would have been corrected in the land office upon
,proper application in that behalf. The error was one which
arose tiom the mistake of the register, one of the officers of
the local land office, and comes directly within the provisions
of .§ 2369 of the Revised Statutes, which is a r6enactment of
the act of March 3, 1819, 3 Stat. 526, c. 98, and in force from
the time of the entry by Smith until now. The act of 1819
was extended by the act of May 24, 1828, 4 Stat. 301, c. 96, to
cases where patents had been or should be issued. This extension is now embraced in § 2370 of the Revised Statutes.
Another statute, passed May 24, 1824, 4 Stat. 31, c. 138, now
§ 2372 of the Revised Statutes, authorizes similar relief.
The mistake in this case does not appear to have been discovered by Smith, or those claiming under him, until after
Widdicombe had got his patent, and after they had been in
the undisputed enjoyment for thirty-five years and more of
whatthey supposed was their own property under a completed
purchase, with the price fully paid. Widdicombe, being a purchaser with full knowledge of their rights, was in .law a purchaser in bad faith, and, as their equities were superior to his,
they were enforceable against him, even though he had secured
a patent vesting the legal title in himself. Under such cir,cumstaices, a court of chancery can charge him as trustee
and compel a conveyance which shall convert the superior
equity into a paramount legal title. The cases to this effect

UNION INS. CO. -.

SMITH.

Syllabus.

axe many and uniform. The h6lder of a legal title in bad faith
must always yield to a superior equity. As against the United
States his title may be good, but not as against one who had
acquired a prior right from the United States in force when his
purchase was made under which his patent issued. The patent
vested him with the legal title, but it did not determine the
equitable relations between him and third persons. Townsend
v. 0eeey, 5 Wall. 326, 335 ; Silver v. Zadd, 7 Wall. 219, 228 ;
.AXeader v. .forton, 11 Wall. 442, 458; Johnson v. Towsley, 13
Wall. 72, 87; Carpentier v. .ffontgomery, 13 Wall. 480, 496;

Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330, 340; Moore v. Robbins, 96
U. S. 530, 535; Wort', v. Branson, 98 -U.'S. 118, 121; ifarguez v. _F isbie, 101 U. S. 473, 475.
The judgment is afflrmed.

UNION INSURANOE OOMPANY v. SIMITH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Submitted January 6,1888. -Decided January 30, 1888.

A time policy of marine insurance on a steam tug to be employed on the
Lakes, insured her against tho perils of the Lakes, excepting perils
"consequent upon and arising from or caused by" "incompetency of
the master" "or want of ordinary care and skill in navigating said vessel, rottenness, inherent defects,"." and all other unseawortliness."
While towing vessels in Lake Huron, in July, her shaft was broken,
causing a leak at her stern. The leak was so far stopped that by moderate pumping she was kept free from water. She was taken in tow and
carried by Port Hurdn and Detroit and into Lake Erie on a destination to
Cleveland, where she belonged and her owner lived. She sprang a leak
in Lake Erie, and sank, and was abandoned to the insurer. On the trial
of a suit on the polhiy, it iyas claimed by the defendant that the accident
made the vessel unseaworthy, and the failure to repair her at Port
Huron or Detroit avoided thp policy. The court charged the jury that if
an ordinarily prudent mastei would have deemed it necessary to repair
her before proceeding, and if her logs wag occasioned by the omission to
do so, the plaintiff was not entitled to recover; but If, from the character of the injury an! 'the leak, a master of competent judgment might

