OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

substantially the same thing in the declaration. Nothing
appears in the record in this case from which it can be inferred
that the suit was not brought within the prescribed time; and,
in view of the fact that the taking of the appeal to the Secretary of the Treasury and the rendering of his decision thereon
afiming the action of the collector are §et forth in the fourth
count of the declaration, it must be inferred that it was conceded that the suit was brought within the prescribed time.
It is proper to state that the United States waived in this
case all claim-that the plaintiffs voluntarily made the payment
of the duties sought to be recovered.
The judgment of the Circut Court is affirmed.

WESTEIRN UNION TEtEGRAPII COMPANY v. IA.LL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued Noveiber 30, 1887.-Decided January 30, 1888.

The damages to be recovered in an action against a telegraph company for
negligent delay in transmitting a message respecting a contract for the
purchase or sale of property are, by analogy with the settled rules in
actions between parties to such contracts, only such as the parties must
or would have contemplated in making the contract, and such as naturally
flow from- the breach of its performance, and are ordinarily measured
by actual losses based upon changes in the market values of the property:
And, accordingly, where such an action was brought to recover damages
caused by a delay ih the transmission of a message directing the person
to whom it was addressed to purchase property in the open market on
behalf of the sender, by means of which delay that person was prevented
from making the purchase on the day on which it was sent, and it ap-pearing that he did not make the purchase on the following day in consequence of an immediate large advance in price, nor at any subsequent
day; and it not appearing, further, either that the order to purchase was
given by the sender in the expectation of profits by an immediate resale,
or that he could have sold at a profit on any subsequent day if he had
bought: Held, that the only damage for which he was entitled to recover
was the cost of transmitting the delayed message.

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. HALL.
Statement of the Case.

Tim case as stated by the court was as follows:
This wat an action at law brought in the Circuit Court of
Polk County, Iowa, by George F. Hall against the Western
Union Telegraph Company, and by the defendant 'emoved, .on
the ground of citizenship, to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Iowa. The action was for
the recovery of damages for alleged negligence on the part of
the defendant in delaying the delivery of a telegraphic message received by it from the plaintiff at. Des Moines, in the
State, of Iowa, to be delivered to the party to whom it was
addressed at Oil City, in the State of Pennsylvania. The
cause was submitted to the court, a jury having been waived
in writing. A judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiff
for the sum of $1800. The cause is brought here by a writ'of
error upon a certificate of a division of opinion between the
judges upon certain questions which arose during the course of
the trial, which questions, together with the facts necessary for
their determination, are certified to us as follows:
"The court finds the following as the material facts in the
case.
"The plaintiff at eight oclock Am., November 9th, 1882, furnished to the defendant, a telegraph company engaged in the
business of receiving and sending telegraph despatches at its
office in Des Moines, Iowa, a message in the foflowing form,
and plainly written on one of the usual blank forms furnished
' by the company:
"'Form No. 2.
"'The Western Union Telegraph Company.
"'All messages taken by this company are subject to the
following terms. To guard against mistakes or delays the
sender of a message should order it repeated; that is, telegraphed- back to the originating office for comparison. For
this one-half the regular rate is charged in addition. It is
agreed between the sender of the following message and this
company that said company shall not be liable for mistakes or
delays in the transmission or delivery or non-delivery of any

OCTOBER, TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

* unrepeated message, whether happening by fiegligence of its
servants or otherwise, beyond the amount received for sending
the same; nor for mistakes or delays in the transmission or
*delivery, or for non-delivery of any repeated message -beyond
fifty times the sum received for sending the same, unless
-specially insured; nor in any case for delays arising frorn una"voidable interruption in the working. of its lines, or for errors
in cipher or obscure messages. And this company is hereby
made the agent of the sender, without liability, to forward any
message over the lines of any other company when necessary
to reach its destination. Correctness in the transmission of.
message to any point on the lines of this company can be
insured by contract in writing, stating agreed amount of
risk and payment of premium thereon, at following rates,
in addition to the usual charge for repeated messages, viz.:
Sone per cent for any distance not exceeding 1000 miles,
and two per cent f4i any greater distance. No employ(.
of the company i authorized to vary the foregoing. No
responsibility regarding messages attaches to this company.
-until the same are presented and accepted at one of its transmitting offices, and if a message is sent to such office. by one
of the company's messengers he acts for that purpose as the
agent of the sender. Messages will b6 delivered free within
the established free-delivery limits of the terminal office; for
delivery at a greater distance a special charge will be made to
cover the cost of such delivery. The company will not be liable for damages in ay case where th6 clairn is not presented
in writing in sixty days after sending the message.
"'NoRvIN GxmEN, President.
"THomAs T. ECKERT, General Manager.

"'Receiver's No.

Time filed, 8 A.M!. - check.
"'Send the following message, subject to the above terms,
which are agreed to.
"' 11/9, 188g.
-.

"'To Chas. T. Hall,' Exchange, Oil City, P~a.:
"'Buy ten thousand if you think it safe, Wire me.
"'GEo. F. lALL.
"'IRead the notice and agreement at the top. _'

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. HALL.
Statement of the Case.

"The same being furnished and received by the defendant
for immediate trausmissal to Charles T. Hall, at Oil City,
Pa., the usual and ordinary charge therefor being paid by
plaintiff. Through the negligence and want of ordinary care
on part of defendant's employ6 at Des Moines the message so
received was forwarded to Oil City, Pa., in an imperfect
condition, in this, that the name of the party to whom it was
addressed was wholly omitted. The message-was received at
Oil City, Pa., at 11 o'clock . November 9th.
"The operator of defend~at at Oil City. sent the message to
the building knbwn as the Exchange, which was used by a
board of trade engaged in'the business of buying and selling
petroleum, the hours of business extending from 10 A.M. intil
4 P.m. The officers of the exchange or board of trade refused
to receive the despatch in question, and thereupon the operator
at Oil City telegraphed to Des Moines for the purpose of
ascertaining to whom the despatch should be delivered, and
thus ascertaining for whom it was intended, delivered it to
Charles T. Hall at 6 o'clock P.M., November 9th, 1882.

Had'

it not been .for the error in sending the despatch without
including the name of Charles T. Hall it would have been
delivered to him at Oil City at 11.30 A.M., November 9th,
1882. The meaning of the despatch was to direct Charles T.
Hall to buy ten thousand barrels of petroleum if in his judgment it was best to do so. Had the despatch upon its first
receipt at Oil City, Pa., been promptly delivered to Charles
T. Hall he would, by 12 m. of November 9th have purchased ten thousand barrels of petroleum at the then market
price of 81.1 per barrel for the plaintiff. When the despatch'
was delivered to Charles T. Hall the exchange had been closed
for that day, so that said Hall could not then purchase the
petroleum ordered by plaintiff. At the opening of the board
the next day the price had advanced to $1.35 per barrel, at
which rate said Charles T. Hall did not deem it advisable to'
make the purchase, and hence did not do so.
"It is not disclosed in the evidence whether the price of
petroleum has advanced or receded since that date, November
10th, 1882. The operators acting for the defendant had nb

- OCTOBER. TERM,. 1887.
Statement of the Case.-

other knowledge of the meaning or purpose of the despatch
than is to be gathered from the message itself.
"The plaintiff brought this action 'to recover damages for
the failure to properly and proniptly transmit the despatch in
question in the Circuit Court of Polk County, Iowa, the original notice being served upon the defendant on the 22d day of
December, 1882. Under the statutes of Iowa, actions in the
courts of that State are commenced by serving upon the
defendant an original notice, which is signed by the plaiiitiff
or his attorney .and is addressed to the defendant. No summnns or writ under -the seal of the court is issued. The notice
in this case was addressed to the defendant, and, after entitling the cause, proceeded as follows: 'You Iare hereby'
notified that on or before the 22d day of December, 1882, the
petition of plaintiff in the above entitled cause will be filed in
the office of the, clerk of the Circuit Court of the State of
Iowa iii and for Polk County, Iowa, claiming of you the sum
of fifteen hundred dollars, as money justly due from you as A
loss and damage suffered by the plaintiff by reason of your
-negligent failure to send and deliver a telegram, as set forth
in said petition, bn November 9th, 1882, from plaintiff to
-Chas. T. Rall, at Oil City, Pa., and that, unless you.appear
thereto and def'end' before noon of the second day of the
January term, A.D. 1883, of the said court, which will commonce on the 2d day of January, .D. .1883, default will be
entered against you and judgment rendered thereon. Crom.
Bowen and Whiting S. Clark, attorngys for plaintiff.'
"1No other presentation of the claim was made by plaintiff.
Upon the foregoing facts it is the opinion of the presiding
judge that the la* is'with the plaintiff, and that he is entitled
to judgment in the sumof eighteen hundred dollars, and it is
so ordered as the judgment of the court:
"The judges holding said Circuit Court, and before whom
said cause was tried, hereby certify that on *said trial of said
cause they were divided in opinion and were unable to agree
upon the following questions of law arising on said trial and
necessary to be determined in order to finally determine said
cause, to wit:

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. HALL.
Statement of the Case.

"1st. Can the defendant, having in the usual line of its business accepted said message from plaintiff for transmissal to the
party named therein at Oil City, Pa., and having received its
usual charge for such service, be heard to say that it was not
bound to exercise ordinary care in transmitting the same, and
that it is only liable to the plaintiff in damages in case of
gross negligence on its part?
"2d. Under the contract legally existing between the plaintiff and defendant, whereby the latter assumed the duty of forwarding said message, the same being an :unrepeated message,
was the defendant bound only to the exercise of slight care or
to the exercise of ordinary care?
"3d. Under the contract legally existing between plaintiff
and defendant, whereby the defendant assumed the duty of
forwvarding said message, the same being an unrepeated message, can the defendant, in any event, be held to respond in
damages beyond the amount paid to the company for forwarding the said despatch?
"4th. Admitting the liability of defendant to respond in
damages beyond the sum paid for forwarding the message,
whit rule is to govern in ascertaining the same? Are the
damages merely nominal, or is plaintiff entitled to the differ-'
ence in value bf the oil at the time it would have been purchased for plaintiff had the message been properly forwarded
and the value at the time it could have been purchased after
the actual delivery of the message to Charles T. Hall, at Oil
City, Pa., it being admitted that he did not make the purchase for the reason that, in his judgment, the price on the
morning of November 10th, 1882, was too high to. justify purchasing?
"5th. Wds the message so obscure and uncertain on its face
that the defendant should not be held to know that- it pertained to a transaction involving loss and damage if the mes?.
sage was not properly and promptly forwarded
"16th. Was the service of the original notice in this cause a
sufficient compliance with the clause in the contract providing
that 'the company will not be liable for damages in any case
where the claim is not presented in writing within sixty days
VOL. cxxIv-29

450

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

after sending the message'? If not, is the right of recovery
barred by the failure to present the claimin writing?"
Ab'. Wager Swayne for plaintiff in error, (.A&. Rush Taggart was with him on the brief,) to the point decided -bythe
court, cited in support of the proposition that the only recovery
which could be sustained was for the amount of tolls paid:
.press Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264; Hart v. Pennsylvania
Railroad Co., 112 U. S. 331; Tyler v. TWestern Union Tel.
Co., 60 Illinois, 421; Passmore v. Western trnion Tel. Co., 78
Penn. St. 238; Aiken v. Telegraph Co., 5 South Car. 358;
Grinnell v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 113 Mass. 299, 301;
Birney v. lVew York & 1frashington Tel. Co., 18 Maryland
341; S. C. 81 Am. Dec. 607; Ellis v. Am. Tel. Co., 13 Allen,
226; Western Unhion Tel. Co. v. Carew, 15 Michigan, 525;
Schwartz v. Atlantic & Pacic Tel. Co., 18 Hun, 157; Breese
v. United States Tel. Co., 48 N.Y. 132; Pinckney v. Telegraph
Co., 19 South Car. 71; Rart v. Western Union Tel. Co., 66
Cal. 579; XAndrew v. Electric Tel. Co., 17 0. B. 3; Clement
v. TFestern Union Tel. Co., 137 Mass. 463; Ldssiter v. Western
Union Tel. Co., 89 Nor, Car. 334; United States Tel. Co. v.
Gildersleeve, 29 Maryland, 232; Becker v. Wfestern Union Tel:
Co., 11 Nebraska, 87; - Western Union Tel. Co. v. .leill,57
Texas, 283; White v. West~rn Union Tel. Co., 14 Fed. Rep.
710; Jones v. Western Union Tel. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 717; -Nilwaukee &c. *Railway Co. v. Rellogg, 94 U. S. 474; Griffin v.
golver, 16 N. Y. 489; X. C. 69 Am.. Dec. 718;
ater.ton v.
Mayor of Brooklyn, 7 Hill, 61; S. C. 42 Am. Dec. 38; -iley/
v. Western Union Tel. Co., 39 Hun, 158; BeaupjA v. Pao.&
Atlan. Tel. Co., 21 iMinnesota, 155; Lowery v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 60 N. Y. 198; -finghorne v. Tel. Co., 18 Up. Can. Q.
B. 60; tevenson v. Tel. Co., 16 Up. Can. Q. B. 530; landsberger v. .Magnetic Tel. Co., 32 Barb. 530; Baldwin v. United
States Tel. Co., 45 N. Y. 744; Hibbardv. Western Union Tel.
Co 3 Wisconsin, 558.
Ir. Charles A. Clark, .Mr. Crom. Bowen, and Xr. Whiting
S. Clark submitted on their brief, which, to the same point,
was as follows:

WESTERN UNION TEL..CO. v. HALL.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

What is the rule of damages ? The authorities are uniform
in suppbrt of the damages recovered in the court below in this
case. Th e ru]s of damages measured substantially as in this
case by tle court below is established in the following cases:
United States Tel. (14.v. TWenger, 55 Penn. St. 262 ; S. 6. 93
Am.-Dec. 751; Squire v. New York Central 1?ailroad-..Co.,98
Mass. 239; Tyer v. Western Union Tel..Co., 60 Ill 421; True
v. InternationaZTel. Co:, 60 Maine, 9; Bartlettv. Western Union
Tel. Co., 62 Maine, 209, 222; fanville v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 37 Iowa, i4, 220; Turner v. Etawkeye Tel. Co., 4± Iowa,
458; Sweatland.v.Z -. d- J3fiss. Tel. Co., 27 Iowa, 433; Ritten.
house v. Independent Tel..Co.,.44 N. Y. 263; N. Y & Wash.
Printing Tel. Co. v. .Dryburg, 35" Penn. St. 268; S. C. 78
Am. Dec. 338; -Leonardv. Teetro-iMagnetic Tel. Co., 41 N. Y.
544; ?ichrnond & N.-0. Tel. Co. v. Hobson, 15 Grattan, 122;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. _Graham, 1 Colorado, 230; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. Fenton, 52 Indiana, 1.
In Telegraph (o. v. Wenger, 55 Penn. St. 262, . C. 93 Am.
Dec. T51, the advance-in price was held to be the measure of
'the damages.
In Squire v. Western Union Tel. Co., 98 Mass. 239, the
court say: "The sum, therefore, which would compensate
the plaintiffs for the loss and injury sustained by them would
be the difference, if any, in the price which they agreed to
pay-for the merchandise' by the message which defendants
undertook to transmit if it had been duly and seasonably
delivered in fulfilment of their contract, and the sum which
the plaintiffs would have been compelled to pay at the same
place in order, by the use of due diligence, to have purchased
the like quantity of the same species of merchandise."
In True v. Telegraph Co., 60 Maine, 26, it is said by the court:
"The sum, therefore, which 'would be a compensation for the
direct loss and injury sustained by the non-delivery of this
message is the difference '(if at a higher rate) between the
ninety cents named and the sum which the plaintiffs were or
w6uld have'been compelled to pay at the same place, in order,
'by due and reasonable diligence, after notice of the failure of
the telegram, to purchase the like quantity and quality of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

same species of merchandise." Citing Squire v. TYestern Union
Tel. Co., 98 Mass. 232.
In .anvie v. Tekgraph Co., 37.Iowa, 220, it is said by the
court: "The party failing to deliver the goods according to
agreement has injured the other party; the measure of that
injury, where the price has not been paid, is fixed, by law at
the sum which the goods would have brought in market at
the time and place of delivery, less the contract price. The
law deems it certain that if the goods had been delivered to
the purchaser he could have sold them for the market value.
This value is capable of being ascertained with regard to all
commodities having a fixed market price. The same Imle,
based upon the same principle, is applicable in this case. The
market value of hogs in Chicago on any day was capable of
being certainly ascertained. If the defendant had had his
hogs in Chicago three days sooner he could have sold them at'
the then market price. He was prevented from shipping his
hogs sooner by the negligence of defendant's agent. The
difference, therefore; between the market value of the hogs on
the 'day plaintiff could have put them on the market, if the
defendant had been guilty of no negligence in the delivery of
the despatch, and the market price when he was afterward
able to put his hogs into the market, is the direct consequence
of the neglect of the defendant.".
In Thompson v.Telegraph Co., 64: Wisconsin, 531, the message
was, "Send bay horse to-day---Ifack loads to-night."' The
court say: "The only other question in the case is whether
the plaintiff upon -the facts proved was eutitled to recover
more than nominal damages. It seems to us that the telegram
itself informed the agent of the company that it was of
importance that the horse mentioned therein should be sent to
Boscobee immediately on receipt, of the telegram, so that he
would arrive there bef6re Mack would load his horses that
evening. . . . The evidence clearly tends"to show that the
plaintiff lost the sale of the horse to Mack by reason of the
delay in transmitting the message, and that the loss of such
sale was a damage to them of $25, which was the amount they
recovered." -

WESTERN UNION TEL.. CO. v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

In _ittenhoue v. T egravpk Co., 44 N. Y. 263, it is said by
the court: "If the message had been correctly transmitted,
the plaintiffs, through their agents, could have purchased the
500 shares of Hudson River Railroad stock for $136.75 per
share. As it was, using the utmost diligence, they were
obliged to pay $139.50 per share; and this is the measure
of their damage. In order to hold the defendant liable for
the damage, it was not incumbent on the plaintiffs to purchase
the stock This purchase and the price that they were obliged
to pay, $139.50 per share, was only important as showing the
extent of the damage. The plaintiffs could have maintained
their suit against the defendant without having purchased the
stock by showing that immediately, or soon after the delivery
of the erroneous message, the stock was in the market so that
their order could not have been filled for less than the $139.50
per share."
MR. Jusrmio TX&rHsws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The view we take of this dase requires us, in answer to the
fourth question certified, to say that, in the circumstances
disclosed by the record, the plaintiff was entitled only to
recover nominal damages, and not the difference in value of
the oil if it had been purchased on the day when the message
ought to have been delivered and the market price to which
it had risen on the next day. As the judgment Was rendered
in his favor f6r the latter sum, it must 'be reversed on that
*account, and, upon the facts found by the court, judgment
rendered for nominal damages only, which finally disposes of
the litigation. It, therefore, becomes unnecessary to consider
or decide any of the other questions certified to us.
I It is found as a fact that if the despatch upon its first receipt
at Oil City had been promptly delivered to Charles T. Hall,
to whom it was addressed, he would by twelve o'clock on that
day have purchased ten thousand barrels of, oil at the market
price of $1.17 per, barrel on the plaintiff's account. He was
unable to do so in consequence of the delay in the delivery of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the message. On the next day the price had advanced to
$1.35 per barrel, and no purchase was made because Charles
T. Hall, -to whom the message was addressed, did not deem it
advisable to do go, the order being conditional on his opinion
as to the expediency of. executing it. If the order had been
executed on the day, when the message should have been
delivered, there is nothing in the record to show whether the
oil purchased would have been sold on the plaintiff's account
on the.next day or not; or that it was to be bought for resale.
There was no order to sell it, and whether or not the plaintiff
would or would not have sold it is altogether uncertain. If he
had not done so, but had continued to hold the oil bought,
there is also nothing in the record to show whether, up to the
time of the bringing of this action, he would or would not
have made a profit or suffered a loss, for it is not disclosed in
the record whether during that period the price of oil advanced
or receded from the price at the date of the intended purchase.
The only theory, then, on which the plaintiff could show
actual damage or loss is on the supposition thU, if he had
bought on the 9th of :November, he might and would have
sold on the 10th. It is the difference be;ween the prices onthose two days which was in fact allowed as the measure
of his loss.
It is clear that in point of fact the plaintiff has not suffered
any actual loss. No transaction was in fact made, and there
being neither a purchase nor a sale, there was no actual difference between the sums paid and' the sums received in consequence of it, which could be set down in a profit and -loss
account. All that can be said to have been lost was the
opportunity of buying on November 9th, and of making a
profit by selling on the I Ot.h, the sale on that day being purely
contingent, without anything in the case to show that it was
even probable or intended, much less that it would certainly
have taken place,
It has been well settled since the decision in .fastertorm v.
Y7Te .Mayor of Br'ooklyn, 7 Hill, 61, that a plaintiff may rightfully recover a loss of profits as a part of the damages for
breach of a special contract, but in such a case the profits to

WESTERN UNION TEL.. CO. v. HALL.
Opinion of the Court.

be recovered must be such as would have accrued and grown
out of the contract itself as the direct and immediate result
of its fulfilment. In the language of the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts in Fox v. Hafding, .7 Cush. 516:
"These are part and parcel of the contract itself, and must
have been in the contemplation of the parties when the agree-_
ment was eftered into. But if they are such as would have
been realized by the party from other independent and collateral undertakings, although entered into in consequence
and on the faith of the principal contract, then they are too
uncertain and remote to be taken into ponsideration as a part
of the damages occasioned by the breach of the contraet in
suit." p. 522. This rule was applied by this court in the case
of Te Philadlphia,Iilmington and Baltimore-Railroad v.
Howad, 13 How. 307. In Grfin v. Co/ver,"16 N. Y. 489,
the rule was stated to be that "the damages must be such as
may fairly be supposed to have entered into the contemplation of the parties when they made the contract; that is, they
must be such as might naturally be expected to follow its
violation; and they must be certain both in their nature and
in respect to the cause from'which.they proceed. The familiar rules on this subject are all subordinate to these. For
instance, that the damages must flow directly and naturally,
from the breach Of contract, is a mere mode of expressing the
first; and that they must be not the remote but proximate
consequence of such breach, and must not be speculative or
contingent, are different modifications of the last." p. 495.
Jn Booth v. iSpuyten Duyvil Rolling .M.ils Co., 60 N. Y. 487,
the rule was stated to'be that "the damages for which a
party may recover for a breach of a contract are such as ordinarily and naturally flow from the non-performance. They
must be proximate and certain, or capable of certain ascertainment, and not remote, speculative or contingent." p. 492.
In White v. -Miller,.71 N. Y. 118, 133, it was said: "Gains
prevented, as wel as losses sustained, may be recovered as
damages for a breach of contract, when they can be rendered
reasonably cert ain by evidence, and have naturally resulted
from the breach."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

In cases of executory contracts for the purchase or sa13 of
personal property ordinarily, the proper measure of damages
is the difference between the contract price and the market
price of the goods at the time when the contract is broken.
This rule may be varied according to the principles established
in Hadley v. Baxendale, 9 Excb. 341 ; S. C. 23 L. J. Ex. 179,
where the contract is made in view of special cirdumstances in
contemplation of both parties. -That well-known case, it will
be remembered, was an action against a carrier to recover
damages occasioned by delay in the delivery of an article, by
reason of which special injury was alleged. In the application
of the rule to similar cases, where there has been delay in
delivering by a carrier which amounts to a breach of contract,
the plaintiff is not always entitled to recover the full amount
of the damage actually sustained; 2rime facie the damages
which he is entitled to recover would be the difference in the
value of the goods at the place of destination at the time they
ought to have been delivered and their value at the time when
they are iifact delivered. Born v. _Jidlao'nd Railway Co.,
L. R. 8 C. P. 131; Cutting v. G'rand Trunk Railway Co., 13
Allen, 381. Any loss above this difference sustained by the
plaintiff, not arising directly-from the delay, but collaterally
by reason of' special circumstances, can be recovered only on
the ground that these special circumstances, being in view of
both parties to the contract, constituted its basis. Simpson v.
Jondon. & INorthweste Railway Co., 1 Q. B. D. 274. So,
the loss of a market may be made an element of damages
against a carrier for delay in delivery, where it 'was ,understood, either expressly or from the circumstances of the case,
that the object of. delivery was to get the'benefit of the
market. Pi7fordv. Grand Junction Railway. Co., 12 W. &
W. 766. In Wilson v. Lanca ldre & Yorkshire Railway Co.,
9 C. B. N. S. 632, the plaintiff was held entitled to recover
for the deterioration in the mar~ketable value of the cloth by
reason of delay in the delivery, whereby the season for manu-facturing it into caps, for which it was intended, was lost.
The same rule, by analogy, has been applied in actions
against telegraph companies for delay in the delivery of mes-

WESTERN UNION TEL. CO. v. HALL.
6pliion of the Court.

sages, whereby there has been a loss of a bargain or a market.
Such was the case of United States Telegraph Co. v. TWenger,
55 Penn. St. 262. There the message ordered -a purchase of
stock, which advanced in price between the time the message
should have arrived and the time when it was purchased undbr
another order, and the advance wa held to be the measure of
damages. - There was an actual loss, because there was an
actual purchase at a higher price than the party would have
been compelled to pay if the message had been promptly
delivered, and the circumstances were such as to constitute
notice to the company of the necessity for prompt delivery.
The rule was similarly applied in Squire v. Western Union
Telegraph Co!, 98 Mass. 232. There the defendant negligently
delayed the delivery of a message accepting an .offer to sell
certain goods at a certain place for a certain price, whereby
the plaintiff lost the bargain, which would have been closed
by a prompt delivery of the message. It was held that the
plaintiff was entitled to Pecover, as compensation for his loss,.
the amount of the difference between the price which he
agreed to pay for the merchandise b r the message, which if it
had been duly delivered would have closed the contract, and
the sum which he would have been compelled to pay at the
same place in order, by the use of due diligence, to have purchased a like quality and quantity of the same species of
merchandise. There the direct consequence and result of the
delay in the transmission of the message was the loss of a
contract which, if the message had been duly delivered, would
by that act have been completed. The loss of the contract
was, therefore, the direct result of the defendant's negligence,
and the value of that contract consisted in the difference
between the contract price and the market price of its subject
matter at the time and place when and where it would have
been made. The case of True v. InternationalTelegraph Co.,
60 Maine, 9, cannot be distinguished in its circumstances from
the case in 98 Mass. 232, and ivas governed in its decision by
the same rule. The cases of -fanville v. Telegraph Co., 37
Iowa, 214, 220, and of TAompson v. Telegraph Co., 64: Wisconsin, 531, were instances of the application f the same rule to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of te

Court.

similar circumstances, the difference being merely that in
these the damage consisted in the loss of a sale instead of a
purchase of property, which was prevented by the negligence
of the defendant in the delivery of the messages. In these
cases the plaintiffs were held to be entitled to recover the
losses in the market value of the property occasioned, which
occurred during the delay. .
Of course, where the negligence of the telegraph company
consists, not in delaying the transmission of the message, but
in transmitting a message erroneously, so as to misiead the
party to whom it is addressed, and on the faith of which he
acts in the purchase or sale of property, the actual loss based
upon changes in market value are clearly within the rule for
estimating damages. Of this class examples are to be found
in the cases of Turner v. ffawteye TeZegraph Co., 41 Ibwa,
458, and Ritenhouse v. Indevendent Line of Telegraph, 44
N. Y. 263; but these have no application to the circumstances
of the present case. Here the plaintiff did not purchase the
oil ordered after the date when the message should have been
delivered, and therefore was not required to piy, and did not
,pay, any advance upon the market price prevailing at the
date of the order; neither does it appear that it was the
purpose or intention of the sender of the message to purchase
the oil in the expectation of profits to be derived from an
immediate resale. If the order had been promptly delivered
on the day it was sent, and had been executed on that day,
it is not found that he would have resold the next- day at the
advance, nor that he could have resold at a profit at any
subsequent day. The only damage, therefore, for which he
is entitled to recover is the cost of transmitting the delayed
message.
The judgment is aocordingly reversed, and the cause remanded, with dire6tions to enter ajudgment for theplaintfifor that*anu merely.

