GLEN v. FANT.
Counsel for Parties.

GLEN v. FANT.
ERROR TO

THE SUPREME

COURT

Submitted January 4, 1888.-

OF THE

DISTRICT 'OF COTUMIA.

Decided January.9, 1888.

A.stipulation, made before judgment in the court below, that "in the Supreme Court of the United States this cause shall be submitted to the
court without any oral argument, either side, however, having the right
to file a printed brief or briefs," is not a submission under the 20th Rule;

and, under such a stipulation, this court will not apply that rule to the
case on the suggestion of one of the parties against the protest of the
other.
MOTION TO SUB3MT

this cause under Rule 20.

The motion

was founded upon a stipulation entered into between the attorneys for the plaintiff and the defendant in person, in the
court below, before trial there, the material clauses in which
stipulation were as follows:
"Said cause shall be heard upon the agreed statement of
.
.
Said cause
facts hereto annexed as a part hereof.
may be submitted to the court and heard and decided by the
court (without any jury) upon said agreed statement of facts
and . . . may be certified to the general term of this
court . . . and if not so certified an appeal may be
taken by any party from the decision or judgment of the Circuit Court to said court in general term, and that in case of
..
and that either
such appeal no bond shall be required
party to this cause may take an appeal or writ of error from'
the decision of saidl court in general term to the Supreme
Court of the United States, and that in that event said cause
shall be heard and decided in the same manner by the Supreme
Court of the United States. . . . That in the Supreme
Court of the United States this cause shall be submitted to the
court without any oral argument, either side, however, having
the right to file a printed brief or briefs in the Supreme Court
of the United States."
31/,. iTenry BriWe Garniett for the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Counsel for Parties.

-M. 3fartin F.

aorrs, opposing.

MR. CnIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This motion is denied. While the stipulation binds the parties to submit the cause without oral argument, there is nothing which requires this to be done at any particular time. Its
terms will be fulfilled if the submission is made when the case
is reached in its order. As no reference is made to Rule 20,
we cannot apply that rule to the case on the suggestion of one

of the parties against the protest of the other.

Denied.

?

NEW ORLEANS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY

.

UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January 6, 1888. -Decided January 16, 1888.

Under the provision of the act of July 31, 1876, c. 246, 19 Stat. 121, " that
before any land granted to any railroad company by the United States
shall be conveyed to such company, or any person entitled thereto under
any of the acts incorporating or relating to such company, unless such
company is exempted by law from the payment of such cost, there shall
first be paid into the Treasury of the United States, the cost of surveying.
selecting and conveying the same by the said company or persons in
interest," the New Orleans Pacific Railway Company, as the owner, by
conveyance from the New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Vicksburg Railroad
Company, of its interest in the land grant made to the latter company by
ยง 22 of the act of 'March 3, 1871, c. 122, 16 Stat. 579, was bound to pay
the cost of surveying the land, before receiving a patent for it, although
such cost had been incurred and expended by the United States before
March 3, 1871, the construction of no part of the road having been commenced before the expiration of the five years limited for the completion
of the whole of it.

APPEAL from a judgment against the petitioner in the Court
of Olaims. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Xr. John . Blair, .11'. ,John F
SSzayne, for appellalt.

Dillon and Afl'. 11ra/er

