DUNDEE MORTGAGE CO. v. HUGHES.
Syllabus.

session of the marshal; not being allowed to withdraw from
the marshal the actual possession of the property sought to be
attached, he served upon the marshal notice of his writ as garnishee; not being able by this process to subject the marshal
to answer personally to the state court, he made himself a
party to the proceedings in the Circuit Court by its leave, and
proceeded in that tribunal against its officer and the creditors
for whom he had acted; on a regular trial it appeared as a
fact that at the time of the notice the marshal was in possession of the property wrongfully as an officer,, and therefore
chargeable as an individual. It was competent for the Circuit
Court, and having the power it was its duty, to hold the marshal liable as garnishee, and having in its custody the fund
arising from the sale of the property, and all the parties inter-,
ested in it before it, that court was bound to do complete
justice between all the parties on the footing of these rights,
and give to the plaintiff in error the priority over all other
creditors; to which, by virtue of his proceedings, and as prayed
for in his petition of intervention, he was entitled.
On these grounds, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed, and the cause remanded with directions, upon
the facts found in the Circuit Court, to award judgment
in favor qf the intervenor, Gumbde, in conformity with
this opinion.

DUNDEE MORTGAGE AND TRUST TNVESTMENT
COMPANY v. HUGHES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON.
Argued December 2, 1887. -Decided

January9, 1888.

Rulings of a Circuit Court at the trial of an aution at law without a jury
when there had been no waiver of a jury by stipulation in writing
signed by the parties or their attorneys, and filed with the clerk, as required by ยง 649 Rev. Stat., are not reviewable here.
Baogher v. Insurdmce Co., 103 U. S. 90, distinguished from this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

AssumPsn. Trial by the court without a jury, and judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Xr.Thomas -De Witt Cuylkr, with whom was .rA. George
F. Edmunds, for plaintiff in error.
Xrfl.J. .N. Do~h for defendant in error.
MR. C Ep Jusrmm W.TE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This suit was brought by Ellis G. Hughes against the Dundee Mortgage and Trust Investment Company to recover an
amount claimed to be due for professional services. After the
pleadings were complete and the issues joined, the following
entry was made on the minutes of the court:
"Now at this day comes the plaintiff, . . . by Mr.
George H. Williams, of counsel, and the defendant by Mr.
William H. Effinger, of counsel, and by consent of parties it is
ordered that this cause be, and the same is horeby, referred to
Mr. W i. 13. Gilbert to take the testimony herein pursuant to
a stipulation to be filed herein within three months from this
date, to try said cause, and to report to this court his conclusions of fact and law herein; and said Win. B. Gilbert is
hereby appointed referee for the purpose aforesaid."
Under this order the referee reported May 5, 1881, that the
parties appeared before him January 16, 1884, "and thereupon the testimony in said cause was taken before me, and
the same is herewith filed. That upon the conclusion of said
testimony the said cause was argued before me by the respective counsel of said parties. That upon consideration of
the pleadings and the testimony herein I make the following"
"findings of fact," and "conclusions of law," which were then
stated.
To this report, each party filed exceptions. These exceptions were heard by the court, both parties appearing, and on
consideration the findings of the referee were set aside and
new findings made by the court, on which a judgment was

DUNDEE MORTGAGE CO. v. HUGHES.
Opinion of the Court.

rendered in favor of Hughes and against the company for
$8407.61.
From that judgment this writ of error was
brought.
There is no bill of. exceptions in the reoord, and it nowhere
appears that any exception whatever was taken to the action
of the court at the hearing or in giving the judgment. The
testimony taken by the referee and by him reported to the
court is not here. The case stands on the pleadings; the order
of reference, made by consent, which was not, so far as
appears, in writing; the report of the referee; the exceptions
thereto; the rulings of the court thereon; and the new findings by the court and the judgment.
The errors assigned are in substance:
1. That the court erred in substituting its own findings of
fact for those of the referee and entering judgment upon its
conclusions of law founded thereon, and
2. That the conclusions of law are not supported by the
facts found.
Section 221 of the Code of "Civil Procedure of Oregon provides that "All or any of the issues in the action, whether of
fact or law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent
of the parties." A trial by referee is to be conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court (ยง 226), and the report of
the referee must state the facts found, and, when the oider of
reference includes an issue of law, the conclusions of law
separate from the facts. ยง 227. Section 229 is as follows:
"The court may affirm or set aside the report either in whole
or in part. If it affirm the report it shall give judgment.
accordingly. If the report shall be set aside, either in whole
or,in part, the court may make another order of reference, as
to all or so much of the report as may be set aside, to the
original referees, or others, or it may find the facts and
determine the law itself, and give judgment accordingly.
Upon a motion to set aside the report, the conclusions thereof
shall be deemed and considered as the verdict of a jury."
The argument in support of the first assignment of error is,
that as no allusion is made to the Oregon code in the order of
reference, and no written consent was filed as required by that.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

code, the order was in its legal effect only a reference at common law, and, such being the case, it was error after rejecting
the report to make the new findings. It is undoubtedly true
that under a common law reference the court has no power to
modify or to vary the report of a referee as to matters of fact.
Its only authority is to confirm or reject, and if the report be
set aside the cause stands for trial precisely the same as if it
had never been referred. As there was in this case no written
consent to the order for a trial by referee, it would have been
error in the court, if objection had been made, to proceed with
a new trial of.the case after the report was set aside without
a stipulation in writing waiving a jury, as provided by ยง 649
of the Revised Statutes; but no such objection was made, and
the court proceeded, evidently in accordance with the understanding of ,the parties, to make new findings precisely as it
would if the order of reference had been actually under the
code upon a consent in writing. No exception was taken -to
this proceeding in the court below, and it is too late to make
it here for the first time. fad the attention of the court been
called to the exact condition of the record, the error "would
probably have been avoided by the filing of the necessary
stipulation in writing, or in some other way. 'The case, therefore, comes here upon the ruling at the trial by the Circuit
Court without a jury, when there had been no waiver of a
jury, as the statute requires, by stipulation in writing, signed
by the parties or their attorneys,, and filed with the clerk.
Rulings of a Circuit Court made under such circumstances are
not reviewable here. -Bondv. -Dustin, 112 U. S. 604, and the
cases there cited. The concession on both sides that there was
actually n6 consent in writing to the order of reference, distinguishes this case materially from Boogher v. Insurance.
Co., 103 U. S. 90, where the existence of a stipulation in writ.
ing, waiving a jury, was presumed under the- circumstances
whiich were there presented.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is

Affirmed.

