-OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of the company to pay the consideration of $25,000 absolutely
and unconditionally. The collateral agreement of July 31,
1879, by which the individual corporators were not to be personally responsible for the consideration, would thus be rendered nugatory, as it was only intended to have effect in the
event of the organization of the corporation.
Upon this state of facts, if proven to their satisfaction, the
jury would have been warranted in finding a verdict for the
plaintiff. It was error, therefore, in the Circuit Court to direct
a verdict for the defendants. For this error its
Judgment is reversed, and the cause is -remandedwith directions to grant a new trial.

NORTONq v. HOOD.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN" DISTRICT OF LOUISIA2NA.
Argued December 14, 1887. -Decided

January9,1888.

In a suit i equity by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside transfers of
land by the bankrupt, alleged to have been made in fraud of his cred-.
itors, this court held that the allegations of the bill were not established.

BILL n EQUITY. The complainant appealed from the final
decree. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3 r. J. D. Rouse and -Mr. .' H. Farrarforappellant submitted on their brief.
.Xr. John A. Campbell for the executors of Frellsen, one
of the appellees.
IJR. JUSTICE BLATORFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 15th of February, 1862, Govy Hood, a planten Tesiding in the parish of Carroll, in the State of Louisiana, made
his seven promissory notes, payable to the order of the mer-

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

cantile firm of Frelsen & Stevenson of New Orleans, coinposed of Henry Frellsen and John A. Stevenson, for the
aggregate amounb of $39,019.49, all the notes bearing interest
at the rate of 8 per cent per annum from their maturity
respectively until paid, and being for the following several
amounts and due at the following dates: October 15, 1862,
$5273.33; November 3, 1862, $5291.11; November 17, 1862,
$5307.88; December 3, 1862, $5327.77; December 13, 1862,
$5338.89; December 20, 1862, $5346.66; and January 10,
1863, $7133.85.
The firm of Frellsen & Stevenson was dissolved in December, 1865, and the seven notes became the property of Frellsen.
On the 2d of April, 1866, Frellsen commenced a suit in the
Thirteenth Judicial District Court of the State of Louisiana,
in and for the parish of Carroll, against Hood, to recover the
amount of the seven notes, with interest, and the further sum
of $300, with interest from March 21, 1862, alleged to be the
amount of premiums paid on the insurance of Hood's ginhouse and machinery. A judgmgnt was entered in the suit, in
favor of Frellsen, on the 2d of April, 1866, founded upon a
confession dated February 13, 1866, signed by Hood and
accompanying the petition, in the following words: "I accept
servide of this petition and waive citation, and agree to confess judgment for the amount as above set forth, say, the sum
of thirty-nine thousand three hundred and nineteen dollars and
forty-nine cents, and interest and cost, as prayed for, with the
understanding that no execution is to issue on said judgment
for one year from this date, when, if I pay $3000 upon said
judgment, there shall be a further stay of execution for one
year more; when, if I pay one-fourth of the whole amount of
the balance of said judgment, there is to be a stay of execution for one year more; when, if I pay one-third of the
balance, there is to be a further stay of execution for one year
more; when, if I pay one-half the balance, there is to be a,
further stay of -execution for one year more; when ekecution
may issue for the balance, it being understood that execution
is not to be stayed if I fail to make any of said payments
punctually."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

The judgment was in the following terms: "It is ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the said plaintiff recover of the said
defendant the sum of thirty-nine thousand three hundred and
nineteen dollars and forty-nine cents, with interest at the rate of
8 per cent per annum on $5273.33 of said amount from 15
October, 1862; and same interest on $5291.11 from 3 :November, -1862; and the same interest on $5307.88 from 17 November, 1862; and same rate of interest on $5327.77 from 3
December, 1862; and the same interest on $5338.89 from 13
December, 1862; and the same interest on $5346.66 from 20
December, 1862; and the same interest on $7133.85 from 10th
day of January, 1863, until paid, and all costs; and that there
be a stay of execution on the judgment until the 13th February, 1867; when, if the said Hood pays upon the judgment
$3000, there shall be a further stay of execution until the 13th
of February, 1868; when, if the said Hood punctually pays
one-fourth of the amount of the judgment then due, there
shall be a further stay of execution thereon to the 13th of February. 1869, when if the said Hood punctually pays one-third
the balance then due, there shall be a further stay of execution thereon to the 13th of February, 1870; when, if the said
Hood punctually pays one-half the balance then due, there
shall be a further stay of execution until the 13 February,
1871; when execution may- issue for the balance; and it is
further ordered, by consent of parties, that, upon failure of
said Hood to punctually pay any of the instalments as stated,
execution may issue for the whole amount of the judgment, or
the balance then unpaid."
Hood having made default in complying with the terms of
the judgment, afX. Ia. was issued by the court to the sheriff of
the parish, on the 22d of July, 1868, to collect the full amount
of the judgment, with interest until paid, "by seizure and sale
of the property, real and personal, rights and credits, of Govy
Hood, in the manner prescribed by law." On the 23d of July,
1868, Hood signed the following endorsement upon the§.fa.:
"I accept service of notice of seizure, after pointing out to
the sheriff the lands described on the reverse hereof, in this
case."

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

On the 5th of September, 1868, the sheriff made a return to
thefi.fa., setting forth that he had received it on the 22d of
July, 1868, and had, on the 23d of July, 1868, seized three
plantations situated in the parish, and pointed out by the
defendant, namely, (1) the Black Bayou Place, of 840 acres,
(2) the Home Place, of 1500 acres, and (3) the undivided half
of the plantation known as the Hood and Wilson Place, containing in the aggregate 700 acres; that notice of the seizure
had been waived by Hood on'the 23d of July, 1868; that, on
the 25th of July, 1868, the sheriff advertised the property in a
weekly newspaper named, published in the parish, to be sold
on the 5th of September, 1868, for cash; and that he had sold
the property on that day, at public auction, to Frellsen, for the
sum of $24,210, that being two-thirds of the appraised value of
the lands. On the 5th of September, 1868, the sheriff executed
a,deed, selling and adjudicating to Frellsen all the right, title,
interest, and claim which Hood had to said property.
On the 23d of November, 1868, a second fi.fa. was issued
by the court for the collection of the amount of the judgment,
with interest, subject to a credit of $24,210. On the same day,
Hood signed a waiver of notice of seizure and advertisement,
except by posting in three public places from that date, and a
consent that the property seized might be sold on the 5th of
December, 1868. To this secondfi.fa. the sheriff made'return
that he had received the writ on the 23d of November, 1868,
and on the same day had seized certain described land, containing in all 1992.75 acres, and had, on the same day, advertised it to be sold on the 5th of December, 1868, by posting
advertisement in three public places in the parish, and had, on
the 5th of December, 1868, sold it., at public auction, to Frellsen, for $66 ..27, and credited that amount on the execution.
After receiving the deed of September 5, 1868, Frellsen
entered into an agreement for the sale of his judgment and
mortgage rights to persons named Dean and Pearce; but the
transaction fell through, resulting in a suit brought by Dean
and Pearce against Frellsen, which ultimately terminated in
favor of Frellsen, and is reported as -Deanv. Frellsen,, 23 La.
Ann. 513. After the agreement of Freilsen with Dean and

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Pearce fell through, a written contract was made between
Frellsen and Hood, on the 26th of October, 1868, in the following terms:
"It has been agreed between -Henry Frellsen, of the city of
New Orleans, and Govy Hood, of the parish of Carroll, Louisiana, as follows:
"Whereas the said Frellsen did, on the 5th September last,
purchase at sheriff's sale, under an execution issued upon a
judgment obtained by him in the District Court of said parish
against the said Hood for the sum of thirty-nine thousand
three hundred and nineteen 4 " dollars, with interest as stated
therein, certain: property belonging to said Hood, consisting of
lands and plantations, as follows: The plantation on Lake
Providence occupied by said Hood, known as the Home Place,
and the plantation on said Lake Providence, known as the
Black Bayou Place, and also the undivided half of the plantation known as the Hood & Wilson Place, and certain lots and
lands adjoining, all which are described in the act of sale made
by the sheriff of Carroll to said Frellsen and of record;
"And whereas the said Frellsen does not desire to speculate
on the said Hood, or to take any advantage of him or his fanily, or to do more than to secure the balance due him on his
said judgment, after crediting the same with the amount of
'the sale of the property on said lake, known as the Wilson
Place, and sold under a mortgage and judgment held by said
Frellsen against Geo. G. Wilson;
"Now, the said Frellsen hereby stipulates and promises as
follows: That he will sell and transfer the above named property to the said Hood, or to his assigns, ikithout any warranty,
however, of any nature, as to the title to said property or the
encumbrances upon it, of all which said Hood is fully informed,
upon condition that said Hood, or his.Assigns, as the case may
be, punctually pay said Frellsen the balance due upon his said
judgment, less the credit above stated, as follows: Seven thousand dollars on or before the 15th day of December next, and
eight thousand dollars annually from that date for four years,
and the balance as the end of five years from the 15th December next, and also all costs and expenses attending sai(l sheriff's

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

sale, and other incidental expenses attending this arrangemnt,
and all taxes now due or which may become due hereafter on
said property, and also pay to Sparrow and Montgomery two
thousand five hundred dollars, in four equal annual payments,
from 15th December next, with 8 per cent interest thereon
from that date, it being understood that the failure of the said
Hood or his assigns to punctually pay any of the amounts
above stated at the dates fixed is to operate as a discharge
and to release the said Frellsen from all his obligations hereon.
Tho costs and expenses named above are to be paid on or
before the 15th December next.
"The said Frellsen agrees further that he will lease to said
Hood, or to his assigns, the said property, from year to year,
whilst this agreement is in force, until he is paid in full, for
such annual rent as he may think just, not, however, to exceed
$8000 a year, with the understanding that he will credit the
rent which may be paid him upon the yearly instalments as
above stated; and, further, that if the said Hood or his assigns
fail to pay punctually any of the annual instalments as above
stated, after having paid one or more of them, and this agreement has become null and void thereby, the said Frellsen will
pay back to him or his assigns any surplus remaining, after
deducting all interest which might accrue on the said above
named judgment from this date.
"Witness our hands this 26th day of October, 1868.
" HENRY FRELLSEN,

"By his att'y-in-fact, EDw. SPAR ow.
" Govy HooD.
c"cHENRY FRELLSEN."

Hood failed to pay the amount provided to be paid on the
15th of December, 1868. On the 29th of December, 1868, he
filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy, in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was
adjudged a bankrupt on the 26th of January, 1869. Emory
E. Norton was appointed his assignee in bankruptcy, and the
usual assignment was made to N~orton. Hood received his
discharge in bankruptcy on January 27th, 1871.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

In the latter part of the year 1869, Frellsen sold and conveyed the Black Bayou Plantation to one Alling for the sum
of $32,000, upon a credit. He had also collected $2212 on
the sale of the Wilson Place, mentioned in the agreement of
October 26, 1868, and had received, as proceeds of cotton
grown on the plantations after the seizure and sale of 1868,
and accepted by him in payment of rent, $5598.92. On the
1st of May, 1871, an account current was stated between Hood
and Frellen, charging Hood with the amounts of the seven
notes dated February 15, 1862, and with the $300 for the
insurance premiums, and with interest on those amounts to
the 13th of February, 1866, making due on the last named
date $49,921.52, and charging him with interest thereon to
January 14, 1869, viz.; $11,648.85, and with the sheriff's
fees on the sale of the property, $237, making a total amount
dud by him, January 14, 1869, of $61,807.37. The account
credited him, on the last named date, with the proceeds of
the cotton, $5598.9 leaving a balance due on that date of'
$56,208.45. It then charged him with interest on that amount
to January 1, 1870, namely, $4320.38, making the amount
due on the last named date $60,528.83. It then credited him,
on that date, with $32,000 as the proceeds of the sale of the
Black Bayou Plantation, and with $2212 collected on the
Wilson note, leaving due, January 1, 1870, $26,316.83, to
which was added, for the taxes of 1869, $721.50, and interest
to May 1,1871, $3113.68, making due on the last named date,
by Hood to Freilsen, $30,152.03.
On the 1st of May, 1871, Frellsen executed a deed to Hood,
conveying to him (1) the Home Place, containing 1500 acres,
(,) the south half of the Hood and Wilson Place, containing
346 acres, (the Hood and Wilson Place having been partitioned between Frellsen and the Wilson heirs in May, 1870,
and the south half of it, containing 346 acres, having been set
off to Frellsen,) and (3) the 1992.75 acres, for the consideration of $30,152, (being the amount stated to be due by the
amount current,) payable in six equal annual instalments, for
which Hood gave six notes for $5025.33 each, bearing 8 per
cent interest from May 1, 1871, payable respectively at one,

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

-

two, three, four, live, and six years after date, to the order of
Frellsen. The conveyance, which was executed also by Hood,
declared that Hood specially mortgaged and hypothecated to
Frelsen all the property so conveyed, and contained a pact
de non alienando. Hood went into possession 6f the property,
but did not make any payments upon any of the notes.
On the 24th of December, 1874, Frellsen obtained from. the
Thirteenth Judicial District Court for the parish of Carroll
an order of executory process, in a suit then brought by him
in that court against Hood, ordering the seizure and sale of
the property covered by the instrument of May 1, 18'1.
Notice of the order was served upon Hood. Thereupon,
Hood commenced a suit by petition against Frellsen in the
same District Court. The petition alleged that certain credits
ought to be allowed on the six notes, which sums the petitioner
pleaded in compensation and payment of the claim of Frellsen.
The petition also prayed for an injunction against further
proceedings in the seizure and sale of the property, and for
a judgment that the six notes were paid, and for ar further
judgment in favor of Hood against Frellsen for $8000, as the
amount due him by Frellsen in excess of the notes. By an
amended petition, Hood prayed a trial by jury. He also filed
another amended petition, in which he set forth that the sale
under the executions on the judgment of April 2d, 1866, was'
in effect a consent conveyance; that it was agreed that Frellsen should take title to the property as security for his debt;
that Hood was to continue to reside on the Home Place as
before, which he did; that Frellsen was to lease out the land
and collect the rents, and credit Hood with the amount on the
indebtedness evidenced by the judgment; that it was also
agreed that Hood should have the right to negotiate a sale
of the property, and Frellsen should pass the title, and collect
the price, and credit Hood with the amount on the judgment
debt; that, accordingly, the Black Bayou Place was conveyed
to Alling for $32,000; that Freilsen was to reconvey to Hood
the legal title to the remainder of the property after the payment of the judgment; that, in pursuance of such agreement,
Frellsen, in May, 1871, reconveyed such title to Hood; that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

at that time, Hood was induced by the agent of Frellsen to
sign the mortgage notes, whereas in fact he did not then owe
Frellsen anything; that he was old, ignorant, feeble in body
and mind, and broken down and crushed by his misfortunes
and losses in the war; and that the entire business, as well as the
bankruptcy proceedings, were gotten up bkr the agent of Frellsen, in the interest of Frellsen and said agent, for the purpose
of defeating other creditors of Hood and of defrauding him.
On the commencement of the suit by Hood, he obtained an
injunction forbidding a sale by Frellsen. Frellsen answered
the. petition, denying its allegations, averring that Hood had
received all the credits to which he was entitled, and set up as
a defence the fact that Hood had been discharged in bankruptcy on the 27th of January, 1871. . The State District
Court, in December, 1878, sustained the petition of Hood, so
far as to reduce the amount due by him on May 1, 1871, to
$6564.06, with interest at 8 per cent per annum from that
date, less a credit thereon of $1200, to take effect from January 1, 1872. On an appeal taken by Frellsen to the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, that court, in Mlay, 1879, reversed the
judgment of the lower court, and gave judgment in favor of
Frellsen, rejecting the demand of Hood and dissolving the
injunction. Hood v. Frellsen, 31 La. Ann. 577.
Norton, the assignee in bankruptcy of Hood, then filed the
bill in equity in this suit, in the District Court of the United
States, for the District of Louisiana, against. Hood and Frellsen and one Asberry, sheriff of the parish of East Carroll. The
bill set forth that Hood was insolvent during the whole of the
years 1866, 1867, and 1868; that Frellsen advised Hood to go
into bankruptcy and relieve himself of his debts; that the confession of judgment by Hood, the issuing of executions upon
it, the sales at auction of the four parcels of land to Frellsen,
and the conveyance of May 1, 187!, by Frellsen to Hood, were
fraudulent simulations, for the purpose of enabling Hood to put
his property beyond the reach of his creditors and of enabling
Frellsen, by means of an unlawful preference, to obtain payment of his claim in full; that, to that end, it was agreed that
Frellsen should nominally execute the confessed judgment, and

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

should nominally buy in all the property of Hood, and should
hold the same until after Hood should have obtained his discharge in bankruptcy, and then a reconveyance should be
made to Hood; that Hood should remain in possession and
control of the properties, and they should be his, he being
liable for all taxes, costs, and expenses, and entitled to all the
rents and revenues and the proceeds of sales; that the agreeinent on the part of Frellsen was that he was simply to receive
the amount of his judgment, principal, interest, and costs, in
full, and was to be considered only as the nominal owner of
the property; that the sheriff took no possession of the property under the Xt. fa. of July, 1868; that, during the whole
time Hood was in bankruptcy, from December 29, 1868, to
January 27, 1871, he remained in possession of all the properties except the Black Bayou Place, and regularly paid the
taxes, and was treated as the owner by Frellsen, who accounted
to him for some of the rents and for the proceeds of the sale of
the Black Bayou Plantation, by crediting them on the judgment, during the time when Hood was an undischarged bankrupt; that such fraudulent conspiracy between Hood and
Frellsen was not known to the plaintiff until within a few
weeks past; that the existence of the fraud was brought to
light during the trial of the above named suit, brought by
Hood against Frellsen, when the agreement of October 26,
1868, was first produced, in December, 1878; and that, in consequence of the dissolution of the injunction in that suit, Frellsen was proceeding to sell the Home Place and the Hood and
Wilson Place under the executory process so issued by him.
The bill prayed for a decree adjudging the plaintiff to be the
owner, as assignee in bankruptcy, of all the properties above
mentioned, from the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy, and entitled to recover the rents thereof; that the
mortgage of May 1, 1871, made by Hood, might be cancelled;
and that the sale under the executory process of Frellsen might
be enjoined. On the filing of the bill, a restraining order was
issued in accordance with its prayer.
Frellsen answered the bill, asserting the validity of the judgment confessed by Hood and of the executions issued thereon,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and of the purchases made by Freilsen at the auction sales.
He denied the allegations that there was any pretended sale
or simulated title, or any fraud or collusion at the sales or in
the purchases.
He averred that the consideration for the
agreement of October 26, 1868, and the motives for it, were
set forth therein ; that the motives were a disposition to oblige
and assist Hood by affording him an opportunity to reinstate
himself, if he should find it practicable; that the consideration
was that Hood should pay. with exact punctuality the debt
owing by him, in the manner get forth in the agreement; that
not one of the payments provided for by the agreement was
made; that the agreement ceased to be operative before any
order was made on Hood's petition in bankruptcy; that
neither the plaintiff nor Hood had ever offered to pay the
instalments of money mentioned in the agreement; that, in
1868, 1869, 1870, and afterwardl,7 the property was under the
exclusive control of Frellsen and subject to his title and possession, as purchaser; that Frellsen made no concealment of the
agreement of October 26, 1868; that that agreement became
inoperative and valueless by the discharge of Hood in bankruptcy; that the conveyance and mortgage of May 1, 1871,
were made after such discharge in bankruptcy; and that the
property specified in that mortgage was never within the possession, control, or authority of the District Court of the United
States, or of the plaintiff.
A replication was filed to this answer and proofs were taken
on both sides, and, on the 13th of June, 1881, the District
Court entered a decree, that the judgment in favor of Frellsen
against Hood in 1866, and the executions thereunder in 1868,
with the sales and conveyances by the sheriff, were valid and
operative; that no fraud, collusion, or malpractice was established against Frellsen; that those proceedings entitled him to
the property conveyed to him, discharged from any claim of
the-plaintiff ; that any surplus arising from the sale under the
executory process in favor of Frellsen should not be paid to
Hood, but should be paid to the complainant as assignee in
bankruptcy ; that the injunction should be dissolved; and that
the sheriff should dispose, under the direction of the court, of

NORTON v. HOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

the surplus that might remain after paying the debt due to
Frellsen, and the costs of suit.
The plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court, which, on the
2d of February, 1884-, affirmed the decree in favor of Frellsen,
and dismissed the bill as against him, and remanded the cause
to the District Court to enter such decree, and for such further
proceedings against Hood, in favor of the plaintiff, as might be
consistent with the equity of the bill, and proceedings against
him personally. From that decree the plaintiff has- appealed
to this court.
We find no difficulty in holding that the'decree of the Circuit Court was correct. The case made by the bill is not
established. On the contrary, the answer of Frellsen is supp6rted by the proofs. His acts and doings throughout appear
to have been fair and honest. The debt due to him, as
secured by the confessed judgment, was an honest debt.
By means of his purchases at the auction sales on the executions, he became the absolute owner of the properties he
bought. The agreement of October 26, 1868, does not contain or suggest anything fraudulent. It assigns fair and natural motives for the favor he was doing to Hood. Although
the agreement was executed by Hood as well as Frellsen, it
contains no covenants or stipulations on the part of Hood, and
no agreement by Hood to pay the amounts mentioned in it,
making up the balance due on the judgment. The only stipulations in it are those made by Frellsen. He does not, by the
agreement, sell and transfer the property to Hood, but only
stipulates that he will sell and transfer it on condition that
Hood shall punctually make the payments specified in it; and
it contains an express stipulation that the failure of Hood or
his assigns to punctually pay any of the amounts stated, at the
times fixed, is to operate as a discharge of Frelsen from all
his obligations therein contained.
Hood wholly failed to take the benefit of this agreement.
but, instead thereof, immediately after the first day of payment mentioned in it, he filed a petition in bankruptcy. By
the terms of the agreement, all rights existing under it in
favor of Hood had ceased prior to the filing of the petition in

OCTOBER ,TRM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

bankruptcy, apd there was no right growing out of the agreement which passed, or could pass, to the assignee in bankruptcy, as representing Hood, because, in that respect, the rights
of the plaintiff attached only to rights which existed in favor
of Hood at the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy.
The only other right which the plaintiff could have, in his
capacity as assignee in bankruptcy, was the right to reach
property transferred by Hood in fraud of his creditors. As
to that, the proof is that no property was transferred by Hood
in fraud of his creditors, or taken by Frellsen in fraud of such
creditors.
We see nothing to impeach the validity of the rights of
Frellsen sought to be enforced by the executory process, and
affirm the decree of the Circuit Court.
-Affirmed.

DRYFOOS v. WIESE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 14, 188T.-Decided January 9, 1888.

Claim 2 of reissued letters-patent No. 9097, granted. to Louis Dryfoos,
assignee of August Beck, February 24, 1880, for an "improvement in
quilting machines," namely, "2. The combination, with a series of vertically reciprocating needles mounted in a laterally reciprocating sewingframe, of conical feed-rolls, and mechanism for causing them to act
interinittingly daring the intervals between the formation of stitches,
substantially a herein shown and described," is not infringed by a
machine which has no conical rollers, but has short cylindrical feedrollers at each edge of the goods, which they feed in a circular diredtion
by moving at different rates 6f speed constantly, the needles having a
forward movement corresponding to that of the cloth while the needles
are in it, nor by a machine which has the well-known sewing-machine
iour-motion feed, which is capable of feeding in a circular direction: by
lengthening the feed at the longest edge of the goods.

BILL IN EQUITY to restrain alleged infringements of letterspatent. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

