31ATTHEWS v. IRONCLAD MANF'G. CO.
Syllabus.

afterwards that the hame should be dropped in deposits, and
that they should be entered simply in the name of the court,
but retaining the number of the case. It must be assumed
that this change in the manner of keeping the account had
some object in view, and that object clearly must have been
to avoid the keeping of separate accounts ;' and, if the keeping of separate accounts was in fact to continue to be required,
in view of the use of the numbers in connection with the deposit tickets, an equal amount of labor, if not a greater amount,
would have been caused to the bank by the change, as was
required of it before, without any possible object being accomplished by the change.
The questions certified are all of them answered in the negative, the judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and
the case is remanded to that court, with a direction to
enter a judgment in favor of the defendant.

MATTHEWS v. IRONCLAD MAN7UFAOTURING
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 21, 22, 1887.-Decided January 23, 1888.
A patent for a soda-water fountain, with a specification describing a foun-

tain consisting of a tin lining, with an outer shell of steel, having end
caps fastened on, "without flanges or projections, by tin joints, made by
soldering with pure tin, which, being a ringing metal, unites closely with
the steel exterior to mate a firm and durable joint, as other solders having
lead in them will not do," and a claim for "the tin vessel, incased by a
steel cylinder, and ends soldered to the latter, in the manner substantially
as described," was reissued sei-en years afterwards, with a similar specification and claim, except in omitting from the claim the words "steel"
and "soldered to the latter." Held, that the original patent was limited
to a fountain whose outer cylinder and end caps were united by a solder
of pure tin, without rivets or flanges; that if the reissue was equally limited, it was not infringed by. a fountain with end caps fastened to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
outer shell by a solder, of half tin and half lead, as well as by rivets, and
with vertical flanges at one end, through which the rivets passed; find
that if the reissue was not so limited, it was void.

BILL IN EQUrY for infringement of letters patent. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.

Mi'. Arthur v. Briesen for appellants.
Mr. F gkric H. Betts, with whom was -Mr.E nest C. Web
on the brief, for appellee.
MR.

JusTiC-

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

'This was a bill in equity for the infringement of lette'
patent, issued June 25, 1872, and reissued August 5, 1879, for
an improvement.in soda-water fountains.
The opinion delivered by the Circuit Court in dismissing the
.bill is reported, and drawings of the fountain of each party
given, in 22 Blatchford, 427.
The only claim relied on at the argument of this appeal was
the second claim of the reissue, being the one most like the
single claim of the original patent. The specifications, the
drawings therein referred to, and the claims in question, were
alike in the two patents, differing only, as shown below, by
omitting in the reissue the words of the original patent which
are printed in brackets, and by inserting the words printed in
italics, and three additional claims immaterial to the present
inquiry. After a general reference to the drawings, the specification proceeds as follows:
"1Myinvention consists in a novel construction of a tin-lined
steel fountain for soda-water and other aerated or gaseous
liquids, such fountain combining lightness with strength, and
being of cylindrical form and uniform dimensions, or thereabout, throughout its length, thereby adding to the convenience
of packing and handling; also being exempt from expansion
or permanent lateral distension by the interior pressure to
which it is subjected, thus preserving its form and contributing
to its durability. Fountains for the like purpose, as previously

'MATTHEWS :v. IRONCLAD MANF'G. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

made, have been largely expansive, and retained the set given.
to them by. extension, and being otherwise objectionable.
"In the accompanying drawing; A represents a block-tin
interior body of cylindrical form with hemispherical or reduced
ends, the same constituting the tin lining of the fountain, *and
being provided at one of its ends with a neck b,for introduction
of the usual or any suitable connections by which the fountain
is charged and its contents drawn off, said neck receiving or
having screwed into it a screw-coupling c, secured by a nut
and washer d e, on the exterior of an outer end-cap B; for
making the connection. 0 is the-exterior shell or body proper,
made of galvanized sheet steel, as may also be the end caps
B B', which are soldered to or over the extremities of the same,
and constitute, as it were,, parts of said body 0 that [closely]
surrounds or fits over the tin lining A. The end caps B B' are
united to the body C, without flanges or projections, by tin
joints, as atff, made by soldering with pure tin, which, being
a ringing metal, unites closely with the steel exterior to make
a firm and durable joint, as other solders having lead in them
will not do. Bands g g of brown paper or other non-conducting
material are introduced between the'tin lining A and steel body
C, at the ends of the latter, to prevent the tin of the lining
from being melted by the heat used in making the pure tin
jointsff. The fountain is also filled with water for the same
purpose, prior to making said joints.
"The non-stretching character of the body 0, by reason of
the same being of steel, insures the fountain preserving its
shape, and the absence of end flanges provides for the close
packing of a series of such. formations when transporting or
storing them.
["P hat is here claimed, and desired to be secured by letters
patent, is-"] "-1 claim
"The tin vessel A, incased by a [steel] cylinder 0, and ends
B B' [soldered to the latter], in the manner substantially as
described, as a new and improved article of manufacture, for
the purpose specified."
It has been argued for the plaintiff that the patent is for
the combination of an inner flexible vessel of tin or its equiva-

,OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

lent, with an outer vessel of steel, or its equivalent, the outer
-vesselbeing composed of a central cylinder and of end caps
that are'slipped on to the cylinder and united thereto by tin
solder or its equivalent.
But the only claim 'of the original patent is for "the tin
vessel, incased by a steel cylinder, and ends soldered to the
latter, in the manner substantially as described;" and the
manner described in the specification of fastening the end
caps to the body of the outer shell is, "without flanges or
projections, by tin joints, made by soldering with pure tin,
which, being a ringing metal, unites closely with the steel
exterior to make a firm and durable joint, as other solders
having lead in them will not do."
The patentee himself testified that when. he made his invention he knew of others]having used iron fountains lined with
sheet block tin; that the first fountains he made were soldered
with tin and lead solder, usually known as soft solder, and he
found that would not do, and therefore adopted a solder of
pure tin; 'and that he dispensed with rivets, because they prevented the fountain being repaired without tearing the shell
,in taking out the rivets.
In short, by the terms of the specification and claim, in the
then existing state of the art, and according to the intention
of the patentee, his patent was limited to a fountain in which
the caps were connected with the outer-cylinder by pure tin
solder, without rivets or flanges.
In the fountain made by the defendant, on the other hand,
.'the caps are fastened to the body at both ends by a solder of
half tin and half, lead, as well as by rivets, and there are vertical flanges at one end, through which the rivets pass.- It is
quite clear, therefore, that if the original patent had remained
unaltered, there would have been no infringement.
The reissue was taken out seven years after the 'originalpatent, and a year or two after the' patentee knew that the
defendant was making such a fountain as is now alleged to
be an infringement.
The repetition of the original specification in the reissue,
word for word, (except only in the unimportant variation of

SHIELDS

i.

SCHItF.'

351

Syllabus.

omitting the wQrd "closely" in speaking\of the fitting of the
shell to the lining,) as well as the testimony of,the patentee,
proves that there was no defect or insufficiency in the original
specification, and no error, inadvertence ormistake in framing
it.
If the omission, in the claim of the reissue, after the men-,
tion of the outer cylinder and the ends, Qf the words "soldered
,tothe latter," before the words "in the manner substantially
as described," still leaves the claim to be construed and limited
by the previous description in the specification, the patentee is
no better off than if he had not tgken out a reissue.
But if the' effect of omitting the words in question is to
extend the claim to a fountain, the outer cylinder and ends of
which are fastened together in any other manner than by a.
solder of pure tin, the claim is enlarged by omitting an essential element of the patentee's invention, and the reissue is
invalid, by the settled law of this court. .Wlrhler v. Brass Co.,
10-4 U. S. 350; -Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354; Parker &
W-hpple Co. v. YFale Clock Co., 123 U. S. 87.
-Decreeaflrmed.

SHIELDS v. SMIFF.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THEl,TATE OF LOUISIANA.

Argued November 9, 1887. - Declded January 23,1888.
The confiscation act of July 17, 1862, 12 Stat. 589, c. 195, construed in connection with :the joint resolution of the same ddy explanatory of it, 12
Stat. 627, makes no disposition of the confiscated property after the
death of th" owner, but leaves it to devolve to his heirs according to the
lez rei sitz, and those heird lake qua heirs, and not 'by donation from
.the government.
A mortgagee, in Louisiana, under an act containing the pact de non alienanao,
can proceed against the mortgagor after the latter's expropriation
through confiscation proceedings, as though he had never been divested
of 'his title.
The holder of a mortgage upon real estate in Louisiana ordered to be sold
under a decree of confiscation may acquire the life interest of the mortgagor at the sale, and may possess and enjoy that title during the life-

