BAKER v. POWER.
Argument for the Motion.

BAKE R v. POWER.
'APPEAL FRv,.r THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
Submitted Januarj9,1888.-Decided January 16, 1888.

An appeal can be taken from a decree of a Circuit Court of the United
States, entered under the supervision and by the direction of the district
judge of the district sitting in the Circuit Court, although he may under
the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 614, have. had no right to a vote in the
cause.
MIOTION TO DISMISS,

"because the judgment in the Circuit

'Court from which this appeal was taken was rendered without consent of appellees by the judge of the United States
District Court of said district, sitting in the Circuit Court
upon an appeal from his decision as district judge." The
following statement accompanied the motion.
"Appellants filed. a libel in admiralty against appellees in
the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota
to recover damages alleged to have been sustained by collision,
&c. The District Court dismissed the libel, and the libellants
.appealed to the Circuit Court. The circuit judge reversed
the decree of the District Court, and ordered the cause referred
to a commissioner to examine proofs and report to the court
the amount of damages. On a rehearing before the circuit
justice the decree and -order of reference was sustained. The
commissioner's report was confirmed by the district judge
holding Circuit Court, and a judgment rendered by him, without consent of parties, from which judgment this appeal was
-taken."
-Mr. Wilia

ITH Bliss for the motion.

Can a district judge render judgment in the Circuit Court
in a case appealed from his decision? If not, then the judgment from which this appeal was taken is not a final judgment, and the appeal must be dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM,' 1887.
Argument for the Motion.

The very fact that the Circuit Court is the appellate tribunal
precludes the idea of the participation of thedistrict judge in
any way, in a case of appeal.
Section 614, Rev. Stat. is as follows: "A district judge, sitting in a Circuit Court, shall not give a vote in any case of
appeal or error from his own decision, but may assign the reasons for such'decision: Provided,That such a cause may, by
consent of parties, be heard and disposed of by him when
holding a Circuit Court sitting al6ne. When he holds a Circuit Court with either of the other judges, a judgment or
decree in such cases shall be rendered in conformity with the
opinion of the presiding justice or judge."
The intent and purpose of the enactment, 1 Stat. 74, c. 20,
4, as it stood until, amended in 1867, 14 Stat. 515, c. 185,
2, was to disqualify a district judge from sitting in circuit
and performing any judicial act in an appeal from his decision
below.
The amendment of 1867 modified the act by providing, that
in case of the absence of the circuit justice, and by consent of
parties, the district judge might hear and dispose of the cause.
Prior to the amendment he could not, under any circumstances,
vote in the cause; he could neither hear nor dispose of the
cause; hence, presumably in order to facilitate the transaction
of the business of the cotrts, this proviso was enacted.
If, prior to that date, the district judge could participate in
the proceedings, could either hear or dispose of the cause,
clearly there would have been no necessity for the amendment.
The law in question seems to have been before this court
for construction, for the first and only time, in the case, of
_Rodd v. -7eardt, 17 Wall. 354, which was a motion to dismiss
for want of jurisdiction based upon the ground, among others,
that the appeal was from a decree of the Circuit Court, reversing a decree of the District Court, and wa allowed by the
district judge. It was held that, "though upon appeals from
the District Court the district judge has no vote in the Circuit
Court, be has, in all other respects, the powers of a member
of the. court, and may, consequently, allow appeals from its

VETTERLEIN v. BARNES.
Syllabus.

decisions." That is to say, after the decision of the presiding
circuit judge has been rendered and final judgment entered by
him (as the record in .Roddv. Heart shows was the case),
the cause is disposed of, and the granting of an appeal from
that judgment by the district judge cannot, under any possible
construction, be said to be a partidipation in the proceedings
on the appeal from his decision below.
-Mr. James H. Davidon and Xr. -en7y 1. Williams opposing.
MR?. CHRIEF

JUSTICE

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This motion is denied. If it be true, as is alleged, but
which, is by no means clear, that the decree appealed from
was rendered by the district judge when he had no vote in
the cause, we still have jurisdiction of the appeal. Although
the district judge may have had no right to a vote, he was rightfully a member of the Circuit Court, .Rodd v. Heartt, 17 Wall.
354, 357, and a decree of that court entered under his super-'
vision and by his direction would be a decree of the court,
good until reversed or otherwise vacated. From such a decree
an appealtcan be taken.
D~enied.

VETT.ERLEIN v. BARNES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued December 8, 1887.-Decded January 9, 1888.

In a suit by a stranger against a trustee, to defeat the trust altogether, the
cestui que trust is not a necessary party, if the powers or duties of.the
trustee with respect to the execution of the trust are such that those for
whom he holds will be bound by what is done against him as well as by
what is done by him.
In a suit in equity by an assignee in bankruptcy to set aside a fraudulent
transfer of the bankrupt's assets, this court agrees with the court below

