OTGBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion 'of the Court.

WHITNEY v. ROBERTSON.
FRROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

soUTHER

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued December 13, 14, 1887.-Decided January9,1888.

The treaty of February 8, 1867, with the Dominican Republic (art. 9) provides that " no higher or other duty shall be imposed on the importation
into the United States of any article the growth, produce, or manufacture
of the Dominican Republic, or of her fisheries, than are or shall be payable on the like articles the growth, produce, or manufacture of any
other foreign country or of its fisheries." The convention of January
30, 1875, with the king of the Hawaiian Islands provides for the importation into the United States, free of duty, of various articles, the produce and manufacure of those islands, (among which were sugars,) in
consideration of certain concessions made by the king of the Hawaiian
Islands to the United States. Held, that this provision in the treaty
with the Dominican Republic did not authorize the admission into the
United States, duty free, of similar sugars, the groWth, produce, or manufacture of that republic, as a consequence of the agreement made with the
king of the Hawaiian Islands, and that there was no distinction in principle between this case and Bartram v. Robertson, 122 U. S. 116.
By the Constitution of the United States a treaty and a statute are placed
on the same footing, and if the two are inconsistent, the one last in date
will control, provided the stipulation of the treaty on the subject is selfexecuting.

TRns was an action to recover back duties alleged to have
been illegally exacted. Verdict for the defendant and judgment on the verdict. The plaintiffs sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. A. J. Willar and Ar'. H . Tremain for plaintiffs in
error. Ar. X. TF Tyler was with them on their brief.
_ . Solicitor General for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs are merchants, doing business in the city of
New York, and in August, 1882, they imported a large quan-

WHITNEY v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

tity of "centrifugal

and molasses sugars," the produce and

manufacture of the island of San Domingo. These goods
were similar in kind to sugars produced in the Hawaiian
Islands, which are admitted free of duty under the treaty
with the king of those islands, and the act of Congress, passed
to carry the treaty into effect. They were duly entered at
the custom house at the port of New York, the plaintiffs
cldiming that by the treaty with the Republic of San Doming&
the goods should be admitted on the same terms, that is, free
of duty, as similar articles, the produce and man'ufacture of
the Hawaiian Islands. The defendant, who was at the time
collector of the port, refused to allow this claim, treated the
goods as dutiable articles under the acts of Congress, and
exacted duties on them to the amount of $21,936. The plaintiffs appealed from the collector's decision to the Secretary of
the Treasury, by whom the appeal was denied. They then
paid under protest the duties exacted, and brought the present
action to recover the amount.
The complaint set forth the facts as to the importation of
the goods, the claim of the plaintiffs that they should be
admitted free of duty because ]ike articles from the Hawaiian
Islands were thus admitted, the refusal of the collector to
allow the claim, the appeal from his decision to the Secretary
of the Treasury and its denial by him, and the payment under
protest of the duties exacted, and concluded with a prayer for
judgment for the amount. The defendant demurred to the
complaint, the demurrer was sustained, and final judgment
was entered in his favor, to review which the case is brought
here.
The treaty with the king of the Hawaiian Islands provides
for the importation into the United States, free of duty, of
various articles, the produce and manufacture of those islands,
in consideration, among other things, of like exemption -from
duty, on -the importation into that country, of sundry specified
articles which are the produce and manufacture of the United
States. 19 Stat. 625. The language of the first two articles
of the treaty, which recite the reciprocal engagements of the
two countries, declares that they are made in consideration

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion *of the Court.

"of the rights and privileges" and "'as an equivalent therefor," which one concedes to the other.
The plaintiffs rely for a like exemption of the sugars imported by them from. San Domingo upon the 9th article of
the treaty with the Dominican Republic, which is as follows:
"iNo higher or other duty shall be imposed on the importation into the United States of any article the growth, produce,
or manufacture of the Dominican Republic, or of her fisheries;
and no higher or other duty shall be imposed on the importation into the Dominiban Republic of any article, the growth,
produce, or manufacture 6f the United States, or their fisheries, than are or shall be payable on the like articles the
growth, produce, or manufacture of-any other foreign country, or its fisheries." 15 Stat. 473, 478.
In Bartram¢ v. Robertson, decided at the last term, (122
U. S. 116,) we held that brown and unrefined sugars, the
produce and manufacture of the island of St. Croix, which is
part of the -dominions of the king of Denmark, were not
exempt from duty by force of the treaty with that country,
because similar goods from the Hawaiian Islands were thus
exempt. The'first article of the treaty with Denmark provided that the contracting parties should not grant "any !articular favor" to other nations in respect to commerce and
navigation, which should not immediately become common to
the other party, who should "enjoy the same freely if thd
concession were freely made, and upon allowing the same
compensation if the concession were conditional." 11 Stat.
719. The fourth article provided that no "higher or other
duties" should be imposed by either party on the importation
of any article which is its produce or manufacture, into the
country of the other party, than is payable on like articles,
being the produce or manufacture of any other foreign country. And we held in the case mentioned that "those- stipaulations, even if conceded to be self-executing by the way of 7i
proviso or exception to the general law imposing the duties,
do not cover concessions likb those made to the Hawaiian
Islands for a valuable consideration. They were pledges of
the two contracting parties, the United States and the king of
I

WHITNEY v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

Denmark, to each other, that in the imposition of duties on
goods imported into one of the countries wiiich were the
produce or manufacture of the other, there should be no discrimination against them in favor of goods of like character
imported from any other country. They imposed an obligation upon both countries to avoid hostile legislation in that
respect. But they were not intended to interfere with special
arrangements with other countries founded upon a concession
of special privileges."
The counsel for the plaintiffs meet this position by pointing
to the omission in the treaty with the Republic of San Domingo of the provision as to free concessions, and concessions
upon compensation, contending that the omission precludes
any concession in respect of commerce and navigation by our
government to another country, without that concession being
at once extended to San Domingo. We do not ihink that the
absence of this provision changea the obligations of the
United States. The 9th article of the treaty with that republic, in the clause quoted, is substantially like the 4th article in
the treaty with the king of Denmark. And as we said of the
latter, we may say of-the former, that it is a pledge of the
contracting parties that there shall be no discriminating legislation against the importation of articles which are the
growth, produce, or manufacture of their respective countries,
in favor of articles of like character, imported from any
other country. It has no greater extent. It Was never
designed to prevent special concessions, upon sufficient considerations, touching the importation of specific articles into
the country of the other. It would require the clearest language to justify a conclusion that our government intended to
preclude itself from such engagements with other countries,
which might in the future be of the highest importance to its
interests.
But, independently of considerations of this nature, there is
another and complete answer to the pretensions of the plaintiffs.
The act of Congress under which the duties were collected
authorized their exaction. It is of general application, making
no exception in favor of 'goods of any country. It was passed
VoL. cmx.-V-13

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

after the treaty with the Dominican Republic, and, if there be
any conflict between the stipulations of the treaty and the
requirements of the law, the latter must control. A treaty is
primarily a contract between two or more independent nations,
and is so regarded by writers on public law. For the infraction of its provisions a remedy must be sought by the injured
party through reclamations upon the other. When the stipulations are not self-executing they can only be enforced pursuant to legislation to carry them into effect, and such legislation
is as much subject to modification and repeal by Congress as
legislation upon any other subject. If the treaty contains
stipulations which are self-executing, that is, require no legislation to make them operative, to -that extent they have -t.lie
force and effect of a legislative lenactment. Congress may
modify such provisions, so far as they bind the United States,
or supersede them altogether. , By the Constitution a treat'y
is placed on the same footing, and made of like obligation,
with an act of legislation. Both are declared by that instrument to be the supreme law of the land, and no superior
efficacy is given to either over the other. When the two relate
to the same subject, the courts will always endleavor to construe
them so as to give effect to both, if that can be done without
violating the language of either; but if the two are inconsistent, the one last in date will control the other, provided
always the stipulation of the treaty on the subject is selfexecuting. If the country with which the treaty is made is
dissatisfied with the action of the legislative department, it
may present its complaint to the executive head of the government, and take such other measures as it may deem essential
for the protection of its interests. The courts can afford no
redress. Whether the complaining nation has just cause of
complaint, or our country was justified in its legislation, are not
matters for judicial cognizance. In Tajlor v. .orton, 2 Curti', 454, 459, this. subject was very elaborately considered at
the circuit by Mr. Justice Curtis, of this court, and he held
that whether a treaty with a foreign sovereign 'had been violated by him; whether the consideration of a particular
stipulation of the treaty had been voluntarily withdrawn by

WHITNEY v. ROBERTSON.
Opinion of the Court.

one party so that it was no longer obligatory on the other;
whether the views and acts of a foreign sovereign had given
just occasion to the legislative department of our government
to withhold the execution of a promise contained in a treaty,
or to act in direct contravention of such promise, were not
that the power to determine these matters
judicial questions ;.
had not been confided to the" judiciary, which has no suitable
means to exercise it, but to the executive and legislative departments of our government; and that they belong to diplomacy and legislation, and not to the administration of the
laws. And he justly observed, as a. necessary consequence of
these views, that if the power to determine these matters is
vested in Congress, it is wholly immaterial to inquire whether
by the act assailed it has departed from the treaty or not, or
whether such departure was by accident or'design, and, if the
latter, whether the reasons were good or bad.
In these views we fully concur. It follows, therefore, that
when a law is clear in its provisions, its validity cannot be
assailed before the courts for want of conformity to stipulations of a previous treaty not already executed. Considerations of that character belong to another department of the
government. The duty of the courts is to construe and give
effect to the latest expression of the sovereign will. In Head
-Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, it was objected to an act of Congress that it violated provisions contained in treaties with
foreign nations, but the court replied that so far as the provisions of the act were in conflict with any treaty, they must
prevail in all the courts of the country; and, after a full and
elaborate consideration of the subject, it held that "so far as
a treaty made by the United States with any foreign nation
can be the subject of judicial cognizance in the couts of this
country, it is subject to such acts as Congress may pass for its
enforcement, modification, or repeal."
Judgnt~ qffirnwd.

