OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of t]xe Court.

BROOKS v.

ISSOU-RI.

ERROR TO TE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Submifted January 9,1888. -- Decided January23, 1888.

Applying to this case the rules stated in Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, that
"to give this court jurisdiction under ยง 709 Rev.. Stat. because of.the
denial by a state court of any title, right, privilege or immunity claimed
under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of the United States, it
must appear on the record that such title, right, privilege or immunity
was ' specially set up or claimed' at the proper time and in the proper
way;" that "to be reviewable here the decision must. be against the
right so set up or claimed;" and that" as tte Supreme Court-of the State
was reviewing the decision of the trial court, it must appear that the
claim was'made in that court," it appears that at.the trial of the plaintiff
in error, no title, right, privilege "or immunity under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States were specially set up or claimed in
thd trial court.
When the highest appellate court of a State disposes of a question supposed to arise under the Constitution of the United States without a
dhect decision, and in IL way that is decisive of it, and which is not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and upon a ground
which was not evasive, bit real, then the decision of the alleged federal
question was not necessary to the judgment rendered, and consequently
this court has no jurisdiction over the judgment.

MOTION TO DiSmiSS.

The plaintiff in error was indicted tor
murder, tried and convicted, in the State of Missouri. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of that State the judgment in the
trial court was affirmed. The federal questions which *erre
supposed to arise in the caser are stated in.the opinion of the
court.
X7rt.B. G. Boone, Attorney General of the State of Missouri
for the motion.
XM.

P.

IF Fauntleroy,with whom was .Ab. JTkn. I 2far-

tin, opposing.
MR.CHIEF JUSTICE WAIrE delivered the opinion of the court.
In .pies v. -Rnoi, 123 U. S. 131, 181, it was said that "to
give us jurisdiction under ยง 709 of the Revised Statutes be-

BROOKS v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

cause of a denial by a state court of any title, right, privilege,
or immunity claimed under the Constitution, or any treaty or
statute of the United States, it must appear on the record that
such title, right, privilege, or immunity was 'specially set up
or claimed' at the proper time in the proper way. To be
reviewable here the decision must be against the right so set
up o' claimed. As the Supreme Court of the State was
revieing the decision of the trial court, it must appear that
the claim was made in that'court, because the Supreme Court
was only authorized to review the judgment for errors committed there, and we can do no more."
Applying that rule to this case, we find that at the trial no
title, right, privilege, or immunity was specially set up or
claimed under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States. Thus, when the testimony of McCullough was offered,
the admission of which is now assigned for error, the objection
made was not that its admission would be a violation of any
provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States, but
because it was "incompetent and irrelevant," coming as it did
from a man who, by his conduct in procuring the statements
from the defendant as to which it was proposed he-should
testify, had shown himself to be "unworthy of belief in a
court of justice," and because "the witness has shown that he
held out an inducement, a promise, to the defendant fot his
statement, which renders it incompetent."
And so in respect to the ruling on the motion to quash the
indictment, and to discharge the defendant from arrest, the
only objection was, "that said indictment, proceedingg, imprisonment, and restraint are' illegal and unlawful, and in violation
of the Constitution and laws of the State of Missouri, and
without any due process of law or lawful authority whatsoever." The particular provisions of the constitution of the
State now relied on in support of this assignment of error are
11 of the Bill of Rights, to the effect that "no warrant to
seize any person . . . shall issue without probable
cause, supported by oath or affirmation reduced to writing;"
*and ยง 12, "that no person shall, for a felony, be proceeded
against criminally, otherwise than by indictment."

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Another of the assignments of error is, that the court
instructed the jury that they might find the defendant guilty
of murder in the first degree if they were satisfied from thi
evidence that he did kill and murder the person named in
the indictment "in the manner and form charged in either of
the counts," when one of the counts was bad. As presented
to the trial court at the time, the question involved in this part
of the charge was one of general law only, and not in any
manner dependent upon the Constitution or laws of the United
States.
The same is true of the instruction that the jury were to be
governed by the law as given them in charge by the court,
and of the refusal to allow counsel to read in his argument
parts of the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State, in a
case decided by that court, which, as was claimed, stated
correctly the legal principles bearing upon a part of the
defence. No reference was made to any provision of the
Constitution or laws of the United States which gave to the
defendant any rights in this behalf.
In the progress of the trial, counsel for the defendant
addressed the court as follows: "If the court please, we learn
that there are two men stationed at the door, who refuse to
admit any one who is not a juror or witness or officer or some
one having business in the court-room. We object to that.
We claim this is a public court-room, and the trial should be
public, and the public ought to be admitted. We understand
that they are there by order of the court." Upon this statement permission was asked "to introduce proof to show that,
during the whole day of yesterday, and so far to-day, up to
this time to-day, that a deputy sheriff and a police officer have
been stationed at the door of the court-room, .whorefuse, who
have refused to admit any one to the court-room unless they
were jurors o.r witnesses or have some business with the court."
The court refused this pnrmission, but did direct "that all
persons be admitted to the court-room until it is filled, all the
seats are filled, reserving the right to the attorneys for the
State and the defendant to bring within the bar such persons
as the court may permit, giving preference to jurors who have

BROOKS v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

been summoned here to be seated in the front seats outside
of the bar." To.this ruling exception was taken, and it is
assigned here as one of the errors on which our jurisdiction
may rest. No reliance seems to have been placed in the trial
court upon any federal -law,and here ยง 2.2 of the Bill of Rights
of the Miissofiri Constitution is alone cited as supporting the
objection which was made. That section provideg that "in
briminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right to a
speedy public trial by an inipartial jury of the county."
Others of the exceptions taken at the trial relate to rulings
by means of which, it is claimed, the defendant was deprived
of an impartial jury; but it does not appear to have been
claimed that any provision of the Constitution of the United
States guaranteed to him such a jury. That theSixth Article
of the Amendments contains no such guaranty s to trials in
the state courts has always been held. Spies v' Illinois, 123
U. S. 131, 166, and the cases there cited.
These are all the assignments of error which relate to the
rulings in the progress of the trial, and they fail entirely to
present any questions of federal law for our consideration.
So far'as appears, the trial court in its decisions was governed
exclusively by the constitution and laws of the State, and the
Supreme Court in its opinion on this part of the case, which
is in the record, makes no mention whatever of any claim of
right under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Section 1961 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri (1879),
relating to crimes and criminal procedure, is as follows:
"The motion for a new trial shrill be in writing, and must
set forth the grounds or causes therefor, and be filed before
judgment, and within four days after the return of the verdict
or finding of the court, and shall be heard and determined in
the same manner as motions for new trials in civil cases."
The-verdict was rendered June 5, 1886, and on the 9th of
that month, before judgnfent was entered, the defendant filed
a motion for a new trial. Afterwards, on the 17th of June,
he presented and asked leave to fie a supplemental motion for
,a new trial, setting up the following additional reason:
"1. Because Jesse F. Sears, one of .the jurors who sat upon

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

the trial of this cause, upon his examination on the voir dire,
purposely and untruthfully answered the questions asked him
by counsel for the State and the defence in such a manner as
to indicate and cause said counsel to believe, and in such a
manner that the defendant and his counsel did believe, he was
a fair and impartial juror, and one who had no prejudice or
bias in the case, and who had neither formed nor expressed
any opinion as to the guilt or innocence of the accused, and
thereby induced the defendant to accept him as a qualified'
juror in the case, whereas in truth and in fact said juror was
not a fair and impartial juror, and he had a prejudice and bias
against the defendant herein and had prior to his said examination upon his voir dire on many occasions expressed his
opinion and declared that Maxwell, the above named defendant, was guilty of murdering his companion, Preller, and that
he ought to be hung and would be hung, and that hanging
was too good for him, and other similar expressions, all of
which was by said juror imiproperly and wrongfully concealed
upon his examination upon'his voir dire, and only came to the
knowledge or hearing of the said defendant or either of his
counsel long after the rendition of the verdict herein, and also
after the filing of the first or original motion for a new trial
herein, and after the expiration of the four days .allowed by
statute within which to file a motion for a new trial."
In support of this motion the defendant presented the affidavits of four persons to the effect that they had each, on different occasions, heard the juror referred to express opinions
of the character of those alleged, and also the affidavits of the
defendant and his counsel that they had neither of them any
"knowledge, idea, suspicion, or intimation" of the "facts set
out and stated "-in the other affidavits until ".after the expiration of the four days allowed by-the statute within which to
file a motion for a new trial."
The record then states that the motion for leave to "file
said supplemental motion for a new trial and the aforesaid
affidavits" was argued, and that "in this argument counsel
for the defendant contended and made the point that if the
statute declaring that in criminal cases a motion for a new

BROOKS v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

trial with the reasons therefor must be filed within four days
after verdict, prevented the court from hearing the aforesaid
supplemental motion for a new trial and the affidavits offered
therewith and the matters and facts therein stated, and from
granting defendant a new trial upon said facts if found to be
true, then said statute was null and void as being in violation
of the constitution of the State of Missouri and of that of the
United States, especially those provisions of the state constitution declaring that 'in criminal prosecutions the accused
shall have the right to

.

.

.

a speedy, public trial by an

impartial jury of the county,' and that 'no person shall be
deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process, of
law;' and those provisions of the United States Constitution
which declare as follows, to wit: ' Nor shall any State deprive
any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws."'
The court, after taking the matter under advisement, overruled the motion "on the ground that the court had no power
or right under the statute to grant said request."
Upon this branch of the case the Supreme Court, according
to its opinion in the record, ruled as follows:
"This statute is mandatory, and, according to the uniform
ruling of this court since the case of Allen & Dougherty v.
Browm, 5 Missouri, 323, a refusal to grant a hew trial on a.
motion made more than four days after the trial is not error,
and it has been further held, that, unless 'it affirmatively appears by the record that the maotion for a new trial was filed
within four days after trial, this court will not consider the
question it presents. Welsh v. City of &. Louis, 73 Missouri,
71; Moran v. January,52 Missouri, 523, and cases cited. In
the case of State v. .farshall, 36 Missouri, 400, when defendant was convicted of murder in the first degree, it is said: 'No
exceptions will be noticed here when no motion for a new
trial has been made, or, what is the same thing, when none is
made within the time prescribed by law.' If authority is to
be found putting it in the discretion of the court to authorize
the filing of a supplemental motion for new trial in view of

0 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

thd time th6 court gave defendant to make proof of the matter set up in the motion 4vhich was filed in time, and in view
of the length of time consumed in the trial, we would be unwilling to say that the court exercised its Aiscretion arbitrarily
"inrefusing such ali application."
UIt thus appears that, while upholding the statute, the court
Alo put its decision on another ground which was equally conclusive against the defendant, to wit, that even if the trial
eourt could, in its discretion, allow the additional reason for a
hew.trial to be presented after the expiration of the four days,
there had been no such abuse of that discretion in this case as
would justify a- reversal of the judgment on that account.
That 'part of th*e decisi6n is certainly not repugnant to any
provision of the Constitution or laws of the United States,
and it is of itself coceusive. It was fairly presented and necessarily involved in the case. It disposed of the supposed con-,
stitutional question' presented in-the argument with6ut a direct
decision, upon a groLlndwhich cannot be reviewed by us, and
which Was not evasive merely but real. Chouteau v. Gibson,
111 U. S. 200; Aidams VduCty v. 2u-rlingtdh & Aissouri
R-ailroad, 11.2 U. S. 123, 126, 127 ; Ckapnan v. Gbodnow, 123
U. S. 540, 548. Such being' the case, the decision of the
alleged federal question was nat' necessary to the judgment
rendered, and consequently is not sufficient to give us jurisdiction. Murdock v. ]fYem] is, 2-0 Wall. 590, 636.
The motion to dismiss is granted.

WIDDIOOMBE v. CHILDERS.
ERROR

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Argued Deceniber 1, 13S7.-Decided January 23, 1888.

A applied.at a public lgnd office for a S.E. I section of land. By mistake the
register in the applcation described it as the S.W. , and A signed the'
application so written, but the entry in the plat and tract books showed,
Tlhat he had bought and paid for the S.E. . He immediately went into'

