OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

made the duty of the county treasurer to collect the same by
distress and sale of any of the personal property so taxed, or
of any other personal property of the person assessed." See,
also, Stockwell v. Brewer, 59 Maine, 286; Frost v. Parker,34
N. J. Law, 71; Eberstein v. Oswalt, 47 Michigan, 254; Xeyers
v. -Dubuque County, 49 Iowa, 193.
The judgment of-the Circuit Court is affirmed.

IN RE SHERMAN.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 9, 1888.-Decided January 23, 1888.

If a Circuit Court of the United States, in granting a motion -to remand a
cause to the state court, has not before it, by mistake, the complaint in
the action, it is within the discretion of that court, upon a showing to that
effect, to grant a rehearing; but this court has no power to require that
court by mandamus to do so.

RoGER M. Snm~ANr, the plaintiff in error .inSherman v.

Grinnel, 123 U. S. 679, after the announceienf of that decision presented to this court his petition as folioi-s:
To the Honorable, the Justices of the S preme Court of the
United States:
The petition of Roger M. Sherman respectfully represents:
On the 28th day of October, 1885, in the city court of
New York, in the Southern District of New York, an
action was commenced by the service of a summons and
complaint, by Irving Grinnell and George S. Bowdoin, as
executors, against this petitioner, to recover the sum of
$1778.95, and on the 30th day of said October, your petitioner presented his petition and a bond to said city court,
and prayed the removal of said action to the Circuit Court of
the United States for said district. Said city court on that
day made its order thereupon, accepting said petition and ap-

IN RE SHERMAN.
Statement of -the Case.

proving said bond, and that said city court proceed no -furtherin said action.
The ground alleged. for such removal was that said action
was of a civil nature, and one arising under the laws of the
United States. It was by said petition alleged that the grounds
of such removal appeared by the complaint of the plaintiffs in
said action.
On the 26th day. of February, 1886, and before the next
session of said Circuit Court, and before the time when by law
the petitioner was bound to present or file the record of said
suit in said Circuit Court, a motion was made by the plaintiffs
in said suit in said Circuit Court to remand the said suit to the
said city court. This motion came on before the Honorable
William J. Wallace, the Circuit Judge, on the notice of motion
of said plaintiffs, wherein they moved upon an affidavit of
Treadwell Cleveland, and upon "all the papers and proceedings -theretofore had in said action," which included said
complaint.
The counsel for said plaintiffs moved said motion in the
absence from the court of your petitioner and of any one rep-.
resenting him; but petitioner was shortly afterwards allowed
to be heard by said Circuit Judge, who thereupon, by an order
entered that day, remanded said cause. Your petitioner supposed that the Circuit Judge had before him or in the record
filed upon said motion a copy of the complaint and that such
observations as he made were based upon knowledge of the
same. Your petitioner therefore- deferred to the views expressed by the. Circuit Judge and did not call his attention
in detail to said complaint, but submitted with deference to his
ruling in the full belief that it was upon such knowledge of the
complaint as would fully possess him of the basis of petitioner's
argument.
In fact, no copy of said complaint was ever seen by Judge
Wallace or filed upon said motion, and the information of it
which he had was derived from the affidavit of Cleveland, and
such-statements as may have been made by plaintiffs' counsel
in petitioner's absence.
Your petitioner first learned of this state of the record -upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

making it up for a return to a writ of error granted to review
said order.
The facts aforesaid appear chiefly from said return, which is
on file in the Supreme Court of the United States in case No.
932 of October Term, 1887. [7rman v. GrinnenI, 123 U. G.
679.]
Your petitioner avers that it did and will appear from said
complaint that said action is brought to recover upon an award
of a claim allowed by the Secretary of the Treasury of the
United States for moieties under the act of March 3, 1867,
upon a mistake of fact and without authority of law; that it
there appears that the money sued for never could be lawfully
paid from the Treasury of the United States; that it has not
and could not cease to be the money of the United States; that
no lawful agency was or could be created to collect, receive or
transfer it to the use of said plaintiffs; that said complaint
asserts a strict legal title, and relies upon a conversion of said
money; and that the statutes of the United States formed the
sole right, title and interest of the plaintiffs, as asserted in said
action.
The only award made by the Secretary of the Treasury was
upon the mistakcen supposition that he was making an award
of the proceeds of a seizure of tobacco made in the Eastern
District of New York and there prosecuted before the passage
of the act of June 22, 1874, whereas in fact the award made
was of moneys collected from penalties inpersonam in 1885
in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York.
and which he was apparently forbidden by the act of 1874 to
make. Your petitioner was not party to,and did not know of
this mistake until after the receipt of the warrant and before
any demand was made upon him on behalf of plaintiffs.
Your petitioner presented a claim for plaintiffs based upon
a construction of the act of 1874, upon the actual facts,
and the award was made as above stated. The mistake arose
by the confounding by a, Treasury clerk in the bookkeeping
in the Department the seizure case with the in personam case.
The Secretary has therefore not in fact made any such award
as that relied on by plaintiffs.

IN RE SHERMAN.
Statement of the Case.

All the foregoing would appear on the trial of the general
issue to the complaint.
Your petitioner, therefore, believes, and charges the fact to
be, that by the action of the Honorable William J. Wallace
aforesaid, your petitioner has been and is deprived of his right
to have the inatters aforesaid tried in said Circuit Court and
that as said Circuit Judge he refuses to take cognizance in said
court of a cause jurisdiction of which of right appertains
thereto; and that your petitioner has been and is deprived of
his right to the judgment of said Circuit Court upon the complaint in said suit whether it states a cause of action cognizable at the time of such removal from said city court by said
Circuit Court.
Your petitioner, therefore, prays that your honorable court
will grant your writ of mandamus to said William J. Wallace,
commanding him as such Circuit Judge:
1. That the 'order remanding said action entered by him
February 26, 1886, in said court be expunged and erased;
2. That he prbceed to hear the motion of the plaintiffs to
remand said action upon, the complaint and with the same
before him or on file in said court; or
3. That said Circuit Court proceed in said actipn; and
4. Such other and further matter or thing as may be just.
And-,your petitioner will ever pray, &c.,
ROGFZ M. SEMuMUN.
County of New York, ss.:
RoGFR M SHunmEi , being duly sworn, says: I am the petitioner herein. I have read the foregoing petition and know
its contents, and the same is true to my knowledge, information and belief.
RoGER M. SHAERmN.

Sworn before me, this January, 1887,
Notary Public,
N. Y. Co.
Mr. Roger ff..M
petition.

erman, in person,, in support of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

I. The petitioner contends that the Circuit Court could not
judicially determine for or against the jurisdiction in this case
in the absence of the complaint. It has not, therefore, in the
sense of the second section of the act of March 3, 1881,
"decided that the cause was improperly removed." Windsor
v. .A' JTeigh, 93 U. S. 274, 282, 283; Garlandv. Davis, 4 How.
131' 143; The Divna Pastor.a,4 Wheat. 52, 64; Mandeville
v. Burt, .8 Pet. 256; United States v. Xirzpatrick, 9 Wheat.
'720; Bradstreetv. Tomas, 12 Pet. 174; Gold Washing Co. v.
Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, 204; Olark v. Hancock, 94 U. S. 493.
II. The order of remand being without jurisdiction, as
above stated, this court, in the absence of a remedy by writ
of error, can by the writ of mandamus comnhand the Circuit
Judge to expunge the void order and proceed to decide the
motion to remand or entertain the cause according to law..
ETp arte Bradley, I Wall. 364, 375-379; .ailroad Co. v.
Wiswall, 23 Wall. 507; Em parte Rirginia, 100 U. S. 339,
343.
III. The nature of this controversy appears in the petition.
But whatever may be its merits, as this court said in Ew parte
Jordan, 94 U. S. 248, 251, "The question is not what will be
gained by an appeal, but whether the party asking it can
appeal at all." So here the question is whether the petitioner
was entitled to have the question of jurisdiction decided upon
the complaint with the complaint duly before the court.
IV. Under the authority of Postmaster Generalv. Tpigg, 11
Pet. 173, and _&fe and Fire Ins. Co. v. Adams, 9 Pet. 5''1,
inasmuch as the record in case No. 932, October, 1887, shows
all the material facts, petitioner submits that it will be correct
practice and respectful to the Circuit Judge to issue the alternative writ. It the court is not of that opinion, then a rule is
respectfully prayed.
MR. CHIEF JusTio

WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
This motion is denied. The -object of the petitioner.is to
compel the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern

UNION MUTUAL .LIFE INS. CO. v. WATERS.

369

Opinion of the Court.

District of New York to set aside an order granting a motion
to remand a suit against him, which he had caused to be
removed from a state court, and to proceed to a rehearing, on
the ground that at the former hearing the court did not have
before it and did not see the complaint in the case on which
he relied to show his right to a removal. The petition makes
it apparent that the motion was submitted by both parties,
and decided on the papers then furnished. If, in point of
fact, the complaint was not included among those papers, and
it had been omitted by mistake, a rehearing might have been
granted in the discretion of the court upon a showing to that
effect, but this court has no power to require that court to do
so by mandamus.

UNION M[UTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
WATERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCGUT

COMPANY v,

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Announced January 23, 1888.

In accordance with a stipulation of the parties the judgment of the cQurt
below is reversed and a mandate issued.

Mr. J.

0. Winshzkp for plaintiff in error.

Ar. J. H. Hoyt for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUST=IE WAITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
In this case the parties-have stipulated as follows:
"The controversy between the parties hereto, having been
amicably adjusted, it is now stipulated and agreed between
us, that as to the proceedings now pending in the Supreme
Court of the United States, docketed as case No. 356, wherein
the Union Mutual Life Insurance Co. of Maine is plaintiff in
error, and Electa L. Waters is defendant in error, an entry
shall be made by said court, as upon the trial thereof, that
the judgment of the Circuit Court of the United States for
VOL, Cxxiv-24

