BAVMIMORE, &c., RAILROAD CO. v. BURNS.

165

Opinion of the Court.

BALTIMORE AND OHIO IRAILROAD COMPANY

'.

BURNS.
ERROB TO THE

RooIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MARYLAD.

Submitted December 15,1887. -Decided January 9, 1888.

In this case the c6urt holds that the petition for the removal of the cause
to the Circuit Court of the United States was presented too late.

THE question in this case was whether the petition for
removal was presented in time.
.r. John K. Cowen and -Yr.Hlh 1. Bond, Jr., for plaintiff
in error.
Xr. Albert Constable for defendants in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

WAITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is a writ of error for the review of an order of the
Circuit Court made .March 5, 1886, remanding a suit which
had been removed from a state court under the act 6f .March
3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470. The material facts are these:
The suit was begun in the Circuit Court of Cecil County,
Maryland, and it stood for trial at the December term of that
court, in the year 1884. During that term the railroad company petitioned the court for the removal of the suit to the
Circuit Court of Dorchester County for trial, and this was
granted January 22, 1885. The cause was docketed in Dorchester County, February 2, 1885, and on the 22d of April,
1885, the railroad company filed in that county its petition. for
the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland, on the ground that the
plaintiffs, Burns and Nokes, were citizens of New Jersey and
Pennsylvania respectively, and the railroad company, the

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

defendant, a Maryland corporation, and in law a citizen of
that State. A removal was ordered by the Dorchester court
April 27, 1885, which was at its April term, 1885, and the
cause entered in the Circuit Court of the United States May
16, 1885. A motion to remand was made November 2, 1885,
and this motion was granted March 5, 1886, on the ground
that the petition for removal was not in time.
In our opinion this order was properly made. According
to the agreed facts the Circuit Court of Cecil County holds
four terms in each year, commencing respectively on the 3d
Monday of March, the 3d Monday of June, the 3d Monday
of September, and the 3d Monday of December. It is conceded that the cause could have been'forced to trial at the
December term, 1885, if it had remained in Cecil County.
The terms in Dorchester County begin on the fourth Monday
of the months of January, April, and July, and on the second
Monday of November in each year. -Although the record
from Cecil LCounty was filed in Dorchester County on the
second day of February, and the petition for removal filed on
the 22d of April, it.does not appear that it was biought to the
attention of the court or any action taken thereon' until the
27th of that month, which -was the first day of the April
term. Under these circumstances it is clear that the petition
for removal was not presented in time. The first term of the
state court at which the cause could have been tried was the
December term in Cecil County. That term must have ended
on or before the third Monday in March. The transfer was
made to Dorchester County during the January term of that
court. That was another term of the state court from that
in which the trial could first be had. Consequently the time
for removal had passed when the case got to Dorchester
County. The railroad company had its election at the Del
cember term in Cecil County to remove the suit to the Circuit
Court of the United, States or to transfer it to Dorchester
County for trial' It chose the latter and thereby lost its right
to the removaL
lWe order to remand is almed.

