OCTOBER TERM, 1997

Syllabus

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. ET AL. v. JOINER ET UX.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-188. Argued October 14, 1997-Decided December 15, 1997
After he was diagnosed with small-cell lung cancer, respondent Joiner and
his wife (hereinafter jointly respondent) sued in Georgia state court,
alleging, inter alia, that his disease was "promoted" by his workplace
exposure to chemical 'PCB's" and derivative "furans" and "dioxins" that
were manufactured by, or present in materials manufactured by, petitioners. Petitioners removed the case to federal court and moved for
summary judgment. Joiner responded with the depositions of expert
witnesses, who testified that PCB's, flrans, and dioxins can promofe
cancer, and opined that Joiner's exposure to those chemicals was likely
responsible for his cancer. The District Court ruled that there was a
genuine issue of material fact as to whether Joiner had been exposed to
PCB's, but granted summary judgment for petitioners because (1) there
was no genuine issue as to whether he had been exposed to furans and
dioxins, and (2) his experts' testimony had failed to show that there was
a link between exposure to PCB's and small-cell lung cancer and was
therefore inadmissible because it did not rise above "subjective belief or
unsupported speculation." in reversing, the Eleventh Circuit applied
"a particularly stringent standard of review" to hold that the District
Court had erred in excluding the expert testimony.
Held
1. Abuse of discretion-the standard ordinarily applicable to review
of evidentiary rulings-is the proper standard by which to review a
district court's decision to admit or exclude expert scientific evidence.
Contrary to the Eleventh Circuit's suggestion, Daubert v. Merrell Dow
Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 509 U. S. 579, did not somehow alter this general
rule in the context of a district court's decision to exclude scientific evidence. Daubert did not address the appellate review standard for evidentiary rulings at all, but did indicate that, while the Federal Rules of
Evidence allow district courts to admit a somewhat broader range of
scientific testimony than did pre-existing law, they leave in place the
trial judge's "gatekeeper" role of screening such evidence to ensure that
it is not only relevant, but reliable. Id., at 589. A court of appeals
applying "abuse-of-discretion" review to such rulings may not categorically distinguish between rulings allowing expert testimony and rulings
which disallow it. Compare Beech Aircraft Corp. v. Rainey, 488 U. S.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Syllabus
153, 172, with United States v. Abel, 469 U. S. 45,54. This Court rejects
Joiner's argument that because the granting of summary judgment in
this case was "outcome determinative," it should have been subjected to
a more searching standard of review. On a summary judgment motion,
disputed issues of fact are resolved against the moving party-here,
petitioners. But the question of admissibility of expert testimony is
not such an issue of fact, and is reviewable under the abuse-of-discretion
standard. In applying an overly "stringent" standard, the Eleventh
Circuit failed to give the trial court the deference that is the hallmark
of abuse-of-discretion review. Pp. 141-143.
2. A proper application of the correct standard of review indicates
that the District Court did not err in excluding the expert testimony at
issue. The animal studies cited by respondents experts were so dissimilar to the facts presented here-i. e., the studies involved infant mice
that developed alveologenic adenomas after highly concentrated, massive doses of PCB's were injected directly into their peritoneums or
stomachs, whereas Joiner was an adult human whose small-cell carcinomas allegedly resulted from exposure on a much smaller scale-that it
was not an abuse of discretion for the District Court to have rejected
the experts' reliance on those studies. Nor did the court abuse its discretion in concluding that the four epidemiological studies on which
Joiner relied were not a sufficient basis for the experts' opinions, since
the authors of two of those studies ultimately were unwilling to suggest
a link between increases in lung cancer and PCB exposure among the
workers they examined, the third study involved exposure to a particular type of mineral oil not necessarily relevant here, and the fourth involved exposure to numerous potential carcinogens in addition to PCB's.
Nothing in either Daubert or the Federal Rules of Evidence requires
a district court to admit opinion evidence that is connected to existing
data only by the ipse dixit of the expert. Pp. 143-147.
3. These conclusions, however, do not dispose of the entire case. The
Eleventh Circuit reversed the District Court's conclusion that Joiner
had not been exposed to furans and dioxins. Because petitioners did
not challenge that determination in their certiorari petition, the question whether exposure to furans and dioxins contributed to Joiner's cancer is still open. P. 147.
78 F. 3d 524, reversed and remanded.
REHNQUIST, C. J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court with
respect to Parts I and II, and the opinion of the Court with respect to
Part III, in which O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, SOUTER, THoMAs, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined. BREYER, J., filed a concurring opinion,

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of the Court
post, p. 147. STEVENS, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, post, p. 150.

Steven R. Kuney argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were John G. Kester,David H.Flint,Alexander J. Simmons, Jr., Henry W. Ewalt, and Gerard H. Davidson, Jr.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With
him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Dellinger,
Assistant Attorney General Hunger, Edward C. DuMont,
and John P. Schnitker.
Michael H. Gottesman argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Kenneth J Chesebro, David L.
Shapiro, and Michael J Warshauer.*
CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We granted certiorari in this case to determine what
standard an appellate court should apply in reviewing a trial
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States by Thomas S. Martin,Stephen A Bokat,
and Robin S. Conrad; for the American Medical Association by Jack R.
Bierig, CarterG. Phillips,Kirk B. Johnson, and Michael L. Ile; for the
Chemical Manufacturers Association by Bert Black, David J Schenck, and
Donald D. Evans; for Dow Chemical Company by John E. Muench
and Robert M. Dow, Jr.; for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America by Bruce N. Kuhlik; for the Washington Legal Foundation
by Arvin.Maskin, Gerald A Stein, Daniel J Popeo, and Paul D. Kamenar; and for Bruce Ames et al. by Martin S. Kaufman and Douglas
Foster.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Trial Lawyers for Public Justice by Steven E. Finemanand Arthur H. Bryant; for
the Association of Trial Lawyers of America by Jeffrey Robert White; for
Ardith Cavallo by William A Beeton, Jr.; and for Peter Orris, M. D., et
al. by Gerson H. Smoger.
Briefs of amici curiaewere filed for the New England Journal of Medicine et al. by Margaret S. Woodruff and Arlin M. Adams; and for the
Product Liability Advisory Council, Inc., et al. by Mary A Wells, Jan S.
Amundson, and Quentin Riegel.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

court's decision to admit or exclude expert testimony under
Daubertv. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 509 U. S. 579
(1993). We hold that abuse of discretion is the appropriate
standard. We apply this standard and conclude that the
District Court in this case did not abuse its discretion when
it excluded certain proffered expert testimony.

Respondent Robert Joiner began work as an electrician in
the Water & Light Department of Thomasville, Georgia
(City), in 1973. This job required him to work with and
around the City's electrical transformers, which used a
mineral-oil-based dielectric fluid as a coolant. Joiner often
had to stick his hands and arms into the fluid to make repairs.
The fluid would sometimes splash onto him, occasionally getting into his eyes and mouth. In 1983 the City discovered
that the fluid in some of the transformers was contaminated
with polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's). PCB's are widely
considered to be hazardous to human health. Congress,
with limited exceptions, banned the production and sale of
PCB's in 1978. See 90 Stat. 2020, 15 U. S. C. ยง2605(e)(2)(A).
Joiner was diagnosed with small-cell lung cancer in 1991.
He' sued petitioners in Georgia state court the following
year. Petitioner Monsanto manufactured PCB's from 1935
to 1977; petitioners General Electric and Westinghouse Electric manufactured transformers and dielectric fluid. In his
complaint Joiner linked his development of cancer to his exposure to PCB's and their derivatives, polychlorinated dibenzofurans (furans) and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (dioxins). Joiner had been a smoker for approximately eight
years, his parents had both been smokers, and there was a
history of lung cancer in his family. He was thus perhaps
already at a heightened risk of developing lung cancer eventually. The suit alleged that his exposure to PCB's "pro'Joiner's wife was also a plaintiff in the suit and is a respondent here.
For convenience, we refer to respondent in the singular.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of the Court

moted" his cancer; had it not been for his exposure to these
substances, his cancer would not have developed for many
years, if at all.
Petitioners removed the case to federal court. Once
there, they moved for summary judgment. They contended
that (1) there was no evidence that Joiner suffered significant
exposure to PCB's, furans, or dioxins, and (2) there was no
admissible scientific evidence that PCB's promoted Joiner's
cancer. Joiner responded that there were numerous disputed factual issues that required resolution by a jury. He
relied largely on the testimony of expert witnesses. In
depositions, his experts had testified that PCB's alone can
promote cancer and that furans and dioxins can also promote
cancer. They opined that since Joiner had been exposed to
PCB's, furans, and dioxins, such exposure was likely responsible for Joiner's cancer.
The District Court ruled that there was a genuine issue of
material fact as to whether Joiner had been exposed to
PCB's. But it nevertheless granted summary judgment for
petitioners because (1) there was no genuine issue as to
whether Joiner had been exposed to furans and dioxins, and
(2) the testimony of Joiner's experts had failed to show that
there was a link between exposure to PCB's and small-cell
lung cancer. The court believed that the testimony of respondent's experts to the contrary did not rise above "subjective belief or unsupported speculation." 864 F. Supp.
1310, 1826 (ND Ga. 1994). Their testimony was therefore
inadmissible.
The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed.
78 F. 3d 524 (1996). It held that "[b]ecause the Federal
Rules of Evidence governing expert testimony display a
preference for admissibility, we apply a particularly stringent standard of review to the trial judge's exclusion of expert testimony." Id., at 529. Applying that standard, the
Court of Appeals held that the District Court had erred in
excluding the testimony of Joiner's expert witnesses. The

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

District Court had made two fundamental errors. First, it
excluded the experts' testimony because it "drew different
conclusions from the research than did each of the experts."
The Court of Appeals opined that a district court should
limit its role to determining the "legal reliability of proffered
expert testimony, leaving the jury to decide the correctness
of competing expert opinions." Id., at 533. Second, the
District Court had held that there was no genuine issue of
material fact as to whether Joiner had been exposed to furans and dioxins. This was also incorrect, said the Court
of Appeals, because testimony in the record supported the
proposition that there had been such exposure.
We granted petitioners' petition for a writ of certiorari,
520 U. S. 1114 (1997), and we now reverse.
II
Petitioners challenge the standard applied by the Court of
Appeals in reviewing the District Court's decision to exclude
respondent's experts' proffered testimony. They argue that
that court should have applied traditional "abuse of discretion" review. Respondent agrees that abuse of discretion is
the correct standard of review. He contends, however, that
the Court of Appeals applied an abuse-of-discretion standard
in this case. As he reads it, the phrase "particularly stringent" announced no new standard of review. It was simply
an acknowledgment that an appellate court can and will devote more resources to analyzing district court decisions that
are dispositive of the entire litigation. All evidentiary decisions are reviewed under an abuse-of-discretion standard.
He argues, however, that it is perfectly reasonable for appellate courts to give particular attention to those decisions that
are outcome determinative.
We have held that abuse of discretion is the proper standard of review of a district court's evidentiary rulings. Old
Chief v. United States, 519 U. S. 172, 174, n. 1 (1997); United
States v. Abet, 469 U. S. 45, 54 (1984). Indeed, our cases on

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of the Court

the subject go back as far as Spring Co. v. Edgar, 99 U. S.
645, 658 (1879), where we said that "[c]ases arise where it is
very much a matter of discretion with the court whether to
receive or exclude the evidence; but the appellate court will
not reverse in such a case, unless the ruling is manifestly
erroneous." The Court of Appeals suggested that Daubert
somehow altered this general rule in the context of a district
court's decision to exclude scientific evidence. But Daubert
did not address the standard of appellate review for evidentiary rulings at all. It did hold that the "austere" Frye
standard of "general acceptance" had not been carried over
into the Federal Rules of Evidence. But the opinion also
said:
"That the Frye test was displaced by the Rules of Evidence does not mean, however, that the Rules themselves place no limits on the admissibility of purportedly
scientific evidence. Nor is the trial judge disabled from
screening such evidence. To the contrary, under the
Rules the trial judge must ensure that any and all scientific testimony or evidence admitted is not only relevant,
but reliable." 509 U. S., at 589 (footnote omitted).
Thus, while the Federal Rules of Evidence allow district
courts to admit a somewhat broader range of scientific
testimony than would have been admissible under Frye,
they leave in place the "gatekeeper" role of the trial judge
in screening such evidence. A court of appeals applying
"abuse-of-discretion" review to such rulings may not categorically distinguish between rulings allowing expert testimony and rulings disallowing it. Compare Beech Aircraft
Corp. v. Rainey, 488 U. S. 153, 172 (1988) (applying abuse-ofdiscretion review to a lower court's decision to exclude evidence), with United States v. Abel, supra, at 54 (applying
abuse-of-discretion review to a lower court's decision to
admit evidence). We likewise reject respondent's argument
that because the granting of summary judgment in this case

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

was "outcome determinative," it should have been subjected
to a more searching standard of review.' On a motion for
summary judgment, disputed issues of fact are resolved
against the moving party-here, petitioners. But the question of admissibility of expert testimony is not such an issue
of fact, and is reviewable under the abuse-of-discretion
standard.
We hold that'the Court of Appeals erred in its review of
the exclusion of Joiner's experts' testimony. In applying an
overly "stringent" review to that ruling, it failed to give the
trial court the deference that is the hallmark of abuse-ofdiscretion review. See, e. g., Koon v. United States, 518 U. S.
81, 98-99 (1996).
III
We believe that a proper application of the correct standard of review here indicates that the District Court did not
abuse its discretion. Joiner's theory of liability was that his
exposure to PCB's and their derivatives "promoted" his development of small-cell lung cancer. In support of that theory he proffered the deposition testimony of expert witnesses. Dr. Arnold Schecter testified that he believed it
"more likely than not that Mr. Joiner's lung cancer was causally linked to cigarette smoking and PCB exposure." App.
107. Dr. Daniel Teitelbaum testified that Joiner's "lung cancer was caused by or contributed to in a significant degree
by the materials with which he worked." Id., at 140.
Petitioners contended that the statements of Joiner's experts regarding causation were nothing more than speculation. Petitioners criticized the testimony of the experts in
that it was "not supported by epidemiological studies . ..
[and was] based exclusively on isolated studies of laboratory
animals." 3 Record, Doc. No. 46 (Defendants' Joint Memorandum in Support of Summary Judgment 3). Joiner responded by claiming that his experts had identified "relevant
animal studies which support their opinions." 4 Record,
Doc. No. 53 (Plaintiffs' Brief in Opposition to Defendants'

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of the Court

Motion for Summary Judgment 47). He also directed the
court's attention to four epidemiological studies 2 on which
his experts had relied.
The District Court agreed with petitioners that the animal
studies on which respondent's experts relied did not support
his contention that exposure to PCB's had contributed to his
cancer. The studies involved infant mice that had developed
cancer after being exposed to PCB's. The infant mice in the
studies had had massive doses of PCB's injected directly into
their peritoneums 3 or stomachs. Joiner was an adult human
being whose alleged exposure to PCB's was far less than the
exposure in the animal studies. The PCB's were injected
into the mice in a highly concentrated form. The fluid with
which Joiner had come into contact generally had a much
smaller PCB concentration of between 0-to-500 parts per
million. The cancer that these mice developed was alveologenic adenomas; Joiner had developed small-cell carcinomas.
No study demonstrated that adult mice developed cancer
after being exposed to PCB's. One of the experts admitted
that no study had demonstrated that PCB's lead to cancer in
any other species.
Respondent failed to reply to this criticism. Rather than
explaining how and why the experts could have extrapolated
their opinions from these seemingly far-removed animal
studies, respondent chose "to proceed as if the only issue
[was] whether animal studies can ever be a proper foundation
for an expert's opinion." 864 F. Supp., at 1324. Of course,
whether animal studies can ever be a proper foundation
for an expert's opinion was not the issue. The issue was
whether these experts' opinions were sufficiently supported
by the animal studies on which they purported to rely. The
studies were so dissimilar to the facts presented in this liti2 Epidemiological

studies examine the pattern of disease in human
populations.
3 The peritoneum is the lining of the abdominal cavity.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

gation that it was not an abuse of discretion for the District
Court to have rejected the experts' reliance on them.
The District Court also concluded that the four epidemiological studies on which respondent relied were not a sufficient basis for the experts' opinions. The first such study
involved workers at an Italian capacitor 4 plant who had been
exposed to PCB's. Bertazzi, Riboldi, Pesatori, Radice, &
Zocchetti, Cancer Mortality of Capacitor Manufacturing
Workers, 11 American Journal of Industrial Medicine 165
(1987). The authors noted that lung cancer deaths among
ex-employees at the plant were higher than might have
been expected, but concluded that "there were apparently
no grounds for associating lung cancer deaths (although
increased above expectations) and exposure in the plant."
Id., at 172. Given that Bertazzi et al. were unwilling to say
that PCB exposure had caused cancer among the workers
they examined, their study did not support the experts: conclusion that Joiner's exposure to PCB's caused his cancer.
The second study followed employees who had worked
at Monsanto's PCB production plant. J. Zack & D. Musch,
Mortality of PCB Workers at the Monsanto Plant in Sauget,
Illinois (Dec. 14, 1979) (unpublished report), 3 Record, Doc.
No. 11. The authors of this study found that the incidence
of lung cancer deaths among these workers was somewhat
higher than would ordinarily be expected. The increase,
however, was not statistically significant and the authors of
the study did not suggest a link between the increase in lung
cancer deaths and the exposure to PCB's.
The third and fourth studies were likewise of no help.
The third involved workers at a Norwegian cable manufacturing company who had been exposed to mineral oil.
Ronneberg, Andersen, & Skyberg, Mortality and Incidence
of Cancer Among Oil Exposed Workers in a Norwegian
Cable Manufacturing Company, 45 British Journal of Indus4

A capacitor is an electrical component that stores an electric charge.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of the Court

trial Medicine 595 (1988). A statistically significant increase
in lung cancer deaths had been observed in these workers.
The study, however, (1) made no mention of PCB's and (2)
was expressly limited to the type of mineral oil involved in
that study, and thus did not support these experts' opinions.
The fourth and final study involved a PCB-exposed group in
Japan that had seen a statistically significant increase in lung
cancer deaths. Kuratsune, Nakamura, Ikeda, & Hirohata,
Analysis of Deaths Seen Among Patients with Yusho-A
Preliminary Report, 16 Chemosphere, Nos. 8/9, p. 2085
(1987). The subjects of this study, however, had been exposed to numerous potential carcinogens, including toxic rice
oil that they had ingested.
Respondent points to Daubert's language that the "focus,
of course, must be solely on principles and methodology, not
on the conclusions that they generate." 509 U. S., at 595.
He claims that because the District Court's disagreement
was with the conclusion that the experts drew from the studies, the District Court committed legal error and was properly reversed by the Court of Appeals. But conclusions and
methodology are not entirely distinct from one another.
Trained experts commonly extrapolate from existing data.
But nothing in either Daubert or the Federal Rules of Evidence requires a district court to admit opinion evidence that
is connected to existing data only by the ipse dixit of the
expert. A court may conclude that there is simply too great
an analytical gap between the data and the opinion proffered.
See Turpin v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 959 F. 2d
1349, 1360 (CA6), cert. denied, 506 U. S. 826 (1992). That is
what the District Court did here, and we hold that it did not
abuse its discretion in so doing.
We hold, therefore, that abuse of discretion is the proper
standard by which to review a district court's decision to
admit or exclude scientific evidence. We further hold that,
because it was within the District Court's discretion to conclude that the studies upon which the experts relied were not

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
BREYER, J., concurring

sufficient, whether individually or in combination, to support
their conclusions that Joiner's exposure to PCB's contributed
to his cancer, the District Court did not abuse its discretion
in excluding their testimony. These conclusions, however,
do not dispose of this entire case.
Respondent's original contention was that his exposure to
PCB's, furans, and dioxins contributed to his cancer. The
District Court ruled that there was a genuine issue of material fact as to whether Joiner had been exposed to PCB's,
but concluded that there was no genuine issue as to whether
he had been exposed to furans and dioxins. The District
Court accordingly never explicitly considered if there was
admissible evidence on the question whether Joiner's alleged
exposure to furans and dioxins contributed to his cancer.
The Court of Appeals reversed the District Court's conclusion that there had been no exposure to furans and dioxins.
Petitioners did not challenge this determination in their petition to this Court. Whether Joiner was exposed to furans
and dioxins, and whether if there was such exposure, the
opinions of Joiner's experts would then be admissible, remain
open questions. We accordingly reverse the judgment of
the Court of Appeals and remand this case for proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE BREYER,

concurring.

The Court's opinion, which I join, emphasizes Dauberts
statement that a trial judge, acting as "gatekeeper," must
"'ensure that any and all scientific testimony or evidence admitted is not only relevant, but reliable." Ante, at 142
(quoting Daubertv. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 509
U. S. 579, 589 (1993)). This requirement will sometimes ask
judges to make subtle and sophisticated determinations
about scientific methodology and its relation to the conclusions an expert witness seeks to offer-particularly when a
case arises in an area where the science itself is tentative or

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
BREYER, J.,

concurring

uncertain, or where testimony about general risk levels in
human beings or animals is offered to prove individual causation. Yet, as amici have pointed out, judges are not scientists and do not have the scientific training that can facilitate the making of such decisions. See, e. g., Brief for Trial
Lawyers for Public Justice as Amicus Curiae 15; Brief for
New England Journal of Medicine et al. as Amici Curiae 2
("Judges ... are generally not trained scientists").
Of course, neither the difficulty of the task nor any comparative lack of expertise can excuse the judge from exercising the "gatekeeper" duties that the Federal Rules of Evidence impose-determining, for example, whether particular
expert testimony is reliable and "will assist the trier of fact,"
Fed. Rule Evid. 702, or whether the "probative value" of
testimony is substantially outweighed by risks of prejudice,
confusion or waste of time, Fed. Rule Evid. 403. To the contrary, when law and science intersect, those duties often
must be exercised with special care.
Today's toxic tort case provides an example. The plaintiff
in today's case says that a chemical substance caused, or promoted, his lung cancer. His concern, and that of others,
about the causes of cancer is understandable, for cancer kills
over one in five Americans. See U. S. Dept. of Health and
Human Services, National Center for Health Statistics,
Health, United States 1996-97 and Injury Chartbook 117
(1997) (23.3% of all deaths in 1995). Moreover, scientific evidence implicates some chemicals as potential causes of some
cancers. See, e. g., U. S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Toxicology Program, 1
Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens, pp. v-vi (1994).
Yet modern life, including good health as well as economic
well-being, depends upon the use of artificial or manufactured substances, such as chemicals. And it may, therefore,
prove particularly important to see that judges fulfill their
Daubertgatekeeping function, so that they help assure that
the powerful engine of tort liability, which can generate

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
BREYER, J.,

concurring

strong financial incentives to reduce, or to eliminate, production, points toward the right substances and does not destroy the wrong ones. It is, thus, essential in this sciencerelated area that the courts administer the Federal Rules
of Evidence in order to achieve the "end[s]" that the Rules
themselves set forth, not only so that proceedings may be
"justly determined," but also so "that the truth may be ascertained." Fed. Rule Evid. 102.
I therefore want specially to note that, as cases presenting
significant science-related issues have increased in number,
see Judicial Conference of the United States, Report of the
Federal Courts Study Committee 97 (Apr. 2, 1990) ("Economic, statistical, technological, and natural and social scientific data are becoming increasingly important in both routine and complex litigation"), judges have increasingly found
in the Rules of Evidence and Civil Procedure ways to help
them overcome the inherent difficulty of making determinations about complicated scientific, or otherwise technical,
evidence. Among these techniques are an increased use of
Rule 16's pretrial conference authority to narrow the scientific issues in dispute, pretrial hearings where potential experts are subject to examination by the court, and the appointment of special masters and specially trained law clerks.
See J. Cecil & T. Willging, Court-Appointed Experts: Defining the Role of Experts Appointed Under Federal Rule of
Evidence 706, pp. 83-88 (1993); J. Weinstein, Individual Justice in Mass Tort Litigation 107-110 (1995); cf. Kaysen, In
Memoriam: Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr., 100 Harv. L. Rev. 713,
713-715 (1987) (discussing a judge's use of an economist as a
law clerk in United States v. United Shoe Machinery Corp.,
110 F. Supp. 295 (Mass. 1953), aff'd, 347 U. S. 521 (1954)).
In the present case, the New England Journal of Medicine
has filed an amici brief "in support of neither petitioners nor
respondents" in which the Journal writes:
"[A] judge could better fulfill this gatekeeper function if
he or she had help from scientists. Judges should be

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

strongly encouraged to make greater use of their inherent authority ... to appoint experts .... Reputable

experts could be recommended to courts by established
scientific organizations, such as the National Academy
of Sciences or the American Association for the Advancement of Science." Brief, supra, at 18-19.
Cf. Fed. Rule Evid. 706 (court may "on its own motion or on
the motion of any party" appoint an expert to serve on behalf
of the court, and this expert may be selected as "agreed upon
by the parties" or chosen by the court); see also Weinstein,
supra, at 116 (a court should sometimes "go beyond the experts proffered by the parties" and "utilize its powers to appoint independent experts under Rule 706 of the Federal
Rules of Evidence"). Given this kind of offer of cooperative
effort, from the scientific to the legal community, and given
the various Rules-authorized methods for facilitating the
courts' task, it seems to me that Dauber'sgatekeeping requirement will not prove inordinately difficult to implement,
and that it will help secure the basic objectives of the Federal Rules of Evidence, which are, to repeat, the ascertainment of truth and the just determination of proceedings.
Fed. Rule Evid. 102.
JUSTICE STEVENS, concurring in part and dissenting in

part.
The question that we granted certiorari to decide is
whether the Court of Appeals applied the correct standard
of review. That question is fully answered in Parts I and II
of the Court's opinion. Part III answers the quite different
question whether the District Court properly held that the
testimony of plaintiff's expert witnesses was inadmissible.
Because I am not sure that the parties have adequately
briefed that question, or that the Court has adequately explained why the Court of Appeals' disposition was erroneous,
I do not join Part III. Moreover, because a proper answer
to that question requires a study of the record that can be

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

performed more efficiently by the Court of Appeals than by
the nine Members of this Court, I would remand the case to
that court for application of the proper standard of review.
One aspect of the record will illustrate my concern. As
the Court of Appeals pointed out, Joiner's experts relied on
"the studies of at least thirteen different researchers, and
referred to several reports of the World Health Organization
that address the question of whether PCBs cause cancer."
78 F. 3d 524, 533 (CAll 1996). Only one of those studies is
in the record, and only six of them were discussed in the
District Court opinion. Whether a fair appraisal of either
the methodology or the conclusions of Joiner's experts can
be made on the basis of such an incomplete record is a question that I do not feel prepared to answer.
It does seem clear, however, that the Court has not adequately explained why its holding is consistent with Federal
Rule of Evidence 702,1 as interpreted in Daubert v. Merrell
Dow Pharmaceuticals,Inc., 509 U. S. 579 (1993).2 In general, scientific testimony that is both relevant and reliable
must be admitted and testimony that is irrelevant or unreliable must be excluded. Id., at 597. In this case, the District
Court relied on both grounds for exclusion.
The relevance ruling was straightforward. The District
Court correctly reasoned that an expert opinion that expoIRule 702 states: "If scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge
will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a
fact in issue, a witness qualified as an expert by knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education, may testify thereto in the form of an opinion
or-otherwise."
2 The specific question on which the Court granted certiorari in Daubert
was whether the rule of Frye v. United States, 54 App. D. C. 46, 293 F.
1013 (1923), remained valid after the enactment of the Federal Rules of
Evidence, but the Court went beyond that issue and set forth alternative
requirements for admissibility in place of the Frye test. Even though the
Daubert test was announced in dicta, see 509 U. S., at 598-601 (REHNQUIST, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in part), we should not
simply ignore its analysis in reviewing the District Court's rulings.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

sure to PCB's, "furans" and "dioxins" together may cause
lung cancer would be irrelevant unless the plaintiff had been
exposed to those substances. Having already found that
there was no evidence of exposure to furans and dioxins, 864
F. Supp. 1310, 1318-1319 (ND Ga. 1994), it necessarily followed that this expert opinion testimony was inadmissible.
Correctly applying Daubert, the District Court explained
that the experts' testimony "manifestly does not fit the facts
of this case, and is therefore inadmissible." 864 F. Supp., at
1322. Of course, if the evidence raised a genuine issue of
fact on the question of Joiner's exposure to furans and dioxins-as the Court of Appeals held that it did-then this basis
for the ruling on admissibility was erroneous, but not because the District Judge either abused her discretion or mis3
applied the law.

The reliability ruling was more complex and arguably is
not faithful to the statement in Daubertthat "[t]he focus, of
course, must be solely on principles and methodology, not
on the conclusions that they generate." 509 U. S., at 595.
Joiner's experts used a "weight of the evidence" methodology to assess whether Joiner's exposure to transformer fluids
promoted his lung cancer. 4 They did not suggest that any
3

Petitioners do not challenge the Court of Appeals' straightforward
review of the District Court's summary judgment ruling on exposure to
furans and dioxins. As today's opinion indicates, ante, at 147, it remains

an open question on remand whether the District Court should admit expert testimony that PCB's, furans, and dioxins together promoted Join-

er's4 cancer.

Dr. Daniel Teitelbaum elaborated on that approach in his deposition
testimony: "[A]s a toxicologist when I look at a study, I am going to require
that that study meet the general criteria for methodology and statistical
analysis, but that when all of that data is collected and you ask me as a
patient, 'Doctor, have I got a risk of getting cancer from this?' That those
studies don't answer the question, that I have to put them all together in
my mind and look at them in relation to everything I know about the
substance and everything I know about the exposure and come to a conclusion. I think when I say, 'To a reasonable medical probability as a medical
toxicologist, this substance was a contributing cause,' ... to his cancer,

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of

STEVENS, J.

one study provided adequate support for their conclusions,
but instead relied on all the studies taken together (along
with their interviews of Joiner and their review of his medical records). The District Court, however, examined the
studies one by one and concluded that none was sufficient to
show a link between PCB's and lung cancer. 864 F. Supp.,
at 1324-1326. The focus of the opinion was on the separate
studies and the conclusions of the experts, not on the experts' methodology. Id., at 1322 ("Defendants ... persuade

the court that Plaintiffs' expert testimony would not be
admissible ...

by attacking the conclusions that Plaintiffs'

experts draw from the studies they cite").
Unlike the District Court, the Court of Appeals expressly
decided that a "weight of the evidence" methodology was
scientifically acceptable. 5 To this extent, the Court of Appeals' opinion is persuasive. It is not intrinsically "unscientific" for experienced professionals to arrive at a conclusion
by weighing all available scientific evidence-this is not the
sort of "junk science" with which Daubert was concerned. 6
After all, as Joiner points out, the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) uses the same methodology to assess risks,
albeit using a somewhat different threshold than that required in a trial. Brief for Respondents 40-41 (quoting
that that is a valid conclusion based on the totality of the evidence presented to me. And I think that that is an appropriate thing for a toxicologist to do, and it has been the basis of diagnosis for several hundred years,
anyway." Supp. App. to Brief for Respondents 19.
5
The court explained: "Opinions of any kind are derived from individual
pieces of evidence, each of which by itself might not be conclusive, but
when viewed in their entirety are the building blocks of a perfectly reasonable conclusion, one reliable enough to be submitted to a jury along with
the tests and criticisms cross-examination and contrary evidence would

supply."
78 F. 3d 524, 582 (CAll 1996).
6 An
example of "junk science" that should be excluded under Daubert
as too unreliable would be the testimony of a phrenologist who would
purport to prove a defendant's future dangerousness based on the contours
of the defendant's skull.

GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. v. JOINER
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

EPA, Guidelines for Carcinogen Risk Assessment, 51 Fed.
Reg. 33992, 33996 (1986)). Petitioners' own experts used the
same scientific approach as well.7

And using this methodol-

ogy, it would seem that an expert could reasonably have concluded that the study of workers at an Italian capacitor plant,
coupled with data from Monsanto's study and other8 studies,
raises an inference that PCB's promote lung cancer.
The Court of Appeals' discussion of admissibility is faithful
to the dictum in Daubert that the reliability inquiry must
focus on methodology, not conclusions. Thus, even though I
fully agree with both the District Court's and this Court's
explanation of why each of the studies on which the experts
relied was by itself unpersuasive, a critical question remains
unanswered: When qualified experts have reached relevant
conclusions on the basis of an acceptable methodology, why
are their opinions inadmissible?
Daubert quite clearly forbids trial judges to assess the
validity or strength of an expert's scientific conclusions,
which is a matter for the jury Because I am persuaded
7See, e. g., Deposition of Dr. William Charles Bailey, Supp. App. to Brief
for Respondents 56 ("I've just reviewed a lot of literature and come to
some conclusions. ..").
8The Italian capacitor plant study found that workers exposed to PCB's
had a higher-than-expected rate of lung cancer death, though "'the numbers were small [and] the value of the risk estimate was not statistically
significant."' 864 F. Supp. 1310, 1324 (ND Ga. 1994). The Monsanto
study also found a correlation between PCB exposure and lung cancer
death, but the results were not statistically significant. Id., at 1325.
Moreover, it should be noted that under Georgia law, which applies in this
diversity suit, Joiner need only show that his exposure to PCB's "'promoted"' his lung cancer, not that it was the sole cause of his cancer. Brief
for Respondents 7, n. 16 (quoting Brief for Appellants in No. 94-9131
(CAll), pp. 7-10).
9
The Court stated in Daubert:"Vigorous cross-examination, presentation of contrary evidence, and careful instruction on the burden of proof
are the traditional and appropriate means of attacking shaky but admissible evidence.... Additionally, in the event the trial court concludes that
the scintilla of evidence presented supporting a position is insufficient to

Cite as: 522 U. S. 136 (1997)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

that the difference between methodology and conclusions is
just as categorical as the distinction between means and
ends, I do not think the statement that "conclusions and
methodology are not entirely distinct from one another,"
ante, at 146, either is accurate or helps us answer the difficult
admissibility question presented by this record.
In any event, it bears emphasis that the Court has not held
that it would have been an abuse of discretion to admit the
expert testimony. The very point of today's holding is that
the abuse-of-discretion standard of review applies whether
the district judge has excluded or admitted evidence. Ante,
at 142. And nothing in either Daubertor the Federal Rules
of Evidence requires a district judge to reject an expert's
conclusions and keep them from the jury when they fit
the facts of the case and are based on reliable scientific
methodology.
Accordingly, while I join Parts I and II of the Court's opinion, I do not concur in the judgment or in Part III of its
opinion.

allow a reasonable juror to conclude that the position more likely than
not is true, the court remains free to direct a judgment, Fed. Rule Civ.
Proc. 50(a), and likewise to grant summary judgment, Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
56.... These conventional devices, rather than wholesale exclusion under
an uncompromising 'general acceptance' test, are the appropriate safeguards where the basis of scientific testimony meets the standards of Rule
702." 509 U. S., at 596.

