OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-1279. Argued November 5, 1997-Decided January 14, 1998
Petitioner was charged with the knowing possession of an unregistered
and unserialized firearm in violation of 26 U. S. C. §§ 5861(d) and (i) as a
result of the discovery of a silencer in his truck. A silencer is included
within the meaning of "firearm" under §5845(a)(7). Petitioner repeatedly admitted during his arrest and trial that he knew that the item
found in his truck was in fact a silencer. The District Court denied
petitioner's request for an instruction that defined the Government's
burden of establishing "knowing possession" as proof that he had willfully and consciously possessed an item he knew to be a "firearm."
Petitioner was convicted. Under Staples v. United States, 511 U. S.
600, decided after this case was submitted to the jury, the mens rea
element of a violation of §5861(d) requires the Government to prove
that the defendant knew that the item he possessed had the characteristics that brought it within the statutory definition of a firearm. The
Eleventh Circuit affirmed petitioner's conviction because the omission
related to an element admitted by petitioner and, in light of his repeated
admissions, the error was harmiess beyond a reasonable doubt.
Held, The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently granted.
Reported below: 94 F. 3d 1519.
JUSTICE STEVENS, joined by JUSTICE THOMAS, JUSTICE GINSBURG,
and JUSTICE BREYER, concluded that the question on which this Court

granted certiorari-whether failure to instruct on an element of an offense is harmless error where, at trial, the defendant admitted that element-is not fairly presented by the record, and that, accordingly, the
writ must be dismissed as improvidently granted. The Eleventh Circuit's conclusion that the denial of petitioner's requested instruction effectively omitted an essential element of the § 5861 offenses was unwarranted for two reasons. First, the tendered instruction was ambiguous.
It might have been interpreted to require proof that petitioner knew
that his silencer was a "firearm" as defined by §5845(a)(7), not merely
that the item possessed certain offending characteristics. Second, and
more important, a fair reading of the instructions as actually given did
require the jury to find that petitioner knew that he possessed a silencer.
The trial judge first explained to the jury that the statute defined "firearm" to include a silencer and then instructed that petitioner could not
be found guilty without proof beyond a reasonable doubt that he "know-

Cite as: 522 U. S. 252 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

ingly possessed a 'firearm,' as defined above." Since the term "firearm"
had been "defined above" to include a silencer, that instruction required
the jury to determine that petitioner knew that the item he possessed
was a silencer. The instruction telling the jury that the Government
need not prove that petitioner knew that his gun "was a 'firearm' which
the law requires to be registered" is best read as merely explaining that
a conviction did not require the jury to find that petitioner knew that
the law required registration of the silencer. Under United States v.
Freed, 401 U. S. 601, the Government was entitled to such an instruction. Pp. 256-259.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR concluded that it is sufficient to dismiss the writ

that the instructions tendered by the District Court were ambiguous on
whether the jury was asked to find, as is required by Staples v. United
States, 511 U. S. 600, that petitioner knew that the item he possessed
was a silencer. As a result, it is at least unclear whether the question
the Court intended to address in this case is squarely presented.
P. 259.
STEVENS,

J., announced the decision of the Court and delivered an opin-

ion, in which THOMAS, GINSBURG, and BREYER, JJ., joined. O'CoNNOR,

J., filed an opinion concurring in the result, in which SCALIA, J., joined,
post, p. 259. KENNEDY, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and SOUTER, J., joined, post, p. 260.

Javier H. Rubinstein argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were James D. Holzhauer,Robert M.
Dow, Jr., Gary S. Feinerman,and Richard C. Klugh.
JonathanE. Nuechterlein argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Waxman, Acting Assistant Attorney General Keeney,
Deputy Solicitor General Dreeben, and Louis M. Fischer.
announced the decision of the Court and
delivered an opinion, in which JUSTICE THOMAS, JUSTICE
GINSBURG, and JUSTICE BREYER join.
We granted certiorari, 520 U. S. 1239 (1997), to decide
whether a district court's failure to instruct the jury on an
element of an offense is harmless error where, at trial, the
defendant admitted that element. Because we have concluded that the question is not fairly presented by the record,
we dismiss the writ as improvidently granted.
JUSTICE STEVENS

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

I
Petitioner was charged with the knowing possession of an
unregistered and unserialized firearm described as "a 9" by
13/4" silencer," App. 6-7, in violation of 26 U. S. C. §§ 5861(d)
and (i).1 Although he claimed that he did not know that the
item was in a canvas bag found behind the driver's seat in
his pickup truck when he was arrested, he candidly acknowledged that he knew it was a silencer. He repeated this admission during questioning by the police and in his testimony
at trial; moreover, it was confirmed by his lawyer during
argument to the jury.
Under our decision in Staples v. United States, 511 U. S.
600 (1994), the mens rea element of a violation of §5861(d)
requires the Government to prove that the defendant knew
that the item he possessed had the characteristics that
brought it within the statutory definition of a firearm. 2 It
'Section 5861 provides that "[i]t shall be unlawful for any person... (d)
to receive or possess a firearm which is not registered to him in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record; or... (i) to receive or
possess a firearm which is not identified by a serial number as required
by this chapter." Section 5845(a) provides that "[tihe term 'firearm'
means ...(7) ahiy silencer (as defined in section 921 of title 18, United
States Code).".
In a separate count petitioner was charged with the unlawful possession
of a machinegun in violation of 18 U. S. C. §922(o). His conviction on that
count was reversed on appeal after the Government conceded that the
evidence did not establish that petitioner knew that the gun had been
modified to act as a fully automatic weapon. 94 F. 3d 1519, 1523 (CAll
1996). Reversal was therefore required under Staples v. United States,
511 U. S.600 (1994), which was decided after the trial in this case.
2See id., at 602 (Government must prove that defendant "knew the
weapon he possessed had the characteristics that brought it within the
statutory definition of a machinegun"); id., at 604 ("[Section] 5861(d) requires proof that a defendant knew of the characteristics of his weapon
that made it a 'firearm' under the Act"); id., at 609 ("[Section] 5861(d)
requires the defendant to know of the features that make his weapon a
statutory 'firearm' "); id., at 619 ("Thus, to obtain a conviction, the Government should have been required to prove that petitioner knew of the features of his AR-15 that brought it within the scope of the Act"); id., at

Cite as: 522 U. S. 252 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

is not, however, necessary to prove that the defendant knew
that his possession was unlawful, or that the firearm was
unregistered. United States v. Freed, 401 U. S. 601 (1971);
see Staples, 511 U. S., at 609. Thus, in this case, petitioner's
admission that he knew the item was a silencer constituted
evidence sufficient to satisfy the mens rea element of the
charged offenses. He nevertheless submits that his conviction is unconstitutional because, without an instruction from
the trial judge defining that element of the offense, there has
been no finding by the jury that each of the elements of the
offense has been proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Relying on JUSTICE SCALIA'S opinion concurring in the judgment

in Carella v. California,491 U. S. 263, 267 (1989) (per curiam), petitioner contends that "'"the question is not
whether guilt may be spelt out of a record, but whether guilt
has been found by a jury according to the procedure and
standards appropriate for criminal trials."'" Brief for Petitioner 20-21 (quoting Carella,491 U. S., at 269 (in turn quoting Bollenbach v. United States, 326 U. S. 607, 614 (1946))).
The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit rejected
petitioner's argument and affirmed his conviction. 94 F. 3d
1519 (1996). The Court of Appeals reasoned that the failure
to give an instruction on an element of the offense can be
harmless error if the "omission related to an element of the
crime that the defendant in any case admitted," 3 and that in
this case petitioner's unequivocal and repeated admissions
made it clear that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. In view of the fact that petitioner's submission
relies on the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment
620 (Congress did not intend "to make outlaws of gun owners who were
wholly ignorant of the offending characteristics of their weapons").
394 F. 3d, at 1526. The court also suggested that an instructional omission could be harmless if "the jury has necessarily found certain other
predicate facts that are so closely related to the omitted element that no
rational jury could find those facts without also finding the element."
Ibid.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of

STEVENS,

J.

and the Sixth Amendment right to a jury trial, as interpreted in cases like In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358 (1970), and
Sullivan v. Louisiana, 508 U. S. 275 (1993), it is clear that
the Court of Appeals decided an important constitutional
question. Given our tradition of avoiding the unnecessary
or premature adjudication of such questions, see, e. g., New
York City Transit Authority v. Beazer, 440 U. S. 568, 582583 (1979), we first consider whether the trial judge failed
to give the jury an adequate instruction on the mens rea
element of the offense.
II
Count 2 of the indictment charged that petitioner "knowingly" possessed an unregistered firearm, and Count 3
charged that he "knowingly" possessed a firearm that was
not properly identified by a serial number. The trial judge
denied petitioner's request for an instruction that defined the
Government's burden of establishing "'knowing possession'
as proof that "the defendant willfully and consciously possessed items which he knew to be 'firearms."' App. 12.
Apparently assuming that our holding in Staples required
such an instruction, the Court of Appeals concluded that the
trial judge's denial "effectively omitted from the instructions
an essential element of the crime charged under § 5861(d)."
94 F. 3d, at 1524. For two reasons, we believe this assumption was unwarranted.
First, the tendered instruction was ambiguous. It might
have been interpreted to require proof that the defendant
knew that his silencer was a "firearm" as defined by the federal statute, not merely that the item possessed certain offending characteristics. Second, and of greater importance,
a fair reading of the instructions as actually given did require the jury to find that petitioner knew that he possessed
a silencer.
In his objections to the instruction that the trial judge
originally proposed as a definition of the § 5861(d) offense

Cite as: 522 U. S. 252 (1998)
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

charged in Count 2, petitioner complained of "a third essential element in there, that being knowledge or knowing."
App. 78. In response, the trial judge inserted the word
"knowingly" between the words "Defendant" and "possessed" in the instruction defining the necessary mens rea.4
In instructing the jury, the judge first explained that the
statute defined the term "firearm" to include a silencer. He
then instructed the jury that the defendant could not be
found guilty without proof beyond a reasonable doubt that
"the Defendant knowingly possessed a 'firearm,' as defined
above." Id., at 104. Since the term "firearm" had been
"defined above" to include a silencer, that instruction required the jury to determine that the defendant knew that
5 A comparable inthe item he possessed was a silencer.
6
struction was given on Count 3.
4

,"THE COURT: You want me to insert knowingly between defendant
and possessed in the first element, I don't care.
"MR. SALANTRIE: Sure. That would work.
"THE COURT: Okay." App. 78-79.
5
JUSTICE KENNEDY argues that our "novel reading of the instruction,"
post, at 261, differs from the interpretation of the trial judge and petitioner's counsel. He is incorrect. First, as we point out, n. 4, supra, the
judge responded to the defense counsel's objection to the proposed instruction by inserting "knowingly."
Second, the "colloquy," post, at 260, between the defense counsel and
the trial court concerning the instruction in fact supports our interpretation. A "fair reading of the record," ibid., reveals the following:
The defense counsel begins his objection to the instruction by arguing
that the Government must prove that the defendant knew that the law required registration of the silencer. App. 84. After some discussion, the
defense counsel, by referencing the holding in United States v. Anderson,
885 F. 2d 1248 (CA5 1989) (en bane), shifts his argument to contend that the
defendant had to have knowledge of the offending characteristics of the
firearm. App. 86. The trial judge responds to this objection as follows:
"THE COURT: If you'll just read the last sentence [of the instruction]
you're adequatelyprotected,sir.
"MR. SALANTRIE: It seems the first sentence and the second sentence are mutually exclusive. One says it's not requiredfor him to have
[Footnote6 is on p. 258]

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of STEVENS, J.

Petitioner also has called our attention to the instruction
which told the jury that it was not necessary for the Government to prove that petitioner knew that the item "was a
'firearm' which the law requires to be registered." Ibid.
Given the fact that the jurors had previously been told that
a conviction requires that they find that petitioner knew the
item was a silencer, this instruction is best read as merely
explaining that a conviction did not require the jury to find
that the defendant knew that the law required registration
of the silencer. Under our decision in Freed, the Government was entitled to such an instruction.
We assume that the trial judge would have been more explicit in explaining the mens rea element of these offenses if
Staples had been decided prior to submitting the case to the
jury. However, in this case, we are satisfied that the instructions as given did inform the jurors that they must find
that the defendant knew that the silencer was in fact a siknowledge that it's a firearm. The second says it is. It has firearm in

quotes.
"THE COURT: Your client has gotten on the stand and testified that he
We could take that
knew instantly that that silencer was a silencer ....
sentence out of there.
"MR. SALANTRIE: He didn't say he knew it should be registered."
Id., at 87 (emphasis added).

Thus, the trial judge explicitly interpreted the instruction as satisfying
the defense counsel's objection concerning the requirement that the defendant have knowledge of the offending characteristics of the firearm. The defense counsel, whose objection continually shifted between arguing that the
defendant must know the offending characteristics of the firearm and that
the defendant must know that the law requires the firearm to be registered,
also agreed that the instruction "required for him to have knowledge that
it's a firearm." Ibid. Ultimately, he merely argued that "the first sentence"-pertaining to knowledge of the registration requirement-was inconsistent with the requirement that the jury find that the defendant have
of the offending characteristics of the firearm. Ibid.
knowledge
6
d., at 105. In a footnote, the Court of Appeals noted that although
the reasoning in Staples only involved § 5861(d), it logically applied equally
to § 5861(i). 94 F. 3d, at 1524, n. 8.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 252 (1998)
O'CONNOR, J., concurring in result

lencer.7 We therefore conclude that the record does not
fairly present the question that we granted certiorari to address. Accordingly, the writ is dismissed as improvidently
granted.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR, with whom JUSTICE SCALIA joins,
concurring in the result.
As the plurality points out, we granted certiorari to address an important issue of constitutional law, and we ought
not to decide the question if it has not been cleanly presented. In my view, it is sufficient to dismiss the writ that
the instructions tendered by the District Court were ambiguous on whether the jury was asked to find, as is required by
Staples v. United States, 511 U. S. 600 (1994), that petitioner
"knew that the item he possessed was a silencer," ante, at
257. As a result, it is at least unclear whether the question
we intended to address in this case-whether a district
court's failure to instruct the jury on an element of an offense
is harmless error where, at trial, the defendant admitted that
element-is squarely presented. For that reason, I concur
in the dismissal of the writ as improvidently granted. I
share the plurality's concern, ante this page, n. 7, that trial
courts should structure their instructions in cases implicating Staples in a way that prevents the possible interpretation identified by JUSTICE KENNEDY in his dissent.
7

Of course, if the instruction merely required the jury to find that the
defendant knowingly possessed a canvas bag, or knowingly possessed a
dangerous item that might not have had the characteristics of a silencer,
it would not have complied with Staples. Our disposition is based on our

view that the instruction required the jury to find that the defendant knew
that he possessed a device having all the characteristics of a silencer.

It

would be wise for trial courts to explain the Staples requirement more
carefully than the instruction used in this case to foreclose any possibility
that jurors might interpret the instruction as JUSTICE KENNEDY does in

his dissent.

ROGERS v. UNITED STATES
KENNEDY,

J., dissenting

JUSTICE KENNEDY, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE
JUSTICE SOUTER join, dissenting.

and

The case was submitted to a jury prior to our decision in
Staples v. United States, 511 U. S. 600 (1994), and there was
a colloquy between defense counsel and the trial court about
whether the Government was required to show the defendant knew the object was a silencer. See, e.g., App. 84-87.
A fair reading of the record indicates that, consistent with
then-governing Eleventh Circuit precedent, see 94 F. 3d
1519, 1523, n. 7 (1996), the trial court ruled this knowledge
was not a necessary part of the Government's case.
Under the trial court's instructions, the defendant could
be found guilty if he "knowingly possessed a 'firearm,' as
defined above." App. 104. The word "knowingly" in the
instruction modifies the word which follows it, viz., "possessed," rather than the instruction's further reference to
the statutory definition of "firearm." Although in other circumstances one might argue the instruction was ambiguous,
here the trial court agreed with the defendant's understanding of it. The trial court explained to the jury: "What must
be proved beyond a reasonable doubt is that the Defendant
knowingly possessed the item as charged, that such item was
a 'firearm' as defined above, and that [it] was not then registered to the Defendant in the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record." Ibid. As understood by the
trial court, ibid., petitioner's counsel, Brief for Petitioner 2,
the Solicitor General, Brief for United States 12, and the
Court of Appeals, 94 F. 3d, at 1523, the instruction told the
jury it had to find the defendant knew he possessed the device in question but not that he knew it was a silencer.
The plurality proceeds, however, to find not even that the
instruction was ambiguous, but that it was a satisfactory
implementation of our later announced decision in Staples.
And, though the Court in the end does nothing more than
order the case dismissed, the plurality by its extensive discussion suggests, in effect, that all convictions based on this

Cite as: 522 U. S. 252 (1998)
KENNEDY,

J., dissenting

form of instruction must be affirmed. This is a substantive
point; it was neither briefed nor argued; it is contrary to
a commonsense reading of the instruction; and it tends to
diminish the force of Staples itself.
If the plurality wishes to persist in its interpretation of
the instruction, it ought to issue a full opinion addressing the merits of the conviction, rather than mask a substantive determination in its opinion supporting dismissal. As
things stand, it brings little credit to us to get rid of the case
by a strained and novel reading of the instruction-a reading
quite unsupportable on the record-after we granted certiorari and expended the Court's resources to determine a different and important issue of substantive criminal law. The
petitioner, whose conviction now stands based on what is for
practical purposes an affirmance on a theory no one has suggested until now, will be hard put to understand the plurality's cavalier refusal to address his substantive arguments.
I dissent from the order dismissing the case.

