OCTOBER TERM, 1997
Syllabus

TREST v. CAIN, WARDEN
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FIFTH CIRCUIT
No. 96-7901. Argued November 10, 1997-Decided December 9, 1997
In upholding the District Court's refusal to issue a writ of habeas corpus
vacating petitioner Trest's Louisiana prison sentence, the Fifth Circuit
stated its belief that a state court would refuse to consider Trest's federal claims as untimely, and that this "procedural default" was an adequate and independent state ground for denying him relief. In his petition for certiorari, Trest pointed out that the Fifth Circuit had raised
and decided the "procedural default" question sua sponte, and that language in the court's opinion suggested that it had thought that, once it
had noticed the possibility of a procedural default, it was required to
raise the matter on its own.
Held A court of appeals is not "required" to raise the issue of procedural
default sua sponte. Pp. 89-92.
(a) In the habeas context, procedural default is normally a "defense"
that the State is "obligated to raise" and "preserv[e]" if it is not to "lose
the right to assert the defense thereafter." Gray v. Netherland, 518
U.S. 152, 166. This Court is unaware of any precedent stating that a
habeas court must raise such a matter where the State itself does not
do so. Pp. 89-90.
(b) This is not an appropriate case in which to examine whether the
law nonetheless permitted the Fifth Circuit to raise the procedural default sua sponte. First, its opinion contains language suggesting it believed that, despite Louisiana's failure to raise the matter, Circuit precedent required, not simply permitted, it to consider a potential procedural
default. Second, Trest made clear in his certiorari petition that he intended to limit the question to mandatory consideration, and Louisiana
in its response did not object, suggest alternate wording, or ask this
Court to consider the question in any broader context. Third, the
broader question cannot be easily answered in the context of this case,
for this Court is uncertain about matters which arguably are relevant
to the question whether the law permitted the Fifth Circuit to raise a
procedural default sua sponte: questions about the exhaustion of Trest's
federal claims in state court and about the relevant procedural rules to
be applied. The parties might have considered these questions, and the
Fifth Circuit might have determined their relevance or their answers,

TREST v. CAIN
Opinion of the Court
had that court not decided the procedural default question without giving the parties an opportunity for argument. Pp. 90-92.
94 F. 3d 1005, vacated and remanded.
BREYER,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Rebecca L. Hudsmith argued the cause and filed briefs
for petitioner.
Kathleen E. Petersen,Assistant Attorney General of Louisiana, argued the cause for respondent. With her on the
brief were Richard P. Ieyoub, Attorney General, and Mary
Ellen Hunley, Assistant Attorney General.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The petitioner in this case, Richard Trest, seeks a writ of
habeas corpus, which would vacate a long sentence that he
is serving in a Louisiana prison for armed robbery. The
District Court refused to issue the writ. Trest appealed to
the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which ruled
against him on the ground of "procedural default." Trest v.
Whitley, 94 F. 3d 1005, 1007 (1996). The Fifth Circuit believed that Trest had failed to raise his federal claims on time
in state court, that a state court would now refuse to consider his claims for that reason, and that this state procedural reason amounted to an adequate and independent state
ground for denying Trest relief. Hence, in the absence of
special circumstances, a federal habeas court could not reach
the merits of Trest's federal claims. Id., at 1007-1009; see
JUSTICE BREYER

*Edward M. Chikofsky and BarbaraE. Bergman filed a brief for the
National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers as amicus curiaeurging reversal.
A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State of
Mississippi et al. by Mike Moore, Attorney General of Mississippi, Marvin
L. White, Jr., Assistant Attorney General, and Jeffrey A Klingfuss, Special Assistant Attorney General, Robert A Butterworth, Attorney General
of Florida, Joseph P Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, and Frankie
Sue Del Papa,Attorney General of Nevada.

Cite as: 522 U. S. 87 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

generally Coleman v. Thompson, 501 U. S. 722 (1991); Rose
v. Lundy, 455 U. S. 509 (1982).
In his petition for certiorari to this Court, Trest pointed
out that the Court of Appeals had raised and decided the
question of "procedural default" sua sponte. The parties
themselves had neither raised nor argued the matter. And
language in the Court of Appeals' opinion suggested that the
court had thought that, once it had noticed the possibility
of a procedural default, it was required to raise the matter
on its own. Trest consequently asked us to decide whether
a court of appeals, reviewing a district court's habeas corpus decision, "is requiredto raise... sua sponte" a petitioner's potential procedural default. Pet. for Cert. i (emphasis
added). We agreed to do so.
Precedent makes clear that the answer to the question
presented is "no." A court of appeals is not "required" to
raise the issue of procedural default sua sponte. It is not
as if the presence of a procedural default deprived the federal court of jurisdiction, for this Court has made clear that
in the habeas context, a procedural default, that is, a critical
failure to comply with state procedural law, is not a jurisdictional matter. See Lambrix v. Singletary, 520 U. S. 518,
522-523 (1997); Coleman, 501 U. S., at 730-731. Rather,
"[i]n the habeas context, the application of the independent
and adequate state ground doctrine," of which a procedural
default is typically an instance, "is grounded in concerns of
comity and federalism." Id., at 730 (contrasting habeas proceeding with this Court's direct review of a state court judgment). Thus, procedural default is normally a "defense"
that the State is "obligated to raise" and "preserv[e]" if it is
not to "lose the right to assert the defense thereafter."
Gray v. Netherland,518 U. S. 152, 166 (1996); see Jenkins v.
Anderson, 447 U. S.231, 234, n. 1 (1980). We are not aware
of any precedent stating that a habeas court must raise such
a matter where the State itself does not do so. And Louisiana concedes as much, for it says in its brief that "the Fifth

TREST v. CAIN
Opinion of the Court

Circuit clearly was not 'required' to sua sponte invoke procedural default." Brief for Respondent 16-17.
Louisiana, however, would like us to go beyond the question presented and hold that the law permitted (though it did
not require) the Fifth Circuit to raise the procedural default
sua sponte. Cf. Granberry v. Greer, 481 U. S. 129, 133-134
(1987) (appellate court may raise sua sponte petitioner's failure to exhaust state remedies). We recognize some uncertainty in the lower courts as to whether, or just when, a
habeas court may consider a procedural default that the
State at some point has waived, or failed to raise. Compare
Esslinger v. Davis, 44 F. 3d 1515, 1525-1528 (CAll 1995)
(suasponte invocation of procedural default serves no important federal interest), with Hardimanv. Reynolds, 971 F. 2d
500, 502-505 (CA10 1992) (comity and scarce judicial resources may justify court raising state procedural default
sua sponte); see also J. Liebman & R. Hertz, 2 Federal
Habeas Corpus Practice and Procedure ยง26.2, pp. 814-817
(1994) (citing cases). Nonetheless, we do not believe this is
an appropriate case in which to examine that question for
several reasons. First, the Fifth Circuit's opinion contains
language suggesting the court believed that, despite Louisiana's failure to raise the matter, Circuit precedent required
the court (and did not simply permit the court) to consider a
potential procedural default. See, e. g., 94 F. 3d, at 1007
("T]his court's decision in Sones v. Hargett... precludes us
from reviewing the merits of Trest's habeas challenge").
Second, the language of the question presented in Trest's
petition for certiorari, as well as the arguments made in his
petition, made clear that Trest intended to limit the question
in the way we have described. Yet Louisiana in its response
did not object or suggest alternate wording. Nor did Louisiana ask us to consider the question in any broader context.
Third, we cannot now easily answer the broader question
in the context of this case, for we are uncertain about mat-

Cite as: 522 U. S. 87 (1997)
Opinion of the Court

ters which arguably are relevant to the question whether the
law permitted the Fifth Circuit to raise a procedural default
sua sponte. The parties disagree, for example, about
whether or not Trest has fully, or partially, exhausted his
current federal claims by raising them in state court. Cf.
Rose v. Lundy, supra, at 518-520. They disagree about
whether Louisiana has waived any "nonexhaustion" defense.
CE Granberryv. Greer, supra. They consequently disagree
about whether this is, or is not, the kind of case in which a
federal court might rely upon the existence of a state "procedural bar" despite the failure of any state court to assert
one. See Coleman v. Thompson, supra, at 735, n.
The parties also seem to disagree about which State's procedural rules are relevant. Trest's federal claims focus upon
the 35-year sentence of imprisonment that the Louisiana
court imposed (under a Louisiana "habitual offender" law)
in light of his earlier convictions in Mississippi for burglary.
Trest argued that those earlier convictions were constitutionally invalid because they rested upon a guilty plea which
he says the Mississippi court accepted without having first
told him about his rights to appeal, to trial by jury, to confront witnesses, and not to incriminate himself. Cf. Boykin
v. Alabama, 395 U. S. 238, 242-244 (1969); State v. Robicheaux, 412 So. 2d 1313, 1316-1317 (La. 1982). The Fifth
Circuit did not reach the merits of Trest's claims because it
believed that the Mississippi courts would have barred any
challenge to his Mississippi convictions as a challenge that,
under state law, came too late in the day. See Miss. Code
Ann. ยง 99-39-5(2) (1994). Trest, and amici supporting him,
state that the relevant procedural law (for the purposes of
the "procedural default" doctrine) is that of Louisiana, rather
than that of Mississippi, for it is Louisiana, not iMississippi,
which holds Trest in custody. And it is not clear whether
Mississippi's procedural law would create a "default" that
would bar federal courts from considering whether Louisi-

TREST v. CAIN

Opinion of the Court

ana, not Mississippi, could (or could not) use Mississippi convictions to enhance a sentence for a subsequent Louisiana
crime.
We note that the parties might have considered these
questions, and the Court of Appeals might have determined
their relevance or their answers, had that court not decided
the procedural default question without giving the parties
an opportunity for argument. We do not say that a court
must always ask for further briefing when it disposes of a
case on a basis not previously argued. But often, as here,
that somewhat longer (and often fairer) way 'round is the
shortest way home. Regardless, we have answered the
question presented, we vacate the judgment of the Court of
Appeals, and we remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

