PACILEO v. WALKER

1307

Opinion in Chambers

PACILEO, SHERIFF v. WALKER
ON APPLICATION

No. A-894.

FOR STAY

Decided May 1, 1980

An application for a stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari, of a California Supreme Court order in connection with the
extradition to Arkansas of respondent, who had escaped from an
Arkansas prison, is granted. The order, inter alia, directed the California Superior Court to conduct hearings to determine if the Arkansas
prison was presently operated in conformance with the Eighth Amendment and stayed execution of the Governor of California's warrant of
extradition pending final determination of the proceeding. A stay of
the order is warranted since the Governor of California had granted
the request for extradition, which was in compliance with federal standards; the proper forum for respondent's challenge to Arkansas prison
conditions was in the Arkansas courts; and the order was very much
at odds with principles set forth in this Court's decisions governing
judicial proceedings in extradition cases.

MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.

Applicant Sheriff of El Dorado County, Cal., applies for
a stay of an order of the Supreme Court of California issued
April 9, 1980. The order was made in connection with a request for extradition of respondent Walker by the demanding
State of Arkansas to the rendering State of California pursuant to the Extradition Clause of the Constitution and federal
statutes implementing it. The stay is requested pending
consideration by this Court of a petition for certiorari to
review the order, which is sufficiently short to permit its
pertinent parts to be set forth in haec verba:
"The Sheriff of the County of El Dorado is ordered to
show cause before the Superior Court of El Dorado
County with directions to that court to conduct hearings
to determine if the penitentiary in which Arkansas seeks
to confine petitioner is presently operated in conformance

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

with the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution and thereafter decide the petition on its merits.
"Pending final determination of this proceeding execution of the Governor's Warrant of Extradition is stayed,
and the Sheriff of the County of El Dorado is directed

not to release petitioner into the custody of any agent of
the State of Arkansas."
Though there are numerous factual allegations in both the
application and in the response for which I called, the only
one which is verified was made to Governor Brown of California in urging him to refuse to issue an extradition warrant
in this case. In that affidavit, a practicing attorney in Little
Rock, Ark., stated: "I have no hesitation in stating that I
fear if James Dean Walker is returned to the Arkansas penitentiary system that he faces grave danger to his physical
well being."
Nonetheless, on February 18, 1980, the Governor of California honored the requisition for the arrest and rendition of
respondent James Dean Walker, who was then within the
State of California and who escaped from an Arkansas prison
prior to completing a sentence imposed upon him in that
State following his conviction for murder. The legal issues
posed by the applicant's request for a stay can probably be
best understood in the light of the legal proceedings which
have ensued since Governor Brown issued the warrant of
arrest and rendition.
Respondent Walker first challenged his extradition by filing
a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the Superior Court of
El Dorado County, Cal., then in the California Court of
Appeal, Third Appellate District, and then in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of California.
Each of these efforts was unsuccessful.
It was only upon this final application to the Supreme
Court of California that he obtained the relief which he
sought, and the Sheriff of El Dorado County who is his

PACILEO v. WALKER
1307

Opinion in Chambers

present custodian is now the applicant before me. Thus the
executive aspect of extradition, and the legal obligation of the
Governor of one State to surrender a fugitive found in that
State to the Governor of a demanding State upon his request
discussed in Kentucky v. Dennison, 24 How. 66 (1861), are
not involved here. The Governor of California has already
issued an extradition warrant in response to the request of
the Governor of Arkansas, and the question is to what extent
may the courts of the so-called "asylum" or "rendering" State
inquire beyond the face of the extradition warrant and its
conformity to state law.
This Court most recently considered that question in
Michigan v. Doran, 439 U. S. 282 (1978), in which it stated
that "[i]nterstate extradition was intended to be a summary
and mandatory executive proceeding derived from the language of Art. IV, ยง 2, cl. 2, of the Constitution." Id., at
288. We further stated in that case:
"Once the governor has granted extradition, a court considering release on habeas corpus can do no more than
decide (a) whether the extradition documents on their
face are in order; (b) whether the petitioner has been
charged with a crime in the demanding state; (c) whether
the petitioner is the person named in the request for
extradition; and (d) whether the petitioner is a fugitive.
These are historic facts readily verifiable." Id., at 289.
In an earlier decision, Sweeney v. Woodall, 344 U. S. 86
(1952), the Court stated:
"The scheme of interstate rendition, as set forth in both
the Constitution and the statutes which Congress has
enacted to implement the Constitution, contemplates the
prompt return of a fugitive from justice as soon as the
state from which he fled demands him; these provisions
do not contemplate an appearance by Alabama in respondent's asylum to defend against the claimed abuses
of its prison system." Id., at 89-90 (footnotes omitted).

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

In this case, the demanding State is Arkansas, whose prisons
were the subject of our opinion in Hutto v. Finney, 437 U. S.
678 (1978). The asylum State is California, and the Superior
Court of El Dorado County, Cal., has been ordered by the
Supreme Court of that State "to conduct hearings to determine if the penitentiary in which Arkansas seeks to confine
petitioner is presently operated in conformance with the
Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution and
thereafter decide the petition on its merits."
The 1970 census conducted by the United States indicates
that El Dorado County, Cal., has a population of 43,833
persons. Its county seat, Placerville, with a population indicated by the same census as being in the neighborhood of
5,000 persons, is located between Sacramento and the Nevada
border on the south side of Lake Tahoe. While there is in
terms no doctrine of "forum non conveniens," the doctrines of
this Court in Sweeney v. Woodall, supra, and Michigan v.
Doran,supra,indicate that the interstate rendition of fugitives
has a federal constitutional and statutory basis, and cannot
be decided solely in accordance with the principles of law
enunciated by the courts of one State. Here the Governor of
California has granted the request for extradition, which is in
compliance with federal standards. And under Sweeney the
proper forum for respondent's challenge to Arkansas prison
conditions is in the Arkansas courts. It seems to me that
the order issued by the Supreme Court of California is very
much at odds with principles set forth in Doran and Sweeney,
and I have therefore decided to grant the application of
applicant Pacileo for a stay pending timely filing of a writ of
certiorari in this Court to review the order of the Supreme
Court of California. In the event that the petition is denied,
the stay issued by me shall expire of its own force. In the
event that the petition for certiorari is granted, the stay shall
continue in force until final disposition of the case by this
Court or further order of the Court.

