OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

SUMNER, WARDEN v. MATA
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-882 (79-1601).

Decided May 1, 1980

An application for a stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari, of the Court of Appeals' mandate under which a writ of habeas
corpus would issue unless California granted respondent a new trial on
a murder charge, is granted. In holding that certain witnesses' in-court
identifications of respondent at his state trial were tainted by pretrial
identifications resulting from impermissibly suggestive photographic
arrays, the Court of Appeals reasoned that photographic identification,
as opposed to less suggestive procedures, was not necessary under the
circumstances, and that there was a very substantial likelihood of
misidentification due to the procedures employed. Given the tension
between the Court of Appeals' analysis and this Court's decisions indicating that reliability, not necessity, is the linchpin in determining the
admissibility of identification testimony, and given the apparent conflict
between the Court of Appeals' decision and a decision of another Court
of Appeals, it appears that four Members of this Court are likely to
vote to grant certiorari in this case.
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST, Circuit Justice.
Applicant seeks to stay the mandate of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit under which a writ
of habeas corpus would issue unless the State of California
grants respondent Robert Mata a new trial on the charge of
murder. See Mata v. Sumner, 611 F. 2d 754 (1979).
On
April 15, 1980, I temporarily stayed that mandate pending
consideration of a response to the application and further
order, in order to see whether there was a conflict among the
Courts of Appeals or a substantial doctrinal difference from
cases decided by this Court that would distinguish this decision from the numerous mine-run decisions on the reliability
of identification that could not possibly be individually reviewed by this Court.
In 1972 respondent, then a prisoner at a medium-security

SUMNER v. MATA
1302

Opinion in Chambers

prison in Tehachapi, Cal., was charged with the murder of
another prisoner, Leonard Arias. While investigating the
murder, prison officials showed two prisoners who had witnessed the killing a series of photographic arrays containing
pictures of respondent and his two alleged accomplices.
Without recounting the details of each display, see id., at
755-757, it suffices to say that the two witnesses eventually
selected respondent's photograph from the arrays and subsequently identified him at trial as one of the persons involved
in the killing.
On direct appeal from his conviction, respondent challenged
the pretrial identification procedures and claimed they tainted
the subsequent in-court identifications. The California
Court of Appeal rejected this challenge, finding that there
had been "no showing of influence by the investigating officers; that the witnesses had an adequate opportunity to view
the crime; and that their descriptions [were] accurate."
App. to Pet. for Cert. C-4--C-5. The California courts also
rejected respondent's petition for a writ of habeas corpus,
which petition similarly challenged the identification procedures employed by prison officials.
On respondent's subsequent petition for a federal writ of
habeas corpus, the District Court concluded that, although
"irregularities occurred in the pre-trial photographic identification" of respondent, those irregularities "did not so taint
the in-court identifications . . . as to establish a constitutional violation. . . " Id., at D-3.

A divided panel of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit reversed. In evaluating the admissibility
of the in-court identifications, the majority of the Court of
Appeals employed a "two-part approach." First, it considered whether photographic identification, as opposed to a
lineup, was necessary under the circumstances. It answered
this inquiry in the negative. Second, the majority inquired
"whether there was a very substantial likelihood of irreparable

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

446 U.S.

misidentification" due to the less-than-ideal procedures employed. It answered this inquiry in the affirmative. In
summarizing this latter holding, the court clearly indicated
that it considered the feasibility of a lineup a significant
factor in its determination:
"Based upon the lack of necessity [for a photographic
array], the diversion of the witnesses' attention at the
time the crime was committed, the hazy and very general description of the appellant [by one of the witnesses], and the inescapable focusing of attention upon
the [respondent] by the investigating authorities, we
are driven to the conclusion that the photographic identification procedure was so impermissibly suggestive as
to give rise to a very substantial likelihood of irreparable
misidentification." 611 F. 2d, at 759.
In his petition for a writ of certiorari, applicant contends
that the majority of the Court of Appeals gave undue weight
to the failure of the prison officials to employ a lineup as
opposed to a photographic array in the present case. To the
extent that the Court of Appeals did overturn respondent's
conviction because it believed that "less suggestive" procedures were available, I believe that its decision ignores this
Court's indication in Manson v. Braithwaite, 432 U. S. 98,
114 (1977), holding that reliability, not necessity, is the
"linchpin in determining the admissibility of identification
testmony . . . ," a conclusion in turn derived from our de-

cision in Neil v. Biggers, 409 U. S. 188, 199-200 (1972). The
decision of the majority of the Court of Appeals in this regard would also seem to conflict with United States v. Gidley,
527 F. 2d 1345 (CA5), cert. denied, 429 U. S. 841 (1976),
where the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
stated that the availability of less suggestive methods of identification is "not relevant" in determining whether a photographic display is impermissibly suggestive. 527 F. 2d, at
1350.

SUMNER v. MATA
1302

Opinion in Chambers

Two arguments offered by respondent merit brief mention.
First, respondent asserts that the Court of Appeals' "twopart approach" incorporates the necessity of a challenged procedure only in determining whether that procedure, although
suggestive, was nevertheless constitutionally permissible given
the exigencies of the situation. A close reading of the appellate court's opinion, however, belies that interpretation, and
demonstrates instead that the court considered the availability of less suggestive procedures an "important factor"
in determining the reliability of the procedures actually employed. See 611 F. 2d, at 757, 759. Second, respondent suggests that this Court has declined on several prior occasions
to review the two-part approach employed in the Ninth Circuit. See United States v. Crawford, 576 F. 2d 794 (CA9),
cert. denied, 439 U. S. 851 (1978); United States v. Pheaster,
544 F. 2d 353 (CA9 1976), cert. denied, 429 U. S. 1099 (1977);
United States v. Calhoun, 542 F. 2d 1094 (CA9 1976), cert.
denied sub nom. Stephenson v. United States, 429 U. S. 1064
(1977); United States v. Valdivia, 492 F. 2d 199 (CA9 1973),
cert. denied, 416 U. S. 940 (1974). In addition to the hazards
of reading any meaning into this Court's denials of certiorari,
I would also note that each of the aforecited cases came to
this Court after the Court of Appeals had upheld the identification procedures there employed. We thus were not presented with opportunities to consider the relevance of the
feasibility of less suggestive procedures to a determination
that the procedure actually employed was unconstitutionally
suggestive.
In this case the Court of Appeals rejected the uniform
conclusion of several state courts and another federal court
that the identification procedures employed here were not so
suggestive as to taint the witnesses' in-court identification of
respondent. Given the tension between the analysis employed by the majority of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit in this case and our decisions in Manson, supra, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion in Chambers

446 U. S.

Neil, supra, and given the apparent conflict between the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this
case and the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit in Gidley, supra, I have decided to grant applicant's
request for an order staying the mandate in Mata v. Sumner
(the present case), 611 F. 2d 754 (CA9 1979), cert. pending,
No. 79-1601, because I am of the opinion that four Members
of this Court are likely to vote to grant certiorari in that case
when presented. As nearly as I can determine, that case
should be considered by the Court on certiorari in the near
future, and the stay which I am presently issuing shall expire
without further action of the Court in the event that certiorari is denied. If certiorari is granted, the stay shall remain
in effect until final disposition of the case or further order of
the Court.
Accordingly, the application for the stay of mandate of the
United States Court of Appeals in this case is
Granted.

