OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

gage as "a first lien," and $1,200,000 in an equipment bond,
secured by an equipment mortgage. In other words, it was
to have everything except the road, and the Grept Eastern
Company was necessarily to have and own that, so as to be
able to give a mortgage on it, as a "first lien." Nor is there
anything in the construction contract suggesting a direct lien
in favor of the Construction Company The provision for
giving to that company all the earnings of the road "during
construction" and "until accepted" by the Great Eastern
Company, is vague and indefinite, but it cannot be construed
as giving a lien, for that would be inconsistent with the whole
tenor of the instrument.
Many questions were discussed by counsel at the bar, and in
their briefs, and we have given attention to all the views and
arguments on the part of the respective appellants, but the considerations above stated, on which the case was disposed of by
the Circuit Court, seem to us to be controlling, and to make it
unnecessary to say aiything further.
Decree affirmed.
MR.JusTimc MATrHEWS did not sit in these cases or take any
part in their decision.

LEATHER MAI-TUFACTURERS' BANK v. .MORGAN
& Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued November 6, 1885.-Decided March 1, 1886.

A depositor in a bank, who sends his pass-book to be written up and receives it back with entries of credits and debits and ls paid checks as
vouchers for the latter, is bound personally or by an authorized agent, and
with due diligence, to examine the pass-book and vouchers, and to report to
the bank, without unreasonable delay, any errors which may be discovered
in them, and if he fails to do so, and if the bank is thereby misled to its pre-

LEATHER MANUFJAOTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN.

97

Statement of Facts.
judice, he cannot afterwards dispute the correctness of the balance shown
by the pass-book.
If a depositor in a bank delegates to a clerk the examination of Ins written up
pass-book and paid checks returned therewith as vouchers, without proper
supervision of the clerk's conduct in the examination, he does not so discharge his duty to the bank as to protect himself from loss, if it turns out
that without his knowledge the clerk committed forgery in raising the
amounts of some of those checks, and thereby misled the bank to its prejudice, in spite of due care on the part of its officers.
In this case it was held thaf the question whether the depositor exercised in
regard to such examination the degree of care required of him m the circumstances disclosed by the evidence, including the relations of the parties,
and the established usages of business, and the question whether the endorsement of a particular check was, under the evidence, an endorsement
in blank or one for deposit to the credit of the depositor, were for the
jury to determine, under proper instructions as to the law.

This was an action commenced by defendants in error, as
plaintiffs below, against the bank, to recover an alleged balance
of account. The facts are thus stated by the court.
The defendants in error, subjects of the Queen of Great
Britain, and partners under the name of Ashburner & Co.,
brought this action to recover a balance alleged to be due on a
deposit account opened at the Leather Manufacturers' National
Bank of New York City, in the name of "Win. B. Cooper,
Junior, agent for Ashburner & Co." The main dispute is as to
the right of the depositor to question the account rendered by
the bank, so far as it charges him with certain checks which he
signed, but which, before payment, were materially altered by
his clerk, without his knowledge or assent. The claim of the
plaintiffs is, that, after deducting all payments to them, or for
their use, there was due to them, April 8, 1881, the sum of
$9,996.38, for which they ask judgment. They also ask judgment, upon a second cause of action, for the sum of $280.97,
the amount of a check which, it is contended was endorsed
specifically for deposit to the credit of their agent, and was not
placed to his credit. The bank denies its liability upon either
cause of action, except for the sum of $141.91, which, it contends, is the entire balance due to the plaintiffs on March 22,
1881.
VOL. cxv-

7

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Numerous requests for instructions, in behalf of the bank,
were denied, and, under the order of the court, the jury returned a verdict, upon which judgment was entered, in favor of
the plaintiffs for the sum of 10,7141.09. To this action of the
court exception was duly taken, and the bank brings the case
here for review
The record contains a large amount of testimony, the details
of which cannot well be embodied in this opinion, but the
more important facts and circumstances which the evidence
tended to establish, and upon which the decision of the case
must turn, are those which will be now stated.
1. One Berlin entered the service of Cooper on the first day
of January, 1878, when about seventeen years of age. He and
his family were well known to his employer. From that d.te
until March, 1881, as confidential clerk, he had the entire management of Cooper's office, kept his books, and had full charge
of the account which Cooper, as agent of Ashburner & Co.,
kept with the defendant. With the knowledge and under the
direction of Cooper he filled up all checks drawn upon that
account, entering on the stub of the check-book the date and
amount of each check, the name of the payee, and the purpose for which it was drawn. He states m his deposition that
he was well known to the teller of the defendant bank, and as
the representative of Mr. Cooper.
2. Pursuant to Cooper's instructions, or in the regular course
of business, he filled up certain checks between September 11,
1880, and February 13, 1881, which, being signed by his employer and delivered to him, were altered by him before they
were taken from the office. The alterations were by erasure
and by re-writing the body of the checks, and were made, he
states, "with great care, and could not be detected without
very careful scrutiny, or a very close exaunation." The teller
of the bank testifies that the checks when presented by Berlin
were always carefully examined by him as to signature,
amount, date. and indorsement, and that there was nothing
about them to excite suspicion, or to suggest alteration or
erasure. Upon the checks so altered, Berlin received from the
bank the "full raised amount," out of which he paid to Cooper,

LEATHER MIANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN.

99

Statement of Facts.

or to his use, the several amounts for which they were originally drawn, and appropriated the balance to the discharge of
gambling debts which he had contracted. The entries in the
cueck-book were made by Berlin and were correct, but he
"forced the footings of the stubs" by making false additions
equal to the increase of the altered checks.
3. The numbers and dates of the altered checks and the
nature of the several alterations are as follows
iqo.

or
.

C

DATE Or

caECE.

cITA-ACTEi Or' -ALTERATIOT .

DAEC

8356
8377
8424
8431

Sept.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov'r

11, 1880.
28, 1880.
30, 1880.
8, 1880.

8468
8480

Nov'r 26, 1880.
Dec. 10, 1880.

8492

Dec. 18, 1880.

8498
8501

Dec. 24, 1880.
Dec. 28, 1880.

8504
8508
8518

Dec. 31, 1880.
Jan'y 5, 1891.
Jany 14, 1881.

8550

Feb'y 13, 1881.

Check to cash or bearer, raised from $90 to $500.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $10 to $400.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $105 to $405.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $17.25 to
$600.25.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $10 to $1.000.
Check to order of Marston & Son, raised from $7.75
to $700.25, and the words ,"
or bearer" written in
after payee's name.
Check to order of C. H. Clayton, raised from $15
to $1,500, and words "or bearer" written in after
payee's name.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $80 to $600.
Check to'order of W S. Daland, raised from $24.08
to $1,000, Daland's name erased, and that of Julius
Brandies inserted, and words "or bearer" written
in after payee's name.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $80 to 400.
Check to cash or bearer, raised from $10 to $2,000.
Check to order of Charles G. Hanks, raised from
$833.60 to $1,100, words "or bearer (duty)" written
m after payee's name, and " 14th" erased and
"27th" written over it.
Check to order of W S. Daland, raised from $17.72
to $100.72, and words" or C. Clifford Berlin," written in after payee's name, and date changed to February "14."

4. Cooper's pass-book was written up at the bank October '17,
1880, November 19, 1880, and January 18, 1881, and a balance
struck, showing to his credit on those dates, respectively,
$10,821.64, $4,568.68, and $5,566.61. Upon each occasion,
the book was returned with all checks that had been paid subsequent to the previous balancing, including the altered checks.
Across the face of the pass-book, on the first balancing, was

OCTOBER TERMT,

1885.

,Statement of Facts.

written "62 vouchers returned", on the second " 9 vouchers
returned", and on the last " 66 vouchers returned." Each time
the pass-book was returned, with the vouchers, Berlin destroyed
such of the checks in the lot as he had altered. He remembers to have shown the rest of the vouchers to Cooper on the
balancing of October 1, 1880, but does not remember of pursuing that course on the other occasions.
5. Berlin states that Cooper "was in the habit of examining
his check-book from time to time." It is clear that the latter
knew of these balancings, for, he testifies that his account with
the bank "was balanced from time to time, which was done by
the bank writing up the pass-book, and returning the checks
that had been paid by it, that when the pass-book was so returned it went to the clerk, Berlin, who then balanced the
check-book, that being one of the duties imposed upon him,
that the witness took no part in such balancings, but Berlin
generally showed him the vouchers that were returned, because
he used to like to look at them, but he never gave Berlin any
particular instructions so to do. That he was in the habit of
looking over his check-book and kept track of the balance,
which, during the months of August, September, November
and December, 1880, and January, 1881, he understood to be
about $10,000, and that, when he asked Berlin as to the balance. his answer agreed with about what he supposed was
in the bank." He also knew the object of such balancings,
for he testifies "that he had been a dealer with the defendant
bank for upwards of eighteen years, and that he knew that it
was its custom, as well as the custom of all banks, to balance
at intervals the pass-books of its depositors and to return the
same when balanced, accompanied by the checks drawn by the
depositor and charged to the account, as the vouchers of the
bank for such payments."
6. Cooper states that the forgeries were discovered by him
"about the first or second day of March, 1881." Berlin, having stayed away from the office for a day, he compared his
pass-book with the stubs of the check-book, and ascertained
that a certain number of checks, appearing on the %tubs,were
not charged against him in Is pass-book, and did not appear

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 101
Statement of Facts.

to have been returned by the bank, while others, which appeared on the pass-book to have been charged against and
returned to him, did not appear, by the stub of the check-book,
to have ever been drawn. He "thereupon sent ins pass-book
to the bank to be balanced, and it was balanced on March 2,
1881, and among the vouchers then returned were the aforesaid checks 8518 and 8550, which had been altered from their
original amounts." This, he states, was the first knowledge he
had of the forgeries. After receiving the last balancing, he
"then notified the bank that his clerk had absconded, and
that alterations had taken place, and requested them not to pay
any more of his checks, the bodies of which were filled up in
the handwriting of his clerk Berlin." Whether this notification was given as soon as he saw those two checks, or on the
same day, or after the expiration of several days, the record
does not show
7. Cooper admits that, if on any of the several balancings,
he had made such examinations of his check-book and passbook as was done on March 1, 1881, he would have "easily
discovered" that his account had been charged with altered
checks, and that for the previous five or ten years he knew of
various means adopted by bankers and merchants to prevent
the raising or alteration of checks, but he had not employed
or used any of them. Upon one occasion, the date not given,
he discovered, by adding up the "footings of the check-book,"
an error, and spoke to Berlin about it. The latter having replied that it was very seldom he was caught in a mistake,
Cooper believed him and looked no further into the matter.
Cooper did not surrender the altered checks, except 8518
and 8550, because they had been destroyed by his clerk. The
teller states that the latter one came through the clearing-house,
while the former was not, when paid, in the condition in which
it appeared to be at. the time of the trial. After the lapse of
time and frequent handling, the alteration, he said, was now
apparent.
It was upon this state of case, substantially, that the Circuit
Court instructed the jury to find for the plaintiffs upon both
causes of action.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

Judgment was entered accordingly, and the bank sued out
this writ of error to review it.
3r Charles Xt. DaCosta for plaintiff in error. .r
B. Sanborn was with him on the brief

2Toel

M JoAn X. Bowers for defendant in error.
I. A bank paying a forged or altered check is liable to the
depositor therefor for the full amount, if forged, and to the
raised amount, if altered. The balancing of the depositor's
account, and the rendition of the vouchers, including the
altered ones, only make an account stated. The depositor is
not bound personally to examine the same. If the examination be confided to a clerk, it is sufficient. If this clerk uses
his position to perpetrate forgery, the loss is still on the bank.
WVezsser v Denison, 10 N. Y 68, Welsh v. German Amerzcan Bank, 73 N. Y 424, Frank v Chemical Bank, 84 N. Y
209, Manufacturers' Bank v. Barnes, 65 Ill. 69, 3Tationai
Bank v Tappan, 6 Kansas, 456.
II. The only effect of an account stated is to cast the burden
of proof upon the complaining party to show fraud, error or
mistake. This is the doctrine of all the above cases, and of
the following 1ratonal Bank v TFhitman, 94 U. S., 343,
346, JManhattan Company v LZ/dig, 4 Johns., 377, Phillips
v Belden, 2 Edwds. Ch. 1, Kinsman v. Barker, 14 Ves., 579,
Bullock v Boyd, 2 Edwds. Ch. 293, Barrow v. Rhinelander,
1 Johns. Oh. 550. The same rule applies in law and equity
Perkins v Hart, 11 Wheat. 237. And, after holding that after lapse of reasonable time an account rendered becomes admitted as correct, the court, in Hardy v. Chesapeake Bank, 51
Maryland, 562, says "The presumption is liable to be repelled
by showing that the error or fraud complained of was not discoverable by the exercise of reasonable care and diligence, or
that there was no such appearance of things as to excite the
suspicion of a reasonable man, or that, for any reason, the party
had not had an opportunity to examine the account." p. 587.
See also Wiiggins v Burkham, 10 Wall. 129, 132, Hutchinson,
v Market Bank, 48 Barb. 302. Even the acknowledgment by

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 103
Argament for Defendant m Error.

the depositor or maker that the forged signature is genmune
does not cut him off from recovery, if such an acknowledgment be made after the bank has paid the money Hall v.
Huse, 10Iass. 39, Salem Bank v Gloucester Bank, 17 Mass.
1, 27.
III. A bank is liable to its depositor for any material alteration in a check drawn thereon. Hall v. Fuller, 5 B. & C., 750.
Nor is the depositor bound to suspect that the person with
whom he deals will commit forgery whenever the opportunity
arises, and, therefore, it is not necessary for a person drawing
a check to exclude the possibility of any addition or alteration.
It is sufficient to fill in the ordinary way Soczgte Generalev.
.7ketr olitan Bank, 27 Law Times, N. S., 849, fanhattan
Co. v .ydig, 4 Johns. 377, Goddard v
erchants' Bank, 4
Coms. 147, Bank of Commerce v Unonr Bank, 3 Coms. 230,
Bank of Albany v F'armers' and Xechantcs' Bank, 10 Vt.
141, Cases collected in Hardy v ChesapeakeBank above cited.
The alteration of a check is the same thing as its forgery
WFhite v Continental Bank, 64 N. Y 316, Jfarmne Bank v.
City Bank, 59 N. Y 67. See also T-rood v Steele, 6 Wall. 80,
Oddie v. City Bank, 45 N. Y 735, and Orawford v Vest Side
Bank, decided in the Court of Appeals in New York in 1885,
not yet reported, Belknap v
at-tonal Bank. 100 Mass. 376.
IV The principal is only bound by his agent while acting
in the course of an employment, affecting a third person.
Agencies are of many kinds from a general agency where
the agent stands in the place of the principal, to that in which
the most limited power is deputed for a specially defined purpose. A depositor in a bank could intrust to a confidential
clerk as his agent the duty of examining his account, and if
that clerk fraudulently performs the duty, the depositor was
guilty of no negligence. For parallel cases see Schmidt v
Blood, 9 Wend. 268, W~arner v Erze Railway Co., 39 N. Y
468, Trght v. New York Central Railroad Co., 25 N. Y
562; HardyBrothers v Chesapeake Bank and Wremsser v. -Dentson cited above. A man cannot be convicted of a crime because
of his agent's knowledge being imputed to him. The Queen
v. Stephens, L. R. 1 Q. B. 702, .Deerteldv .Delano,1 Pick. 465.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

V The only duty that the depositor owed was to adquaint
the bank with the fact of the forgery as soon as he learned it.
Exchange
TT77-'te v. Continental Bank, 64 N. Y 316, Car]
Bank v. _fassau Bank, 91 N. Y 74.
VI. There is no estoppel. (a). Estoppel in pais can only
avail where the position of the parties is changed. (b). Each
forgery was an independent one. Each payment was a wrongful one on the part of the bank. They have no right to claim
that they would have ceased doing wrong if the depositor had
informed them of the wrongful acts of their clerks. (c). The
plea cannot avail because there is no evidence to show that,
had the bank had earlier knowledge, they could have recouped
against the forger. JEetchurn v Duncan, 96 U S. 659, 666,
Dezell v Odell, 3 Hill, 215, 222, People v,Brown, 67 Ill. 435,
.Xart-n v Zellerbach, 38 Cal. 300, 315, .lcJ~enzze v Brittsh
Inen Co., H. L. 44 Law Times, 431, Continental Bank v.
Bank of the Commonwealth, 50 N. Y 575, Bank of Commerce
v AfXehancs Banking Assocmation, 55 N. Y 211, WTite v.
Continental Bank, 64 N. Y 316, Knights v WVh'en, L. R. 5
Q. B. 660, Hlopkins v Ware, 38 Law Journal, Ex. 147.
VII. There was no negligence on the part of the depositor.
The bank was guilty of gross negligence. The depositor's position has been fully stated under the fourth point. The position
of the bank will be best seen by an examination of the two
checks last paid by them, which were not destroyed by Berlin.
The forgeries were palpable at sight. They have been in possession of counsel preparing this brief, since their return by the
bank to Mr. Cooper, and we assert that there has been no
change of any kind. The bank should be held liable for its
gross negligence in paying checks where the alteration is so
plain.
VIII. The defendant in error was entitled to a direction in
his favor on his second cause of action. The endorsement is
plain, and was a special endorsement, and reads, "For deposit
in Leather Manufacturers' National Bank to the credit of W
B. Cooper, Jr., Agent for Ashburner & Co." The endorsement
was restrictive. The bank could only make one use of the
check, namely, credit the account of Ashburner & Co. with the

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 105
Opinion of the Court.

proceeds. Lee v Chillicotlw Bank, 1 Bond, 387, First-Arational Bank v. Reno County Bank, 3 Fed. Rep. 257. With the
endorsement in question on the check Berlin could make no use
of it for his own benefit. The endorser could recover against
any person who made or assisted Berlin to make any use of it
except to credit the depositor's account. Hook v Pratt,78 N.
Y 371, Claj 'n v. Wilson, 51 Iowa, 15, Sigourney v. Lloyd,
8 B. & 0. 622, Treuttel v. Barandon, 8 Taunt. 100, White v.
lVatwnal Bank, 102 U. S. 658, ilfecTanws' Bank v VFalley
Packing Co., 4 Missouri App. 200, 70 Missouri, 643.
IX. There being no conflict of evidence, and the evidence
being of such a character as to compel the setting aside of a verdict in favor of the defendant, the court was bound to direct in
favor of the plaintiff. Where the facts are clear, it is always
a question exclusively for the court. Where the proofs are
conflicting, the question is a mixed one of law and fact. In
such cases the court should instruct the jury as to the law upon
the several hypotheses of fact insisted upon by the parties.
Wiggins v Burkham, 10 Wall. 129, 132, Toland v Sprague,
12 Pet. 300, 335, Baylis v Travelers' Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316,
Randall v Baltimore & 074o Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478,
Pleasants v. P-ant, 22 Wall. 116, Anderson County Commssoners v Beal, 113 U. S. 227, 241. While it is true that the
court did not make use of the expression that the direction
was given because any verdict would have to be set aside yet
such was the intent and fact. Negligence may be a question
of fact or of law or both. What is due care is for the court.
Whether that due care was exercised is for the jury Smith's
Leading Cases, note to Coggs v Bernard,Vol. 1, pt. 1, p. 471, 8th
ed., Rowland v Jones,73 N. 0. 52, Poole v. Railroad Co., 56
Wisc. 227. That when on the most favorable construction of
the facts the evidence is insufficient to sustain a finding of negligence it becomes the duty of the court to direct that there is no
negligence as matter of law, see Randall v. Baltimore &
Ow Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478, 482.
MR. JusTic, HARLA delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above reported, he continued

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

The court below, as shown by its opinion, proceeded upon the
ground that Cooper was under no duty whatever to the bank
to examine his pass-book and the vouchers returned with it, in
order to ascertain whether his account was correctly kept. For
this reason, it is contended, the bank, even if without fault itself,
has no legal cause of complaint, although it may have been
misled to its prejudice by the failure of the depositor to give
timely notice of the fact-which, by ordinary diligence, he
might have discovered on the occasion of the several balancings
of the account-that the checks in question had been fraudulently altered. This view of his obligations does not seem to
the court to be consistent with the relations of the parties, or
with principles of justice.
While it is true that the relation of a bank and its depositor
is one simply of debtor and creditor, (P/wnix Bank v. Risky,
111 _U S. 125, 127,) and that the depositor is not chargeable
with any payments except such as are made in conformity with
his orders, it is within common knowledge that the object of a
pass-book is to inform the depositor from time to time of the
condition of his account as it appears upon the books of the bank.
It not only enables him to discover errors to his prejudice,
but supplies evidence in his favor in the event of litigation or
dispute with the bank. In this way it operates to protect him
against the carelessness or fraud of the bank. The sending of
his pass-book to be written up and returned with the vouchers,
is, therefore, in effect, a demand to know what the bank claims
to be the state of his account. And the return of the book,
with the vouchers, is the answer to that demand, and, in effect,
imports a'request by the bank that the depositor will, in proper
time, examine the account so rendered, and either sanction or
repudiate it. In .Devaynes v .Yoble, 1 feriv. 530, 535, it appeared that the course of dealing between banker and customer,
in London, was the subject of inquiry in the tigh Court of
Chancery as early as 1815. The report of the master stated,
among other things, that for the purpose of having the passbook made up by the bankers from their own books of account, the customer returns it to them from time to time as he
thinks fit, and, the proper entries being made by them up to

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 107
Opmion of the Court.

the day on which it is left for that purpose, they deliver it
again to the customer, who thereupon examines it, and if there
appears any error or omission, brings or sends it back to be
rectified, or, if not, his silence is regarded as an admission that
the entries are correct."
This report is quite as applicable to
the existing usages of this country as it was to the usages of
business in London at .the time it was made. The depositor
cannot, therefore, without injustice to the bank, omit all exammation of his account, when thus rendered at his request. His
failure to make it or to have it made, within a reasonable time
after opportunity given for that purpose, is inconsistent with
the object for which he obtains and uses a pass-book. It was
observed in First .. ational Bank v VhiVUtan, 94 U. S. 343,
346-although the observation was not, perhaps, necessary in
the decision -of the case-that the ordinary writing up of a
bank book, with a return of vouchers or statement of accounts,
precludes no one from ascertaining the truth and claiming its
benefit. Such undoubtedly is a correct statement of a general
rule. It was made in a case where the account included a
check in respect to which it was subsequently discovered that
the name of the payee had been forged. But it did not appear
that either the bank or the drawer of the check was guilty of
negligence. The drawer was not presumed to know the signature of the payee, his examination of the account would not
necessarily have disclosed the forgery of the payee's name,
therefore his failure to discover that fact sooner than he did
was not to be attributed to want of care. Without impugning
the general rule that an account rendered which has. become an
account stated, is open to correction for nustake or fraud, Perkins v Hart,11 Wheat. 237,256; Wiggzns v Burkuzm, 10 Wall.
129, 132, other principles come into operation, where a party
to a stated account, who is under a duty, from the usages of
business or otherwise, to examine it within a reasonable time
after having an opportunity to do so, and give timely notice of
his objections thereto, neglects altogether to make such examination himself, or to have it made, in good faith, by another
for him, by reason of which negligence, the other party, relying upon the account as having been acquiesced in or approved,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

has failed to take steps for his protection which he could and
would have taken had such notice been given. In other words,
parties to a stated account may be estopped by their conduct
from questioning its conclusiveness.
The doctrine of estoppel by conduct has been applied under
a great diversity of circumstances. In the consideration of the
question before us aid will be derived from an examination of
some of the cases in which it has been defined and applied. In
MAorgan v Railroad Conpany, 96 U. S. 716, 720, it was held
that a party may not deny a state of things which by his culpable silence or misrepresentations he has led another to believe
existed, if the latter has acted upon that belief. "The doctrine," the court said, "always presupposes error on one side
and fault or fraud upon the other, and some defect of which it
would be inequitable for the party against whom the doctrine
is asserted to take advantage." In Continental Bank v. Bank
of the Commonwealth, 50 N. Y 575, 583, it was held not to be
always necessary to such an estoppel that there should be an
intention, upon the part of the person making a declaration or
doing an act, to mislead the one who is induced to rely upon
it. "Indeed," said Folger, J., "it would limit the rule much
within the reason of it if it were restricted to cases where there
was an element of fraudulent purpose. In very many of the
cases in which the rule has been applied, there was no more
thaf negligence on the part of him who was estopped. And
it has long been held that where it is a breach of good faith to
allow the truth to be shown, there an admission will estop.
Gaylord v 'FanLoan, 15 Wend. 308." The general doctrine,
with proper limitations, was well expressed in -Freeman v
C'ooke, 2 Excb. 654, 663, and in Carr v. London & Yorthwestern Railway Co., L. R., 10 C. P 307. In the first of those
cases it was said by Parke, B., for the whole court, that "if,
whatever a man's real intention may be, he so conducts himself that a reasonable man would take the representation to be
true, and believe that it was meant that he should act upon it,
and did act upon it as true, the party making the representation would be equally precluded from contesting its truth, and
conduct, by negligence or omission, when there is a duty cast

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 109
Opinion of the Court.

upon a person by usage of trade or otherwise to disclose the
truth, may often have the same effect." And in the other
case, Brett, J., speaking for the court, said "If in the transaction itself which is in dispute, one has led another into the
belief of a certain state of facts by conduct of culpable negligence calculated to have that result, and such culpable negligence has been the proximate cause of leading and has led the
other to act by mistake upon such belief, to his prejudice, the
second cannot be heard afterwards, as against the first, to show
that the state of facts referred to did not exist." See also
-Manufacturers'& Traders' Bank v Hazard,30 N. Y 226,
229, Blar v. W]ait, 69 N. Y 113, 116, ilfcKenzie v. Britisk
_Znen Co., 6 App. Cas. 82, 101, Mltiles v. .[cllwraitl, 8 App.
Cas. 120, 133, Cornizs v Abzngton, 4 H=.& N. 549, 556.
Upon this doctrine, substantially, rests the decision in Bank
of United States v Bank of Georgza, 10 Wheat. 333, 843,
where the question was as to the right of the Bank of Georgia
to cancel a credit given to the Bank of the United States, in
the general account the latter kept with the former, for the
face value of certain bank notes purporting to be genuine notes
of the Bank of Georgia, and which came to the hands of the
other bank in the regular course of business and for value.
The notes were received by the Bank of Georgia as genuine,
but being discovered nineteen days thereafter to be counterfeits, they -were tendered back to the Bank of the United
States, which refused to receive them. This court held that
the loss must fall upon the Bank of Georgia. Mr. Justice
Story, who delivered the opinion of the court, after observing
that the notes were received and adopted by the Bank of
Georgia as its genuine notes, and treated as cash, and that the
bank must be presumed to use all reasonable care, by private
marks and otherwise, to secure itself against forgeries and
impositions, said I "Under such circumstances, the receipt by
a bank of forged notes, purporting to be its own, must be
deemed an adoption of them. It has the means of knowing
if they are genuine, if these means are not employed, it is certainly evidence of a neglect of that duty which the public have
a right to require. And in respect to persons equally inno-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

cent, where one is bound to know and act upon his knowledge,
and the other has no means of knowledge, there seems to be no
reason for burdening the latter with any loss in exoneration of
the former. There is nothing unconscientious in retaining the
sum received from the bank, in payment of such notes, -which
its own acts have deliberately assumed to be genuine. If this
doctrine be applicable to ordinary cases, it must apply with
greater strength to cases where the forgery has not been detected until after a considerable lapse of time." "Even," he
added, "in relation to forged bills of third persons received in
payment of a debt, there has been a qualification engrafted on
the general doctrine, that the notice and return must be within
a reasonable time, and any neglect will absolve the payer from
responsibility" It was, therefore, held that, as the Bank of
Georgia could by ordinary circumspection have detected the
fraud, it must account to its depositor .according to the entry
made in its books at the time of receivmg the notes.
The same principle was recognized in Cooke v United States,
91 U S. 389, 396. One of the questions there was as to the
effect, on the rights of the government, of the receipt by an
assistant treasurer of the United States in New York of certain
treasury notes, endorsed by the holders to the order of the Secretary of the Treasury for redemption in accordance with an act
of Congress, and which notes, when examined at the Treasury
Department, were ascertained to be forgeries, of which prompt
notice was given. This court, speaking by the Chief Justice,
said "It is undoubtedly, also, true, as a general rule of commercial law, that where one accepts -forged paper purporting
to be his own, and pays it to a holder for value, he cannot
recall the payment. The operative fact in this rule is the
acceptance, or more properly, perhaps, the adoption of the
He must
paper as genuine by its apparent maker.
repudiate as soon as he ought to have discovered the forgery,
otherwise he will be regarded as accepting the paper. Unnecessary delay under such circumstances is unreasonable, and
unreasonable delay is negligence, which throws the burden of
the loss upon him who is guilty of it, rather than upon one
who is not." Again "When, therefore, a party is entitled to

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 111
Opinion of the Court.

something more than a mere inspection of the paper before he
can be required to pass finally upon its character-as, for example, an examination of accounts or records kept by him for
the purpose of verification-negligence sufficient to charge him
with a loss cannot be claimed until this examination ought to
have been completed. If, in the ordinary course of business,
this might have been done before payment, it ought to have
been, and payment without it will have the effect of an acceptWhat is reasonable must in every
ance and adoption.
case depend upon circumstances, but, until a reasonable time
has in fact elapsed, the law will not impute negligence on
account of delay"
This court, in the two cases last cited, refers, with approval,
to Gloucester Bank v Salem Bank, 17 Mass. 33, 42. In that
case it appeared that the Salem Bank exchanged with the
Gloucester Bank, for value, certain bank notes which purported
to be, and which both banks at the time believed to be, the
genuine notes of the Gloucester Bank, and which the latter
bank did not, until about fifty days after the exchange, discover to be forgeries. The question was whether the Salem
Bank was bound to account for the value of the notes so ascertained to be counterfeit. Chief Justice Parker, speaking for
the whole court, observed that the parties being equally innocent and ignorant, the loss should remain where the chance of
business had placed it, and that in all such cases the just and
sound principle of decision was, that, if the loss can be traced to
the fault or negligence of either party, it should be fixed upon
him. ie said "And the true rule is that the party receiving
such notes must examine them as soon as he has opportunity,
and return them immediately If he does not, he is negligent,
and negligence will defeat his right of action. This principle
will apply in all cases where forged notes have been received,
but certainly with more strength when the party receiving
them is the one purporting to be bound to pay For he knows
better than any other, whether they are his notes or not, and
if he pays them, or receives them in payment, and continues
silent, after he has had sufficient opportunity to examine them,
he should be considered as having adopted them as his own."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

These cases are referred to for the purpose of showing some
of the circumstances under which the courts, to promote the

ends of justice, have sustained the general principle that, where
a duty is cast upon a person, by the usages of business or otherwise, to disclose the truth-which he has the means, by ordinary diligence, of ascertaining-and he neglects or omits to
discharge that duty whereby another is misled m the very
transaction to which the duty relates, he will not be permitted,
to the injury of the one misled, to question the construction
rationally placed by the latter upon his conduct. This pnnciple commends itself to our judgment as both just and benefi-cent, for, as observed by the Supreme Court of Ohio in Ellis &
.Mortonv Ohio Life Ins. & Trust Co., 4 Ohio St. 628, 667, while
in the forum of conscience there may be a wide difference between intentional injuries and those arising from negligence, yet
no man conducts himself "quite as absolutely in this world as
though he was the only man in it, and the very existence of
society depends upon compelling every one to pay a proper
regard to the rights and interests of others. The law, therefore, proceeding upon the soundest principles of morality and
public policy, has adapted a large number of its rules and remedies to the enforcement of this duty In almost every department of active life rights are in this manner daily lost and
acquired, and we know of no reason for making the commercial
classes an exception."
Recurring to the facts of this case, there was evidence tending to show-we do not say beyond controversy-that Cooper
failed to exercise that degree of care which, under all the circumstances, it was his duty to do, he knew of the custom of
the defendant to balance the pass-books of its depositors and
return their checks "as vouchers" for payments, yet he did not
examine his pass-book and vouchers to see whether there were
any errors in the account to his prejudice, and, therefore, he
could give no notice of any Of course, if the defendant's
officers, before paying the altered checks, could by proper care
and skill have detected the forgeries, then it cannot receive a
credit for the amount of those checks, even if the depositor
omitted all examination of his account. But if by such care

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 113
Opinion of the Court.
and skill they could not have discovered the forgeries, then the
only person unconnected with the forgeries who had the means
of detecting. them was Cooper himself. He admits that by
such an examination as that of March, 1881, he could easily
have discovered them on the balancings of October 7, 1880,
:November 19, 1880, and January 18, 1881. If he had discovered that altered checks were embraced in the account, and
failed to give due notice thereof to the bank, it could not be
doubted that he would have been estopped to dispute the gennineness of the checks in the form in which they were paid,
upon the principle stated by Lord Campbell in Cawncross v
lortmer, 3 Macq. 827, 830, that "if a party having an interest
to prevent an act being done, has full notice of its having been
done, and acquiesces in it, so as to induce a reasonable belief
that he consents to it, and the position of others is altered by
their giving credit to his sincerity, he has no more right to
challenge the act to their prejudice than he would have had if
it had been done by his previous license." This, however,
could not be, if, as claimed, the depositor was under no obligation whatever to the bank to examine the account rendered at
his instance, and notify it of errors therein in order that it
might correct them, and, if necessary, take steps for its protection by compelling restitution by the forger. lBut if the evidence showed that the depositor intentionally remained silent,
after discovering the forgeries in question, would the law conclusively presume that he had acquiesced in the account as rendered, and infer previous authority in the clerk to make the
checks, and yet forbid the application of the same principle
where the depositor was guilty of neglect of duty in failing to
do that, in reference to the account, which he admits would
have readily disclosed the same fraud 2 It seems to the court
that the simplq statement of this proposition suggests a negative answer to it.
There was, also, evidence tending to prove-we do not say,
conclusively-that the depositor gave, practically, no attention
to the account rendered by the bank, except to that one rendered March 2, 1881, that very slight diligence would have
disclosed the fact that the vouchers, which he knew to be in
VOL. CXVII--8

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the possession of his clerk, were not all that the account upon
its face showed had been returned, and that he intrusted the
entire business to an inexperienced boy, in whose integrity he
seemed to place implicit confidence, and of whose conduct he
neglected to exercise that supervision wlch ordinary prudence
suggested as both necessary 'and proper. Upon one occasion,
as we have seen, he discovered an error in the footings of the
check-book, and failed to look farther, because of the assurance
of his clerk that he was seldom caught in a mistake. He was
in the habit of looking over his check-book and keeping track
of his balance in bank, and yet he did not observe that he was
improperly charged in the balancing of October T, 1880, with
checks for $500 and $400, in that of November 19, 1880, with
checks for $405 and $600.25, and in that of January 18, 1881,
with checks for $1,000, $700.25, $1,500, $600, $1,000, $400,
and $2,000. He finally discovered, in March, 1881, that there
was something radically wrong in his account, and sent his
pass-book to the bank to be balanced, without intimating, so
far as the record shows, that he had then discovered anything to excite suspicion or to call for explanation. The book
having been balanced and returned to him on March 2, 1881,
he then notified the bank that his clerk had absconded, and
forbade the payment of any more checks the bodies of which
were in Berlin's handwriting. Whether the clerk had absconded and left the State prior to this sending of the passbook to the bank does not appear. But, when next heard of,
so far as the record shows, he was at Wilmington, Delaware, m
June, 1881, when and where he gave his deposition, de bene esse,
in behalf of his former principal. The numerous checks which
he confesses to have forged have been destroyed, and the bank
is thereby put at disadvantage upon any issue as to the fact of
forgery, or as to whether the checks may not have been so
carelessly executed at the time they were signed by the
depositor, as to have invited or given opportunity for these alterations by his confidential clerk. fan Duzem v Howe, 21
N . Y 531, 538, .Redlichv Doll, 54 N. Y 234, 238, Young
v Grote, 4 Bing. 253, Geefld Sawngs Bank v. Stowell, 123
Mass. 196, 202. Still further, if the depositor was guilty of

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN.

115

Opinion of the Court.

negligence in not discovering and giving notice of the fraud of
his clerk, then the bank was thereby prejudiced, because it was
prevented from taking steps, by the arrest of the criminal, or
by an attachment of his property, or other form of proceeding,
to compel restitution. It is not necessary that it should be made
to appear, by evidence, that benefit would certainly have accrued to the bank from an attempt to secure payment from
the criminal. Whether the depositor is to be held as having
ratified what his clerk did, or to have adopted the checks paid
by the bank and charged to him, cannot be made, in this action,
to depend upon a calculation whether the criminal had at the
time the forgeries were committed, or subsequently, property
sufficient to meet the-demands of the bank. - An inquiry as to
the damages in money actually sustained by the bank by reason
of the neglect of the depositor to give notice of the forgeries
might be proper if this were an action by it to recover damages
for a violation of his duty. But it is a suit by the depositor, in
effect to falsify a stated account, to the injury of the bank,
whose defence is that the depositor has, by his conduct, ratified
or adopted the payment of the altered checks, and thereby induced it to forbear taking steps for its protection against the
person committing the forgeries. As the right to seek and
compel restoration and payment from the person committing
the forgeries was, in itself, a valuable one, it is sufficient if it
appears that the bank, by reason of the negligence of the depositor, was prevented from promptly, and, it may be, effectively, exercising it. ContmentalBank v. Bank of the Commonivealth, above cited, Foorlkasv Olmstead, 66 N. Y 113, 118,
.Rnzglgts v Vifen, L. R. 5 Q. B. 660, Casco Bank v. Ifeene,
53 Maine 103, _Fall River Bank v Buffinton, 97 Mass. 498.
It seems to us that if the case had been submitted to the
jury, and they had found such negligence upon the part of the
depositor as precluded him from disputing the correctness of
the account rendered by the bank, the verdict could not have
been set aside as wholly unsupported by the evidence. In their
relations with depositors, banks are held, as they 'ought to
be, to rigid responsibility But the principles governing those
relations ought not to be so extended as to invite or encourage

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmon of the Court.

such negligence by depositors in the examination of their bank
accounts, as is inconsistent with the relations of the parties or
with those established rules and usages, sanctioned by business
men of ordinary prudence and sagacity, which are or ought to
be known to depositors.
We must not be understood as holding that the examination
by the depositor of his account must be so close and thorough
as to exclude the possibility of any error whatever being overlooked by him. Nor do we mean to hold that the depositor
is wanting in proper care, when he imposes upon some competent person the duty of making that examination and of giving
timely notice to the bank of objections to the account. If the
examination is made by such an agent or clerk in good faith
and with ordinary diligence, and due notice given of any error
in the account, the depositor discharges his duty to the bank.
13ut when, as in this case, the agent commits the forgeries which
misled the bank and injured the depositor, and, therefore, has
an interest in concealing the facts, the principal occupies no
better position than he would have done had no one been designated by him to make the required examination-without,,
at least, showing that he exercised reasonable diligence in
supervising the conduct of the agent while the latter was discharging the trust committed to him. In the absence of such
supervision, the mere designation of an agent to discharge a
duty resting primarily upon the principal, cannot be deemed the
equivalent of performance by the latter. While no rule can
be laid down that will cover every transaction between a bank
and its depositor, it is sufficient to say that the latter's duty is
discharged when he exercises such diligence as is required by
the circumstances of the particular case, including the relations
of the parties, and the established or known usages of banking
business.
It was insisted in argument that the grounds upon which
the Circuit Court proceeded are sustained by the settled course
of decision in the highest court of New York, as manifested in
Wfesser v Dentson, 10 N. Y 68, 70, Welsh v. German-Amerzean Banke, 73 N. Y 424, and Frank v. Chemwal Bank, 84:
N. Y 209, 213. We are also referred to f2Janufacturers'Bankv

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 117
Opinion of the Court.

Barn m, 65 Il. 69, and National Bank v Tappan, 6 Kansas,
456, 467. There are, it must be conceded, some expressions in
the first two cases which, at first glance, seem to justify the
position of counsel. But it is to be observed, in reference to
the case of TMezsser v Dentson, that it is said in the opinion of
the court that, as the bank had not taken any action, nor lost
any rights, in consequence of the silence of the depositor, the
only effect of such silence was to cast the burden upon him to
show fraud, error, or mistake in the account rendered by the
bank. From Wel A v German-Amerzoan Bank, it is clear
that the comparison by the depositor of his check-book with
his pass-book would not necessarily have disclosed the fraud
of his clerk, for the check when paid by the bank was, in respect of date, amount, and name of payee, as the depositor intended it to be, and the fraud was in the subsequent forgery
by the clerk of the payee's name. As the depositor was not
presumed to know, and as it did not appear that he in fact
knew, the signature of the payee, it could not be said that he
was guilty of negligence in not discovering, upon receiving his
pass-book, the fact that his clerk, or some one else, had forged
the payee's name in the endorsement.
The latest expression of the views of the Court of Appeals
of New York is in .P'yankv Moemnal .7 tatonal Bank. From
what is there said it is evident that that learned tribunal does
not give its sanction to the broad proposition that a depositor
who obtains periodical statements of his account, with the
vouchers, is under no duty whatever to the bank to examine
them, and give notice, within a reasonable time, of errors discovered therein. The court in that case, speaking by Judge
Andrews, who delivered the opinion in Welsh v. Gernanewsser v Denwon. After observAnemruan Bank, refers to
ing that it was unnecessary to restate the grounds of that
decision, and adverting to the argument that where a pass-book
was kept, which was balanced from time to time and returned
to the depositor, with the vouchers for the charges made by
the bank, including forged checks, the latter is under a duty to
the bank to examine the account and vouchers, with a view to
ascertain whether the account is correct, he proceeds "It does

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

not seem to be unreasonable, in view of the course of business
and the custom of banks to surrender their vouchers on the
periodical writing up of the accounts of depositors, to exact
from the latter some attention to the account when it ismade
up, or to hold that the negligent omission of all examination
may, when injury has resulted to the bank, which it would not
have suffered if such examination had been made and the bank
had received timely notice of objections, preclude the depositor
from afterwards questioning its correctness. But where forged
checks have been paid and charged in the account and returned
to the depositor, he is under no duty to the bank to so conduct
the examination that it will necessarily lead to the discovery
of the fraud. If he examines the vouchers personally, and is
himself deceived by the skilful character of the forgery, his
omission to discover it will not shift upon him the loss which,
in the first instance, is the loss of the bank. Banks are bound
to know the signatures of their customers, and they pay checks
purporting to be drawn by them at their peril. If the bank
pays forged checks it commits the first fault. It cannot visit
the consequences upon the innocent depositor who, after the
fact, is also deceived by the simulated paper. So, if the depositor, in the ordinary course of business, commits the examination of the bank account and vouchers to clerks or agents, and
they fail to discover checks which are forged, the duty of the
depositor to the bank is discharged, although the principal, if
he had made the examination personally, would have detected
them. The alleged duty, at most, only requires the depositor
to use ordinary care, and if this is exercised, whether by himself or his agents, the bank cannot justly complain, although
the forgeries are not discovered until it is too late to retrieve
its position or make reclamation from the forger."
In -fanufacturers'Ntiaonal Bank v Barnes, the Supreme
Court of Illinois, while expressing its approval of the decision
in TFezsser v. Denrison,shows that the bank was itself guilty of
negligence in paying checks drawn by the depositor's clerk,
for it had in its possession, placed there by the depositor, written
evidence that the authority of the clerk to draw checks against
the depositor's account was restricted to a designated period,

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 119
Opinion of the Court.

vhich had expired when the checks there m dispute were paid.
Nor does the case cited from the Supreme Court of Kansas
militate against the views we have expressed, although it refers
with approval to leVsser v Denwon. The question there was
as to the right of the bank to charge the depositor with the
amount of a certain forged acceptance. The court found that
the depositors were not guilty of neglect, and gave notice of
the forgery as soon as it was discovered.
An instructive case is that of Danav. Bank of the Republic,
182 Mass. 156, 158, where the issue was between a bank and
its depositor in reference to a check, which the latter's clerk
altered after it had been signed and before it was paid by the
bank. The court said that the plaintiffs, who were the depositors, owed to the bank "the duty of exercising due diligence
to give it information that the payment was unauthorized,
and this included not only due diligence in giving notice after
knowledge of the forgery, but also due diligence in discovering
it. If the plaintiffs knew of the ustake, or if they had that
notice of it which consists in the knoNVledge of facts which, by
the exercise, of due care and diligence, will disclose it, they
failed in their duty, and adoption of the check and ratification
of the payment will be implied. They cannot now require the
defendant to correct a mistake to its injury from which it
might have protected itself but for the negligence of the plaintiffs. Whether the plaintiffs were required, in the exercise of
due diligence, to read the monthly statements or to examine
the checks, and how careful an examnnation they were bound
to make, and what inferences are to be drawn, depend upon
the nature and course of dealing between the parties, and the
particular circumstances under which the statements and checks
were delivered to them." So in Hardy v Chesapeake-Bank,
51 Maryland, 562, 591, which was also a case where checks
forged by the confidential clerk of the depositor had been paid
by the bank, and, as shown by the pass-book, were charged to
his account, the court, upon an elitborate review of the
authorities, said, upon the general question, that "there is a
duty owing from the customer to the bank to act with that
ordinary diligence and care that prudent business men gen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

erally bestow on such cases, in the examination and compari'.
son of the debits and credits contained in this bank or passbook, in order to detect any errors or mistakes therein. More
than this, under ordinary circumstances, could not be required."
What has been said applies mainly to the issue between the
parties in relation to the altered checks embraced in the
balancings of October and November 1880, and January 1881.
The case in reference to checks 8518 and 8550 presents a somewhat different aspect. Cooper, we infer from the evidence,
became aware, on March 2, 1881, when these checks were
returned with his pass-book, balanced as of that date, that they
were forgeries. But it is not clear from the evidence at what
time, or on what day, he gave the bank notice of that fact, or
generally of the fact that there had been alterations in his
checks. It may be that the account rendered on March 2,
1881, did not, by reason of any unnecessary delay, become an
account stated, as to items subsequent to the balancing of
January 18, 1881, and, consequently, there may be no ground
to charge the depositor with negligence in not giving due
notice to the bank of the alleged alterations of those two
checks.
It remains only to consider the action of the court below in
reference to the second cause of action. Touching this branch
of the case the essential facts are: Cooper, on August 25, 1880,
in his capacity as "Agent for Ashburner & Co.," made his
check upon the Leather Manufacturers' National Bank for
,$280.97, payable to the order of "W B. Cooper, Jr., Agent."
On the side of the check were the printed words "Win. B.
Cooper, Agent." Across its face was the word "Gold."
.Upon the back of the check, before it was endorsed, were the
following words, printed or stamped.
"For deposit in
Leather Manf's Nat. Bank
-to the credit of
Ag't for Ashburner & Ca."
Cooper endorsed the check in question by writing " W
B.

LEATHER MANUFACTURERS' BANK v. MORGAN. 121
Opinion of the Court.

Cooper, agent," on the line immediately below the words
"Leather ]Vanf's Nat. Bank," that is, on the line occupied by
the words "to the credit of," and so as almost to obliterate
the latter words. Thus endorsed, the check was delivered by
Cooper to Berlin for the purpose, as the former states, of having
it deposited to his credit, as agent of Ashburner & Co. Berlin
presented it at the bank and received the money on it, but
never accounted therefor to his principal. When Cooper first
discovered that his clerk collected the amount of that check
does not appear. He makes no statement on that subject.
The peremptory instruction to find against the bank upon this
cause-of action was, perhaps, based mainly upon the assumption
that the endorsement imported a direction to place the amount
of the check to the credit of Cooper, as agent for Ashburner &
Co. But there is ground to contend that such was not the intention of Cooper. Evidently he had, for use, a stamp by
which he could print the foregoing words upon checks which
he desired placed to his credit, as agent for Ashburner & Co.,
leaving a blank line for his own signature. The object of this
was to save time and writing. It might be asked why should
he, as agent for Ashburner & Co., draw . check payable to
his own order as such agent, and then direct the bank, by his
endorsement as agent, to place the money to the credit of himself, as agent for Ashburier & Co., with one hand taking the
money out of his account, as agent, and with the other putting
it back immediately into the same account' And it mighbt be
argued that if he intended, by his endorsement, to direct the
money to be placed to the credit of himself, as agent of Ashburner and Co., he would have written his name in the blank
line underneath the words "to the credit of," but that, to prevent any such disposition of the money, he obliterated the operative words in the stamped lines on the back of the check by
writing his name across the words." to the credit of," thus making, what the bank claims was intended, an endorsement in
blank, entitling the bearer of the check to receive the money
Or, if his purpose was to take out of his account, as agent, the
sum specified in his check, and at the same time show that the
money was not to be used by him for his personal benefit, but

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

for his principals, what he did would naturally effect that object. If the endorsement was made in such manner as fairly to
indicate that it was intended to be in blank, the loss should fall
on the depositor whose negligence caused the mistake. These
observations are not intended as an expression of opinion as to
the weight of evidence upon this branch of the case. They are
intended only to show that the case, as to the check for $280.97,
was not clearly for the plaintiffs, and ought to have been submitted to the jury
It results from what has been said that the court erred in
peremptorily instructing the jury to find for the plaintiffs. Both
causes of action are peculiarly for a jury to determine, under
such instructions as may be consistent with the principles announced in this opinion. Whether the plaintiffs are estopped,
by the negligence of their representative, to dispute the correctness of the account as rendered by the bank from time to
time, is, in view of all the circumstances of this case, a mixed
question of law and fact. As there is, under the evidence, fair
ground for controversy as to whether the officers of the bank
exercised due caution before paying the altered checks, and
whether the depositor omitted, to the injury of the bank, to
do what ordinary care and prudence required of him, it was
not proper to withdraw the case from the jury Railroad Co.
v Stout, 17 Wall. 657, 663, and Cooke v United States, Wiggzns
v Burkham, Dana v Bank of the Republic, and Hardy v.
Chesapeake Bank, ubl supra.
Thejudgment is reversed, and the cause remandedfor a new
trzal, and for further2roceedings in conformity with this
'op2nton.
MR. JUSTICE ]LATCHFOxD

part in its decision.

did not sit m this case or take any

