GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Statement of Facts.

in the District Court, and Judge Drummond in the Circuit
Court, in the present case. 10 Bissell, 18, 38. See also
Carsta-rs v. .Meanzwd & Traders' Ins. Co., 18 Fed. Rep.
473, The Sidney, 23 Fed. Rep. 88, .21ercantileIns. Co. v.
Calebs, 20 N. Y 173.
Decree afflirned.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

GLASGOW, Executor, v. LIPSE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued March 3, 4, 1886.-Decided March 15, i8S6.

Payment in good faith at its maturity in Virginia in Confederate currency of
a debt contracted there in 1860 to be paid there in 1862, and the receipt
and acceptance of the same by the creditor, discharged the debt.
In 1860 two brothers, executors of the will of their father, who had resided
in Virginia, and had died there, contracted in that State to convey, under a
power in the will, real estate of the testator on the payment, among other
things, of a bond then executed by the purchaser for the payment of a
sum of money in 1862. One of the executors resided in Indiana, and continued to reside there dunng and after the close of the war. The other
received in Virginia m 1862 (by request of legatees under the will who accepted the same in payment of their distributive shares) payment of the
bond in Confederate money, and accounted for the same to the court
in 1864. In a suit commenced by the surviving executor against the executor of the obligor on the bond to recover payment of the bond: Held,
That the payment to the resident executor in Confederate currency was a
valid payment.

This was a bill in equity to set aside a deed made by Samuel
Lipse, executor of Moses LTpse, and to obtain payment of abond
executed by Glasgow's testator in his lifetime. The caseis stated
in the opinion of the court. For the understanding of the points
in the argument it is sufficient to say That Moses Lipse died
in Virginia before the war, leaving several children, among
whom were David H. ,Lipse, residing in Indiana, and Samuel
Lipse, residing in Virginia Also leaving real estate and a will'

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellee.

empowering his executors to sell real estate, and naming David
1H. and Samuel as his executors, both of whom qualified That
in 1860 the executors agreed with one Spears, in Virginia, to
convey a tract of testator's real estate on receiving among
other things payment of a bond then executed by him to them
for the payment of a sum of money in 1862 That David continued to reside in Indiana during the war, and Samuel to
reside in Virginia. That Spears' bond was paid to Samuel in
Virginia in 1862, after its maturity, and Samuel presented his
accounts in the proper court in 1864, showing receipt of such
payment and division of the estate, which accounts were
allowed and settled That Samuel afterwards died, and David
H. as surviving executor brought this suit against Spears' executor, to recover the sum alleged to be due on the bond, on the
ground that the payment in Confederate currency was void.
Judgment below for the plaintiff, from which appeal was
taken.
.Xr Thomas J Hikpatrck and Xfr IWilliam T Robertson
for appellant.
Mr John S. Tise and Mfr George W Hansbrough for ap0
pellee.
I. The exparte settlement of the executors' accounts is no bar,
even as to Lipse, the assistant executor, as against a debtor of
the estate, who was no party to it, Buterfteld v. Smith, 101

U S. 570, Utterback v Cooper, 28 Gratt. 233, 270, certainly
not as to the other executor, who was no party to it, who was
beyond the jurisdiction, and a public enemy No notice could
be served upon him, and notice was necessary
Underwood v.
Xo lFezgh, 23 Gratt. 409, Connolly v. Connolly, 32 Gratt. 657,
Singleton v Singleton, 8 B. Mon. 340, Gray v. Stuart,33 Gratt.
351. Virginia Code 1860, ch. 132, §§ 9, 14 et seq.
II. The land was sold for specie or its equivalent in currency
of the United States. Hib3 v Peyton, 22 Gratt. 561. The
terms of the sale in 1862 show that the payment of the debt
due in 1861 was to be in gold, or notes redeemable in gold. See
.Fetz v Stover, 22 Wall. 198, 3lJBurney v Carson, 99 U. S.

GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Opimon of the Court.

567. It was law in Virginia that a debt contracted before the
war and payable in specie could not be discharged by payment
in Confederate notes without the consent of the party to whom
it was due, Alley v Rogers, 19 Gratt. 366, Fretz v Stover,
above cited, Pardiev Jones, 32 Gratt. 827, Ewart-v. Saunders, 25 Gratt. 203, Tosh v Robertson, 27 Gratt. 270, Pisom v.
Bushong, 29 Gratt. 229, still more so when the dealing is with
a fiduciary, Patteson v Bondurant, 30 Gratt. 91, APnckard
v. Woods, 8 Gratt. 140, Fisherv Bassett, 9 Leigh, 119, Cocke
v. -inor, 25 Gratt. 246, Jones v. Clarke, 25 Gratt. 142. See
also Ward v Snith, 7 Wall. 447, Tretz v Stover, and A'cBurney v Carson, above cited.
III. The testator created m his two executors a joint power
and trust to sell his lands, and divide the proceeds, and both
qualified. This power related to the division of the proceeds as
well as the sale of the land, and could not be executed by one so
as to discharge the other and his bondsmen from liability for
unlawful execution. In Virginia delegated authority must be
strictly adhered to. Johnston v. Thompson, 5 Call, 248, Deneale
v. 2forgan, 5 Call, 407, .cCrae v. Farrow,4 Hen. & Yunf.
444. The Virginia act of 1862, attempting to validate such
transactions is unconstitutional. It comes within the rulings in
-Edwardsv- Yearzey, 96 U. S. 595. See also Horn v Lock.
hart, 17 Wall, 570, Williams v Brufy, 96 U S. 176.
Yn. JusTicE FIE.LD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Virginia. The facts
out of which it arises are briefly as follows In December,
1859, Moses Lipse, of Botetourt County, Virginia, died possessed of considerable property, real and personal, in that
county, and leaving twelve children surviving him. His will,
made a few days before his death, after providing for the payment of his debts, directed that all his property should be sold
by his executors, and the proceeds be equally divided between
his children and their representatives, certain sums advanced
to them to be deducted from their respective portions. He
appointed his sons, Samuel and David, executors. The will

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

was proved and admitted to record by the county court of the
county at its May term, of 1860, and in June following the
executors qualified and gave a bond with sueties in the sum
of $30,000.
In August of that year the executors sold the personal property, and on the 10th of September following the real property
The sale of the latter was made to Charles C. Spears, a citizen
of Virginia, and the contract of sale was signed by the parties.
The property was supposed at the time to consist of three hundred and seventy-one acres, but the quantity was to be defiThe consideration
nitely ascertained by an actual survey
agreed upon was thirty-eight dollars an acre, of which one
third was to be paid on the 3d of October, and the balance in
two equal annual instalments on the 3d of October, 1861, and
on the 3d of October, 1862. For these deferred payments
Spears was to give his bonds, and the executors agreed to
place him in possession of the property by the following
Christmas, and to make him a good title for the same when
all the purchase money should be paid. The survey made
disclosed a larger number of acres than was estimated, carrying the purchase price to $14,858. Of this sum Spears paid
one third on October 3, 1860, and gave his two bonds for the
balance as agreed.
Early in 1861 Spears joined the Confederate army, leaving
his affairs in the hands of William A. Glasgow, of Botetourt
County, as his agent, and during the year Glasgow, as such
ageiit, paid the first bond, though not on the day of its maturity, but $3,000 at one time and the balance at another. Samuel Lipse, the resident executor of Moses Lipse, called upon
Glasgow each time to collect the money, and in his accounts
charged himself with the amount as of the day the bond was
due.
The cash payment was made in lawful money, and there is
no evidence that the first bond was otherwise paid. It is in
proof that the notes of the Confederate States did not become
generally current in Virginia until after this period. Of the
money received on this bond and of other moneys in the hands
of the resident executor, the distributive shares belonging to

GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Opinion of the Court.

nine of the twelve legatees, the number then residing within
the Confederate States, were paid to them and received without objection. Three of the legatees, including the co-executor, resided in Indiana, and the shares belonging to them remained charged to the resident executor in his account, which
was subsequently examined by the commissioner of accounts,
reported to the court and approved.
Before the second bond became due, Spears was killed in
battle. His wil appointing Glasgow his executor was, at the
November term of the county court in 182, proved and admitted to record, and Glasgow qualified as executor.
When the second bond became due, or about that time, Glasgow called upon the resident executor and offered to pay it in
Confederate notes, but the executor expressed some unwillingness to receive he payment then, and a desire before doing, so
to see some other persons, referring to the legatees. One witness testified that Glasgow at that time counted out the Confederate money, and that the executor replied that he would
not take it, that it was of no account, but said that he would
take Glasgow's check on the Fincastle Bank for the amount,
observng, in the hearing of the witness, that he thought he
could get Fincaftle money for the check, that is, notes of the
bank at that place. It is of little moment, however, whether
the refusal of the Confederate notes was or was not accompanied by expressions as to their value. Twenty days afterward the resident executor called upon Glasgow at his office,
and said that he was ready to receive payment of the balance
due for the land, that he had seen most of the heirs, and that
they wanted their money Glasgow thereupon gave hin a
check for the balance-on the Farmers' Bank at Fincastle, which
was near by, and he accepted it without objection. Ile claimed
nothing more than the principal, saying, that as Glasgow was
ready to pay it when due, he ought not to pay interest. This
check was deposited by the executor in the bank, and against
its amount he subsequently drew his own checks. These were
paid in Confederate notes. It does not appear, however, that
any inducements were held out by Glasgow to the executor to
take those notes in payment, or that any ignorance existed on
0

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

his part as to their true character, or that Glasgow made any
representation as to the kind of currency in which the check
should be paid,. or that any complaint was made to him that the
bank had paid it in those notes. As between Glasgow and the
resident executor the transaction was considered closed. The
last bond of Spears was paid and, as the conditions of sale were
complied with, the resident executor, in April, 1863, nearly
six months afterwards, executed a deed of the land to Glasgow
as executor of Spears' estate, reciting therein the entire payment
of the purchase money to the executors of Lipse, deceased,
"part by the said Spears in his lifetime, and the balance by
the said Glasgow, his executor, since his death." The power
to sell the land being vested in the two executors, their joint
execution of the deed would have been necessary to transfer the
title, had not the act of the legislature of Virginia of the 5th
of March, 1863, provided that whenever any fiduciary residing
in that State had been authorized to exercise any power, or to
do any act jointly with one or more °fiduciaries residing within
the limits of the United States, (meaning thereby in those
States without the limits of the Confederacy,) it should be lawful for the fiduciary resident in the State to exercise such power
and do such act without the concurrence of the non-resident
fiduciary, and that the act should have the same force and effect
as if it was the joint action of all the fiduciaries. .3fcae v.
Farrow, 4 Hen. & AMunf. 444.
The resident executor at once proceeded to distribute the
money received on this last bond. Eight of the legatees took
their respective shares without objection, as did five of the six
children of a deceased legatee. Soon afterwards the resident
executor rendered his account, showing the disposition of the
estate, the moneys received, the expenditures incurred, the debts
discharged, and the payment of their respective shares to eight
of the legatees and to five children of another legatee. The
account examined by a commissioner appointed by the court
was approved, and his report confirmed. Thus the estate was
closed except as to the payment of the shares to the three legatees residing in Indiana, and the payment of the sixth part of
the share of another legatee to one of his children. It is not

GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Opimon of the Court.

necessary to inquire as to the disposition made of these unpaid
legacies, for the suit is not to compel their payment. It is said
that the interests of two of them and of one of the children of
the deceased legatee were confiscated under proceedings of the
Confederate government. If such were the case it would not
affect the validity of the payment of the last bond of Spears,
nor of the settlement by the court of the resident executor's
account previously rendered.
This settlement remained unquestioned from the confirmation of the commissioner's report, on November 14, 1864, until
January 25, 1879, more than fourteen years, before this suit
was instituted. Its object is to charge Glasgow, as executor of
Spears, with the second and third instalments of the purchasemoney of the land, and compel him, as executor, to pay the
same, with interest, to David H. Lipse, the surviving executor
of Moses Lipse, the resident executor having departed this life,
and to cancel and set aside the deed conveying the land, executed by the latter to Glasgow, as above stated, and, if the
instalments should not be paid by Glasgow, to have the land
sold and the proceeds applied to their payment, the complaint
alleging that those instalments never were paid, that Confederate notes were given in pretended payment, and were received
under compulsion, with sundry charges of deceit and fraud on
the part of Glasgow to carry out a scheme to obtain possession
of the property without discharging the just claim of the estate
thereon. None of these charges of deceit, fraud and compulsion are sustained by any evidence. On the contrary, the conduct of the resident executor and Glasgow is shown to have
been that of honorable and just men, no deceit was practised,
nor any undue advantage taken by either of them.
It is undoubtedly true that an executor is chargeable with
the utmost good faith in dealing with the estate intrusted to
him. He cannot wantonly neglect the property or squander it
by useless expenditures, or suffer it to go to waste without incurring personal liability for the consequent depreciation. Nor
can he call in good investments when the money is not needed,
nor accept the payment of debts for less than their face when
the full amount can be recovered without unnecessary delay

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
and expense, nor in depreciated currency when better currency
can be had, unless it can be advantageously used m meeting
expenses, discharging debts, paying legacies, and the like. In all
such cases he would be chargeable with a devastavit. He may,
however, take payment of a debt, when not secured, in the best
money he can get, when its safety requires its collection. Under
these limitations he must do what, under the circumstances and
situation, prudent men, managing their own estates, would do,
and, when doubting, seek the authority and direction of the
proper court. With respect to transactions during the late war,
he could not under any circumstances invest in Confederate securities property or lawful money already in his hands. Born
v Lockport, 17 Wall. 570, 573, Lamar v ]klicou, 112 U. S. 452,
476.
If he fail in the discharge of his trust he is liable to parties
injured thereby, as all trustees are liable in such cases. And
parties combining and confederating with him to despoil the
estate in any way may be held as participants in the devastavit and breach of trust. We may even concede the doctrine
declared by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, that a debtor
-who pays to an executor in depreciated currency a debt payable in gold or its equivalent, knowing at the time that the currency is not needed for the payment of debts or legacies, or
other uses of the estate, and that the safety of the debt does
not require its collection, may be also charged as a participant
in the devastavit. Patteson v BonJurant,30 Gratt. 94. The
present case does not come under the doctrine. It falls within
the class where, for debts payable in lawful money, the depreciated currency of the country where they were contracted
and the executor resides can be used at its face value in payment of legacies, and, therefore, may be accepted by him
without a breach of trust. The notes received had in October, 1862, to a great extent, superseded the use of coin,
and become the principal currency of the Confederate States.
All business transactions there were had with reference to
them. They were a standard of value, according to which
contracts were made and discharged. Having, therefore, an
exchangeable value, they were sought for by residents within

GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Opimon of the Court.

the Confederacy The resident executor there, however, hesitated to accept them in payment of the last bond of Spears,
which, being made in October, 1860, must be considered as
payable in lawful money, and he consulted the wishes of legatees in Virginia, among whom the greater part of the money
was to be distributed. They desired him to take the notes,
and received them in discharge of their distributive shares.
So far as those legatees are concerned, their approval of his
action was shown by their expressed wishes, and their acceptance of the notes. They, at least, are estopped from questionig the propriety of his conduct.
Glasgow's check called for dollars, and when it was received
on deposit and placed to the credit of the resident executor, it
was a matter between him and the bank whether he would
receive Confederate notes for the amount. Had he been unwilling to receive them, and the bank had refused to give any
other money, he should have notified the drawer, and, by returning the check, asked to be restored to his original position,
but so far from taking that course he received them, and therewith paid the legatees in Virginia. Glasgow was informed
when he gave the check that they wanted their money and
were willing to take what he had offered. So, if we treat the
check as intended to draw such notes, there is no ground on
which the validity of the payment can be assailed, so far as
the estate of Spears is concerned.
It is not necessary for us to determine whether or not theact of Virginia, allowing a resident fiduciary authorized to
execute a power or do an act jointly with one or more fiduciaries residing out of the Confederacy, to exercise such power
,or do such act without the concurrence of the non-resident
fiduciary, was a valid exercise of legislative power, so as to
justify the resident executor in executing the deed. It is a sufficient defence to the present suit that the entire purchase
money for the land was paid, for it is upon the -alleged nonpayment of the last two instalments that the suit rests. He
had full authority to collect them, and it was not necessary
that his co-executor should join in the receipts. Edmonds v.
Crenshaw, 14 Pet. 166. If the deed did not pass the title, a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

court of equity would, after such payment, compel those holding the legaltitle to execute a sufficient deed.
As to the rights of the legatees, including the co-executor,
residing in Indiana, only a word need be said. If they have
just ground to complain of the resident executor, and their
rights can at this date be judicially enforced, they must proa ceed by suit against his representatives, or, excepting the coexecutor, against his sureties. 3forrow v Peyton, 8 Leigh,
54, Lzdderdale v 1?obmnson, 2 Brock, 160. When such suit is
brought it will be time enough to consider how far the settlement of his accounts can be impeached, and how far any
remedy is affected by alleged laches. At present these questions require no answer.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed,and the cause remanded, with directwns to dismzss
the suit.

NEW PROVIDENOE v.

IALSEY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

Argued M[arch 8, 18S6.-Decided March 22, 1886.
In an action at law in a Circuit Court of the United States against a township
to recover on bonds issued by the township, the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover on bonds transferred to him by citizens of the State in which the
town is situated for the mere purpose of being sued in a court of the United
States. Bernard Township v Stebbins, 109 U. S. 841, affirmed and applied.
A municipal bond in the ordinary form is a promissory note negotiable by the
law merchant within the meaning of that term in the act of March 3, 1875.
Ackley School Districtv. Hall, 113 U. S. 135, affirmed and applied.
The issue of township bonds by commissioners under the act of the legislature
of New Jersey of April 9, 1868, "to authorize certain towns in the counties
of Somerset, Morris, Essex and Union to issue bonds and take stock in the
Passaic Valley and Peapack Railroad Company," was conclusive as to the
amount that could be put out under the statute and estopped the township
from setting up against a bonafide holder that the issue was in excess of the
amount authorized.

