OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

of the bonds owned by one of the complainants exceeds $5000,
the suit is brought -to recover only the interest, which is less.
These complainants are in no way authorized to represent the
other bondholders. They sued for themselves and all others
in like situation who might join with them, but no one saw fit
to join. They were allowed to proceed alone, and the payment
to them of their interest would have been a bar to the further
prosecution of the suit. So, if a decree had been rendered in
their favor without others joining in the suit, either by petition
or by proof before a master, or otherwise, it would have been
satisfied by the payment of the amount found due to them,
and no further proceedings could thereafter be had. It is true,
if such a payment should not be made, and a resort to a sale
of the mortgaged property should be necessary to collect what
was due to them, the other bondholders would have an interest
in the proceeds and could be called in before a master for that
purpose; but that would be only one of the collateral or indirect effects of the decree not to be considered in determining
our jurisdiction. On the case as it stood when the bill was
dismissed, the only matter directly involved was the right of
Bruce and Shepard to have the mortgaged property sold to
pay the several amounts due them respectively for interest on
their bonds. This is all that has been denied. It follows that
the matter in dispute here is less than our jurisdictional limit.
Diomzssed.

EX PARTE FONDA.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted March 22, 186.-Decided April 5, 1886.

A petition for a writ of habeas corpus alleged that the petitioner had been
convicted in a Circuit Court of the State of Michigan of embezzling the
funds of a National Bank, and set forth various reasons why the conviction

should be held to be in contravention of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, but it showed no reason why the Supreme Court of the State
might not review the judgment, or why it should not be permitted to do so
without interference by the courts of the United States" Reld, That leave
to file the petition should be denied.

EX PARTE FONDA.
Statement of Facts.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. The averments in the petition were as follows
"F irst. That on the 10th day of November, 1885, your petitioner was sentenced to imprisonment in the State prison at
Jackson, Michigan, by the Circuit Court of St. Joseph County
in that State, for the term and period of three years and six
months from and including the day aforesaid, as will appear
from a copy of said sentence hereto attached.
"Second. That the conviction of your petitioner, upon which
said sentence was based, was procured in said court on the 31st
day of October, 1885, as will appear from a copy of the verdict
of the jury then and there rendered, and hereto attached.
"Third. That your petitioner was tried on the day last aforesaid, for the commission of the several offences charged against
him in and by a certain information, a copy of which is hereto
attached.
"Fourth. Your petitioner further shows that said conviction
and sentence were had and imposed upon the 3d and 4th counts
of said information, exclusively, as will appear by reference to
the verdict hereto attached.
"Fifth. That in' pursuance of the execution of said sentence,
your petitioner is now confined in said State prison, and is restrained of his liberty illegally, forcibly and against his will by
one Hiram F Hatch, the warden and keeper thereof.
"Sixth. That your petitioner was employed by the Farmers'
National Bank of Constantine in the capacity of clerk, and by
virtue of said employment acted as the general manager of the
affairs of said bank, and had full control and the custody of
its funds during the whole period covered by the dates upon
which the alleged embezzlements are charged to have been committed in the information hereto attached.
"Seventh. Your petitioner is advised, and therefore alleges
that said imprisonment, confinement and detention are unwarraifted and illegal in this
"I. Because your petitioner is convicted, sentenced and imprisoned contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States and the laws of Congress.
"I.IBecause the acts described and charged in the third and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

fourth counts of the information (being embezzlement of the
funds and property of a National Bank by a clerk therein) are
cognizable by the federal courts, and the jurisdiction to try
your petitioner and to punish said crime is vested exclusively in
said courts, the action of said State court is in violation of Article I., Section 8, Parts 5 and 17 of the Constitution of the
United States, also of Section 711, Part 1, of the Revised Statutes of the United States, and Section 5209 of said statutes,
which provides a punishment for the crime of which your petitioner stands convicted.
"III. Because he was held to answer for, and was convicted
of an infamous crime as charged in the third and fourth counts
of said information without presentment or indictment by a
grand jury"
31r William E. Earle,. 1 r Edwin F Conely, and .A&r Franke
P Guise for the motion.
Mp.. CmiiEF JUsTicE WArrF delivered the opinion of the court.

This motion is denied on the authority of Exparte Royall,
ante 241. No reason is suggested why the Supreme Court of
the State may not review the judgment of the Circuit Court of
the county upon the question which is raised as to the application of the statute, under which the conviction has been had,
to embezzlements by the servants and clerks of national banks,
nor why it should not be permitted to do so without interference by the courts of the United States. The question appears
to be one which, if properly presented by the record, may be
reviewed in this court after a decision by the Supreme Court
adverse to the petitioner. The case as made by the motion
papers is not one which, under the principles settled in .oyall's
Case,requires this court to act in advance of the orderly course
of proceeding for a review of the judgment by writ of error.
Xlotion, denzed.

