OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

CONTECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. SOAMMON & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 12, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.
A father owmng in fee an equal undivided one tird part of a lot of land, and
having a life tenancy in the other equal undivided two third parts, and his
two daughters each owning in fee an equal undivided one third part, subject to such life tenancy the three executed a mortgage on the lot, for a
loan of $30,000, in which the mortgagors agreed to keep the building on the
lot insured against fire, in its fair insurable value, and assign the policy
to the mortgagee, to be held by him "as collateral and additional security,"
with the right to collect the insurance money and apply it on the mortgage.
On a partition of the lot between the father and the daughters, they paid
$10,000 to the mortgagee, on the pnncipal, and he released from the mortgage the part belonging to the father. The father, with the money loaned,
had erected a building on the part of the lot allotted to the daughters, and
he thereafter collected for his own use the rents, and paid the interest on the
mortgage, and the taxes, and the fire insurance premiums. The building,
being insured for $15,000 by a policy in the name of the father, the loss being made payable to the mortgagee, was destroyed by fire. The loss being
more than that sum, the mortgagee received a draft for $15,000 on the insurance company, drawn by its agent, to the order of the mortgagee, and
agreed in writing with the father, by an instrument which stated that the
mortgagee held the policy as collateral security for the payment of the loan,
that the right to apply the $15,000 on the debt was waived, and that the
money should be deposited in a bank to be selected by the father, to his
credit and at his risk, to be used in erecting a building on the lot, the
money to be paid out on the father's checks, countersigned by the mortgagee, within six months, or the waiver to be of no effect, and the mortgagee to have the right to apply the money on the debt. Thereupon the
mortgagee endorsed the draft to the order of the father, he designating as
the bank of deposit a bank of which he was president, and taking the draft
and collecting it, and depositing the money to is credit in the bank. The
mortgagee countersigned no checks against the money, and no building was
put up. The daughters had no knowledge of the transaction. In a suit to
foreclose the mortgage, the daughters claimed that the $15,000 should be
credited on the mortgage, as against them Held,
(1.) Authority in the father, as representing his daughters, to make the agreement as to the $15,000, could not be implied from the general -power he
exercised over the property, in managing it, and procuring insurance and
paying taxes, -the daughters having themselves executed the mortgage,

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMMAON. 635
Opimon of the Court.
(2.) The insurance was obtained in pursuance of the requirements of the mortgage, and must be presumed to have covered the interests of all the mortgagors, as an entirety,
(3.) The mortgagee in fact dealt with the $15,000, not as the father's money,
but as representing a further security furnished under the mortgage, and as
something winch concerned the rights of all the mortgagors, because the
agreement with the father recognized the obligation either to credit the
money on the mortgage or to see that it went to restore the building,
(4.) The provision of the policy, that the loss should be payable to the mortgagee, placed nm in the same position as if the policy had been in the name
of all the mortgagors and been assigned to the mortgagee, and he was
bound to apply the money in accordance with the provisions of the mortgage, for the benefit of all the mortgagors, unless all consented to a different disposition of the money,
(5.) In any view, if the agreement with the father was valid, as against the
daughters, the mortgagee was bound to see that the money was used to restore the building, or else credit it on the mortgage
(6.) That the transaction amounted to a collection of the $15,000 by the mortgagee, and as a satisfaction of the mortgage to that extent, as respected the
estate of the daughters, leaving the mortgagea lien for $20,000, asregarded
the life estate of tho father.
It is proper to sell the estate in remainder and the life estate separately, and to
apply the proceeds of the latter first to satisfy the amount for wnch itis the
sole security, not applying any of such proceeds to pay costs, or taxes, or
any part of the debt for which there is other security, till the full payment of the sum for winch the life
estate is the sole security.

This was a bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage.
is stated in the opinion of the court.

The case

X9" Edward S. Isham and 2fr Robert T Lincoln for appellant.
.Xr TV I. Culver and ir

Charles _F Wite for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 10th of September, 1866, t. Young Scammon, of
Chicago, Illinois, and Florence A. D. Scammon and Arianna E.
Scammon, his daughters, were the owners of a lot of land in
Chicago, No. 90 Michigan A-venue, known as "lot number five
(5), in block number eleven (11), in Fort Dearborn Addition to
Chicago," !he father being the owner in fee of an equal undivided one third part of the lot, and having a tenancy for life

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in the other equal undivided two third parts, and his two
daughters being each the owner in fee of an equal undivided
one third part, subject to such tenancy for life of the father.
The lot had descended to the two daughters and a brother of
theirs from their mother, subject to the tenancy for life of the
father, and he had purchased from the son the fee of his equaf
undivided one third part.
On the day above named, Scammon and his daughters executed to the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, a
corporation of Hartford, Connecticut, a mortgage covering the
above lot by the above description, to secure the payment of
$30,000, in five years, with semi-annual interest at 8 per cent.
per annum, according to the condition of a bond which they
at the same time executed. The bond stated that it was given
for an actual loan of money made by the obligee to the obligors on the day of its date.
The mortgage contained the following covenant on the part
of the mortgagors "And further, that they, their heirs, executors, and administrators, shall and will, at all times hereafter, until said principal sum of money, and all arrearages of
interest thereon, shall be fully paid, keep all the buildings
(outhouses excepted) now situate, or that hereafter may be
erected, upon said premises, fully insured against loss or
damage by fire, in some good and responsible insurance company or companies (satisfactory to the said party of the second
part, its successors or assigns, or its or their authorized agent),
in the fair insurable value of such buildings, and will legally
and properly assign and deliver to the said party of the second
part, its successors or assigns, each, all, and every, the policies
of insurance therefor, as soon as and whenever such insurance
shall be effected, and will also deliver to said party of the
second part, its successors or assigns, or its or their authorized
agent, all premium or renewal certificates received for the payment of the premium upon such policy or policies of insurance,
as soon as and whenever such certificates shall be issued, and,
in default of so doing, the said party of the second part, its successors or assigns, at its own or their option, may effect such
insurance m its or their name or names, or otherwise, and the

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMMON. 637
Opinion of the Court.

premium money paid therefor shall be a charge upon said
premises, and shall be secured by this instrument in the same
manner as the said principal sum of money above mentioned
is secured, and such premium money shall be paid by said
parties of the first part, their heirs and legal representatives, to
.said party of the second part, its successors or assigns, on demand, and may be collected at any and all times after the
same shall have been paid, with interest thereon at the rate of
ten per centum per annum from the time the same shall be advanced, and the said party of the second part, its successors or
assigns, shall hold each and all such policies of insurance so
received, by assignment or otherwise, as collateral and additional security for said principal sum of money and interest.
and shall have the right to collect and receive any and all
money and sums of money that may at any time become collectible or receivable upon each, all, and every of such policies
of insurance, and apply the same, when received, in the same
manner, as far as possible, as is hereinafter provided for in case
of a sale of said above described premises under the power of
sale hereinafter contained. But nothing herein contained shall
be construed as requiring the said party of the second part, its
successors or assigns, to incur any expense, or make any effort,
to collect any money that may become due on any of such
policies of insurance, but, if it or they shall elect not to collect
the same, they shall make such election within a reasonable
time after such money shall become collectible, and, on demand of said parties of the first part, or their legal representatives, shall thereupon forthwith. after making such election
not to collect, reassign and deliver such policy or policies of in°surance to said parties of the first part, their executors, administrators, or assigns."
In the fall of 1867, by an arrangement between Scammon
and his daughters, the south one third part of the lot was conveyed to his appointee by them, in fee, as representing his existing interest in fee in the lot, and the north two thirds part
of the lot was conveyed by him to them as tenants in common,
in fee, as representing their existing interest m fee in the lot,
subject, as to such north two thirds part, to the life estate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

the father therein. Thereupon, the father and daughters paid
or caused to be paid to the mortgagee $10,000, as a reduction
of the principal of the mortgage, and it released, by deed,
from the lien of the mortgage, such south one third of the lot.
With the money lent on the mortgage, Scammon erected a
building on the north two thirds of the lot, and thereafter collected for his own use the rents from it, and paid the interest
on the mortgage, and the taxes and the fire insurance premiums. Insurance against fire, covering the building, for
$15,000, was effected by Scammon, by a policy issued by the
Liverpool and London and Globe Insurance Company in his
name, with a clause making the ]oss payable to the mortgagee.
The building was destroyed by fire in October, 1871, and, the
loss being adjusted at a sum greater than $15,000, a draft for
$15,000 was drawn at Chicago, by the agents of the fire insurance company there, on that company, at New York. payable
to the order of the mortgagee. The draft was handed to
Scammon, and, at his request, the agent of the mortgagee at
Chicago sent it to the mortgagee, at Hartford, with an application from Scammon to have the $15,000 paid to him, to enable him to rebuild the building. Thereupon the following
instrument was executed in duplicate by the mortgagee and
Scammon, a copy being retained by each
"Memorandum of agreement made and entered into this
fifth day of January, A.D. 1872, between the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, a corporation subsisting by the
laws of the State of Connecticut, and located and doing business in the city of Hartford, in the State of Connecticut, of
the one part, and J Young Scammon, of the city of Chicago,
in the county of Cook, and State of Illinois, of the other part,
witnesseth That whereas the said party of the second part
did, on the tenth day of September, A.D. 1866, make, execute,
and deliver to the said party of the first part a certain indenture of mortgage, bearing date on that day, on the followingdescribed premises, situate and being in the city of Chicago
aforesaid; to wit, lot number five (5), in block number eleven
(1l), in Fort Dearborn Addition to Chicago, for the purpose of
securing the payment of the certain bond or obligation of the

CONNECTICUT NUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMPMON. 639
Opinion of the Court.
said party of the second part, bearing even date with said
mortgage, in the penal sum of sixty thousand dollars, conditioned for the payment to said party of the first part of the
sum of thirty thousand ($30,000) dollars on the tenth day of
September, A.D. 1871, with interest as therein stated, on which
said mortgage has been paid ten thousand dollars of principal,
and whereas, the building on said premises, known as :No. 90
Michigan avenue in said city of Chicago, was insured in the
following company and in the following amount, to wit, the
Liverpool and London and Globe, in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars, which said policy of insurance was held by. said
party of the first part as collateral security for the payment of
said loan, any loss on said policy td be paid to said party of
the first part, and whereas said building has been destroyed
by fire and the insurance moneys to be received on said policy
or policies are subject to be paid to said party of the first part,
in accordance with the conditions of said mortgage, and
whereas said party of the second part desires said party of the
first part to permit and suffer said insurance money to be used
in and upon said mortgaged premises in the reconstruction of
said building or buildings thereon, and said first party is willing to have said insurance money so used, upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth, and to assist in the collection
and.receipt thereof by said second party from said fEre insurance company or companies for the purposes aforesaid It is,
therefore, mutually agreed by and between the parties hereto,
that said party of the first part waives, except as hereinafter
provided, its right to apply on the said indebtedness the moneys
that may be received on said policy or policies of insurance,
and that any and all such sum or sums of money as shall be so
collected from said fire insurance company or companies by
either of the parties to this instrument shall be deposited in
such bank or banks as shall be selected by the party of the
second part and assented to by the said first paty, to the
credit and at the risk of said party of the second part, to be
used in the erection of said building or buildings on said mort
gaged premises.
"That said money shall be paid out and expended in the erec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

tion of said building or buildings, from time to time,. on the
drafts or checks of said party of the second part, countersigned
by the said party of the first part, or its duly authorized agent
or attorney, until said insurance money is fully expended, as
herein provided, on said mortgaged premises. That said drafts
or checks shall be so countersigned upon the presentation
thereof to said party of the first part, its duly authorized agent
or attorney, together with a certificate of a competent and credible architect, that the amount of said check or draft, together
with all previous checks or drafts drawn or paid out on said
account, has been actually expended in and upon said mortgaged premises, in the permanent improvements thereon, and
that the work and material for which the amounts so expended
have been paid are fully worth such sum.
"If, however, said buildings are being constructed without
the supervision of an architect, the affidavit of said party of the
second part to said facts may, at the option of said first party, be
received in lieu of said architect's certificate. And it is further
understood and agreed, that, so soon as said building or buildings shall be in a situation to be insured, said party of the second part shall cause the same to be insured in some good and
responsible insurance company, in the fair insurable value
thereof, and assign and deliver the same to said party of the
second part, and, as soon as said building shall become so insurable, all the provisions contained in said above-described
mortgage shall apply to said insurance, and said conditions are
hereby made a part of this agreement.
"It is also expressly understood, that any receipt or acknowledgment given by said party of the first part, either alone or
jointly with others, to any such insurance company or companies, for the purposes aforesaid of facilitating the collection
by said second party of any insurance money intended to be
placed back on said mortgaged premises as aforesaid, shall not
be construed as a collection of said money by said first party
under the conditions of said mortgage, wherein and whereby
it is provided that said first party may collect and apply such
insurance money upon the indebtedness secured to be paid
thereby, but merely as enabling said second party to collect

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMMON. 641
Opinion of the Court.

said insurance moneys. Said moneys are not to be so applied,
and said mortgage shall remain a lien on said mortgaged premises for the full amount of the principal money mentioned in
said bond, with the interest thereon, as if said moneys had
never been collected.
"It is also further expressly understood and agreed, that said
insurance money shall be expended on said mortgaged premises as above provided, with all reasonable and proper dispatch,
and that, in the event that, from any cause, whether the death
or absence of any party or parties to this agreement, or any
other cause, said money shall not have been so expended within
SiX months from the date hereof, then this agreement of waiver
shall thereupon become thenceforth null and of' no effect, and
the right of said second party to use and expend said moneys
shall thereupon cease, and said first party shall have the right
to draw from the said bank or banks, upon its own check or
checks, or that of its authorized agent, said insurance moneys,
or so much thereof as shall not then have been actually expended as provided in this agreement, and apply the same in
payment ro tanto of the indebtedness secured by said mortgage, and such check or checks of said first party or its agent
as aforesaid, drawn at any time after the expiration of six
months from the date hereof, shall be a full discharge and
acquittance to said bank or banks for any moneys paid thereon.
"It is expressly agreed, that time shall be of the essence of
this agreement in all its parts, and that said agreement shall
be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors,
and assigns of the respective parties."
On the execution of this agreement, the mortgagee endorsed
the draft, making it payable to Scammon or his order, and sent
it to its agent at Chicago. Scammon signed on the agreement
a written designation by him of "the Marine Company of Chicago," a banking institution of which he was then president,
as the banking office in which to deposit the $15,'000, and the
draft was then delivered by the agent to Scammon, and collected, and its proceeds were deposited to his credit in the
Marine Company The transaction between Scammon and
the agent took place at the banking company's office, and the
vOL. cxv--41

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

agent exhibited the copy of the agreement to Scammon, as
president of the bank. No checks against the money were
ever countersigned by or on behalf of the mortgagee, nor was
any of it used in putting up any new building on the lot, nor
was any such new building put up. Scammon's daughters had
no knowledge or information as to any part of the transaction between their father and the mortgagee in regard to the
$15,000.
Under that state of facts, the mortgagee, in Tune, 1816, fied
a bill in equity, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois, for the foreclosure of the
mortgage, making as defendants Scammon and the two daughters, and Reed, the husband of one of them, and other persons.
The bill credits the payment of the $10,000, in November, 1876,
as one by Scammon and his daughters, in reduction of the
principal of the mortgage, and sets forth the release of the
south one third of the lot from the lien of the mortgage, but
ignores any credit of the $15,000, and claims as due $20,000,
with interest at 8 per cent. per annum from September 10,
1873, and moneys paid by the mortgagee for taxes and assessments.
Mrs. Reed and her sister answered the bill. The answer sets
forth the transaction in regard to the $15,000, and avers that
it took place without the knowledge, authority or consent of
the daughters, and that the mortgagee, in consenting to the
use of the $15,000 in any other way than in payment of the
mortgage indebtedness, relied on the credit of Scammon and
released the property of the daughters to that extent. It
claims that Scammon's life estate in the north two thirds part
of the lot should be first sold, and the proceeds be applied first
in payment of the remaining $5000 and interest, and the property of the daughters be thereupon released from all further
liability
After issue, the court referred the cause to a master, to take
proofs and report them, with the amount due to the plaintiff.
He reported the testimony, and that there was due $20,000 of
principal, and interest from September 10, 1873, and certain
sums paid by the plaintiff for taxes and assessments, with

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMMON. 643
Opimon of the Court.

interest thereon. Mrs. Reed and her sister excepted to the
report, and the case was heard on the exceptions. The court
rendered a decision, 4 Fed. Rep. 263, in which it was ruled,
(1) that authority in Scammon, as representing his daughters,
to make the special agreement in regard to the $15,000, could
not be implied from the general power he exercised over the
property, in managing it, and procuring insurance and paying
taxes, the daughters having themselves executed the mortgage,
(2) that the insurance was obtained in pursuance of the require-,
ments of the mortgage, and must be presumed to have covered
the interests of all the mortgagors, as an entirety, (3) that the
mortgagee in fact dealt with the $15,000 not as Scammon's
money, but as representing a further security furnished under
the mortgage, and as something which concerned the rights of
all the mortgagors, because the agreement it made with Scammon recognized its obligation either to credit the $15,000 on
the mortgage or to see that it went to restore the building,
(4) that the provision of the policy, that the loss should be
payable to the mortgagee, placed it in the same position
towards all the mortgagors as if the policy, had been taken
out in the names of all, and assigned to the mortgagee, and it
was bound to apply the $15,000, in accordance with the provisions of the mortgage, for the benefit of all the mortgagors,
unless all consented to a different disposition of the money,
(5) that, in any view, if the agreement with Scammon was
valid, as against the daughters, the mortgagee was bound to
see that the money was used to restore the building, or else
credit it on the mortgage.
Under these views, the court referred the case back to the
master, with directions to restate the account according to the
principles thus laid down. Te did so, and, the case being
heard on his report, the court, on the 2d of October, 1882, rendered a decree, which, after setting forth the material facts
above stated, contains the following clauses
"The court further finds, that, when the complainant originally took the said mortgage, it, by its agent, knew the state
of the title of the mortgaged premises, that, in the erection of
the building on said premises, and causing it to be insured, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

m collecting rents and paying the insurance premiums and
taxes. the defendant J Y Scammon held the property as if it
was his own, that the entire business connected with the loan
from the complainant, from the tune of its original negotiations
down to the time of the before-mentioned agreement in relation to the insurance, was transacted by J Y Scammon, who

kept an account of the property in his bank ledger, in which
rents by him received were credited, and the moneys paid out
were also entered that the defendants Florence A. D. Reed
and Arianna E. Scammon knew nothing, at the time, of the insurance obtained upon the property, nor anything in relation
to the agreement between their father and the complainant
made in 1872, that the complainant entered into the agreement for the payment of the insurance money to Scammon to
be by him used in rebuilding, in good faith, and that said
Scammon received it in good faith for that purpose, and the
officers of the bank where it was deposited understood that the
money was deposited there as a special deposit, subject to said
agreement.
"The court further finds, that Florence A. D. Reed and
Arianna E. Scammon did not know that this insurance had
been effected on the property, or of the payment of premiums
thereon, and were never consulted about the disposition of the
insurance money, and had no knowledge of, and gave no consent to, its payment to their father and its deposit in the bank,
and have never asserted any rights in relation thereto until the
commencement of this suit.
"The court further finds, that the acts of Florence A. D. Reed
and Arianna E. Scammon were limited to the execution of the
bond and mortgage and the making of the agreement for partition, that said insurance was furnished under the covenants
of the mortgage, and pursuant to the requirements thereof, and
was an additional security held by the complainant for the payment of the principal sum and interest secured by said mortgage, and that the covenants in the mortgage for insurance
operated as an assignment of the insurance fund, when collected,
td the mortgagee, that the acts of the complainant, its receipt
of the draft for said insurance money, and its endorsement

CONNECTICUT AIUT.LIFE INS. CO. v.SCAAMION. 645
Opinion of the Court.

thereof to the defendant J Y Scammon, by ordinary comner
cial endorsement, and its assumed control over the ultimate
destiny and use of the proceeds thereof, were equivalent to
a collection of the insurance by the complainant, that the
receipt by the complainant, of said insurance money operated
as a satisfaction pro tanto of said mortgage, so far as the
estate and interests of the defendants Florence A. ). Reed and
Arianna E. Scammon are involved, but that, so far as the life
estate of J Young Scammon is concerned, said mortgage remains an equitable lien and encumbrance for the full amount
thereof."
The decree then goes on to declare that there is due, at this
date, from Scammon to the plaintiff, on the bond and mortgage, $20,000 of principal and $13,093.32 of interest, as reported, and $1404.44 for interest since the date of the report,
and $3275.42 for moneys paid for taxes and to redeem from
tax sales, and $490.73 for interest thereon, as reported, and
$287.51 for interest since the date of the report, being, in all,
$38,551.42, that that sum is a valid and first lien on the estate of
Scammon, for his life, in the north two-thirds of the lot (excepting therefrom a strip from off its north side, hereinafter mentioned), that, of the $38,551.42, Mrs. Reed and her sister are personally liable for $5000 of principal, and $3273.33 interest thereon, as reported, and $351.11 interest on the $5000 since the date
of the report, and for the above-named sums of $3275.42,
$490.73, and $287.51, being in all $12,678.10, which is a valid
and first lien on the estate in remainder of them and each of
them, after the expiration of the life estate of Scammon, in the
north two-thirds of the lot (excepting therefrom the strip
above referred to), and that the $12,678.10 is a valid and first
lien on said strip. The decree then provides for the sale at
public auction of such estate in remainder, excepting the strip,
and of such life estate, excepting the strip, and of the strip,
each separately, and directs that the proceeds of the life estate be applied first to the satisfaction of the amount for the
payment of which the life estate is decreed to be the sole security, and that no portion of the amount realized from the sale of
the life estate shall be applied to pay the costs of the suit, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

any moneys found due for taxes, or on account of that part of
the principal or interest of the bond for which there is other security, until the sum for which the life estate is the sole security shall have been fully paid. From this decree the plaintiff
appealed to this court.
The plaintiff assigns for error that the Circuit Court erred
in giving the daughters credit for the $15,000. But we are of
opinion that the views of that court in its decision, as above
set forth, and as embodied in the decree, were correct.
The policy of insurance was a collateral security for the
joint debt of the mortgagors, furnished in compliance with the
provisions of the mortgage, and the mortgagee was bound to
apply the insurance money to the payment of the joint debt,
according to the terms of the mortgage. In the agreement
with Scammon, of January 5, 1872, the mortgagee declares
that it held the policy "as collateral security for the payment"
of the loan secured by the mortgage, and that the $15,000 is
subject to be paid to it "in accordance with the conditions"
of the mortgage. Although the policy was taken out in the
name of Scammon, it was, under the mortgage, a part of the
security covenanted for therein, and must be treated as having
been furnished by, and for the benefit, of all the mortgagors.
The insurance was on the building as a whole, and not on any
particular interest in it, and was accepted and treated by the
mortgagee as an insurance complying with the terms of. the
mortgage, and covering all the interests which the mortgage
covered.
The mortgagee could not, without the consent of the daughters, surrender the proceeds of the collateral security to Scammon, or divert them from the purpose to which the mortgage
devoted them. And, in any event, the mortgagee, if at liberty
to use the money toward restoring the building, was bound to
see that it was so applied, and took the risk of the diversion.
The money not having been so applied, it must be credited in
favor of the daughters. Their intention, declared by the
mortgage, that the money should be credited on the mortgage,
was never varied by them.
Three persons named Andrews, and the wives of two of

CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. SCAMMON. 64'7
Opinion of the Court.

them, were defendants to the bill. It alleged that they had
interests in the mortgaged lot subordinate to the lien of the
mortgage. They answered the bill, setting up a prior lien in
favor of the three, because they had erected a party wall on
and along the north line of the lot, under a party-wall agreement
made prior to the mortgage, and of which the mortgagee at
all times had notice, and alleging that, if the mortgage was
superior in lien, then the residue of the lot, not covered by the
party wall, should be first sold to satisfy the mortgage. Issue
was joined on the answer. In the taking of proofs, the plaintiff put in evidence a party-wall agreement made Tune 4, 1866,
between Scammon and one Smith, by which it appears that
Smith owned lot 4, next north of lot 5, and gave permission to
Scammon to build one-half of the north wall of a building he
was- to erect on lot 5, to the northward of the dividing line
between th two lots, and that Smith, on paying to Scammon
one-half of the value of the wall, was to be entitled to use the
north half of it as a party wall. On the 25th of February,
1867, Scammon and his daughters and Smith executed a supplemental paper, stating that the contemplated wall had been
erected, and agreeing that such wall was to be considered as
built on the dividing line between lots 4 and 5, and that the
centre of such wall was such dividing line. There is not, in
the record, any other testimony about any party wall or the
strip of land, and none to support the Andrews answer, and
there is no mention of the strip in either of the reports of the
master. The decree, however, finds that the three Andrews
defendants own in fee, subject to the lien of the mortgage, by
title derived from Scammon and his two daughters, the strip
of land before referred to, describing it as a strip from off the
north side of lot 5, 6" inches wide in front, and 91 inches in
the rear, and the depth of the lot. It also excepts that strip in
declaring that the mortgage is a first lien on the life estate of
Scammon in the north two-thirds of the lot, and in declaring
that it is a first lien on the estate in remainder of the daughters therein, and declares that the $12,678.10 is a valid and
first lien on that strip, and excepts the strip from the estate in
remainder, and from the life estate, in describing the premises

648

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

to be sold, and directs it to be sold by itself, after those estates
are sold.
The appellant objects to the adjudication in regard to the
strip, on the ground that there is not in the record either
pleading or evidence to support it. This is true. The decree
must, therefore, be reversed in that respect. It is accordingly
Affirmed, except as to the strp, and reversed as to that, and

the case m remanded to the Circuit Court, wzth a direction
to strike out of the decree everything relating to the strp.
The costs of the appeal are awarded to the daughters.

GIVEN & Others Relators v. WRIGHT Collector.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 5, 18S.-Decided April 12, 1886.
An exemption from taxation granted by the government to an individual is a
franchise, which can be lost by acquiescence under the imposition of taxes
for a period long enough to rame a conclusive presumption of a surrender
of the privilege, and such acquiescence for a period of sixty years (and,
V indeed, for a much shorter period) raises such a presumption.

This was a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of
New Jersey to review a judgment rendered by the Court of
Errors and Appeals of that State, affirming a judgment of the
Supreme Court, and remitted thereto. The case arose upon a
certwrar? issued in the name of the State, on the relation of
certain tax-payers of the township of Shamong, in the county
of Burlington, directed to Henry Wrght, collector of said
township, for the purpose of examining the legality of a certain assessment of taxes, for the year 1876. The taxes complained of were laid upon lands of the prosecutors lying within
the bounds of a tract known as the Indian Reservation. According to the New Jersey practice, reasons were filed for
setting aside the assessment, and evidence was taken before a
commissioner of the court.

