LTNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

355

'Statement of Facts.

tion certified must be answered in the affirmative, and the
second question in the negative, and the other questions certified become immaterial.

Ordered accordingly.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY 0. UNITED
STATES.
UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CL

.

Argued January26, 18S6.-Decided March 29, 1886.

Section 6 of the act of July 1, 1862, in aid of the construction of the railroads
to the Pacific, required them to transport mails, troops, supplies, etc.,
for the government "at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to
exceed the amounts paid by private parties for the same service." The
Union Pacific Railway Company filed its petition in the Court of Claims,
setting forth the performance of such services for the government and its
charges for the same, and averring that the several amounts were according to rates fixed by it both as respects the government and the public,
wnch were fair and reasonable, and not exceeding the amounts paid by
private parties for the same kind of service. The government denied the
reasonableness of the rates, and averred that less amounts allowed by it
were fair and reasonable. The Court of Claims, after hearing proof, found
"that the amounts allowed and retained by the Treasury Department for
transportation of mails as aforesaid, are a fair and reasonable compensation for the service and not in excess of the rates paid by private parties
for the same service." Hfeld That this-was a proper form of finding.
The provisions of ยง 6 of the act of July 1, 1862, respecting rates for transportation done by the Union Pacific Railway Company for the United States, govern such transportation over its bridge between Council Bluffs and Omaha.
The service rendered by a railway company in transporting a local passenger
from one point on its line to another is not identical with the service
rendered in transporting a through passenger over the same rails.

The findings in this case were before the court on a motion
for a certiorari, reported in 116 U S. 402. After that motion
was denied the cause came on for hearing and decision on the
merits. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the CourL

.w;r John F Dillon for The Union Pacific Railway Company
.21r Solicitor General for the United States.

M R. JUSTiCE IATrH-ws delivered the opinion of the court.
In the case of Unson Pazftc Railroad Company v United
States, 104 U. S. 662, on appeal from the Court of Claims, it
was decided that the railroad company, by virtue of the sixth
section of the act of July 1, 1862, ch. 120, 12 Stat. 489, 493,
was entitled to be paid by the government for services rendered in the transportation of the mails over its road, and of
the employ6s accompanying them, compensation at fair and
reasonable rates, not to exceed the amounts paid by private
parties for the same kind of service, and not such rates as were
or might be prescribed by general laws regulating the compensation for similar service by other railway companies, and
for the purpose of ascertaining and awarding the amount due
for such services as had been rendered, and for which the suit
had been brought, the judgment was reversed and the cause
remanded to the Court of Claims.
In that court the cause was consolidated with two others
between the same parties, having similar objects, and an
amended petition was substituted, in which The Union Pacific
Railway Company was plaintiff, that being the name of the
consolidated corporation composed of The Union Pacific Railroad Company, The Kansas Pacific Railway Company, and
The Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company In
that petition the plaintiff alleged claims against the government for compensation for transportation of troops, mails, munitions of war, supplies, public stores, passengers, mail agents
and clerks, and the transmission of dispatches, the details of
which were set out in schedules attached thereto. Of these
the sum of $3,T68,568.60 was alleged to have accrued for ser
vices rendered by the Union Pacific Railroad Company prior
and up to June 30, 1878, one half of which, it was admitted,
should be retained by the government and applied, as required
by section 5 of the act of July 2, 1864, to the payment of the

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

357

Opinon of the Court.

bonds issued by the United States m aid of the construction of
the road, an additional sum of $1,415,415.25 was claimed to
be due and payable in cash, for services rendered by the Kansas Pacific Railway Company for similar services, and the
further sum of $94,206.20 for like services rendered by the
Denver Pacific Railway and Telegraph Company
It was also averred that the several amounts charged for the
services so performed were according to the rates therefor
which the railroad company had determined and fixed, both
as respects the government and the public, and of which the
government and the several departments were duly notified,
which rates were fair and reasonable, and not exceeding the
amounts paid by private parties for the same kind of service.
The United States filed an answer to this complaint denying
generally all its allegations, and with it a counter claim for the
recovery of the sum of $11,500,000, alleged to be due, as fol]ows $1,000,000, being five per centum on the net earnings
of the Kansas Pacific Railway Company on the subsidized portion of its road from INovember 2, 1868, to December 31, 1882,
$1,500,000, being five per centum of the net earnings of the
Union Pacific Railroad Company from November 6, 1875, to
June 30, 1878, and $9,000,000, as being twenty-five per centuni of the gross earnings of the Union Pacific Railroad Company from June 30, 1878, to December 31, 1882, after deducting the necessary expenses actually paid within the year in
operating and keeping the same in a state of repair, and also
the sum paid within the year in discharge of interest on the
first mortgage bonds.
To this counter claim the plaintiff answered, in substance,
that the twenty-five per centum of the earnings referred to
were required by law to be paid into a sinking fund for the
benefit of the plaintiff, and to be used in liquidation of its obligations, that the amount so to be paid is such a sum, not exceeding the sum of $850,000 in any one year, as, added to
the amount earned by the company for transportation for the
defendants, will amount to twenty-five per centum of the net
earnings of said company, no money being required to be paid
into said sinking fund unless the compensation for transporta-

OCTOBER TERM, is8.
Opunon of the Court.

tion shall not equal twenty-five per centum of saia net earmngs,
that during the period mentioned in the counter claim, to wit,
from June 30, 1878, to December 31, 1882, the United States
became and is still indebted to the plaintiff, on transportation
account, in the sum of $7,158,166.06, as shown in schedules
exhibited, one-half of which amount, $3,579,083.03, is applicable
to bond and interest account, and the other half to the sinking
fund account, which said last mentioned sum is equal to and a
full satisfaction of all the demands of the defendant and of the
obligation of the plaintiff to pay the said twenty-five per centum
of its net earnings during the said period.
On these issues the Court of Claims ascertained from the
evidence the facts in dispute, which are set forth in special
findings, and on these findings its conclusions of law, that
the plaintiff is entitled to be paid, on account of the matters
set forth in the claim, the sum of $2,910,124.08, that the
defendants, on account of the counter claim, are entitled
to be paid the sum of $4,487,807.39 and that the United
States are consequently entitled to judgment for the difference, amounting to $1,577,683.31, and judgment was so
entered.
The United States appealed from so much of this judgment
as allowed to the plaintiff the sum of $2,910,124.08 on its
claim.
'The plaintiff appealed from the whole judgment.
And the case is now here for determination on these crossappeals.
The only question of law made upon its appeal by the plaintiff below is, that the Court of Claims failed in its finding of
facts as to compensation claimed for transportation of the
mails to meet the actual issue made by the pleadings. This
issue, it is said, was an affirmation on the part of the plaintiff,
and a denial on the part of the defendant, that the rates of
transportation fixed and determined by the railway company,
of which notice had been given to the proper 4epartment of the
government, were fair and reasonable, and not in excess of
what was paid by private parties for the same kind of service,
whereas the finding of fact by the Court of Claims was, "that

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

359

Opimon of the Court.
the amounts allowed and retained by the Treasury Department for transportation of mails, as aforesaid, are a fair and
reasonable compensation for the service, and not in excess of
the rates paid by private parties for the same kind of service."
A distinction is thus sought to be made between a quantum
neruit, ascertained according to the rate prescribed by the act,
and rates determined and fixed in the first instance by the railway company, not to be disturbed if they are found not to be
in excess of the limit prescribed by the statute.
But, as it seems to us, this is a distinction without a difference.
It is quite immaterial whether the amount actually found to be
due for transportation of the mails, "at fair and reasonable rates
of compensation, not to exceed the amounts paid by private
parties for the same kind of service," as required by the sixth
section of the act of July 1, 1862, is ascertained upon evidence
comparing them with the rates previously determined and fixed
by the company, or with those allowed by the accounting officers of the Government. The only material thing is to adjudge
what is due according to the rule prescribed by the statute.
That the Court of-Claims has done. In doing so, it has virtu,
ally decided the point of the issue, for if the company has
charged rates producing a differeft amount, they are thereby
declared not .to be fair and reasonable, because whatever differs
from the amount found by the court to answer this description
cannot be supposed to fulfil it. There cannot be two differing
rates for such compensation which will both correspond with
the conditions prescribed by the act of Congress.
We come now to consider the appeal of the United States.
The first question arising upon this appeal relates to the
charges which may be lawfully made to the Government
for transportation services over the bridge of the Union Pacific Railway Company between Council Bluffs and Omaha.
On this subject, the finding of the Court of Claims is as follows

"The company's uniform rate, during the time covered by this
suit, for the transportation of passengers between Council Bluffs
and Omaha, over its bridge and approaches, a distance of 3.97
miles, was 50 cents each, which sum was in6luded in the price,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of tickets sold for longer or shorter distances. That was a fair
and reasonable rate of compensation to be paid by the defendants, and not in excess of the rates paid by private parties for
the same kind of service.
"The Treasury Department did not allow 50 cents for each
passenger so transported for the defendants, but in each case,
ascertaining over what railroad or public highway the passengor reached Council Bluffs or Omaha, and the rate per mile
paid by him over such part of said railroad or public highway
as he had thus travelled, the company was allowed only the
same rate per mile for transporting such passenger between
Council Bluffs and Omaha as he had so paid on the road leading to the bridge. On the roads leading to said bridge the
rates per mile are different, and the rates on the same road differ
according to distance travelled.
"The difference between the amount so allowed by the
Treasury Department for the transportation of such passengers
for the defendants and that which the company should be allowed if it has a right to charge 50 cents for each passenger so
transported during the time above specified,,is $3693.31.
"Similar rules were applied by the Treasury Department to
the transportation of freight over said bridge, and the disallowance resulting therefrom amounted to $10,885.34. The rate
claimed by the company for transportation of freight over said
bridge was fair and reasonable, and not in excess of the rates
paid by private parties for the same kind of service."
The contention of the Government in support of the allowances made by the Treasury Department, thus adjudged to be
3nsufficient, is based on the act of February 24, 1871, ch. 67,
16 Stat. 430, under which it is claimed the bridge was built,
which provides that"Said bridge may be so constructed as to provide for the
passage of ordinory vehicles of travel, and said company may
levy and collect tolls and charges for the use of the same, and
for the use and protection of said bridge and property the
Union Pacific Railway Company shall be empowered, governed,
and limited by the provisions of the act entitled 'An Act to
authorize the construction of certain bridges and to establish

UNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

361

Opimon of the Court.
them as post roads,' approved July twenty-five, eighteen hundred and sixty-six, so far as the same is applicable thereto."
The act thus referred to is chapter 246 of 1866, 14 Stat. 244,
of which section 3 is as follows
"Any bridge constructed under this act, and according to its
limitation, shall be a lawful structure, and shall be recognized
and known as a post-route, upon which, also, no higher charge
shall be made for the transportation over the same of the mails,
the troops, and the munitions of war of the United States, than
the rate per mile paid for the transportation over the railroads
or public highways leading to the said bridge."
It is argued that this limitation, made by reference a part of
the act of 1871, applies to charges to be made by the Union
Pacific Railway Company for transportation over the bridge,
considered as part of its railway line, and supersedes the legislative contract contained in section six of the act of July 1,
1862, whereby it was authorized to receive compensation at fair
and reasonable rates, not in excess of those charged to private
parties for similar service.
The Court of Claims held otherwise, and we think rightly
The Omaha bridge of the Union Pacific Railway Company was
not constructed under the act of 1866. It was constructed
under the original acts incorporating the company-the acts of
July 1, 1862, and of July 2, 1864, and the act of February 24,
1871, and the reference in the last-named act to the act of 1866
was for the purpose of extending the provisions of the latter,
so far as necessary to confer additional powers upon the railway company for the use and protection of the bridge, and
contains no evidence of any intent on the part of Congress to
change the rule as to rates of transportation over the line of
the railway company as prescribed by section six of the act of
July 1, 1862. In the case of the UrnonPacifA -RailroadComyany v. Hall, 91 U. S. 343, it was decided that the bridge in
question became part of the railroad of the company, and that
the company was bound to run and operate its whole road, including the bridge, as one connected and continuous line. The
bridge, therefore, as part of the railroad, became subject to the
provisions of the act of July 1, 1862, as to the rates to be paid

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

by the Government for transportation service over it, and there
is nothing in the act of 1871 that changes the application of
the rule fixing these rates.
The next question arising on the appeal of the United States
relates to items charged for the transportation of passengers,
on account of the Government, travelling between Council
Bluffs and Ogden.
The finding of facts on the subject by the Court of Claims
is as follows
"The company's uniform rate for the transportation of passengers between Council Bluffs and Ogden, when said passengers purchase tickets at either of those places, is $78.50 each,
but, by contracts with connecting railroad companies, the
claimant receives from said companies who sell through tickets
at reduced rates from New York, San Francisco, and other
places over their own and the claimant's road, $54 only for
each passenger carried between said Council Bluffs and Ogden
upon said through tickets, as its proportion of money paid for
the whole through distance.
"In computing the compensation set out in Finding IX. the
Treasury Department allowed the claimant only $51 for each
passenger carried for the defendants, when said passenger did
not have a through ticket over its own and other roads, but
took the train at Council Bluffs or Ogden upon an order from
the defendants' authorized officers to proceed over the road
between those places at the charge of the Government.
"The difference between $54 allowed as aforesaid and $78.50
claimed by the company for each passenger so transported by
the claimant, is $2855.38 for the period covered by this suit.
"The court finds that $78.50 is a fair and reasonable rate of
compensation to be paid by the defendants for the transportation of a passenger taking a train at Ogden or Council Bluffs
and passing over the road betweeii those places, without a
through ticket purchased of other roads as aforesaid, and not
in excess of the rates charged private parties for the same kind
of service.
"In some instances the requisition for transportation presented to the agents of the company stated on its face that the

STURGES v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

passenger was bound from seaboard to seaboard, and in others
the requisition furnished no information on the subject.
"How much of the sum disallowed was for one and how
much for the other kind of requisition is mot shown, but the
company concedes the reduction in the former cases.'"
The contention on the part of the United States is, that local
passengers carried on its account between Council Bluffs and
Ogden, shall be carried at the same rates as are charged for
through passengers passing between those points, as part of a
journey over the whole line, although a difference is made in
respect to all other persons. But the Court of Claims has
found as a fact that the amount found by it is based on rates
between those points which are fair and reasonable, and not in
excess of those charged to private persons for the same service.
We cannot review this finding of fact, and no question of law
arises upon it, unless it be one, whether the. service rendered in
transporting a local passenger between the two points is in law
identical with that rendered in transporting a through passenger between the same points as part of the transit over the
distance of the whole line. This we cannot affirm.
As the United States did not appeal from that part of the
judgment of the Court of Claims finding the amount due on
account of the counter claim, no question arises thereon.
We find no error m the judgment, and it is accordingly
A Omed.

STURGES & Another, Executors v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

THE

Argued March 24, 1886.-Decided March 29, 1886.

A testator died July 17, 1870, leaving by his will a legacy to his son payable
"within three months after he shall arrive at the age of 21 years." The
legatee arnve1 at the age of 21 on the 21st day of February, 1872. Held,
That the legacy was not subject to a legacy tax.
Mason,v. Sargent, 104 U. S. 689, applied.

