N. Y. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. ARMSTRONG.
Syllabus.

ground for the interference of a court of equity to prevent the
action from going on, citing Vice-Chancellor Wigram m Evans
v Prothero[not reported on that point].
The only cases to which we have been referred m which the
rule insisted on by the defendant has been maintained were
two cases decided in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. -arker
v. Barker, 14 Wise. 131, and Allard v. Tamzrande, 29 Wise.
502.
We think, therefore, that, both upon reason and weight of
authority, the court did not err in refusing to give effect to the
fourth plea of the defendant, or in refusing to dismiss the suit
because it was prosecuted under a champertous agreement between the plaintiff and his counsel.
Judgment affirmed.

NEW YORK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. ARMSTRONG, Administratrix.
ERROR ''O THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 16, i, 1886.-Decided April 5, 18S6.

A policy of life insurance payable to the assured or his assigns at a future day
named, or if he should die before that day to his legal representatives
within sixty days after notice and proof of his death, is assignable if the
assignmenL is.not made to cover a speculative risk, and an assignment of
it passes to the assignee the right to receive the sum insured in case of the
death of the assured before the day named.
Proof that the assignee of a policy of life insurance caused the death of the
assured by felonious means is sufficient to defeat a recovery on the policy.
In a suit brought by an assignee of a policy of life insurance, obtained of the
application of the assured at the instigation of the assignee, to recover of
the insurers after the death of the assured, the defendants set up that it
was plaintiff's purpose, in procuring the insurance to be obtained, to cheat
and defraud defendants, and offered to show that he effected insurances
upon the life of the assured in other compames at or about the same time
for the like fraudulent purpose HYeld, That the evidence was admissible.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

On the 8th of December, 1877, the Mutual Life Insurance
Company of New York issued a policy of insurance on the
life of John Al. Armstrong, of Philadelphia, for $10,000. It
was what is known as an endowment policy, that is, a policy
payable to the assured if he live a designated time, but to
some other person named if he die before the expiration of
that time. It was payable, subject to certain conditions, to
the assured or Ins assgns on the 8th of December, 1897, at the
office of the company in New York, or, if he should die
before that time, to hls legal epresentat2ves, within sixty days
after notice and proof of his death. It recited that it was
issued in consideration of his application, and of the statements contained therein, which, whether written by his own
hand or not, every person accepting or acquiring any interest
in the contract adopted and warranted to be true, and the
only statements upon which the contract was made, and in
further consideration of the payment of $138.60 quarterly
each year during the continuance of the policy
On the 25th of January, 1878, Armstrong died, and his
widow was appointed administratrix of his estate. The required notice and proof of his death were furnished, and the
insurance money not being paid, she brought this action for its
recovery in a court of the State of New York, and, on motion
of the company, it was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States.
The company set up several special defences to the action.
One of them was, that the policy was obtained by one Benjaun Hunter, with the intent to cheat and defraud the company
by compassing the death of the assured by felonious means
and collecting the amount of the insurance, and which he attempted to carry out by causing his death, another was, that
the statements made in the application of the assured as to
previous insurances upon his life were false, the amounts being
much larger than those stated.
On the trial it appeared in evidence that on the 3d or 4th of
December, 1877, Hunter made some inquiries at the office of
the company in Philadelphia as to the rates of insurance on
the life of a person aged forty or forty-one years upon an

N. Y. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. ARMSTRONG.
Statement of Facts.

endowment policy of twenty years, stating that he thought of
insuring for his own benefit the life of a person in the sum of
$10,000. After some conversation on the subject of insurance
generally, he left, stating that the person to be insured would
probably call in a day or two. On the 5th of the month Armstrong called, and informed the agent that he came at the
request of Hunter to make application for a life insurance.
He was thereupon examined, and after answering the questions usually propounded to applicants, and among others those
in relation to existing insurances on his life, he signed a formal
application, leaving, however, blank the place for the amount
of the insurance which he desired, and for the answer to the
question touching the payments of the premium. He also
executed an assignment of the policy, leaving blanks for its
date and for that of the policy, and for the name and residence
of the assignee. This was his entire connection with the
transaction. In the afternoon of the same day, or on the following morning, Hunter informed the office that the amount
of the insurance desired was $10,000, and that it would be
more convenient for him to pay the premiums quarterly The
term "quarterly" and the sum "$10,000" were, therefore,
upon his instructions, inserted in the application, which was
then sent to New York and the policy was there executed by
the company Before the receipt of the policy in Philadelphia
he visited the office, and stated that, as he intended to leave
the city and be absent for some time, he would pay the
premium, and that his lawyer would call for the policy He
accordingly paid the stipulated premium, and the fee for the
policy Some days afterwards his lawyer received the policy
and also the assignment, which was attached, the blanks having
been filled. They were subsequently delivered to Hunter, and
were found in his possession at his death.
Within six weeks after the policy was issued Armstrong was
attacked at night in a street in Camden, New Jersey, and received blows on his head which fractured his skull, from the
effects of which he died two days afterward. Suspicion fell
upon Hunter as the perpetrator or instigator of the attack. He
was accordingly arrested, and was indicted and tried for the
VOL. CXVII-38

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Statement of Facts.

murder of Armstrong in one of the courts of that State, and
was convicted. He was sentenced to death, and was hanged.
By stipulation the testimony of any living witness might be
read from the record of his testunony in that case, with like
effect as if he were present and testified in this action, subject
to all legal objections to its relevancy, competency and materiality As the first step in proof of the defence that the policy
was obtained to cheat and defraud the company, the defendant
offered to read from that record the testimony of a witness to
show that Hunter, being at the time the sole owner of the
policy, intentionally caused the death of Armstrong, but the
court, upon objection of the plaintiff, excluded the testimony,
and an exception was taken. The defendant offered in different forms to make this proof, but the court refused to receive
it, accompanying its ruling in one instance with this statement
to counsel "I will take your offer as broad as you choose to
make it, that you offer the testimony to prove that Hunter
procured the application for the policy on Armstrong to be
made, and that he did so for the purpose of having the insurance effected, and then disposing of Armstrong, and then
getting the money, make it as broad as that and I will exclude it."
The defendant also offered to prove that, about the time the
policy in suit was issued, Hunter, with like fraudulent intent,
obtained policies of insurance in two other companies upon the
life of Armstrong, one made directly to himself, and the other
to Armstrong, with an assignment executed simultaneously to
himself, and that he paid the premiums thereon, one of the
policies being for $10,000 and the other for $6000, but upon
the objection of the plaintiff the testimony was excluded, and
an exception taken.
The court, among other things, instructed the jury, m substance, that the contract of insurance was divisible, that the
last part, providing for the payment of the insurance money to
the legal representatives of Armstrong in case he should die
before the expiration of the policy, was not assignable, that his
assignment only transferred the interest, payable at the expiration of the policy, and that the plaintiff was his legal repre-

N. Y. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. ARMSTRONG.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

sentative, entitled to the policy and to whatever was due upon
it. The defendant excepted. A verdict for the full amount of
the policy, with interest, was rendered, and judgment entered
thereon. 20 Blatchford, 493.
.hlfr Josephf
H. Choate for plaintiff in error.
I. Zererl T .Yetcham for defendant in error. _Yr George
X1 .XcKellar was with him on the brief.
I. Neither the assignment nor its duplicate was the act of
Armstrong. Proof, sufficient to sustain a finding, was submitted to the jury that he never executed either paper, never
authorized their execution, and never made or sanctioned any
delivery of either paper; that whether he gave any authority
for the delivery or not, no delivery was made, and that any
delivery, if made, was void for fraud. The verdict must be assumed to embrace in its general finding a conclusion upon conflicting evidence that no delivery was in fact made. Could the
jury have found that the completion of the paper and its delivery were authorized by Armstrong, they must also have
found that the paper, though delivered, was induced by fraud,
practised upon Armstrong by Hunter. The plaintiff in error
by its several answers, offers to prove, requests to charge, and
present argument, asserts that from the issuing of the policy
to the death of Armstrong, Hunter maintained the fraudulent
intent to secure the ownership of the policy, to murder Armstrong, and to collect the funds of the insurance. It was essential
to this scheme that the policy should be assigned to him, and
an assignment obtained for such purposes must. be void, as
having been obtained by fraud.
II. The proposition that the policy in suit was a contract between Hunter and the company, and. as such, was void for
Hunter's fraud, will not be entertained by this court, since the
verdict of the jury has already been shown to embrace a finding
that Hunter never took any relation whatever to the contract
of insurance.
In the face of the verdict, an inquiry into Hunter's conduct,
intentions and transactions is immaterial, for they cannot affect

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

the policy if it be held that they did not bring him into relations
with it. The contract was in writing, Armstrong and the
company were the sole contracting parties. Extrinsic evidence
cannot be allowed to vary this. Rawls v. Amerwan .iutual
_lfe Ins. Co., 27 N. Y., 282, and Lawrence v Fox, 20 M.Y 268,
are not like this case. The familiar rule that instruments
sunultaneously executed may be construed together is not
applicable, except when the contracts are between the same
parties.
III. Hunter's fraud cannot be imputed to Armstrong on the
theory that he was Armstrong's agent. The answer alleges
no fraud on the part of Armstrong.
IV Conceding that policies of life insurance are assignable,
we respectfully submit as the result of the authorities that the
policy in question, so far as it contained assurance in the event
of death, was an irrevocable settlement. The insurance when
proposed was subject to Armstrong's complete right of disposition, and he could- have preserved the right of assignment.
But when he directed its payment to his "legal representatives,"
he exhausted this right and parted with that which until then
had been in his control. How many times must he be permitted to part with it to satisfy his right of disposition 9 See
TForley v IX ir M.Jasonic Assoczation, 13 Reporter, 233, Kelly
v 2fann, 13 Reporter, 12, G'reeno v. Greeno, 23 Hun, 478.
V As to the alleged misstatements of Armstrong it was an.
affirmative defence which should have been pleaded. Pwedmont & Arlington Ins. Co. v Ewzng, 92 U. S. 377, N. Y
Code Civil Procedure, ยง 500, i[urrayv .2IG-w York Life Ins.
Co, 85 N. Y. 236. Where the statements are not vouched for
as absolutely and subjectively true, they affect the validity of
the insurance only to the extent to which they in fact induce
the contract, for the applicant is bound not by an express engagement but by the general law of morals which governs
every transaction, and his policy is not to be avoided save for
statements which are made with the knowledge of their untruth and the intent to deceive. In one instance, deviation
from existing fact is a breach qf contract. In the other, it is
nothing unless fraudulent. .Atoulor v. Am. L. Ins. Co., 111

N. Y. MIUT. LIFE INS. 0O. v. ARMSTRONG.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 335, and cases cited. The contract in this case is precisely within the rule established in .foulo'r v ns. Co.
Mu. TuSTIcE FIELD, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
From the charge of the court, and its opinion on the motion
for a new trial, 20 Blatchford, 493, it appears that the refusal
to admit testimony of Hunter's fraudulent purpose in procuring
the policy, and his feloniously causing, whilst the sole owner of
it, the death of the assured, was founded upon the assumption
that the insurance money, payable in case the death occurred
before the expiration of the policy, went to the legal representatives of the assured, and was not assignable, and that the assignment not taking effect Hunter had no interest in the policy, and, therefore, if he did feloniously cause the death, the
fact could have had no effect in controlling the payment.
Assuming this to be the reason for excluding the evidence
offered, the ruling cannot be upheld. The position that the assignment did not take effect, because the assured died before the
expiration of the policy, is untenable. The provision for payment in such case to his legal representatives was intended to
meet the contingency of his dying without having disposed of
his interest, and not to limit his power over the contract during
his life. and pass the insurance to those who should represent
him after his death. The term "legal representatives" is not
necessarily restricted to the personal representatives of one deceased, but is sufficiently broad to cover all persons who, with
respect to his property, stand in his place and represent his interests, whether transferred to them by his act or by operation
of law- It may, in this case, include assigns as well as executors and administrators. .LVew York Life In.surance Co. v.
Flack, 3 Maryland, 341.
A policy of life insurance, without restrictive words, is assignable by the assured for a valuable consideration equally
with any other chose in action, where the assignment is not
made to cover a mere speculative risk, and thus evade the law
against wager policies, and payment thereof may be enforced
for the benefit of the assignee, and, under the system of pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

cedure in many States, in his name. TMarnock v Damns, 104
U S. '7[5, 780, ArchibalZ v 3futual Ins. Co. of Chwago, 38
Wis. 542, 545, .De Range v Elliott, 8 C. E. Green (23 N. X.
Eq.), 486, 495. The assignee here, Hunter, represented that he
was the special partner of Armstrong, and had placed $5000
in the partnership, and was apprehensive that he might be
charged as a general partner. If he was a special partner the
contract was not a wager policy And as it was not a contract
for the benefit of the wife of the assured, it does not fall within
those cases where, for the protection of the beneficiary, the
power of the assured to divert the course of payment is
restricted.
The assignment conveying to Hunter the whole interest of
the assured, his representatives alone would have a valid claim
under it, if the policy were not void in its inception. Proof,
therefore, that he caused the death of the assured by felonious
means must necessarily have defeated a recovery, and the court
erred in refusing to admit testimony tending to prove that such
was the fact.
The theory of the defence is, that the purpose of Hunter in
obtaining the insurance was to cheat and defraud the company
In support of that position evidence that he effected insurances
upon the life of Armstrong in other companies at or about the
same time, for a like fraudulent purpose, was admissible. A
repetition of acts of the same character naturally indicates the
same purpose in all of them, and if when considered together
they cannot be reasonably explained without ascribing a particular motive to the perpetrator, such motive will be considered as prompting each act. A creditor has an insurable interest in the life of his debtor, and may very properly procure
an insurance upon it for an amount sufficient to secure his debt,
but if he takes out policies in different companies at or nearly
the same tine, and thus increases the insurance far beyond any
reasonable security for the debt, an inquiry at once arises as to
his motive, and it may be considered as governing him in each
insurance. In Castle v Bullard, 23 How 172, 186, where the
defendants were charged with having fraudulently sold the
goods of the plaintiff, evidence that they had committed similar

599

N. Y. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. ARMSTROITU.
Opumon of the Court.

fraudulent acts at or about the same time was allowed, with a,
view to establish their alleged intent with respect to the matters in issue. The court said " Similar fraudulent acts are admissible in cases of this description, if committed at or about
the same time, and when the same motive may reasonably be
supposed to exist, with a view to establish the intent of the defendant in respect to the matters charged against him in the
declaration." In Lincolm v Clagin, 7 Wall. 132, an action was
brought for fraudulently obtaining property, and evidence of
other frauds of a like character, committed by the defendants
at or near the same time, was held to be admissible. "Its
admissibility," said the court, "1is placed on the ground that
where transactions of a similar character executed by the same
parties are closely connected in time, the inference is reasonable
that they proceed from the same motive. The principle is asserted in Cary v Iotailing,1 Hill, 311, and is sustained by
numerous authorities. The case of fraud, as there stated, is
among the few exceptions to the general rule that other offences
of the accused are not relevant to establish the main charge."
In Bitler v Vatkzns, 13 Wall. 456, 464, speaking on the same
subject, this court said "In actions for fraud large latitude is
always given to the admission of evidence. If a motive exist
prompting to a particular line of conduct, and it be shown that
in pursuing that line a defendant has deceived and defrauded
one person, it may justly be rnferred that similar conduct towards another, at or about the same time and in relation to a
like subject, was actuated by the same spirit." In Bottomley v
Unted States, 1 Story, 135, 144, Mr. Justice Story held the
same doctrine, and cited several instances of its application.
Thus, in the case of a prosecution for uttering counterfeit money,
the fact that the prisoner has in his possession, or has uttered,
other counterfeit money, is held to be proper evidence to show
his guilty knowledge, and upon an indictment for receiving
stolen goods, evidence that the prisoner had received at various
other times different parcels of goods which had been stolen
from the same persons is held admissible in proof of his guilty
knowledge. So, on an indictment for a conspiracy to create
public discontent and disaffection, proof is admissible against
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmnon of the Court.

the prisoner that at another meeting held for an object profes-

sedly similar, at which the prisoner was chairman, resolutions
were passed of a character to create such discontent and disaffection. "In short," said the learned justice, "wherever the
intent or guilty knowledge of a party is a material ingredient
in the issue of a case, these collateral facts, tending to establish
such intent or knowledge, are proper evidence. In many cases
of fraud it would be otherwise impossible satisfactorily to establish the true nature and character of the act." Many other
authorities might be cited to the same purport.
The evidence offered that Hunter obtained insurances in other
companies on the life of Armstrong at or near the same time,
was, under these authorities, clearly admissible. It tended to
establish the theory of the defendant that the insurance in this
case was obtained by Hunter upon the premeditated purpose to
cheat and defraud the company Especially would it have had
that effect if followed by proof of the manner of the death of
Armstrong.
But, independently of any proof of the motives of Hunter in
obtaining the policy, and even assuming that they were just
and proper, he forfeited all rights under it when, to secure its
immediate payment, he murdered the assured. It would be a
reproach to the jurisprudence of the country, if one could recover insurance money payable on the death of a party whose
life he had feloniously taken. As well might he recover insurance money upon a building that he had wilfully fired.
This view renders it unnecessary to consider the effect upon
the policy of the statements, made in the application of the assured, as to the amount of other insurances on his life.
Judgment 'eversed, and cause remandedfor a new tmal.

MnR.

JusTIcE

in its decision.

MATTHEws did not sit in this case nor take part

