OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

them, to wit, a controversy between said petitioner and said
John F Vinal."
The cause being docketed as requested, plaintiff immediately
moved to remand it. After hearing the parties this motion
was granted, and thereupon the defendants sued out this writ
of error. The cause being docketed here the defendant in
error moved to advance it under Rule 32. This was granted,
and the cause was then submitted.
No appearance for plaintiffs in error.
.AMr C. . Cole for defendant in error.
M1R. CHIEF

JusTIcE

WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

The order remanding this cause is affirmed. The petition
for removal was not filed in time and the suit was not removable. Pirme v Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, Sloane v. Anderson,
ante 27 , decided at this term.
A4flmed.

2ACKIN & Another v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE
OF

OF DIVISION

THE UNITED

STATES

IN OPINION
FOR

FROM THE

THE NORTHERN

CIRCUIT COURT
DISTRICT

OF IL-

LINOIS.
Argued March 2, 3, 1886.-Decided March 22,

M88.

A crime pumshable by imprisonment in a State prison or penitentiary, with
or without hard labor, is an infamous crime, within the provision of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, that "No person shal be held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment
or indictment of a grand jury."

This was an information filed by the District Attorney on
January 20, 1885, in the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois, on § 5440 of the Revised
Statutes, which is as follows
"If two or more persons conspire, either to commit any

MACKIN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

offence against the United States, or to defraud the United
States in any manner or for any purpose, and one or more of
such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,
all the parties to such conspiracy shall be liable to a penalty of
not less than $1000, and not more than $10,000, and to imprisonment not more than two years."
The information contained seven counts, which were respectively for conspiracies to commit offences within § 5512, § 5511,
and § 5403. The substance of the offence, as alleged in different forms in the various counts, was the breaking open of a
package containing a return, by the judges and clerks of election, of an election held in a district of the city of Chicago to
choose a Representative in Congress and certain State and
county officers, the alteration of the certificate of the result
of the election, the poll book, the tally list of the votes cast
for each candidate, and a large number of the ballots, and the
substitution of spurious papers in their stead.
In the District Court, the defendants were tried by a jury
and convicted, and on March 21, 1885, were sentenced to pay
a fine of $5000 each, and to be imprisoned for two years in
the penitentiary of the State of Illinois at Joliet in said District.
A writ of error was sued out by the defendants, returnable
at May Term, 1885, of the Circuit Court. At.the hearing in
that court, the two judges presiding were divided in opinion
upon five questions of law, and, at the request of the counsel
for both parties, certified to this court those questions, two of
which were as follows
"1. Whether the crimes, or any of them, charged against
the defendants in the counts of the information, are infamous
crimes, within the meaning of the Fifth Article of Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States 9
" 2. Whether the defendants can or not be held to answer
in the courts of the United States for the crimes charged, or
any of them, against them herein, otherwise than on the presentment or indictment of a grand jury 9"
The other questions certified related to the sufficiency of the
several counts as setting forth any offence, and need not be
particularly stated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

2Jr John C. wthbe'rg and 2ftr Samuel Skellalargerfor plaintiffs in error.
l'r Asszstant Attorney General-Maury(with whom was .MY'
Attorney General on the orief) for defendants in error. fr
John B. Hawley and )/r R chard S. Tuthill also filed a brief.
Mr. TUSTioE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
In Exparte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417. it was adjudged by this
court., upon full consideration, that a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term of years at hard labor was an infamous
crime, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that "iNo person
shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous
crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury;"
and therefore could not be prosecuted by information m any
court of the United States.
The reasons for that judgment, without undertaking to recapitulate them in detail, or to restate the authorities cited in
their support, may be summed up as follows The Fifth Amendment had m view the rule of the common law, governing the
mode of prosecuting those accused of crime, by which an information by the Attorney General, without the intervention of a
grand jury, was not allowed for a capital crime, nor for any
felony, rather than the rule of evidence, by which those convicted of crimes of a certain character were disqualified to testify as witnesses. In other words, of the two kinds of infamy
known to the law of England before the Declaration of Independence, the Constitutional Amendment looked to the one
founded on the opinions of the people respecting the mode of
punishment, rather than to that founded on the construction of
law respecting the future credibility of the delinquent. The
leading word "capital" describing the crime by its punishment
only, the associated words "or otherwise infamous crime" must,
by an elementary rule of construction, be held to include any
crime subject to an infamous punishment, even if they should
be held to include also crimes infamous in their nature, inde-

MACKIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pendently of the punishment affixed to them. Hlavmg regard
to the object and the terms of the Amendment, as well as to
the history of its proposal and adoption, and to the early understanding and practice under it, no person can be held to answer,
without presentment or indictment by a grand jury, for any
crime for which an infamous punishment may lawfully be imposed by the court. The test is whether the crime is one for
which the statutes authorize the court to award an infamous
punishment, not-whether the punishment ultimately awarded is
an infamous one, when the accused is in danger of being subjected to an infamous punishment if convicted, he has the right
to insist that he shall not be put upon his trial, except on the
accusation of a grand jury The Constitution protecting every
one from being prosecuted in a court of the United States. without the intervention of a grand jury, for any crime which is
subject by law to an infamous punishment, no declaration of
Congress is needed to secure, or competent to defeat, the constitutional safeguard. What punishments shall be considered
as infamous may be affected by the changes of public opinion
from one age to another, and for more than a century, impri4onment at hard labor ]f the State prison or penitentiary has
been considered an infamous punishment, in England and
America.
The argument by which the soundness of those conclusions
has been now impugned is, in substance, the same as the one
submitted in that case, and has not convinced us that there was
any error in the decision.
The judgments in Hurtadov Californma, 110 U. S. 516, and
United States v TFaddell, 11, U S. '6, on which the counsel
for the government rely, are quite in accord with the decision
in Wilson's Case.
In .H'urtadov Californsa, the point decided was that the
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution,
which forbids any State to "deprive any person of life, liberty
or property, without due process of law," did not require an
indictment by a grand jury in a prosecution for a capital crime
in a State court. One of the reasons for so deciding was that
the insertion in the Fifth Amendment. addressed to the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

States only, of a specific provision requirmng indictments for
capital or otherwise infamous crimes, as well as the general
provision securing due process of law, showed that the latter
was not intended to include the former, and the former must
be taken to have been purposely omitted in the Fourteenth
Amendment. 110 U. S. 534.
In U ted States v. T-addell, the prosecution was upon an
act of Congress providing that any person convicted under it
should be fined and imprisoned, and should "moreover be
thereafter ineligible to any office or place of honor, profit or
trust, created by the Constitution or laws of the United States."
The only suggestion in the opinion, bearing upon the question
before us, was the expression of a serious doubt whether the
disqualification so declared did not make the crime an infamous one. 112 U. S.82. That disqualification was in the
nature of an additional punishment, which could only take
effect upon conviction. Xiurtz v 3ofltt, 115 U. S.487, 501.
By the express provisions of acts of Congress, either a sentence "to imprisonment for a period longer than one year," or
a sentence "to imprisonment and confinement to hard labor,"
may be ordered to be executed in a State prison or penitentiary, and the convict, while thus imprisoned, is "subject to
the same discipline and treatment as convicts sentenced by
courts of the State." Rev. Stat. §§ 5541, 5542, 5539, EO.Parte
.Karstendck, 93 U. S.396.
How far a convict sentenced by a court of the United States
to imprisonment in a State prison or penitentiary, and not in
terms sentenced to hard labor, can be put to" work, either as
part of his punishment, or as part of the discipline and treatment of the prison, was much discussed at the bar, but we
have not found it necessary to dwell upon it, because we cannot doubt that at the present day imprisonment in a State
prison or penitentiary, with or without hard labor, is an infamous pumshment. It is not only so considered in the
general opinion of the people, but it has been recognized as
such in the legislation of the States and Territories, as well
as of Congress.
In most of the States and Territories, by constitution or

M]ACKIN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, (as is shown in the supplemental brief of the plaintiffs in
error),* all crimes, or at least statutory crimes, not capital, are
classed as felonies or as misdemeanors, accordingly as they are
or are not punishable by imprisonment in the State prison or
penitentiary
The acts of Congress, referred to at the argument, clearly
show that the opinion of the legislative branch of the national
government, so far as it has been expressed, is in full accordance with what we hold to be the true judicial construction of
the Constitution.
The provision of § 1022 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, by which "all crimes and offences" against the elective
franchise or the civil rights of citizens, under 88 5506-5532,
"which are not infamous, may be prosecuted either by indictment, or by information filed by a district attorney," does ,not
undertake to define which of those crimes and offences are infamous, and therefore not to be prosecuted by information, but
leaves that to be regulated by the paramount authority of the
Constitution.
So the provisions of %81044 and 1046 of the Revised Statutes,
in the nature of a statute of limitations, by which no person can
* On that brief the following are referred to
States Alabama, Code 1876, . 151, 4095; Arkansas, Digest 1884, § 1493,
Califorma, Penal Code 1872, § 17 Colorado, Constitution, Art 18, § 4, Georgia, Code 1882, § 4304; Illinois, Rev. Stat. 1874, ch. 88, § 277 (div. 2, § 5);
Indiana, Rev. Stat. 1881, § 1573, Iowa, Code 1873, § 4104 Kentucky, Gen.
Stat. 1883, ch. 29, art. 1, § I Maine, Rev. Stit. 1883, ch. 131, § 9 Massachusetts, Pub. Stat. 1882, ch. 210, § 1, Michigan, 2 Howells Stat. 1882,
§ 9480 Mississippi, Code 1880, § 3104, Mis5ouri, Rev. Stat. 1879, § 1676
New York, Rev. Stat. (Ed. 1882), pt. 4, ch. 1, tit. 7, §§ 30. 31 Nebraska,
Compiled Stat. 1881, pt. 3, § 247 Oregon, Gen. Laws 1874, p. 341, § 3; Tennessee, Code 1884, § 6051 Vermont, Rev. Laws, 1880, § 4334, Virginia, Code
1873, ch. 195, § 1 West Virginia, Code 1868, ch. 152, § 1, Wisconsin, Rev.
Stat. 1878, § 4637.
Territories: Arizona, Compiled Laws 1877, ch. 11, § 4, Dakota, Penal Code
1877, ch. 1, § 5, Idaho, Rev. Laws 1874-5, p. 364, § 3; New Mexico, Compiled Laws 1884, § 663, Utah, Compiled Laws 1876, tit. 21, § 15; Wasington, Stat. 1855, p. 76, § 11 Wyoming, Compiled Laws 1876, ch. 16, . 1.
To these may be added the following Florida, Digest 1872, ch. 52, § 1,
Minnesota, Stat. 1878, ch. 91 § 2; Ohio, Rev. Stat. 1880, g 6795.
voL. cxvr-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

be prosecuted, tried or punished for any offence not capital, or
for any crime under the revenue laws or the slave-trade laws,
"unless the indictment is found or the information is instituted" within a certain time after the committing of the crime
or offence, do not prescribe or indicate what offences must be
prosecuted by indictment, and what may be prosecuted by information.
Nor can any such effect be attributed to the similar phrase
in the act of July 5, 1884, ch. 225, by which no person shall be
prosecuted, tried or punished for any offence under the internal
revenue laws, "unless the indictment is found or the information instituted within three years next after the commission of
the offence, in all cases where the penalty prescribed may be
imprisonment in the penitentiary, and within two years in all
other cases." 23 Stat. 122. The including, in a single clause,
of two classes of offences, one of which may be prosecuted by
information, is a sufficient reason for mentioning informations
as well as indictments, without attributing to Congress an
intention that both classes should be prosecuted by mformation, and imprisonment in the penitentiary is made the line of
distinction between the two classes.
But the most conclusive evidence of the opinion of Congress
upon this subject is to be found in the act conferring on the
Police Court of the District of Columbia "original and exclusive jurisdiction of all offences against the United States,
committed in the District, not deemed capital or otherwise
infamous crimes, that is to say, of all simple assaults and batteries, and all other misdemeanors not punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary" Act of June 17, 1870, ch. 133, § 1,
16 Stat. 153, Rev. Stat. D. C. § 10,9. "Infamous crimes"
are thus in the most explicit words defined to be those "punishable by imprisonment in the penitentiary"
The result is, that all the crimes charged against the defendants in this information are infamous crimes, within the meaning
of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, and that the defendants cannot be held to answer in the courts of the United
States for any of those crimes, otherwise than on a presentment
or mdictment of a grand jury, and therefore the first ques-

LTNION PACIFIC R'Y CO. v. UNITED STATES.

355

'Statement of Facts.

tion certified must be answered in the affirmative, and the
second question in the negative, and the other questions certified become immaterial.

Ordered accordingly.

UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY 0. UNITED
STATES.
UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CL

.

Argued January26, 18S6.-Decided March 29, 1886.

Section 6 of the act of July 1, 1862, in aid of the construction of the railroads
to the Pacific, required them to transport mails, troops, supplies, etc.,
for the government "at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to
exceed the amounts paid by private parties for the same service." The
Union Pacific Railway Company filed its petition in the Court of Claims,
setting forth the performance of such services for the government and its
charges for the same, and averring that the several amounts were according to rates fixed by it both as respects the government and the public,
wnch were fair and reasonable, and not exceeding the amounts paid by
private parties for the same kind of service. The government denied the
reasonableness of the rates, and averred that less amounts allowed by it
were fair and reasonable. The Court of Claims, after hearing proof, found
"that the amounts allowed and retained by the Treasury Department for
transportation of mails as aforesaid, are a fair and reasonable compensation for the service and not in excess of the rates paid by private parties
for the same service." Hfeld That this-was a proper form of finding.
The provisions of § 6 of the act of July 1, 1862, respecting rates for transportation done by the Union Pacific Railway Company for the United States, govern such transportation over its bridge between Council Bluffs and Omaha.
The service rendered by a railway company in transporting a local passenger
from one point on its line to another is not identical with the service
rendered in transporting a through passenger over the same rails.

The findings in this case were before the court on a motion
for a certiorari, reported in 116 U S. 402. After that motion
was denied the cause came on for hearing and decision on the
merits. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

