OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

cation, and that the assured, by accepting it, covenanted that
the application contained a just, full, and true statement of all
the facts and circumstances in regard to the condition, situation, value, and risk of the property insured, and that if any
fact or circumstance were not fairly represented, the policy
should be void. Action having been brought upon the policy,
the company denied its liability on the ground that the application had represented that there was no such mortgage, when
in fact, one existed. The court held that the assured, by accepting the policy, was bound by its covenants, and that he
ratified the application.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. We are
clear that the court below erred, both in refusing the instructions asked and in its charge to the jury in the particulars
mentioned.
-Itsjudgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for a new trial.

YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING
SARGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT

COMPANY v.

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued farch 12, 15,
1886.-Decided April 5,1886.
Claim 1 of reissued letters patent No. 4696, granted to James Sargent, January 2, 1872, for an "improvement in locks." on an application filed September 25, 1871, the original patent, No. 57,574, having been granted to
him August 28, 1866, namely, "1. In a combination lock for safe or vault
doors, a bolt, Iwhich turns on a pivot or bearing, when said bolt, 1, is used
in a lock having no ordinary sliding lock-bolt, and in connection with the
separate bolt-work of the door, and so arranged as to receive the pressure of
the said bolt-work without transmitting it to the wheels or other equivalent
works of the lock," is not invalid, as being an unlawful expansion of claim
1 of the original patent, namely, "1. The rotating tumbler , when separated and isolated in action from the permutation wheels, and so arranged
that any inward pressure upon the bolt will be exerted upon the bearing of

YALE LOOK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.
said tumbler, and have no action nor effect upon the said permutation
wheels, substantially as and for the purpose herein specified."
The invention covered by claim 1 of the reissue defined, and certain-prior
structures held not to have anticipated it.
The defendant's lock held to be an infringement of that claim.
The plaintiff granted no licenses under his patent, but sold locks made by himself containing the invention. The defendant sold infringing locks at less
prices than the plaintiff, and compelled the plaintiff to lower his prices.
As the turning bolt was an essential feature in each of the two locks, andthe plaintiff could not sell his patented device unless in a lock, and thus
made a profit on the entire lock, and was deprived of that profit by such enforced reduction of prices Held, that the infringement caused the entire
loss of the plaintiff, after allowing a proper sum for any other patentedidevice contained in the defendant's lock and for any other causes which gave
to the defendant an advantage in selling his lock.
Such loss on the locks sold by the plaintiff, by the reduction of price, was allowed
to the plaintiff as damages, in a suit in equity for infringement, although
the defendant made no profit.
The plaintiff, as legal owner of the patent, was entitled to recover the damages,.althougli he had a partner in making and selling the locks.
As the bill alleged infringement of the reissue generally, and the answer set up
.that the reissue was not for the same invention as the original patent,
and one of the claims of the reissue not disclaimed before this suit was
brought was invalid, as an unlawful expansion of the original patent, although the claim on which a recovery was allowed was good, this court, the
patent naving expired, but there having been no unreasonable delay in filing
a disclaimer to the invalid claim, reversed so much of the decree below as
awarded costs to the plaintiff, and affirmed it in all other respects, each
party to bear his own costs in this court and one half of the expense of
printing the record.

This was a suit in equity to recover for infringement of a
patent. The case in stated in the opinion of the court.
.-3f

_7r'ederz H. Betts for appellant.

Xr George Ticknor Cu'tm, and -Wr Ed2nundY.etmore for
appellee.
.JuSTarE; BLTCHF ORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the

M

United States for the Southern District of l\ew York, by
James Sargent against the Yale Lock Manufacturing Company, to recover for the infringement of reissued letters patent

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opimon of the Court.

No. 4696, granted to Sargent, January 2, 1872, for an "improvement in locks," on an application therefor filed September 25, 1871 (the original patent, No. 57,574, having been
granted to him August 28, 1866).
The specification and drawings of the reissue are as follows
"My invention consists in combining with the ordinary combination-wheels, and the other working parts of a combination
lock which has no sliding lock-bolt, a bolt turning on a pivot or
bearing, which is so isolated or removed from contact with
the said wheels as to receive any pressure or strain which may
be applied through the separate bolt-work of the safe or vaultdoor, and cut off the communication between the bolt-work of
the door and the wheels or fence-lever of the lock, whereby the
position of the slots in the wheels can be determined and the
lock 'picked,' as can be done in most cases where the ordinary
sliding-bolt is used without some mechamcal device to prevent.
In the drawings, Figure 1 is an elevation of my improved
lock, with the back plate removed, Figs. 2 and 3. an elevation
and top view, respectively, of the pivoted bolt, the combination-wheels, the cam, and the lever work that connects them,
Fig. 4, a perspective view of the pivoted bolt, Fig. 5, a similar
view of the magnet and armatures, Fig. 6, a view showing the
manner of applying the spindle and cam to a safe or vault
door.
A, represents the plate of a safe door, and B, the case of the
lock which is applied thereto. C, C, C, are the combinationwheels, and D, the operating spindle. The spindle passes
through a hollow stud, a, of the case, and has screwed upon its
inner end the cam E, as shown most clearly in Fig. 6. The
wheels themselves rest on the stud a.
, is the bolt, turning
on a pivot or bearing, q. Its location is such as to rest closely
in the rear of the stem, t, of the heavy bolt-work of the door,
and to hold it out when in one position, but to allow it
to retract, to free the bolt-work, when in the other position,
said bolt, 1, turning on its pivot or bearing to allow this to be
done. H is a sliding-bar, which gives motion to the bolt as it
is thrown forward or backward, being connected together by
cog-teeth p r The bar slides on studs, n n, by which it keeps

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
.Opion of the Court.

its horizontal position.

G is a lever pivoted at f, to bar H

and serving to throw the latter back. It has a hook, b, Fig. 2,
which engages with the bit, d, of the cam, to draw the bar back.
The forward motion is given by the cam striking the end o, of
the bar H. Z is a magnet of the form shown in Fig. 5, which
is suspended on a pivot, i.. Its open end rests between armatures A k, which are separated by a brass pendant., 1. The
armature h is attached to the end of lever, G When the magnet is in contact with the lower armature, h, the dog, g, will be
held away from the wheels, but when raised and brought in
contact with the upper armature, 7, the lever is released and
the dog is then allowed to fall into the notches of the wheels,
to release the bolt. The magnet is raised by a roller, q, of the
cam, which strikes a bearing, m, of the magnet.
In general principle the magnet is the same as that covered
by the patent of Sargent and Covert, May 2, 1865, .but the
construction and arrangement of the magnet and armatures
are much simpler and more effective, and constitute one feature
of my present invention.
An important feature in my invention is the employment of
the bolt , turning on a pivot or bearing, instead of the sliding:
bolt heretofore in use. It is isolated, so to speak, from the
combination-wheels and the other main working parts of the
lock, and, therefore, any strain which is brought to bear upon
it by the heavy bolt-work will be expended on the bolt itself,
and not upon the wheels. In the old form of lock the slidingbolt extends back so as to connect with or come near to the
wheels, and any strain thereon is liable to disarrange the lock
works.
Another important advantage of the isolation of the bolt is
that it increases the difficulty of 'picking,' by being removed
from all contact with the wheels. A common mode of picking
ordinary locks is to force the bolt back, so as to get a contact
with it and the edges of the wheels, by which their position is
ascertained. In my lock this cannot occur, as the bolt simply
turns on its bearing or pivot, and no back- action can bring it
or the lever work against the wheels.
The bolt may not only be of the circular form shown in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

drawings, but of a segmental form, which will serve the same
purpose.
Fi~1.

I am aware that the combination-wheels themselves have
been made with notches, and so arranged that the ordinary
sliding-bolt which rests against their edges may fall back and

YALE LOOK COMPANY v. SARGENT.

541

Opinion of the Court.

within the notches, when they are all set. Such is not the
equivalent of my invention, as my express purpose is to avoid
all contact of the bolt with the edges of the wheels."
The claims of the reissue, five in number, are as follows, but
only claim one is alleged to have been infringed
"1. In a. combination lock for safe or vault doors, a bolt, 1
which turns on a pivot or bearing, when said bolt, , is used in
a lock having no ordinary sliding lock-bolt, and in connection
with the separate bolt-work of the door, and so arranged as to
receive the pressure of the said bolt-work without transmitting
it to the wheels or other equivalent works of the lock.
2. In a combination lock for safe and vault doors, I claim the
combination of the bolt , bar 11 and cog-connectionp r, when
said bolt, _, turns on a pivot or bearing, and receives the pressure of the bolt-work situated outside the lock-works, and intervenes between the bolt-work and the wheels.
3. I claim, in combination with the bolt I, the bar IT and
lever G, arranged and operating as herein set forth.
4. I claim, in combination with the vibrating magnet, 1, the
armatures I k and pendant 1, arranged as herein described.
5. I claim the combination and arrangement of the wheels
C C, cam E, lever G, bar I, and bolt , as herein described."
The defences set up were want of novelty, non-infringement,
and invalidity of the reissue. After a hearing on pleadings
and proofs, an interlocutory decree was entered finding the reissued patent to be valid and to have been infringed, and awarding a perpetual injunction and an account of profits and damages. The master reported $7771 damages in favor of the
plaintiff. The defendant excepted to the report, but the exceptions were overruled by the court and a final decree was entered for the plaintiff, for $7771 damages and $650.17 costs.
The defendant has appealed to this court.
It is contended that the first claim of the reissue is void for
unlawful expansion, after unreasonable delay in applying for the
reissue.
The original patent had three claims, as follows
"1. The rotating-tumbler I, when separated and isolated in
action from the permutation-wheels, and so arranged that any

OCTOBER TERM, I885.
Opnnon of the Court.

inward pressure upon the bolt will be exerted on the beating
of said tumbler, and have no action nor effect upon the said
permutation wheels, substantially as and for the purpose herein
specified.
2. In combination with the turning-tumbler I, the cog-bar ZT
and lever G, arranged and operating as herein set forth.
3. The combination and arrangement of the combinationwheels G,cam-disk E, pivoted lever G, cog-bar H, and trning
tumbler I, the whole operating as herein specified."
Claim 3 of the reissue is substantially the same as claim 2 of
the original, and claim 5 of the reissue is substantially the same
as claim 3 of the original, while claims 2 and 4 of the reissue
are new claims.
The defendant directs attention to these facts When Sargent applied originally for his patent, on February 6, 1866, he
asked for claim 1 in this form "The turning-bolt I, resting on
its bearing y, in combination with the mechanism of a combination lock, in such manner as to practically isolate or disconnect it from the main operating parts, substantially as set forth."
Claim 1 having been rejected on the 24th of March, 1866, Sargent, on the 29th of June, 1866, changed the claim to the form
it has in the original patent as issued, and his attorneys at the
same time, in a letter to the Patent Office, explained the new
form of claim thus "The substance of the first substituted
claim consists essentially in providing a rotating tumbler in connection with the bearing on which it rests and the stem of the
bolt-work which rests against it, when said tumbler is isolated
or disconnected from the combination-wheels, so that any inward motion of the bolt against this tumbler will expend its
force against the bearing on which the tumbler turns and rests,
and will not reach or affect the permutation-wheels."
The
attorneys also said "In Mr. Sargent's device it will be observed that the combination or permutation-wheels are on a
different bearing, and located at a distance from the revolving
tumbler _, and never in contact therewith, so that the two are
practically isolated from each other, and there is no connection
between them except through the lever H, which is not within
the reach or influence of the pick-lock." And the specification

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

of the original patent contained this language "The principal
advantage of this tumbler consists in its isolation, so to speak,
from the combination-wheels and the main working parts. It
rests alone on its bearing q, the only part connected being the
cog-bar I.
In ordinary locks the sliding-bolt extends back in
direct connection with the main working mechanism, and by
its constant action and the strain that comes upon it frequently
disarranges those parts. This is especially true when the stem
or projection t of the heavy bolt of the safe-door rests against
the sliding bolt. In this case, when force is applied to the bolt,
the wrenching strain upon the bolt and mechanism is very great.
In my lock it will be seen that this difficulty is obviated, for
any strain that comes upon the circular tumbler, either from
the stem t or any other source, is simply expended upon the
strong bearing q, and does not reach back to the combinationwheels or any part of the working mechanism. This is of the
utmost importance."
It is urged that emphasis was thus laid on the fact that the
turmng-bolt or tumbler was mounted on a different bearing
from the permutation-wheels, and that it was that arrangement which prevented pressure on it from reaching back to
the permutation-wheels, that the original claim, in speaking
of the rotating tumbler as "separated and isolated in action
from the permutation-wheels," meant that it was mounted on
its own separate bearing, and did not allow of its being
mounted in any other way, that the specification of the reissue does not say that the tumbler I "rests alone on its bear
ing, q," that the limitation thus contained in claim I of the
original patent is not found in claim 1 of the reissue, and that
thereby an unlawful expansion was made, the application for
the reissue having been filed more than five years after the
original patent was granted.
But we think the reissue is not fairly open to this objection.
The tumbler in the one claim and the bolt in the other are the
same instrument. The words "rotating-tumbler I," in the
original claim, refer to the tumbler described as resting on a
bearing "around which it turns." The claim of the reissue, in
saying that the bolt I "turns on a pivot or bearing," expresses

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the same idea. The words in the claim of the reissue, "1when
said bolt I is used in a lock having no ordinary sliding lockbolt, and in connection with the separate bolt-work of the door,
and so arranged as to receive the pressure of the said bolt-work
without transmitting it to the wheels or other equivalent works
of the lock," are justified by these words in the original claim,
"and so arranged that any inward pressure upon the bolt will
be exerted on the bearing of said tumbler, and have no action or effect upon the said permutation-wheels." The word
"bolt" in the claim of the original meant what in the claim of
the reissue is called "the separate bolt-work of the door," because what is called in the former "the rotating-tumbler ." is
called in the latter "a bolt, , which turns on a pivot or bearing." The proviso in the claim of the reissue that the bolt I
is to be "used in a lock having no ordinary sliding lock-bolt"
does not expand the claim, but, if anything, restricts it. The
statement, in the claim of the reissue, that the bolt -1 is so
arranged as to receive the pressure of the separate bolt-work
of the door without transmitting it to the wheels, isjustified
by the statement in the original claim, that the rotating tumbler I is so arranged that any inward pressure upon the bolt
will be exerted on the bearing of the tumbler, and have no
action or effect on the permutation-wheels.
The words in the original claim, "when separated and isolated in action from the permutation-wheels," applied to the
rotating tumbler, do not indicate that the mounting of the
tumbler alone on its bearing is required, but mean no more
than that the tumbler shall be separated and isolated in action
from the wheels, and the words of the claim of the reissue
have no broader meaning in that regard. If the rotating tumbler or bolt is thus isolated 'in action from the wheels, the
arrangement referred to in both claims is reached. The patentee set forth, as he was bound to do, the method he used.
and which he thought advisable, but any method of mounting
the revolving bolt which effects the isolation referred to is
within either claim. The words "or other equivalent works
of the lock" have no expanding force.
The invention of Sargent consists in combining with the

YALE LOOK COMIPANY v. SARGENT.
Opimon of the Court.

ordinary combination-wheels, and the other working parts of
a combination lock which has no sliding lock-bolt, a bolt turniug on a pivot or bearing, which is so isolated or removed from
contact with the said wheels, as to receive any pressure or
strain which may be applied through the separate bolt-work of
a safe door, and cut off the communication between the boltwork of the door and the wheels or fence-lever of the lock, so
that the position of the slots in the wheels cannot be determined, for picking the lock, as in the use of the ordinary sliding lock-bolt, which extends back so as to connect with the
wheels. The turning-bolt is an incomplete cylinder, or one in
which parts of the periphery are cut away An extended part
of the bolt-work of the door bears against a part of the complete periphery of the turning-bolt, in such manner that the
turning-bolt receives all pressure and does not allow it to
reach the combination-wheels. The ordinary sliding lock-bolt
is, therefore, dispensed with.
Three alleged anticipating devices are set up-defendant's Exhibit A, defendant's Exhibits 0 and D, and defendant's Exhibit E.
Exhibit A has in the lock-casing a sliding-bolt, and, also, what
is alleged to be a turning-bolt. But the latter is only the wellknown swivelling-dog, long used to prevent the retraction of
sliding-bolts, and so arranged as to be swivelled by a spring
when the combination-wheels are gated. As a consequence,
the stump or fence bears on the wheels not only with the pressure of its own weight but with the added force of the spring.
Any swivelling force applied to the dog causes the stump to bear
on the peripheries of the wheels, and the picking of the lock is.
facilitated. The dog prevents the retraction of the sliding-bolt.
In Sargent's patent the lever which carries the stump is so constructed that no turning of the revolving-bolt can bring the
lever-work against the wheels. The Sargent revolving-bolt
must be acted upon by the user, while the swivelling-dog in
Exhibit A is an automatic latch. In Sargent's structure the revolving-bolt, the lever which carries the stump, and the wheels,
are sufficient to prevent the retraction of the bolt-work, while
in E ihibit A the sliding-bolt, the swivelling-dog, the stumplever and the wheels are all of them necessary
VoL. XcXVI-35

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnon of the Court.

The drawings Exhibits 0 and D show the Linus Yale lock,
which is also illustrated by a lock mechanism. It is a revolving lock which permits and prevents the retraction of the
bolt-work of the door, and there IS no sliding-bolt. But there
are no permutation wheels, or revolving-tumblers, nor any oscillating or sliding tumblers, but the ancient device of pins is
used to prevent the revolution of the bolt, the pins entering
into holes in the bolt, and a cross strain can be brought upon
the pins, making the picking of the lock comparatively easy
Moreover, the bolt is not isolated from the pins, as it is from
the wheels an Sargent's lock, but parts of the pins are in sockets in the bolt. The pins are thus in immediate connection
with the bolt, while Sargent interposes lever-work between the
bolt and the wheels, to effect the isolation of the bolt.
In the Butterworth padlock, Exhibit E, there isa revolvingbolt combined with the wheel-tumblers by means of a lever,
but there is no "separate bolt-work of the door," which is one
element of the claim in Sargent's reissue. Of this padlock the
plaintiff's expert, Mr. Henry B. Renwick, says "The padlock
has the ordinary hasp attached to the case, and the bolt acts to
prevent this hasp from being drawn away from the axis upon
which the bolt revolves, and not to prevent bolt-works from
being forced towards that same axis. The hasp is a contrivance
which must be used with two staples, or one staple and a slotted bar, all of which must be outside of the door. Whereas, on
the contrary, bolt-works must be inside of the door, and shoot
into sockets in -the jambs, it being clear that the hasp could not
be used in place of bolt-works, or bolt-works in place of a hasp,
even if the former were located outside of the door. I do not
think that this lock would even suggest the idea of the combination referred to in the first claim of the Sargent reissue.
In order to make the lock fit to be used in combination with
bolt-works, even after such idea had been suggested, it would
be necessary First. To provide the lock-ease with means of
securing it to the door. Second. To elongate the spindle and
so contrive it and the dial-plate that they could be separated
from the wheel-tumblers and put together again, with the door
between them. Third. To alter the direction of the slot in the-

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opimon of the Court.

ease through which the hasp enters, so that the tail of the boltworks could press upon the revolving-bolt in the line of a radius
thereof. If the tail of bolt-works were introduced into the
present slot, any hammering of the bolt-works by the handle
upon the periphery of the revolving-bolt would tend to turn
the revolving-bolt upon its axis, and thus cause the stump to be
pressed upon the wheel-tumblers in such a manner as to facilitate picking, this result being due to the fact that the line of
direction through the slot is not in line of the radius to the' bolt,
but in line of a sector thereof; further, the revolving-bolt in a
padlock, owing to its being necessary that it should enter a slot
in the hasp, is weakest at the very point where it should be
strongest, if it were to be used in connection with bolt-work,
and any good constructor would alter the revolving-bolt of the
padlock, so that it would be strongest where it is now weakest,
in case it was desired, to use a revolving-bolt in combination
with bolt works." It is a marked feature of Sargent's lock
that the direction-of the pressure of the bolt-work of the door
on the revolving-bolt is in the line of a radius of that bolt, so
that the pressure has no tendency to revolve the bolt. This
feature is not found in the Butterworth padlock.
We are of opinion that, as against anything found in the old
structures, there was patentable novelty in what Sargent did
and what he claimed.
As to the question of infringement, the defendant's lock, Cole
No. 2, has in it a borti which turns on a pivot, and is substantially identical with the like bolt in Sargent's patent. It prevents and permits the retraction of the bolt-work of the door
in the same manner as Sargent's bolt. There is no sliding-bolt.
The turning-bolt is arranged to serve as a stop to two sets of
bolt-works, instead of one, but in respect to one set, there is
the same mode of operation in both locks. As the claim of
Sargent's reissue does not require that the bearing of the rotating-bolt should be distinct from the bearing of the wheels,
the fact that in Cole No. 2 the bearing of the turnmg-bolt is on
the stud on which the wheels turn, makes no difference in principle, because the action of the bolt is as wholly separated and
isolated from the wheels in the one lock as in the other, and in

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

each the strain from the bolt-work is expended on the turningbolt and not on the wheels. So, too, the fact that in Sargent's
patent the fence-lever is connected with the turning-bolt by a
rack on the end of the lever engaging with cog-teeth on the
bolt, while in Cole No. 2 the end of the lever is pivoted directly
to the turning-bolt, does not affect the identity of the arrangement as part of the combination covered by claim 1 of the reissue. The, defendant's lock must be held to infringe that
claim.
On the question of damages, the defendant contends that
there was no sufficient or legal proof that the plaintiff suffered
the damages reported and adjudged, or any other damages.
The action of the master, the character of the exceptions to
his report, and the view taken by the Circuit Court, are fully
shown by its opinion, reported in 17 Blatchford, 244, which was
as follows
"The master reports that there is no basis, from the proofs
adduced before him, to find what profits have been made by
the defendant by the use of the ' turning-bolt' (the infringing
device) in the locks made and sold by it, and that, therefore,
on the testimony before him he cannot find what profits, if
any, are due from the defendant for the use of the 'turningbolt.'
"The patent on which this suit is brought is a reissue granted
January 2, 1872. The master reports that, after that time, and
in 1873, in consequence of the defendant's offering and selling
to the plaintiff's principal customers and to the trade generally,
locks containing the infringing device, at a less price than the
plaintiff was obtaining, a reduction of prices was enforced on
the plaintiff, such reduction being, in round numbers, $1 on
each No. 5 lock and $2 on each No. 3 lock. Exception one of
the defendant is to such finding and report, and alleges that
the master should have reported that no-such reduction was enforced, and that there was no proof of the amount of any reduction caused by the defendant's infringement, and that there
was no method of computing such reduction, even if it actually
existed.
"The master also reports, that it is in evidence, that, during

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opunon of the Court.

the period covered by the accounting, the plaintiff could have
manufactured, in addition to the locks he did manufacture, and
without materially increasing his manufacturing facilities, all
the locks manufactured and sold by the defendant. Exception
two of the defendant is to such finding and report, and alleges
that the master should have reported that no such additional
manufacture by the plaintiff was possible, or that it was impossible without a very great extension of his facilities.
"The master also reports, that it is in evidence, that, during
the period covered by the accounting, the. plaintiff would have
made sales to many of the persons who were induced to purchase from the defendant, at his own established prices, had
not the defendant offered its locks at lower prices. Exception
three of the defendant is to that part of the report, and alleges
that the master should have found and reported that no such
sales would have been made, or that, even if made, they would
not have been at the plaintiff's own established prices.
"The master also reports, that the plaintiff has suffered damage in respect to the matters to which exceptions two and three
relate. Exception four of the defendant is to that part of the
report, and alleges that the master should have found and
reported no damage whatever from the competition of the
defendant.
"The master further reports, that the locks sold by the defendant contained, in addition to the 'turning-bolt,' a device
patented by the Rosner patent, for which infringement a claim
is made against the defendant in another suit, that, as to the
proportion of the reduction of prices above set forth, which
should be allowed to the device claimed under the Rosner
patent, it is claimed by the plaintiff, and nowhere effectually
disputed by the defendant, ' that, in computing the profits on
these locks, one-third belonged to and was charged by him to
the IRosner patent,' and that, admitting this proportion, and
allowing, in addition thereto, for any superior external attractions of the defendant's locks, and for the number of combinations which they had over those of the plaintiff, and for the
shape of the case of the lock, and for the commercial success
of the defendant in effecting sales, where the plaintiff would

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

have failed, the master is of opinion that the plaintiff is entitled
to recover from the defendant, as damages, one-half of the
amount of the reduction in prices caused by the defendant
since January 2, 1872, that is, on 1009 io. 3 locks, $1 per
lock, being $1009, and on 13,521 No. 5 locks, at 50c. per lock,
$6762, being a total of $7771. Exception five of the defendant excepts to the finding and report that the plaintiff is entitled to recover from the defendant, as damages, one-half of
the amount of the reduction in prices caused by the defendant
since January 2, 1872, and alleges that the master should have
reported ' no reduction in prices, or no proof of such,' caused
by any infringement by the defendant since said date, and
' hence no damages' to the plaintiff, 'and, consequently, no
method of calculating them.' Exception six of the defendant
excepts to the report for that the master erred in making the
apportionment of the alleged reduction in the plaintiff's prices,
charging one-half thereof to the alleged infringement of the
'turning-bolt' patent, and alleges that no basis existed, in the
proof or in law, for such or for any apportionment, or for any
award of damages. Exception seven of the defendant excepts
to the report for that the master erred in assessing damages
which are not the damages suffered by the plaintiff, but are
those suffered by the firm of Sargent & Greenleaf, and alleges
that the master should have reported that the damage, if any,
found to have been suffered by said firm, is not the damage of
the plaintiff, who is only one member of said firm, but that
the plaintiff's damage is merely a portion thereof. Exception
eight of the defendant excepts to the report for that the master erred in finding and reporting, as damages, the sum mentioned in his report, or any damages whatsoever, and in not
reporting that there was no proof of any actual damage suffered by the -p]aintiff from the alleged infringement.
"The defendant contends that the competition of the defendant was not the sole cause of the reduction of the plaintiff's
prices, and that the proportionate effect of the defendant's
competition is not attempted to be estimated or ascertained by
the proofs. It alleges that the defendant is not responsible for
the reduction made in 1873, that there were many other causes

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

which contributed to this reduction, and that the lowering of
prices was caused principally by the competition of other, fireproof safe lock-makers, and, notably, the New Britain Lock
Co., by the fact that safe-makers were making and threatenmg to make their own safe locks, and by the general lowering
of the prices of material and labor and the depression of business.
":Reduction of prices, and consequent loss of profits, enforced
by infringing competition, is a proper ground for awarding
damages. The only question is as to the character and sufficiency of the evidence, in the particular case. I think that,
on the whole evidence, the reduction of prices by the plaintiff,
after January 2d, 1872, on safe locks containing his invention,
is shown to have been directly and solely caused by the defendb
ant's infringement.
"The master, in his report, allows damages only for the reduction of prices on the locks sold by the plaintiff, that is, 1009
No. 3 locks and 13,524:No. 5 locks. Although the master states
that the plaintiff suffered damage in losing the sale of locks
sold by the defendant, he awards no damages for that cause.
He confines his award to the loss on the locks which the plaintiff sold.
"The defendant also contends, that the plaintiff is not entitled
to recover from the defendant, as damages, the entire amount
of the reduction enforced by the defendant's competition, but
only the-damages occasioned by the effect of the presence of
the infringement, that the burden of proof is on the plaintiff
to fix the value of, and to separate the effect of, the infringing
devices, that he failed to do so by any proper proof, and that
no basis was afforded to the master on which such damages
could be computed. But, as the master allowed damages only
for the reduction of prices on the locks sold by the plaintiff,
and as the essential feature of those locks was the ' turning-bolt'
device, and as an essential feature of the infringing locks was
the infringing I turning-bolt' device in them, and as the plaintiff could not sell his ' turning-bolt' device unless it was embodied in a lock, and as he was thereby enabled to make his
profit on the entire lock, and as he was deprived, by the acts of

OCTOBER TERiN[, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

the defendant in selling at low prices looks containing the patented 'turning-bolt' device, of the profit he would otherwise
have made on the locks which he actually sold containing the
'turning-bolt' device, it seems plain that the defendant's infringement must be held to have caused the entire loss of the
plaintiff by the reduction of prices, after allowing a proper sum
for any other patented device contained in the defendant's locks
and for any other causes which gave to the defendant an advantage in selling its locks. This is the basis on which the
master proceeded, and it seems to me, on a consideration of the
evidence, that the master has made all proper allowances and
has arrived at a correct conclusion in fixing, as damages, onehalf of the amount of reduction in prices.
"The plaintiff, as the owner of the patent, is entitled to recover the damages in this case. He may be accountable to his
copartner for a part of them, but the copartner could not sue
on the patent, for such damages or any part of them."
This is a case where the patentee granted no licenses, and
had no established license fee, but supplied the demand for his
lock himself, and was able to supply that demand. The market
for the lock was limited to safe-makers. 1o one but a safemaker wanted or would buy such a lock. The master was
unable to determine, from the proofs, what profits, if any, the
defendant had made from the use of the turning-bolt. He disallowed all items of damage from the loss to the plaintiff of the
sale of infringing locks sold by the defendant, and confined his
award to the enforced reduction of price on the looks which the
plaintiff sold, caused by the infringement. That this is a proper
item of damages, if proved, is clear. It is a pecuniary injury
caused by the infringement, and is the subject of an award of
damages, although the defendant may have made no profits
and the plaintiff may have had no established license fee. As
the plaintiff, at the time of the infringement, availed himself of
his exclusive right by keeping his patent a monopoly, and
granting no licenses, the difference between his pecuniary condition after the infringement, and what his condition would
have been if the infringement had not occurred, is to be meas.ured, so far as his own sales of locks are concerned, by the dif-

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

ference between the money he would have realized from such
sales if the infringement had not interfered with such monopoly, and the money he did realize from such sales. If such difference can be ascertained by proper and satisfactory evidence,
it is a proper measure of damages. The damages to be recovered, Rev Stat. %§4919 and 4921, are "actual damages ;" and
they may properly include such losses to the plaintiff as were
allowed in this case. fccOyn1 v Brodie, 1 Woods, 153, 161,
Phi1p v HYock, 17 Wall. 460, 462.
The turning-bolt was the essential feature of the Sargent
lock. The defendant adopted Sargent's arrangement, and
then reduced the price of the lock, forcing Sargent to do the
same, in order to hold his trade. The evidence shows that the
reduction of prices by Sargent was solely due to the defendant's infringement. The only competitor with Sargent in the
use of his turning-bolt arrangement, during the period covered
by the accounting, was the defendant.
We think the master made proper allowances for all other
causes which could have affected the plaintiff's prices, that
the proper deduction was made for the use of the Rosner
device in the defendant's lock, and that the damages awarded
are no greater than the testimony warranted.
The decision that the plaintiff, as owner of the patent, was
entitled to recover the damages, was correct.
The bill alleges infringement of the reissue generally and
especially of the first claim. The answer alleges that the reissue is not for the same invention as the original patent. The
defendant contends that this is true as to claims 2 and 4 of
the reissue, and that, as no disclaimer of those. claims was
entered at the Patent Office before this suit was brought, -the
recovery in this case should have been without costs, under the
provisions of §§ 4917 and 4922 of the Revised Statutes, and
the decision in Gage v .Hemng,107 U. S. 640, 648. That
case holds that the invalidity of a new claim in a reissue does
not impair the validity of a claim in it which is only a repetition and separate statement of a claim in the original patent,
It also holds that a reissued patent is within the letter and the
spirit of the provisions of §§ 4917 and 4922, and that, where a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

defendant has infringed such a re-stated valid claim of a reissue, the plaintiff, on filing a disclaimer of the new and invalid
clauns of the reissue, may have a decree, without costs, for the
infringement of such valid claim, where there has been no unreasonable delay in entering the disclaimer.
There can be no doubt that claim 4 of the reissue was
invalid, as'an unlawful expansion of the original patent, on an
application for the reissue fied more than five years after the
original patent was granted. But the patent has expired, and,
therefore, no disclaimer can now be filed. There was no unreasonable delay in filing a disclaimer, as the validity of claim
4 was sanctioned by the Commissioner of Patents in granting
the reissue, and this suit was commenced in July, 1872, and
the claim was not held invalid by the Circuit Court (both the
interlocutory and final decrees having been entered before the
decisions of this court, at October Term, 1881, on the subject
of reissued patents were made). The result, therefore, is, that
The decree below must be reversed as to the award of costs,
and q/lairmed sn all other respects, with 'tterest until paid,
at the same rate per annum. that decrees bear m the courts
of the State of Hew Y-ork, and the case be remanded to the
Circuit Court, with a direction to modify the decree accordingly. -Each _party will bear his own costs zn this
court and one-half of the expense of prsntzng the record.
Silsby v Foote, 20 How 378, 387.

YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING COMPANTY v.
GREENLEAF
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 16, 1886.-Decided March 29,1886.

The scope of letters patent must be limited to the invention covered by the
claim; the claim may be illustrated, but it cannot be enlarged by language
used m other parts of the specification.

