TUA v. CARRIERE.
Statement of Facts.

at the time it was taken, was ' good and sufficient,'" now insafficient. No personal decree isasked. The sole purpose of
the suit is to subject the lands in question to the payment of
debts of Harwood, the deceased appellant. The affidavits do
not satisfy us that the property is depreciating in value by
reason of any neglect of the surviving appellants in its care or
management.
.Aotion dened.

TUA v. CARIIERE & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Submitted January 4, 1886.-Decided March 1,1886.
In Louisiana, on the death of one of several members of a firm; the survivors
may surrender their own undivided interests in the assets of the firm for
the benefit of the creditors of the firm, but cannot surrender the interest of
the deceased partner for that purpose; but, when such surviving members
make such a surrender, purporting to include both their own interests therein
and the interest of the deceased partner, and it is accepted by the court and
acted upon in the manner provided by the law of the State, the action of
the court therein is a judicial act, which cannot be attacked collaterally by
an attaching creditor of the firm, interested in setting aside the proceedings
for the purpose of retaining the lien of his attachment.
The insolvent laws of Louisiana were in force before and when the uniform
Bankrupt Act of 1867 was enacted by Congress, and revived when that act
was repealed.
A State insolvent statute, passed at a time when an act of Congress establishing a uniform system of bankruptcy is in force, is inoperative, so far as in
conflict with that act, while the act is in force; but on its repeal, the State
statute becomes operative.

The plaintiff in error brought tns suit on August 18, 1884,
on certain bills of exchange drawn by the firm of A. Carriere
& Sons, on"which he alleged there was due him the sum of
$12,437. His petition stated that A. Carriere & Sons was a
commercial firm lately doing business in New Orleans, composed of Antoine Carriere, Emile L. Carriere, and Charles J.
Carriere, that Antoine Carriere had departed this life on June

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

4, 1884, testate, and that Olivier Carriere and Emile L. Carriere had been appointed his executors. The petition alleged
as a ground for the issue of a writ of attachment that the defendants had converted, or were about to convert, their property into money or evidence of debt, with intent to place it
beyond the reach of their creditors, and prayed that the writ
might issue against the property, goods, and effects of the firm
of A. Carriere & Sons, and of Emile L. Carriere and Charles
J Carriere, that said firm be cited, and the individual members
thereof, Emile L. and Charles J., and Antoine Carriere, through
his testamentary executors, Olivier Oarriere and Emile L. Carriere, and, after due proceedings, that judgment be rendered in
favor of petitioner and against A. Carriere & Sons and the
members of said firm = solido for the amount due on the bills
of exchange, "with lien and privilege on the property attached."
In accordance with the prayer of the petition a writ of attachment was issued, and, as appears by the marshal's return,
was levied on certain property and effects already in his custody
on other writs of attachment. Afterwards, one James M.
Seixas filed his intervention and opposition in the cause, in
which he averred that on July 18, 1884, the defendants, A.
Carriere & Sons, made a cession of all their property to their
creditors in the Civil District Court of the Parish of Orleans,
which was accepted by the court for their creditors, that the
petitioner was appointed by the court, and on August 21, 1884,
was elected by the creditors and qualified as syndic of said msolvent estate, and as such had title and right of possession to
the goods seized by the marshal, and that the property was not
subject to attachment, and prayed that the attachment might
be dissolved. Olivier Carriere, as executor of Antoine Carriere, joined in the petition and intervention of Seixas, and
prayed for the dissolution of the attachment.
Emile L. and Charles J Carriere filed for themselves individually, and for the firm of A. Carriere & Sons, an answer, in
which they averred that individually, and in behalf of A. Carrmere & Sons, they had, on July 18, 1884, in the Civil District
Court of the Parish of Orleans, surrendered all their assets to
their creditors, and the surrender had been accepted by the

TUA v. CARRIERE.
Statement of Facts.

court, and their creditors, and they prayed that the attachment
might be dissolved.
The plaintiff filed an answer to the intervention of Seixas, in
which he denied that the latter was the syndic of Carriere &
Sons, averred that the property attached was in the hands of
the United States Court, and that Seixas never had any control
over the same, and had no right to disturb the possession of
the United States Court.
Upon the issues thus raised upon the original petition of the
plaintiff and the intervention of Seixas, the case was tried by
a jury, which returned a verdict for the plaintiff for $12,43T.82, and that the attachment be dissolved.
It appeared from a bill of exceptions taken upon the trial that
evidence was given tending to show that the firm of A. Carriere & Sons was composed of Antoine Carriere, Emile Carriere,
and Chas. J. Carriere, that Antoine Carriere departed this
life on the 4th day of June, 1884, and Olivier Carriere was appointed his testamentary executor, and that Emile L. and Chas.
J Carriere, individually, and as surviving members of A. Carriere & Sons, took, on the 18th day of July, 1884, the benefit of
the insolvent law of Louisiana, and filed schedules of their individual assets and liabilities, and of the assets and liabilities of
the firm of A. Carriere & Sons, that at the meeting of the creditors J. M. Seixas was appointed and qualified as the syndic of
Emile L. and Chas. J Carriere,. individually, and as surviving
members of the firm of A. Carriere & Sons, that their creditors refused them a discharge either individually or as surviving
members of said firm, that said syndic was appointed prior to
the attachment in this case, and that the attachment was levied
subsequent to the refusal to discharge the said Emile L. and
Chas. J Carriere, that the attachment was levied on property
already in the hands of the marshal by virtue of attachments
issued prior to the 18th of July, 1884, and that. said prior attachments were dissolved by the court on the day of the trial.
Thereupon the court charged the jury that "the cession shown
in this case is made by E. L. Carriere and Chas. J Carriere, individually and as surviving partners of A. Carriere & Sons, and
by operation of law carries into the surrender all their individ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

ual property and all the property of the firm, and that the
effect of the cession and proceedings thereunder, was to stay
and practically dissolve all attachments then issued against the
said surrendering partners, and all property surrendered in the
State courts by direct operation of State laws, and in the
national court by force of section 933 Revised Statutes." The
plaintiff excepted to this charge. The court gave effect to the
verdict of the jury by rendering judgment in favor of the plaintiff for $12,437.82, and dissolving his attachment. Thereupon
the plaintiff sued out a writ of error to bring under review
that part of the judgment of the Circuit Court which dissolved
his attachment.
Xb

Cazrles Louque for plaintiff in error.

-W& Tlomas L. Bayne for Seixas, defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE WOODs delivered the opimon of the court.

After stating the case as above reported, he continued
It is not disputed that if the insolvent law of Louisiana was
a valid law and the surrender made by the surviving partners
of the dissolved firm of A. Carrere & Sons was a valid surrender of the effects of the firm, the attachment of the plaintiff was rightfully dissolved. For, under the law of Louisiana
the effect of a cession of property by an insolvent person is to
dissolve all attachments which have not matured into judgments. Code of Practice, Art. 724 Hannah v. His Creditors,
12 Mart. 32, -Fisher v V7ose, 3 Rob. (La.) 457, Collins v .Duffy,
7 La. Ann. 39. And by section 933 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States, an attachment of property upon process
instituted in any court of the United States is dissolved when
any contingency occurs by which, according to the law of
the State where the court is held, such attachment would be
dissolved upon the process instituted in the courts of said
State.
But the plaintiff insists that the partnership of Carriere &
Sons having been dissolved on June 4, 1884, by the death of
Antoine Carriere, the surviving members of the firm had no

TUA v. CARRIERE.
Opinion of the Court.

power to surrender the assets of the firm for the benefit of its
creditors, and the plaintiff's attachment of said assets was
therefore good.
We agree that the attempt of the surviving partners to surrender the share of their deceased partner in the assets of the
firm dissolved by his death was not authorized by law, unless
by consent of the heirs, or for some other reason not disclosed
by this record. For, under the jurisprudence of Loinsiana,
upon the death of a member of a partnership, the title to his
interest in the partnership effects descends to his heir, and does
not vest in the survivor. The law of Louisiana on this point
is stated and illustrated by the following decisions of the
Supreme Court of that State
In the case of Simm s v. Parker,4 Martin T. S. 200, 207,
the court said "We think the power of the surviving partner
to alienate the property belonging to" the partnership "ceased
with the dissolution, that the heirs of the deceased" partner
"became joint owners of the common property, and that the
utmost effect that can be given to a transfer" by the surviving
partner "is to consider it as disposing of all the right which
the vendor had in the thing sold."
In Shlpman v Hickman, 9 Rob. (La.) 149, it was held that
after the death of a member of a partnership the partnership
property was owned in common by the representatives of the
deceased partner and the surviving partner, and that the interest of the representatives of the deceased could not be disposed of or alienated by the surviving partner.
So in Yotrebe v Kenney, 6 Rob. .(La.) 113, it was said
"Our laws recognize no authority in a surviving partner.

He

cannot administer the partnership effects until regularly
appointed, nor is he then surviving partner, but administrator."
In -Yorrs v. Ogden, i1 Martin, 455, the court held that the
heirs of a commercial partner have a right to participate with
the survivor in the liquidation until a partition, if a partner
sues for a partnership claim the others may be made parties to
secure their rights.
"In commercial partnerships," say the court in Flower v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

O'Conner, 7 La. 194, "the survivor, to receive the deceased
partner's share and hold it subject to partnership debts, must
apply to the probate court, have the portion ascertained and

valued, and give security"
In Skzpwith v. Lea, 16 La. Ann. 24:7, it was held that at the
death of a partner his interest in the firm is vested in his heirsat-law, and the surviving partner can only acquire that interest
by transfer or assignment from the heirs. See also Pwckerell
v Fisk, 11 La. Ann. 277, and lclZowen v kfeGutre, 15 La.
Ann. 637.
But while it must be conceded that the cession made by the
surviving members of the interest of Antoine Carriere, the
deceased partner, in the assets of the firm, was not authorized,
unless for some reason appearing to the court, but not shown
by this record, we are of opinion that the validity of the cession
cannot be attacked in this collateral way The cession of the
surviving partners carried their own undivided interest in all
the partnership effects, and it purported to carry the interest
of the deceased partner. The surrender was accepted by the
court, which, by the appointment of a syndic, undertook the
administration of all the property of the late firm of A. Carriere & Sons. It is not disputed that the court had jurisdiction
over the subject-matter and the parties interested. It had jurisdiction, and it was its duty to decide whether the cession of
the effects of the partnership was valid and effectual, and what
property it conveyed. The fact that the heirs of Antoine Carriere did not join in the cession does not render the orders of
the Civil District Court void. The judgment of that court accepting the cession of the property and appointing a syndic
could only be reversed in a direct proceeding. This is the well
settled law of Louisiana. It has been held by the Supreme
Court of that State that the order of a court accepting a cession
of goods under the insolvent laws, and the staying of proceedings, is a judgment which demands the exercise of legal discrimination, and which, when granted, can be set aside only
by appeal or action in nullity Sate ex rel. Boyd v Green, 34:
La. Ann. 1027. So in Cloutter v Lemee, 33 La. Ann. 305, the
same court said, "The judgment of the Civil District Court

TUA v. CARRIERE.
Opimon of the Court.

accepting the cession of the property and appointing a syndic
cannot be collaterally attacked."
In lNimtck & Co. v Ingrpam, 17 La. Ann. 85, the facts were
that Ingram had made in the Fifth District Court a surrender
of his property for the benefit of his creditors, among whom
were Nimick & Co. The court accepted the cession and stayed
all proceedings against his person and property After these
events Nimick & Co. caused an execution to be issued on a
judgment which they had recovered against Ingram in the
Fourth District Court, and under it seized certain property
which they charged was the property of Ingram, and in his
possession. Thereupon Ingram took a rule upon Nimick & Co.
in the Fifth District Court, where the insolvency proceedings
were pending, requiring them to show cause why they should
not respect the order of that court suspending proceedings
against him, and why all further action upon the execution
sued out by Nimick & Co. should not be stayed. The rule was
upon trial made absolute, and Nimick & Co. appealed; In the
Supreme Court they urged that by their diligence and vigilance
they had discovered the property seized by them, which had
never been surrendered by the insolvent debtor, and having
thus made it available, had the right to appropriate it to the
satisfaction of their claim. Upon the case thus stated the court
said "However irregular the proceedings in insolvency may
have been, and however fraudulently the debtor may have
acted, the plaintiffs could not on that account disregard the
decree of the court which stayed all judicial proceedings
against the insolvent and his property They were parties to
the proceedings, and were bound to respect them.
Any informality in the proceedings when questioned must be
by direct action. No creditor will be permitted to disregard
and treat as an absolute nullity a judgment accepting a surrender made by his debtor and granting a stay of proceedings.
The acceptance for the creditors by the court of the
ceded estate vests in them all the rights and property of the
insolvent, whether placed on the schedule or not, and the syndic
may sue to recover them. But any creditor may show, provided it be contradictorily with the mass of the creditors or

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

their legal representatives, that any particular object or fund
is not embraced in the surrendered estate, but is subject exclusively to his individual claim. And this is the remedy of the
plaintiffs if they have any" See also Haney v Healey, 14-La.
Ann. 424.
This is in accord with the general rule that when property
is in the possession of one court for administration it is not
liable to be seized by process from another. Taylor v Carryl,
20 How 583, .PreernanvHowe, 24 How 450, Baue. v Colbath,
3 Wall. 334, Peoples' Bank v Calhoun, 102 U S. 256, KYr'?pendorfv Iyde, 110 U. S. 276.
If there was any defect or informality in the surrender, the
remedy of the plaintiff was, first, to apply to the court in which
the surrender was made to set aside its order accepting the surrender and appointing a syndic. The plaintiff could not seize
the property the administration of which the Civil District Court
had accepted, as if no surrender thereof had been attempted.
Tyler v TAer Creditors,9 Rob. (La.) 372, Harris v. Znox,10
La. 229.
The property surrendered to and accepted by the Civil District Court included the undivided shares therein of the surviving partners. The cession of their shares was valid. Of this
there can be no question. This gave the syndic appointed by
that court the right to the possession of the whole. It was impossible for that court to perform its duty in respect of the
property surrendered if its possession was disturbed. But the
plaintiff, assuming the cession to be void -n toto, and giving it
no effect even as to the shares of the surviving partners who
made it, contends that he can attach the entire interest of all
the partners, and apply all the proceeds of the property to the
payment of his debt to the exclusion of other creditors. His
attachment was made with this purpose. It could not be effectual except by actual seizure and detention of the property attached. NArelson v Simpson, 9 La. Ann. 311. In this case
the property was seized on the attachment after the Civil District Court had accepted the surrender of the entire assets of
the dissolved partnership, and after the property was constructively in its possession. We think the writ was improvidently

TUA v. CARRIERE.
Opinion of the Court.

issued and the levy invalid and ineffectual, and the attachment
was properly dissolved, unless, as is next contended by the plaintiff in error, the insolvent law of Louisiana is of no force or
effect.
This position is based on the assertion that the insolvent law
of Louisiana was passed while the general bankrupt act of the
United States was in force, and as the provisions of the two
acts were inconsistent, the insolvent law was invalid and void.
The plaintiff in error concedes, as well he may, that, if the
insolvent law of Louisiana had been enacted before the passage
of the bankrupt act, it would have been valid, and that the
effect of the bankrupt act would have been to suspend it only
while the bankrupt act remained in force, and on its repeal the
insolvent law would have revived. WYard v. Proctor,7 Met.
(Mass.) 318, Lothrop v Hfighland Foundry, 128 Mass. 120,
Orr v. Lisso, 33 La. Ann. 476. But he asserts that the insolvent law of Louisiana was passed while the bankrupt act of
the United States was in force, and was, therefore, invalid and
void, and so continued after the repeal of the bankrupt act.
We do not agree with either the premises or the conclusion.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, in the case of Orr v Iisso,
33 La. Ann. 476, which was decided in April, 1881, held "that
the insolvent laws now in force in this State were in existence in 1867, when Congress adopted a uniform system of bankruptcy" And the court added "The operation and effect of
those laws were suspended until September 1st, 1878, when the
general bankrupt law was repealed. 'This repeal vivified the
State laws in the meantime dormant." A reference to the
statutes of Louisiana shows that the insolvent law was first enacted in 1817 (see acts of the first session of the Third Legislature of Louisiana., begun November 18th, 1816, page 126), it
was carried into the revision of 1855 (see Revised Statues of
Louisiana of 1856, pp. 251-259), and included in the revision of
1870 (see Revised Statutes of 1870, page 353), and still remains
upon the statute book (see Voorhies' Revised Laws of Louisiana, 1884, pp. 279-288). The act as it appears in the revision
of 1855 is substantially the same as in Voorhies' Revised Laws
of 1884. The circumstance alleged by the plaintiff that in the
VOL. cxvn-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

revision of 1870 the insolvent law was formally regnacted is
entirely immaterial. If those laws had then been enacted for
the first time, they would, so far as inconsistent with the bankrupt act, have been inoperative while that act remained in force,
but upon its repeal would have come into operation. The enactment of the insolvent law during the life of the bankrupt
act would have been merely tantamount to a provision that the
former should take effect on the repeal of the latter. It follows that since the repeal of the bankrupt act all the provisions
of the insolvent law of Louisiana have been valid and operative.
Although, as appears from what we have said, the charge of
the court did not accurately state the effect of the cession by
the surviving partners of the assets of the dissolved firm of A.
Carriere & Sons, yet it is clear that upon the law and the facts
the verdict of the jury 'was right. The error of the court,
therefore, works the plaintiff no injury, and does not require a
reversal of the judgment dissolving the attachment. Brobst v
Brock, 10 Wall. 519, Phillips Construction Co. v Seymour, 91
U. S. 646.
Judgment affirmed.

PATOH v. WHITE.
I

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued November 12, 18sS.-Reargued january , 14, 1886.-Decided March 1, i886.

A latent ambiguity in a will, which may be removed by extrinsic evidence,
may arise (1) Either when it names a person as the object of a gift, or a
thing as the subject of it, and there are two persons or things that answer
such name or description, or (2), when the will contains a mLsdescnption
of the object or subject, as where there is no such person or thing in existence; or, if in existence, the person is not the one intended, or the thing
does not belong to the testator.
When a careful study of the testator's language, applied to the circumstances
by which he was surrounded, discloses an inadvertency or mistake in a
description of persons or things in a will, which can be corrected without

