MARSHALL v, HUBBARD.
Syllabus.

a new insurance determined by the second method, that is, for
the full term of the original policy, and for an amount depending upon the sum already paid in premiums, and that if the
assured does not seasonably apply for such an insurance, she
still remains insured for the full amount for a time computed
according to the sum paid.
But the proviso does not say that, upon a failure to surrender
the original policy and to apply for a paid up policy, the original
policy shall stand good for a temporary insurance, but that it
"shall be void and of no effect." The result of either of the
two methods already prescribed, for determining the extent of
the insurance, is a paid up policy According to either method,
there is to be no further payment of premium, nor is the original policy continued in force, but the assured is to have the
benefit of the sum already paid in premiums, by being insured,
either for the amount of the original policy for a time to be determned, or for the time of the original policy for an amount
to be determinaed. Taking the whole clause together, it is clear
that the assured is to have the benefit of that sum in one of
two ways at her election, and that election must be made
within a certain time. As that time expired without any election, or any excuse for not making one, the forfeiture became
complete under the express provisions of the policy, and the
Circuit Court rightly held that the action could not be maino
tained.
,Tudgment aflrmed.

MARSHALL v. HUBBARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT coURT
EASTERN

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR TE

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Argued January11, 1886.-Decided March 2, 1886.

In order to recover for injuries caused by false representations, through winch

plaintiff was induced to perform an act and was m3ured thereby, it is necessary to establish the making of the false representations by defendant;
that he knew them to be false and uttered them with intent to deceive

OCTOBER uTERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
plaintiff and to induce him to act upon them; and that plaintiff relied upon
them and acted, and suffered injury thereby.
When, after giving a party the benefit of every inference that can fairly be
drawn from all the evidence, it is insufficient to authorize a verdict m his
favor, it is proper for the court to give the jury a peremptory instruction
for the other party.

Defendant in error, as plaintiff, commenced this suit in a State
court of Wisconsin to recover of plaintiff in error on two promissory notes made by him and payable to defendant in error.
The defence pleaded was failure of consideration. The State
court admitted evidence to show the failure, and the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, after verdict and judgment, reversed the
latter for misdirection in this respect, 50 Wise. 322, and remanded the cause for a new trial. Plaintiff below then petitioned for removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground of prejudice and local influence,
averring that when the action was commenced he was, and still
was, a citizen of Texas. The cause being removed the defendant below filed in the Circuit Court an amended answer also
setting up false and fraudulent representations of plaintiff respecting the property, for the purchase of which the notes were
given, known to him to be such, made by him with intent to
induce defendant to purchase the property and to make the
notes, that solely induced thereby defendant did make and
give the notes, and that he suffered damage thereby as set
forth m the answer. A jury was called, and after all the evidence on both sides was in, the court, among other things, instructed the jury as follows
" Now, there are certain elements of fact that must be shown
to have existed to entitle a party to succeed in such a defence.
In the first place, it must be shown that the representations
were made, in the second place, that the representations, if
made, were fraudulent, in the third place, that the defendant
relied upon the representations, and in the fourth place, that
he had a right to rely upon them. Those are four material elements of fact that must enter into the case.
"It has been argued that the proof here is totally inadequate
to show that the representations, if any were made, were fraud-

MARSHALL v. HUBBARD.
Statement of Facts.

ulent, and I must say there is one item of testimony winch came
from the defendant himself which tends pretty strongly to show
that there was not fraud in the transaction. That was the
statement that while the plaintiff did represent to him that
there were three million feet of merchantable pine on the land,
he said, also, that if it should prove not to be so, he would make
good the deficiency If that statement was made by the plaintiff at the time, as thus testified to by the defendant himself, it
would seem to be a strong circumstance tending to take out of
the representations their alleged fraudulent character. How-ever, the court would strongly hesitate, in view of all the proof
that is in upon this question of fraud, before it would take that
question, or either of the four questions of fact that I have
stated, from the jury But there are certain other elements
of fact which necessarily enter into this defence. Not only
must the representations be made, not only must they be fraudulent, and not only must it appear that the party relied, and
had a right to rely upon them, but it must also be shown that
the representations were material to the contract or transaction which took place between the parties, and, further, that
injury has been sustained, damage has resulted to the defendant from the alleged fraudulent representations. These are as
essential as any of the other elements of fact which must be
shown in establishing such a defence. I repeat, that it must
appear that the defendant has sustained damages which are
chargeable to the alleged fraudulent representations, and for
which, therefore, the plaintiff is legally responsible, and it is
an important question in this case, and not one free from difficultv, since the case is somewhat peculiar.
"I think, therefore, that upon the proofs the case is within
the rule laid down by the Supreme Court of the United States,
namely, the court can now see, upon the evidence that bears
upon the question of materiality of the representations, and
alleged injury to the defendant, that if the jury were to render
a verdict against the plaintiff it would have to set that verdict
aside. If that be so, the court ought not to hesitate in directing a verdict. This being the view which I take of the case, I
must hold that the defence which is interposed here is not,
voL. cxvn-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

under the proofs, maintainable, and hence that the plaintiff is
entitled to a verdict for the amount of his claim, namely, the
principal of the notes and the interest on the same."
.Ai

T R. ffudd for plaintiff in error.

J21r T)

Jfarkhxm for defendant in error.

delivered the opinion of the court.
We concur with the Circuit Court in holding that the alleged
false representations of Hubbard to Marshall in reference to
the quantity of pine upon the land in question could not have
resulted in any injury to the latter, of which he could complain
as against the former, unless, at the time the representations
were made, it was understood, with Hubbard's knowledge,
that Gillen and Monroe were to surrender their purchase, and
that Marshall was to take their place with reference to the
land and pine. Under such an arrangement, Gillen and Monroe would be released from their obligations to Hubbard, while
Marshall would occupy the position of a purchaser of the land
and the pine, the title remaining in the plaintiff. The evidence, however, fails to connect Hubbard with any such understanding or arrangement. The evidence shows nothing
more, as between the parties to this suit, than a purchase by
Marshall of certain property rights which Hubbard held, mcluding Gillen and M onroe's obligation to him in reference to
the land in question. Marshall was aware of the extent of
that obligation, and took from Hubbard the writing of May
23, 1874, which recites that Hubbard had sold and assigned to
him "all his right, title, and interest in and to a certain contract executed and entered into by and between the said Stephen Hubbard, Nicholas Gillen, and Hugh Monroe, which said
contract is dated 23d of May, 1873,"-Hubbard reserving the
"right to enforce the covenants contained in that contract in his
own interest and behalf, in case of default in the payment of
either of the notes executed by Marshall to him. So clearly, in
our judgment, does the evidence show that this was the only
contract between the parties to this suit, that a verdict based
upon any' other view ought to have been set aside.
MRii.

JUSTICE H.A.LAN

LITTLEFIELD v. IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 4-19
Opinion of- the Court.

Giving the defendant the benefit of every inference that
could have been fairly drawn from the evidence, written and
oral, it was insufficient to authorize a verdict in his favor.
Such being the case, a peremptory instruction for the plaintiff
was proper. Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 143, .Montclatr
v. Dana, 107 U. S. 162, Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478, 483, Anderson County v. Beal, 113 U.
S. 227, 2-11, Baylis v. Travellers' Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, 320.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
LITTLEFIELD v. TRUSTEES OF THE INTERNAL
IMPROVEMENT FUND OF FLORIDA.
REED v. SAME.
A.PPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued March 9, 10, 1886.-Decided March 29,1886.

On the facts Held, That the bonds in controversy should-be surrendered to
the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund of the State of Florida,
and should be applied by them m accordance with the prayer of their
,answer.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.A& Horatio Bzsbee, Jr., for appellant Littlefield.
.Afr J Augustus Johnson and Mr John A. Henderson for
appellant Reed submitted on their brief.
.2f Wayne .Aeoleagh fox appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These appeals relate to the ownership of $103,000 in amount
of certain bonds of the Pensacola and Georgia Railroad Coin-

