VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

151

Statement of Facts.
VAN BROCKLIN & Another v. STATE OF TENNESSEE & Others.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURtT OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted November 17, 1885.-Decided March 1, 1886.

Property of the United States is exempt by the Constitution of the United
States from taxation under the authority of a State.
Land in a State which, pursuant to acts of Congress for the laying and collecting of direct taxes, is sold, struck off and purchased by the United
States for the amount of the tax thereon, and is afterwards sold by the
United States for a larger sum, or redeemed by the former owner, is exempt
from taxation by the State, while so owned by the United States; and, for
nonpayment of taxes assessed by the State during that time, cannot be
sold afterwards.

The amended bill in this case was filed in the Chancery Court
of Shelby County in the State of Tennessee, by the State and
its proper officers and municipalities, against Van Brocklin,
Stacy and others, to enforce by sale a lien for State, county and
city taxes, assessed for the years from 1864 to 1877 inclusive
on lot 21 in block 6, and for the years from 1864 to 1878 inclusive on lots 13 and 14 in block 13, in Fort Pickering, a suburb of the city of Memphis.
Van Brocklin and Stacy answered that at the tnes of the
assessments of these taxes the lands were the property of the
United States, and therefore not subject to taxation under State
authority.
The case was heard upon pleadings and proofs, by which it
appeared to be as follows In June, 1864, these three lots,
then owned by one Glenn, with other lQts, were sold by auction and struck off and conveyed to the 'United States, under
the act of Congress of June 7, 1862, ch. 98, § 7, 12 Stat. 423,
for nonpayment of direct taxes assessed thereon, with a penalty of fifty per cent. and interest. The amount so bid for lot
21 was $2.75, and the amount bid for lots 13 and 14, together
with other lots not now in question, was $14. In or before 1870,
Glenn conveyed the three lots to Van Brocklin, who thereupon

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

took possession of them, and kept possession of lot 21 ever
since, and of lots 13 and 14 until March 30, 1877. The United
States in 1872 brought actions of ejectment against Van Brocklin, and therein, on March 30, 1877, obtained judgments and
writs of possession for the three lots, and were put in possession of lots 13 and 14. The execution of the writ of possession
for lot 21 was suspended until February 3, 1878, and meanwhile, in June, 1877, this lot was redeemed by Van Brocklin
in the name of Glenn from the sale for taxes, by paying $2.75,
the amount of the tax, penalty and interest, and was released
by the United States. In May, 1878, lots 13 and 14 were sold
by the United States and bought by Stacy for the price of
$54, and in Julv, 1878, were conveyed to him by the United
States, under the acts of Congress of June 8, 1872, ch. 337, § 4,
17 Stat. 331, and February 8, 1875, ch. 36, § 26, 18 Stat. 313.
The Chancery Court held that the taxes assessed under
authority of the State of Tennessee on lot 21 were valid, and
that those assessed on lots 13 and 14 were invalid, and entered
Both parties appealed to the Supreme
a decree accordingly
Court of Tennessee, which held that all the taxes assessed under
the authority of the State were valid, and entered a decree for
the sale of the three lots to pay them. Thereupon Van Brocklin and Stacy sued out this writ of error.
The provisions of the Constitution and laws of Tennessee,
referred to in the opinion of that court, and in force at the time
of the assessment of these taxes, were as follows By the Constitution of 1870, art. 2, § 28, "All property, real, personal, or
mixed, shall be taxed, but the legislature may except such as
may be held by the State, by counties, cities or towns, and used
exclusively for public or corporation purposes, and such as may
be held and used for purposes purely religious, charitable, scientific, literary or educational, and shall except one thousand
dollars' worth of personal property in the hands of each taxpayer, and the direct products of the soil in the hands of the
producer and his immediate vendee." By the statutes of 186667, ch. 40, and 1867-68, ch. 28, lands of which the exclusive jurisdiction is ceded by the State to the United States for cemeteries,
or for public buildings, shall be "exonerated ant free from any

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

153

Opimon of the Court.
taxation or assessment, under the authority of this State, or of
any municipality therein," while so used. Compiled Laws of
1871, pp. 92, 245 & seq. The statute of 1875, ch. 108, entitled,
"An act to define what property is by the Constitution exempt
from taxation, and what the legislature under the power conferred upon it does exempt, and what is taxable," enacts that
"all property, real, personal, and mixed, shall be assessed and
taxed," with certain exceptions, among which are the following "All property belonging to the United States, or the
State of Tennessee." "All property belonging to any county,
city or town, and used exclusively for public or corporation
purposes." Acts of 1875, p. 177.

.Mr George Gillhami and Mr IF Y. _Poston for plaintiffs in
error.
.r
.T B. Hezskell and .&
error.

-Lee Thornton for defendants in

MR. JusTIcE GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented by this writ of error is whether lands
in the State of Tennessee, which, pursuant to acts of Congress
for the laying and collecting of direct taxes, are sold, struck off
and purchased by the United States for the amount of the tax
thereon, and are afterwards sold by the United States for a
larger sum, or redeemed by the former owner, are liable to be
taxed, under authority of the State, while so owned by the
United States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee rests upon
the position that these lands, although lawfully purchased by the
United States, and owned by the United States at the time of
being taxed under the laws of the State, were not exempt from
State taxation, because they had not been expressly ceded by
the State to the United States.
We are unable to reconcile this position with a just view of
the rights and powers conferred upon the national government
by the Constitution of the United States. The importance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnuon of the Court.

the subject, and the consideration due to the opinion of that
learned court, make it proper to state somewhat fully the
grounds of our conclusion.
In the words of Chief Justice Marshall, "The United States
is a government, and consequently a body politic and corporate, capable of attaining the objects for which it was created,
by the means which are necessary for their attainment.
This great corporation was ordained and established by the
American people, and endowed by them with great powers for
important purposes. Its powers are unquestionably limited,
but while within those limits, it is a perfect government as any
other, having all the faculties and properties belonging to a
government, with a perfect right to use them freely, in order
to accomplish the objects of its institution." United States v.
Ma rme, 2 Brock. 96, 109. The United States, for instance,
as incident to the general right of sovereignty, have the capacity, within the sphere of their constitutional powers, and
through the instrumentality of the proper department, to enter
into contracts and take bonds, not prohibited by law, and
appropriate to the just exercise of those powers, although not
expressly directed or authorized to do so by any legislative act,
and likewise to take mortgages of real estate to secure the payment of debts due to them, notwithstanding Congress has enacted that "no land shall be purchased on account of the
United States, except under a law authorizing such purchase."
Act of -May 1, 1820, ch. 52, § 7, 3 Stat. 568, Rev Stat. § 3736,
-Neilson v .agow, 12 How 98, 107, 108, and cases there cited.
So the United States, at the discretion of Congress, may acquire and hold real property in any State, whenever such
property is needed for the use of the government in the execution of any of its powers, whether for arsenals, fortifications,
light-houses, custom-houses, court-houses, barracks or hospitals,
or for any other of the many public purposes for which such
property is used, and when the property cannot be acquired
by voluntary arrangement with the owners, it may be taken
against their will, by the United States, in the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, upon making just compensation,
with or without a concurrent act of the State in which the land

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

155

Opinon of the Court.
is situated. Ha',is v Elliott, 10 Pet. 25, Zohl v United States,

91 U. S. 367, United States v Fox, 94: U. S. 315, 320, United
States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513, United States v Great Falls
.Jfanufacturtng Co., 112 U S. 645, Fort Zeavenworth Rail'oad v Lowe, 114: U. S. 525, 531, 532.
While the power of taxation is one of vital importance,
retained by the States, not abridged by the grant of a similar
power to the government of the Union, but to be concurrently
exercised by the two governments, yet even this power of a
State is subordinate to, and may be controlled by, the Constitution of the United States. That Constitution and the laws
made in pursuance thereof are supreme, they control the constitutions and laws of the respective States, and cannot be controlled by them. The people of a State give to their government a right of taxing themselves and their property at its
discretion. But the means employed by the government of
the Union are not given by the people of a particular State,
but by the people of all the States, and being given by all,
for the benefit of all, should be subjected to that government
only which belongs to all. All subjects over which the
sovereign power of a State extends are objects of taxation ;-but
those over which it does not extend are, upon the soundest
principles, exempt from taxation. The sovereignty of a State
extends to everything which exists by its own authority, or is
introduced by its permission, but does not extend to those
means which are employed by Congress to carry into execution powers conferred on that body by the people of the
United States. The attempt to use the taxing power of a
State on the means employed by the government of the
Union, in pursuance of the Constitution, is itself an abuse,
because it is the usurpation of a power which the people of a
single State cannot give. The power to tax involves the
power to destroy, the power to destroy may defeat and render
useless the power to create, and there is a plain repugnance
in conferring on one government a power to control the constitutional measures of another, which other, with respect to
those very measures, is declared to be supreme over that which
exerts the control. The States have no power, by taxation

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

or otherwise, to retard, impede, burden, or in any manner control, the operations of the constitutional laws enacted by Congress to carry into execution the powers vested in the general
government.
Such are the outlines, mostly in his own words, of the
grounds of the judgment delivered by Chief Justice Marshall
in the great case of ilfcOulloch v .faryland, in which it was
decided that a statute of the State of Maryland, imposing a
tax upon the issue of bills by banks, could not constitutionally
be applied to a branch of the Bank of the United States
.within that State. 4 Wheat. 316, 425-431, 436.
In Osborn v Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 859-868,
that conclusion was reviewed in a very able argument of counsel, and reaffirmed by the court, and a tax laid by the State of
Ohio upon a branch of the Bank of the United States was held
to be unconstitutional. See also Promdence Bank v Billings,
4 Pet. 514, 564. Upon the same grounds, the States have
been adjudged to have no power to lay a tax upon stock
issued for money borrowed by the United States, or upon
property of State banks invested in United States stock.
Weston v. City Council of Charleston,2 Pet. 449, 467, Bank
of Commerce v. New York, 2 Black, 620, Bank Tax Case, 2
Wall. 200, Banks v 3layor, 7 Wall. 16.
To guard against, any misunderstanding of the scope and
effect of the decision in fXoCullock v. _1aryland, Chief Justice
M arshall added "This opinion does not deprive the States of
any resources which they originally possessed. It does not
extend to a tax paid by the real property of the bank, in common with the other real property within the State, nor to a
tax imposed on the interest which the citizens of Maryland
may hold in this institution, in common with other property of
the same description throughout the State." 4 Wheat. 436.
And in Osborn v Bank of United States, speaking of contractors with the United States, he said "It is true, that the
property of the contractor may be taxed, as the property of
other citizens; and so may the local property of the bank." 9
Wheat. 867.
But the only taxes thus spoken of as valid are those upon

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

157

Opimon of the Court.

property not owned by the United States, but either real estate
owned by the bank, or bank stock or other property owned by
individuals. Throughout the discussion, both by.the counsel and
by the court, in .fCullooh v Mfaryland, State taxes upon any
property of the United States had been treated as not distingushable in principle from the particular tax whose validity
was in controversy
This will be clearly shown by referring.
to a few passages of the arguments and the opinion.
,Not only did each of the counsel for the State of Maryland,
Mr. Hopkinson, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Martin, make it a cornerstone of his argument in-support of the validity of the tax on
the bank, that the property of the United States as such was
not exempt from taxation by the State in which it was situated.
4 Wheat. 343, 369, 375. But the opposing counsel frankly
accepted the issue.
Mr. Webster, in opening the argument against the validity
of the tax, said "The government of the United States has
itself a great pecuniary interest in this corporation. Can the
States tax this property
-Under the Confederation, when the
national government, not having the power of direct legislation, could not protect its own property by its own laws, it
was expressly stipulated, that ' no impositions, duties or restrictions should be laid by any State on the property of the United
States.' Is it supposed that property of the United States is
now subject to the power of the State governments in a greater
degree than under the Confederation 2 If this power of taxation be admitted, what is to be its limit2 The United States
have, and must have, property locally existing in all the States,
and may the States impose on this property, whether real or
personal, such taxes as they please 2" 4 Wheat. 328.
Mr. Pinkney, in the closing argument on the same side, said.
"There is no express provision in the Constitution, which exempts any of the national institutions or property from State
taxation. It is only by implication that the army, and navy,
and treasure, and judicature of the Union are exempt from
State taxation. Yet they are practically exempt, and they
must be, or it would be in the power of any one State to destroy their use. Whatever the United States have a right to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

do, the individual States have no right to undo." 4 Wheat.
390, 391. "All the property and all the institutions of the
United States, are, constructively, without Jthe local, territorial
jurisdiction of the individual States, in every respect, and for
every purpose, including that of taxation." 4 Wheat. 395. Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering judgment, covered the
whole ground by saying "If the States may tax one instrument, employed by the government in the execution of its
powers, they may tax any and every other instrument. They
may tax the mail, they may tax the mint, they may tax patent
rights, they may tax the papers of the custom-house, they
may tax judicial process, they may tax all the means employed
by the government, to an excess which would defeat all the
ends of government. This was not intended by the American
people. They did not design to make their government dependent on the States.
"Gentlemen say, they do not claim the right to extend State
taxation to these objects. They limit their pretensions to property But on what principle is this distinction made 2 Those
who make it have furnished no reason for it, and the principle
for which they contend denies it." 4 Wheat. 432.
So in Weston v. City Council of Chiarleston, the exemption
of the public lands, while owned by the United States, from
State taxation was assumed, both in the argument of counsel
that a State tax on stock issued by the United States to mdividuals was equally valid with a tax on lands after they had
been sold by the United States to private persons, and in the
answer made by Chief Justice Marshall "The distinction is,
we think, apparent. When lands are sold, no connection remains between the purchaser and the government. The lands
purchased become a part of the mass of property in the country, with no exemption from common burthens." 2 Pet. 459,
468.
The United States do not and cannot hold property, as a
monarch may, for private or personal purposes. All the
property and revenues of the United States must be held and
applied, as all taxes, duties, iinposts and excises must be laid
and collected, " to pay the debts and pr.ovide for the common

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

159

Opinion of the Court.
defence and general welfare of the United States." Constitution, art. 1, sect. 8, cl. 1, Dobbins v. Ete County Commssszoners, 16 Pet. 435, 448. The principal reason assigned in
Buchlanan v. Aexander, 4 How 20, for holding that money
in the hands of a purser, due to seamen in the navy for wages,
could not be attached by their creditors in a State court was,
"The funds of the government are specifically appropriated to
certain national objects, and if such appropriations may be
diverted and defeated by State process or otherwise, the functions of the government may be suspended."
The more thoroughly the proceedings by which the States
became members of the Union, either by joining in establishing
the Federal Constitution, or by admission under subsequent acts
of Congress, are examined, the more strongly they confirm the
same view
In the Articles of Confederation of 17[8, it had been expressly stipulated that "no imposition, duties or restriction
shall be laid by any State on the property of the United
States." And in the articles which the Ordinance of 1787 for
the government of the Northwest Territory declared should
"be considered as articles of compact between the original
States and the people and States in said Territory, and forever
remain unalterable, unless by common consent," it had been
provided that "no tax shall be imposed on lands the property
of the United States." Constitutions and Charters, 8, 432.
The Articles of Confederation ceased to exist upon the
adoption of the Federal Constitution, and the Ordinance of
1787, like all acts of Congress for the government of the Terntories, had no force in any State after its admission into the
Union under that Constitution. Permolz v First.Aunscqdality
of New Orleans, 3 How 589, 610, Strader v Graham, 10
How 82.
The Constitution creating a more perfect union, and increasing the powers of the national government, expressly authorized the Congress of the United States "to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to nay the debts and provide
for the common defence and general welfare of the United
States," "to exercise exclusive legislation over all places pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

chased by the consent of the legislature of the State in which
the same shall be, for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals,
dock-yards, and other needful buildings;" and "to dispose of
and make needful rules and regulations respecting the territory
or other property belonging to the United States," and declared, "This Constitution and the laws of the United States
which shall be made in pursuance thereof shall be the supreme
law of the land, and the judges in every State shall be bound
thereby, anything in the constitution or laws of any State to
the contrary notwithstandin'g." No further provision was
necessary to secure the lands or other property of the United
States from taxation by the States.
Nor was any provision on this subject inserted in the acts of
Congress for the admission into the Union of Vermont in 1791,
of Kentucky, formed out of part of Virginia, in the same year;
of Tennessee, formed out of part of North Carolina, in 1796,
of Mame,formed out of part of Mklassachusetts, in 1820, of
Texas, previously a foreign and independent republic, in 1845,
or of West Virginia, formed out of part of Virginia, in 1862.
Constitutions and Charters, 1875, 646, 1676, 810, 1764,
1992.
The first State formed out of territory not within the jurisdiction of an existing State was Ohio, admitted into the Union in
1802, under an act of Congress containing three propositions,
offered by Congress for her acceptance or rejection, and which
were accepted by the State, namely, that one section of land
should be granted to each township for the use of schools, that
certain salt springs should be granted to the State, and that one
twentieth part of the net proceeds of lands lying within the
State and sold by Congress after June 30,1802, should be applied
to the laying out of public roads "Provided always, that the
three foregoing propositions herein offered are on the conditions
that the convention of the said State shall provide, by an ordinance irrevocable without the consent of the United States, that
every and each tract of land sold by Congress from and after the
thirtieth day of June next shall be and remain exempt from any
tax laid by order or under authority of the State, whether for
State, county, township, or any other purpose whatever, for the

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

161

Opinion of the Court.

term of five years from and after the day of sale." Constitutions and Charters, 1454, 1455.
The acts for the admission of Indiana in 1816, and Illinois
in 1818, contained similar provisions to those in the act for
the admission of Ohio. Constitutions and Charters, 499, 438.
Neither of these three acts contained any stipulation for the
exemption of the lands of the United States from State taxation, but each, assuming that exemption as undoubted, and requiring no affirmance, so long as the United States owned the
lands, only provided for its continuance for five years after the
United States should have sold them, and thereby ceased to
have any interest in them.
The statement of Mr. Justice McLean, in a case in the Circuit
Court concerning land in Illinois, "In the admission of new
States into the Union, compacts were entered into with the
Federal Government, that they would not tax the lands of the
United States," was therefore; as applied to the case before
him, an inadvertence, which impairs the weight of his dictum,
based upon it, that "this implies that the States had power to
tax such land, if unrestrained by compact." United States v.
Railroad Brzl qe Co., 6 McLean, 517, 531-533.
The question in issue in that case was not of the State's right
of taxation, but of its right of eminent domain for the construction of roads and bridges. The decision of the learned justice
in favor of the validity of the exercise of that right by a State
over lands of the United States, without the consent of the
United States, manifested either by an express act of Congress,
or by the assent of a department or officer vested by law with
the power of disposing of lands of the United States, appears '
to have been based upon the theor that the United States canhold land as a Priate ppr
or. for other than public obiects,
and upon a presumption of the acquiescence of Congress in the
State's exercise of the power as tending to increase the value
of the lands, and it finds some support in dicta of Mr. Justice
Woodbury, in a case in which, however, the exercise of the
power by the State was adjudged to be unlawful. United
States v. Chwago, 7 How 185, 194, 195. But it can hardly be
reconciled with the views expressed by Congress, in acts conVOL. cxv-1

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

cernmg particular railroads, too numerous to be cited, as well
as in general legislation. Acts of August 4, 1852, ch. 80, and
March 3, 1855, ch. 200, 10 Stat. 28, 683, July 26, 1866, oh.
262, 8, 14 Stat. 253, Rev Stat. § 2477. When that question
shall be brought into judgment here, it will require and will
receive the careful consideration of the court.
Upon the question of taxation of lands of the United States
by the State of Illinois, two well considered opinions of the
Supreme Court of that State are worthy of reference in this
connection. In one of them, it was held that a lot of land in
Chicago, owned by the United States, used by them for a custom-house, post-office and court-house, and which the legislature of the State had consented might be so used, and had ceded
jurisdiction over, was not liable to assessment by the municipal
authorities, under a statute of the State, for the amount of the
benefit to the land from the laying out of a highway, and the
court said " Nor under our system of government can the
States tax the general government, its agents or property, nor
can the general government tax the States, their agents or
property" "A municipal corporation has no power to assess
or exact from the State or the general government any sum
for benefits conferred. The power to levy taxes or impose assessments for benefits can only be exercised on the governed,
and not on the governing power, whether State or Federal."
Fagan v Chwago, 84 Illinois, 227, 233, 234. In the other case,
it was directly adjudged that from the very nature of the relation between the Federal and State governments, and without
regard to any supposed compact contained in the Ordinance of
1787, -or in any act of Congress, no property lawfully vested in
the United States could be taxed by the State, and that therefore land sold, purchased and held by the United States for
nonpayment of direct taxes was exempt from State taxation.
People v United States, 93 Illinois, 30.
In Louisiana, the first territory acquired by the United States
from a foreign country, the-act of March 26, 1804, establishing
a territorial government over it by the name of the Territory
of Orleans, provided that the legislative power should be vested
in the governor and legislative council, and "shall extend to

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

163

Opinion of the Court.

all the rightful subjects of legislation, but no law shall be valid
which is inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the
United States," and that "the governor or legislative council
shall have no power over the primary disposal of the soil, nor
to tax the lands of the United States." Constitutions and
Charters, 691.
On April 28, 1806, John Breckenridge, of Kentucky, Attorney General of the United States, gave to Mr. -adison,
Secretary of State, a brief and comprehensive opinion, not
based upon the restrictions imposed by the territorial act on
the legislative council, or upon any considerations peculiar to
Louisiana, but upon general principles applicable to all the
States and Territories alike, and therefore, and as the earliest
legal opinion upon the question, worthy of being quoted in full.
It is in these words "I am of opinion that there rests no
power in the city council, nor in any department of the government of Orleans, to tax the property of the United States
within that Territory
I believe the exercise of such power
has never been before attempted in any part of the United
States, and I think the general government ought not to admit
the principle. Laying the tax will be harmless, for I see no
means by which the payment of it can be enforced." 1 Opinions of Attorneys General, 157.
By the conditions of the acts of 1811 and 1812 under which
the State of Louisiana was admitted into the Union, "the
people inhabiting the said Territory do agree and declare that
they forever disclaim all right or title to the waste or unappropriated lands lying within the said Territory, and that the
same shall be and remain at the sole and entire disposition of
the United States, and moreover that each and every tract of
land sold by Congress shall be and remain exempt from any
tax laid by the order or under the authority of the State,
whether for State, county, township, parish, or any other purpose whatever, for the term of five years from and after the
respective days of the sales thereof," "and that no taxes shall be
imposed on lands the property of the United States." . Constitutions and Charters, 699, 700, 710.
Upon the admission of every other State into the Union, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

exemption of the lands of the United States from taxation by
the State has been declared-sometimes in the form of a condition imposed by Congress, and sometimes in the form of a
proviso to a proposition to grant the State certain lands
or money, offered for its acceptance or rejection-in phrases
somewhat varying, but substantially similar to one another.
In the acts for the admission of Mississippi in 1817, Alabama
in 1819, Missouri in 1820, Arkansas in 1836, Michigan in 1837,
Iowa in 1845 and 1846, Wisconsin in 1847, Minnesota in 1857,
and Oregon in 1859, the words are "no tax shall be imposed on
lands the property of the United States," or words of exactly
the same meaning. Constitutions and Charters, 1053, 31, 1103,
118, 995, 535, 552, 2027, 1098, 1508. In the acts of 1864 for
the admission of Nevada, of 1864 and 1867 for the admission
of Nebraska, and of 1895 for the admission of Colorado, the
expression is somewhat fuller, "no tax shall be imposed by
the State on lands or property therein, belonging to, or which
may hereafter be purchased by, the United States." Ib.1246,
1202, 1213, 218.
Florida was admitted in 1845, upon the express condition
that it-should never interfere with the primary disposal of the
public lands lying within it, "nor levy any tax on the same
whilst remaining the property of the United States," and California in 1850, "upon the express condition that the people of
said State, through their legislature or otherwise, shall never
interfere with the primary disposal of the public lands within
its limits, and shall pass no law and do no act whereby the title
of the United States to, and right to dispose of, the same shall
be impaired or questioned, and that they shall never lay any
tax or assessment of any description whatsoever upon the public domain of the United States." Constitutions and Charters,
332, 208.
In the debate in the Senate in June, 1850, on the act for the
admission of California, a motion to amend the act by requiring
California before her admission to pass in convention an ordinance providing, among other things, "that she relinquishes all
title or claim to tax, dispose of, or in any way to interfere with
the primary disposal by the United States of the public domain

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

165

Opinion of the Court.

within her limits," was opposed by Mr. Douglas and Mr. Webster as unnecessary, and was defeated by a vote of thirty-six to
nineteen. In the course of the debate, Mr. Douglas, after
showing that the United States acquired title to the public
lands, not by virtue of their sovereignty, but by deeds of cession
from the old States, or by treaty of cession from France, Spain
or Mexico, and referring to the provision of the Constitution
authorizing Congress "to dispose of and make all needful rules
and regulations concerning the territory or other property of
the United States," said "This provision authorizes the United
States to be and become a land owner, and prescribes the mode
in which the lands may be disposed of and the title conveyed
to the purchaser. Congress is to make the needful rules and
regulations upon this subject. The title of the. United States
can be divested by no other power, by no other means, in no
other mode, than that which Congress shall sanction and prescribe. It cannot be done by the action of the people or legislature of a Territory or State."
And he supported this
conclusion by a review of all.the acts of Congress under which
States had theretofore been admitted. Mr. Webster said that
those precedents demonstrated that "the general idea has been,
in the creation of a State, that its admission as a State has no
effect at all on the property of the United States lying within
its limits," and that it was settled by the judgment of this
court in Pollardv Ragan, 3 How 212, 224, "that the authority of the United States does so far extend as, by force of
itself, proprzovgore, to exempt the public lands from taxation,
when new States are created in the Territory in which the lands
lie." Congressional Globe, 31st CQng., 1st sess., vol. 21, p. 1314,
vol. 22, pp. 848 & seq., 960, 989, 1004, 5 Webster's Works, 395,
396, 405.
The Supreme Court of the State of California appears at one
period to have assumed that the exemption of the lands of the
United States from taxation depended upon the terms of the
act of Congress admitting the State into the Union, or upon
the statutes of the State. People v 3Iorrison, 22 California.
73, People v Shearer, 30 California, 645. But in later cases
it has taken broader ground, and has defined the meaning of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"taxation" as "a charge levied by the sovereign power upon
the property of its subject. It is not a charge upon its own
property, nor upon property over which it has no dominion.
This excludes the property of the State, whether lands, revenues or other property, and the property of the United States."
People v J0cCreery, 34 Cglifornia, 432, 456, People v Austin,
47 California, 353, 361.
The recital, in the ordinance prefixed to the Constitution of
Kansas, that the State would possess the right to tax the lands
owned by the United States within its limits, and the conditional relinquishment of that right, were not assented to by
Congress, and Kansas was admitted into the Union in 1861,
only upon the passage by its legislature of another ordinance,
irrevocable without the consent of Congress, accepting certain
propositions, in which it was provided that the State should
never interfere with the primary disposal of the soil within the
same by the United States, and should never tax the lands of
the United States. Constitutions and Chart6rs, 613, Act of
Congress of January 29, 1861, ch. 20, § 3. 12 Stat. 127, Joint
Resolution of Legislature of Kansas of January 20, 1862, Compiled Laws of Kansas, 1862, p. 84. In 1865 the Supreme Court
of the State, discussing and upholding the validity of a State
tax upon Indian lands, said "If the title to the lands be in the
United States, they are not taxable. Not only are the lands of
the general government exempt from taxation by express stipulation on the part of the State, but without such agreement
they would not be liable to be taxed. The irrevocable ordinance of the legislature is merely the expression of what the
law would have been without it." Blue Jacket v Johnson
County Com.vnsswners, 3 Kansas, 299, 348, reversed by this
court in 5 Wall. 737, only because even the Indian lands were
exempt from taxation. See also Parkerv Vinsor, 5. Kansas,
362, 367, 372. The statutes of the State of Kansas, ever since
its admission into the Union, have enumerated, among the
property exempt from taxation, all property, real and personal,
of the United States. Compiled Laws 1862, ch. 198, § 2, Gen.
Stat. 1868, ch. 107, § 3, Stat. 1876, ch. 34, § 3.
The taxation by the State of Kansas, the validity of which

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

167

Opnion of the Court.
was upheld by the decision of the Supreme Court of that State
in FortLeavenworth Railroadv. Lowe, 27 Kansas, 749, affirmed
by this court in 114 U. S. 525, was not upon property of the
United States, but upon property of a railroad corporation m
lands situated within the boundaries of the Fort Leavenworth
Militarv Reservation, yet not in that part of the lands occupied
or used by the United States for a fort or military post. The
civil and criminal jurisdiction over the Reservation had passed
to the State upon its admission into the Union, and the cession
of exclusive jurisdiction by the subsequent statute of Kansas of
1875, ch. 66, which, because it conferred a benefit, was presumed to have been accepted by the United States. expressly
saved "to said State the right to tax railroad, bridge and other.
corporations, their franchises and property, on said Reservation."
It cannot be doubted that the provisions which speak of the
exemption of property of the United States from taxation, in
the various acts of Congress admitting States into the Union,
are equivalent to each other, and that, like the other provision, which often accompanies them, that the State "shall
not interfere with the primary disposal of the soil by the
United States," they are but declaratory, and confer no new
right or power upon the United States.
In Gibson v. Chouteau, 13 Wall. 92, 99, Mr. Justice Field,
delivering the judgment of this court, said. "With respect to
the public domain, the Constitution vests in Congress the
power of disposition and of making all needful rules and regulations. That power is subject to no limitations. Congress
has the absolute right to prescribe the times, the conditions,
and the mode of transferring this property, or any part of it,
and to designate the persons to whom the transfer shall be
made. No State legislature can interfere with this right or
embarrass its exercise, and to prevent the possibility of any
attempted interference with it, a provision has been usually inserted in the compacts by which new States have been admitted into the Union, that such interference with the primary
disposal of the soil of the United States shall never be made."
Upon the admission of a State into the Union, the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

doubtless acquires general jurisdiction, civil and criminal, for
the preservation of public order, and the protection of persons
and property, throughout its limits, except where it has ceded
exclusive jurisdiction to the United States. The rights of
local sovereignty, including the title in lands held in trust for
municipal uses, and in the shores of navigable waters below
high water mark, vest in the State, and not in the United
States. -YTew Orleans v Unted States, 10 How 662, '737,
Pollard v Hagan, 3 How 212, Goodtitle v Hibbe, 9 How
471, -Doe v Beebe, 13 How 25, Barney v KYeokuk, 94 U S.
324. But public and unoccupied lands, to which the United
States have acquired title, either by deeds of cession from
other States, or by treaty with a foreign country, Congress,
under the power conferred upon it by the Constitution, "to
dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property of the United States," has
the exclusive right to control and dispose of, as it has with regard to other property of the United States, and no State can
interfere with this right, or embarrass its exercise. United'
States v Grattot, 14 Pet. 526, Pollardv Hagan, 3 How 212,
Irvzne v. XJarshall, 20 How 558, 563, Gibson v CAouleau,
above cited.
In .McGoon v Scales, 9 Wall. 23, part of the public lands in
Wisconsin being claimed under a sale for State taxes, this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said "The answer to
this is, that the land was then owned by the United States,
and was not subject to State taxation." 9 Wall. 27. No
reference was made to any act of Congress, or compact with
the State, but the fact that the land was then owned by the
United States was given as the only and conclusive reason
why it could not be taxed .by the State. So in Tucker v.
-Ferguson, 22 Wall. 527, in which it was decided that public
lands in Michigan, granted by act of Congress to the State, to
be held by the State to aid in the construction of a railroad,
could not be taxed by the State, Mr. Justice Swayne, delivering judgment, said "Upon general principles, she could not
tax the lands while the title remained in the United States,
nor while she held them as the trustee of the United States,

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

169

Opmion of the Court.

which, in the view of the law, was the same thino." 22 Wall.
572.
The cases m which it has been held that public lands,
granted by the United States to a railroad company, continue
to be exempt from State taxation so long as the costs of survey have not been paid and patents have not been issued,
stand upon equally broad ground. Railway Co. v. Prescott,
16 Wall. 603, 608, Railway Co. v JeShane, 22 Wall. 444,
462, Northern Pacific Railroad v. Traill County, 115 U. S.
600, 610. And the reason why, after lands have been duly
entered at the land office, and everything has been done to entitle the party to a patent, they have by long usage, confirmed
by the decisions of this court, been considered, before the
patent is actually taken out, as' subject to State taxation, is that
the United States have nothing but the naked legal title, and
the lands are in truth no longer public property, but have
become private property
Carroll v. Safford, 3 How 441,
Witheroon v Duncan, 4. Wall. 210, Deffeback v. Hawke,
115 U. S. 392, 405.
Even in the courts of the several States, the decided and
increasing preponderance of authority is in favor of the absolute exemption of all property of the United States from State
taxation.
The only instances that have been brought to our notice, in
which a State court has countenanced the right of a State to
tax any property of the United States, are the judgment now
under review some remarks in .ouzwville v Commonwealth,
1 Duvall, 295, in which the only matter in issue was a tax laid
by the State of Kentucky on property of one of its own mumcipal corporations, a dictum in People v Shearer, 30 California, 645, 658, and two cases in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, not found in the regular series of its reports, but only
in law periodicals, and in a reprint of one of them in a collection of nisz przus and other cases. Commonwealth v Young,
1 Hall's Journal of Jurisprudence, 4'7, S. C., ]3rightly, 302,
Roach v PhiadehpluaCounty, 2 Am. ILaw Journal (N. S.), 444.
In Commonwealth v Young, decided in 1818, a person employed by the President of the United States, with the author-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

ity of Congress, to sell by public auction land m Pittsburgh,
owned by the United States, was indicted and fined for so
selling it, because he had not been licensed as an auctioneer
under the statutes of the State. It was found by special verdict that the title to the land under the late proprietary of
Pennsylvania was vested in fee simple in the United States,
that the United States had erected a fort thereon, which had
been used as a barrack, military depot, and place of defence,
but had been disused as such a short time before the sale, and
that the State had never ceded its jurisdiction over it to the
Federal government. By the act of Congress of August 2,
1813, ch. 48, the President had been authorized to cause this
land to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale were "appropriated, under the direction of the President, to the erection of
arsenals, armories and laboratories." 3 Stat. 5. The ground
of the decision, as assigned by the court, was that the United
States held this lot as an individual, and therefore "the lot was
subject to taxation for State purposes, to the laws directing
the mode of alienation, and, in short, every other State regulation that could operate on the property of an individual."
1 Hall's Journal of Jurisprudence, 50, Brightly, 306. Of that
decision it is perhaps enough to say that, even if the manner of
transferring the property might lawfully be regulated by the
State, it does not appear to us to follow that the State might
take it by taxation, the decision was made before the judgment of this court in _JcCulloch v. .Xa-ryand, and the subsequent judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in
Commisswners v Dobbn, '7 Watts, 513, sustaining the validity
of a county tax upon the salary of an officer of the United
States, was reversed by this court. Dobbms v ErmE County
Commisswners, 16 Pet. 435.
In Roach v. PhiladeljphiaCounty, above cited, a tax on the
United States mint was held valid, but no opinion is reported.
On the other hand, the necessary exemption of all the property of the United States from State taxation has been recognized by the highest courts of Illinois, California and Kansas,
in the cases already cited, and by those of Virginia, Connecticut, Iowa and Wisconsin. Western Uqnon Telegraph Co. v

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

171

Opinion of the Court.

.ckhmond, 26 Grattan, 1, 30, Andrew v. Auditor, 28 Grattan,
115, 124, West Hfartford v. Tater Comm'sswners, 44 Conn.
360, 368, C74cago, ock Island & Paoafto Railroadv iDavenport, 51 Iowa, 451, 454, Visonsm Central Railroadv Taylor
County, 52 Wisconsin, 37, 51, 52.
The legislatures of most of the States have affirmed the same
principle, by inserting in their general tax acts an exemption

of property belonging to the United States. Such a provision,,
as has been well observed by the Supreme Court of Connecticut in West Hartford v Water Commlszoners, above cited, is
not the foundation of the exemption, but is inserted only from
abundant caution, and because the assessment of taxes is to be
made by local officers skilled in the valuation of property, but
presumably unlearned in legal distinctions. 44 Conn. 368.
An examination of the existing statutes of the several States
(cited in the margin *) shows this result In at least twenty*The express exemption of property of the United States in the
acts of each State is as follows
ALABAMA. "All property belonging to the United States." Code
ARKANSAS. " All property, whether real or personal, belonging
to the United States." Digest 1874, § 5055.
CALIFORNIA. "The property of the United States." Political

general tax
1876, § 358.
exclusively
Code 1872,

§ 8607.
CoLoRADo. None. Gen. Stat. 1883, P 2815.
"All property belonging to the United States."
CONNECTICUT.

Gen. Stat.
1875, tit. 12, ch. 1, § 12.
"Property belonging to the United States." Rev. Stat. 1874,
DELAwARE.
ch. 11, § 1.
FrLORiDA. "All property, real and personal, of the United States." Digest

1872-, ch. 138, § 4.
"All property specially exempted by the Constitution of the
GEORGaI.
United States." "All lands, mines and minerals belonging to the United
States." Code 1873, § 798. "All public property." Code 1882, § 798.
ILLrOIS. "All unentered government lands, all public buildings or structures of whatever kind, and the contents thereof, and the land on which the
same are located, belonging to the United States." Rev. Stat. 1880,,ch. 120, §2.
"The property of the United States." Rev Stat. 1881, § 6276.
INDIANA.
IowA. "The property of the United States." Code 1873, § 797.
"All property belonging exclusively to the United States." Stat.
KANSAS.
1876, ch. 34, § 3.
UcKiY. "The property of the United States, used for custom-houses,
K
post-offices, docks, skip-yards, forts, arsenals or barracks." Gen. Stat. 1883,
ch. 92, art. 1, § 3.

172

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

six States, namely, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey,

Delaware, Maryland, South Carolina, Vermont, Maine, Ohio,
Indiana, Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Minnesota, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas,
Florida, West Virginia, California, Oregon and Nevada, all
property of the United States is expressly exempted from taxation. In Rhode Island, New York, Illinois and Missouri, "all
LOUISIANA. "All lands and lots of ground, with their buildings, improvements and structures thereon, and all other property, belonging to the United
States. Rev Stat. 1870, § 3233.
MAINE. "Thq property of the United States." Rev. Stat. 1883, ch. 6, q 6.
MARYLAND. "Property belonging to the United States." Rev. Code 1878,
art. 11, § 3.
"The property of the United States." Pub. Stat. 1882,
MASSACHUSETTS.

ch. 11, § 5.
MiCIGAN.
oh. 21, § 5.

"All the property of the United States."

Compiled Laws 1871,

MINNEsOTA.
"All property, whether real or personal, belonging exclusively
to the United States." Stat. 1878, ch. 11, § 5.
Mississippr.
"All property, real or personal, belonging to the United
States." Rev. Code 1871, § 1662.
MissoupR
"Lands and lots, public buildings and structures, with their
furniture and equipments, belonging to the United States." Rev. Stat. 1879,

§6659.
NEBRASKA. "The property of the United States." Gen. Stat.1873, ch. 66, §1.
"All lands or other property of the United States." Compiled
NEVADA.

Laws 1873, ch. 98, § 4.
NEw HAmPsniE. "The lots of land selected and purchased in this State
by the United States for the purpose of erecting light-houses and other public
buildings, with the buildings thereon." Gen. Laws 1878, ch. 53, § 2.
NEw ERsEY. "The property and the bonds and other securities of the
United States." Rev. Stat. 1877, p. 1151, § 5.
NEw YORK. "1. All property, real or personal, exempted from taxation
bythe Constitution of this State, or under the Constitution of the United States.
2. All lands belonging to this State, or the United States." Rev. Stat. 1846,
pt. 1, ch. 13, tit. 1, § 4.
NORTH CAROLINA. Parcels of land, containing not more than twenty acres
each, purchased by the United States from any individual or corporation, and
held '"for the purpose of erecting thereon light-houses, light-keeper's dwellings,
life-saving stations, buoys and coal depots, and buildings connected therewith."
Code 1883. §§ 3080, 3082.
Oto. "All property, whether real or personal, belonging exclusively to
the United States." Rev. Stat. 1880, § 2732.
General
OREGON. "All property, real and personal, of the United States."
Laws 1874, ch. 57, § 4.

VAN BROCKLTN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

1M3

Opinon of the Court.

lands belonging to the United States" are exempted, and in
:New York also "all property, real or personal, exempted from
taxation under the Constitution of the United States." In
Georgia, the phrase is "all public property;" and in Tennessee,
"all property belonging to the United States, used exclusively
for public purposes." In New Hampshire, North Carolina and
Kentucky, the exemption is of certain public buildings and the
]ands on which they stand. In three States only, namely,
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Colorado, is no exemption of property of the United States expressly declared. But it may be
remembered that the act of Congress for the admission of Colorado provided in the most sweeping terms that the State should
impose no tax on lands or property then belonging to, or thereafter purchased by, the United States. Constitutions and
Charters, 1246. And no State court has more strongly stated
the absolute exemption of property of the United States from
State taxation than the Court of Appeals of Virginia has in a
recent case, saying "It is very clear that the States are prohibited from taxing either the property of the Federal government or the instrumentalities by which its powers are carried
into execution. This doctrine is well settled." IFestern Unzon
Telegraph Co. v Rwchmond, above cited.
General tax acts of a State are never, without the clearest
words, held to include its own property, or that of its municiPENxsYLAN,-iA. None. Stats. 1873, oh. 4t 1874, ch. 94.
RHODE ISLAND. "Lands ceded or belonging to the United States." Pub.
Stat. 1882, ch. 41, § 2.
SoUm CAROLINA. "All property owned exclusively by the Unite& States."
Rev. Stat. 188Z, § 169.
TENNESSEE. "All propertybelonging to the United States, used exclusively
for public purposes." Stat. 1883, ch. 105, § 2, Code 1884. § 601.
All property, whether real or personal, belonging exclusively to
TExAs. '"
the United States." Rev. Stat. 1879, art. 4673.
VERMONT. "Real and personal estate owned by the United States." Rev.
Laws 1800, § 270.
VIRGINIA. None. Code 1873, ch. 83, § 14.
WEST VIRGINIA. "Property belonging to the United States." Code 1868,
oh. 29, § 43.
"Property owned exclusively by the United States." Rev.
WiscosL,.
Stat. 1878, %1038.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

pal corporations, although not in terms exempted from taxation.
Buckley v. Osbwrn, 8 Ohio, 180, 187, P-per v Singer, 4 S. &
R. 354, D rectors of the Poor v School Dzrectors,42 Penn. St.
21, People v Doe, 36 California, 220, Worcester County v.
Worcester, 116 Mass. 193, Trustees of Public Schools v Trenton, 3 Stew (N. J.) 618, 667, Rochester v Rush, 80 N. Y 302,
State v Hartford,50 Conn. 89. The reasons for this have been
well stated in the cases inM assachusetts and New Jersey Mr.
Justice Devens, delivering the opinion of the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, said "The property of the Commonwealth is exempt from taxation because, as the sovereign power,
it receives the taxation through its officers or through the
municipalities it creates, that it ma from the means thus furnished discharge the duties and pay the expenses of governmeit. Its property constitutes one of the instrumentalities by
which it performs its functions." 116 Mass. 194. And Mr.
Justice Depue, delivering the opinion of the Court of Errors of
New Jersey, said "The immunity of the property of the
State, and of its political subdivisions, from taxation, does not
result from a want of power in the legislature to subject such
property to taxation. The State may, if it sees fit, subject its
property, and the property owned by its municipal divisions, to
taxation, in common with other property within its territory
But inasmuch as taxation of public property would necessarily
involve other taxation for the payment of the taxes so laid, and
thus the public would be taxing itself in order to raise money
to pay over to itself, the inference of law is that the general
language of statutes prescribing the property which shall be
taxable is not applicable to the property of the State or its
municipalities. Such property is therefore, by implication, excluded from the operation of laws imposing taxation, unless
there is a clear expression of intent to include it." 3 Stew
(N. J.) 681.
In short, under a republican-form of government, the whole
property of the State is owned and held by the State for public uses, and is not taxable, unless the State which owns and
holds it for those uses clearly enacts that it shall share the
burden of taxation with other property within its jurisdiction.

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

175

Opinon of the Court.

Whether the-property of one of the States of the Union is
taxable under the laws of that State depends upon the intention of the State as manifested by those laws. But whether
the property of the United States shall be taxed under the laws
of a State depends upon the will of its owner, the United States,
and no State can tax the property of the United States without
their consent.
The only uncertainty in the decisions of this court upon the
subject is to be found in two cases, the one argued at December
term, 1847, and the other at, December term, 1848, and both
reargued by order of the court and decided at December term,
1849, by an equal division of the judges, and therefore not reported, but which appear by the records to have been as follows
The first of those cases was United States v Portland,which,
as agreed in the statement of facts upon which it was submitted
to the decision of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maine, was an action brought by the United States
against the City of Portland to recover back the amount of
taxes assessed for county and city purposes, in conformity with
the statutes of Maine, upon the land, wharf and building owned
by the United States in that city The building had been
erected by the United States for a custom-house, and had always been used for that purpose, and no other. The land,
building and wharf were within the legislative jurisdiction of
the State of Maine, and had always been so, not having been
purchased by the United States with the consent of the legislature of the State. The case was heard in the Circuit Court
at May term 1845, and was brought to this court upon a certificate of division of opinion between Mr. Justice Story and
Judge Ware on several questions of law, the principal one of
which was, whether the building, land and wharf, so owned
and occupied by the United States, were legally liable to taxation, and this court, being equally divided in opinion on those
questions, remanded the case to the Circuit Court for further
proceedings. The action therefore failed. The legislature of
Maine having meanwhile, by the statute of 1846, ch. 159, § 5,
provided that the property of the United States should be exempted from taxation, the question has never been renewed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.
The second case was that of Roach v Pkiladelphia County,
above mentioned, a suit brought by the county of Philadelphia
against the treasurer of the mint of the United States to recover State, county and city taxes, which were found by special
verdict to have been assessed, pursuant to the statutes of iPennsylvania, upon a certain marble building and a lot of ground
upon which it stood, the property of the United States, and
the building having been erected and used by the United States,
from the time of its completion, under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, as a mint for coming money regulating the
value thereof and of foreign coin, and for fixing the standard
of weights and measures, and now used for that purpose. The
judgment rendered by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvama on
March 31, 1845, holding the building and land to have been
subject to the assessment and payment of the taxes, was brought
to this court by writ of error, and affirmed by an equal division
of opinion.
The division of opinion here in those cases was evidently the
reason for the guarded form in which the general doctrine was
stated, while those cases were pending, by Mr. Justice Woodbury in United States v Ames, 1 Woodb. & Min. 76, 85, and
presently afterwards by Mr. Justice Grier in United States v
fretse, 2 Wall. Jr. 72, and by Mr. Crittenden, as Attorney
General, in 5 Opinions of Attorneys General, 316, as well as by
~r. Justice McLean, when, in delivering the judgment of this
court upholding the validity of a State law taxing all money
or exchange brokers, be said. "The taxing power of a State is
one of its attributes of sovereignty And where there has been
no compact with the Federal government, or cession of jurisdiction for the purposes specified in the Constitution, this power
reaches all the property and business within the State, which
are not properly denominated the means of the general government." NAathan v. L outsana,8 How 73, 82. Somewhat similar language was used by Mr. Justice Clifford in later cases,
in which it did not become necessary to define what could
properly be considered as "means of the general government."
Soczety for Savngs v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594, 605, State Tonnage Taw Cases, 12 Wall. 204, 224, Ward v _3aryland, 12

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

177

Opinion of the Court.
Wall. 418, 427, Transportatio Co. v. Tfeeling, 99 U. S.
273, 279.
But the two decisions above mentioned, by an equal division
of this court, and with no evidence of the reasons which influenced any of the judges, have no weight as authority in any
other case, and we have no hesitation in saying that a tax imposed under authority of a State upon a building used as a custom-house or a mint, and the land on which it stands, owned
by the United States, cannot be supported, consistently with
the principles affirmed in -JtoCullochv -Maryland.especially in
4 Wheat. 432, above cited, or with the recent judgments of
this court, some of which have been already referred to.
The liability of the property of the Pacific Railroad Companies to State taxation has been upheld, on the distinction
stated in ]cCulloe] v .- faryland, 4 Wheat. 436, and in Osborn
v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 867, already cited, and reasserted in N1attonal Bank v Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, 362,
namely, that although the railroad corporations were agents of
the United States, the property taxed was not the property of the
United States, but the property of the agents, and a State might
tax the property of the agents, provided it did not tax the means
employed by the national government. Thomson v Paczfc
Railroad,9 Wall. 579, Railroad Go. v. Pen'ston, 18 Wall. 5.
In Railroad Go. v. Penwton, Mr. Justice Strong, who delivered
the principal opinion, dwelt upon the consideration, that the
property taxed was not owned by the United States, as essential
to support the validity of the tax. 18 Wall. 32, 34. And Mr.
Justice Bradley, in a dissenting opinion in which X r. Justice
Field joined, said "The States cannot tax the powers, the
operations, or the property of the United States, nor the
means which it employs to carry its powers into execution."
18 Wall. 41.
The cases in which this court has held that the United States
have no power under the Constitution to tax either the instrumentalities or the property of a State have a direct and important bearing upon the question before us.
In Collector v -Day,11 Wall. 113, it was adjudged that Congress had no power, even by an act taxing all incomes, to levy
t

VOL. oxviI-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

a tax upon the salaries of judicial officers of a State, for reasons
similar to those on which it had been held in Dobbns v Ere
County Commts~zoners, 16 Pet. 435, that a State could not tax
the salaries of officers of the United States. Mr. Justice
Nelson, in delivering judgment, said "The general government,
and the States, although both exist within the same territorial
limits, are separate and distinct sovereignties, acting separately
and independently of each other, within their respective
spheres. The former in its appropriate sphere is supreme,
but the States, within the limits of their powers not granted,
or, in the language of the Tenth Amendment, 'reserved,' are
as independent of the general government as that government
within its sphere is independent of the States." 11 Wall. 124.
Applying the same principles, this court, in United States v
Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 322, held that a municipal corporation
within a State could not be taxed by the United States on the
dividends or interest of stock or bonds held by it in a railroad
or canal company, because the municipal corporation was a
representative of the State, created by the State to exercise a
limited portion of its powers of government, and therefore
its revenues, like those of the State itself, were not taxable by
the United States. The revenues thus adjudged to be exempt
from federal taxation were not themselves appropriated to any
specific public use, nor derived from property held by the
State or by the municipal corporation for any specific public
use, but were part of the general income of that corporation,
held for the public use in no other sense than all property and
income, belonging to it in its municipal character, must be so
held. The reasons for exempting all the property and income
of a State, or of a municipal corporation, which is a political division of the State, from federal taxation, equally require the exemption of all the property and income of the national government from State taxation.
The latest utterance of this court upon this subject is in a case
decided at the present term, in which Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the judgment of the whole court, -upon a question of
the extent of the taxing power of a State, said "We take it
to be a point settled beyond all contradiction or question, that

VAN BROCKLIN v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.

179

Opimon of the Court.

a State has jurisdiction of all persons and things within its territory which do not belong to some other jurisdiction, such as
the representatives of foreign governments, with their houses
and effects, and property belonging to or in the use of the government of the United States." Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, 524.
The United States acquired the title to all the land now in
question under the express authority of acts of Congress, and
by proceedings the validity of which is clearly established by
a series of decisions of this court. Acts of June 7, 1862, ch.
98, § 7, 12 Stat. 423, June 8, 1872, ch. 337, § 4, 17 Stat. 331,
and February 8, 1875, ch. 36, § 26, 18 Stat. 313, Bennett v.
Hunter, 9 Wall. 326, De Treville v. Smalls, 98 U. S. 517 ;
lreely v Sanders, 99 U. S. 441 United States v Taylor, 104
'U. S.216, United States v -Lawton,110 U. S.146. The imposition of direct taxes upon the land by those adts of Congress
was a lawful exercise of the power conferred by the Constitution to lay and collect taxes. The provisions authorizing the
United States to sell the land for nonpayment of .the taxes
assessed thereon, and to purchase the land for the amount of
the taxes if no one would bid a higher price, were necessary
and proper means for carrying into effect the power to lay and
6ollect the taxes, and so were the provisions authorizing the
United States afterwards to sell the land, to apply the proceeds
to the payment of the taxes, and to hold any surplus for the
benefit of the former owner. While the United States owned
the land struck off to them for the amount of the taxes because
no one would pay more for it, and until it was sold by the
United States for a greater price, or was redeemed by the
former owner, the United States held the entire title as security for the payment of the taxes, and it could not be known
how much, if anytbing, beyond the amount of the taxes the
land was- worth. To allow land, lawfully held by the United
States as security for the payment of taxes assessed -by-and due
to them, to be assessed and sold for State taxes, would tend to
create a conflict between the officers of the two governments,
to deprive the United States of a title lawfully acquired under
express acts of Congress, and to defeat the exercise of the constitutional power to lay and collect taxes, to pay the debts and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

provide for the common defence and general welfare of the
United States.
The question whether the taxes laid under authority of the
State can be collected in this suit depends upon the question
whether they were lawfully assessed. But all the assessments
were unlawful, because made while the land was owned by the
United States. The assessments, being unlawful, created no
lien upon the land. Those taxes, therefore, cannot be collected, even since the plaintiffs in error have redeemed or purchased the land from the United States.
Whether the Supreme Court of Tennessee rightly construed
the provisions of the Constitution and statutes of the State as
not exempting from taxation land belonging to the United
States, exclusive jurisdiction over which had not been ceded
by the State, is quite immaterial, because. for the reasons and
upon the authorities above stated, this court is of opinion that
neither the people nor the legislature of Tennessee had power,
by constitution or statute, to tax the land in question, so long
as the title remained in the United States.
The result 's, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of Tennessee must be reversed, and the case remanded
to that court for further _proceedings 2% conformity witA
ths oimnson.

GRAP'FAM & Another v. BURGESS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
0

Argued December 3, 1885.-Decided March 1, 186.

A judicial sale of real estate will not be set aside for inadequacy of price,
unless the inadequacy be so great as to shock the conscience, or unless
there be additional circumstances azainst its fairness.
Great inadequacy of price at a judicial sale of real estate requires only slight
circumstances of unfairness in the conduct of the party benefited by the
sale, to raise a presumption of fraud.
If the inadequacy of price paid for the purchase of real estate at a sale on an

