CORE v. VINAL.
Statement of Facts.

Mrs. Sullivan's title to the property was perfected by her adverse possession before Dunphy entered into actual possession,
and that the judgment in her favor on the special findings, as
well as on the general verdict, was right.
Anflned.

CORE & Another v. VINAL.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
Submitted March 15, 1886.-Decided March 22,.1886.

After trial of a cause in a State court, reversal of the judgment by the State
Appellate Court, and remand of the same to the trial court for retrial, it is
too late to remove it to the Circuit Courtof the United States on the ground
of a separable controversy.
A separable controversy under the acts regulating removals from gtate courts
to Circuit courts cannot arise when defendants are sued jointly in trespass
on the case and plead jointly the general issue.

Trespass on the case. Plaintiffs in error, Core and Compton,
were defendants below The action was oommeuced July,
1876, in the Circuit Court of Woods County, West Virginia.
Defendants pleaded jointly in abatement that Compton wa§
a resident in Michigan and had no estate in Woods County
This being overruled, they filed a joint plea of not guilty, in
1878, on which issue was joined. Trial was had in March,
1879. Verdict and judgment for plaintiff. The judgment was
reversed by the Supreme Court of West Virginia, and the case
remanded for a new trial in May, 1881. In August, 1881, the
defendant Compton applied to the State court for a removal
of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States, and the
application being refused, applied to the Circuit Court of the
United States to docket the cause, alleging as follows "Your
petitioner further states that in the said suit above mentioned
there is a controversy which is wholly between citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined as between

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

them, to wit, a controversy between said petitioner and said
John F Vinal."
The cause being docketed as requested, plaintiff immediately
moved to remand it. After hearing the parties this motion
was granted, and thereupon the defendants sued out this writ
of error. The cause being docketed here the defendant in
error moved to advance it under Rule 32. This was granted,
and the cause was then submitted.
No appearance for plaintiffs in error.
.AMr C. . Cole for defendant in error.
M1R. CHIEF

JusTIcE

WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

The order remanding this cause is affirmed. The petition
for removal was not filed in time and the suit was not removable. Pirme v Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, Sloane v. Anderson,
ante 27 , decided at this term.
A4flmed.

2ACKIN & Another v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE
OF

OF DIVISION

THE UNITED

STATES

IN OPINION
FOR

FROM THE

THE NORTHERN

CIRCUIT COURT
DISTRICT

OF IL-

LINOIS.
Argued March 2, 3, 1886.-Decided March 22,

M88.

A crime pumshable by imprisonment in a State prison or penitentiary, with
or without hard labor, is an infamous crime, within the provision of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, that "No person shal be held to
answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment
or indictment of a grand jury."

This was an information filed by the District Attorney on
January 20, 1885, in the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Illinois, on § 5440 of the Revised
Statutes, which is as follows
"If two or more persons conspire, either to commit any

