KERR v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Opinon of the Court.

KERR & Others v. SOUTH PARK OOMMISSIONERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
0

Argued January 21, 1886.-Decided March 29, 1886.
A jury being empanelled on the law side of the court below to settle an issue
sent from the chancery side, rendered a verdict which was certified by the
clerk to the chancery side, and thereupon a decree was entered in conformity with it. At the next succeeding term the court ordered a transcript
of the evidence on the trial of the issue, together with the charge of the
court, to be filed on the chancery side. Held, That this order nuno pro tune
was proper in order to prevent injustice, and was within the power of the
court.

A verdict on an issue from chancery was taken on the law side of the court,
and was subsequently set aside there, and a new trial ordered there, which
was had with a second verdict on the same issue. This second verdict was
certified to the chancery side of the court, and a decree was made there
founded upon it, in which the setting aside of the first verdict was recited.
Held, That this was an approval, adoption, and confirmation of the acts
on the law side of the court recited in the decree.
Plaintiff's land was taken for a public park by right of eminent domain. On
a trial before a jury to determine its value on the day whenthe Park Commissioners took possession of it, plaintiff dffered to show the prices at which
sales had been made of lands immediatetely adjoining the proposed park,
which derived special benefit from its location, which sales were made after
the exterior lines of the park had been determined. Held, That it was
inadmissible.
The true rule for damages in this case is stated in Cook v. South -ParkCornmiTsoners, 61 Ill. 116.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.

Edward S. Iskam for appellants.

.r

Xedville F Fullerfor appellees.

:MR. JUSTICE MATTHEws delivered the opinion of the court.
The proceedings and decree brought here for revision by this
appeal are in execution of the mandate of this court affirming
a former-decree in the cause, the appellants being the executors
and devisees of William P Kerr, the original complainant, m.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnon 'ofthe Court.

whose names, upon his death since the decree, the cause has been
revived.
The original litigation established the title of Kerr to the
premises in controversy, subject to the right of. the appellees,
the South Park Commissioners, who had taken possession of
the lands on August 27, 1870, to appropriate them for the
public use as a part of a public park m the city of Chicago, on
payment of their value on that day
It was ordered by the decree that the South Park Commissioners pay to the complainant "the value of the premises on
the twenty-seventh day of August,

A.D.

1870, known and de-

scribed as the south fractional half of section thirteen, in township thirty-eight, north of range fourteen, east of the third
principal meridian, except lots 9, 10, and 15, in Chas. B. Phillips' subdivision of 26 acres off the west side of the S. W I of
said section thirteen according to plat of same recorded in the
recorder's office of Cook County, in book 98 of maps, p. 9, and
the east half of said southwest quarter of said section thirteen,
together with interest thereon from the twenty-seventh day of
August, A.D. 1870, at the rate of 6 per cent. per annum, upon
the conveyance of said premises by the complainant, William
P Kerr, and his assignees, claiming under him since the commencement of this suit, by deed which shall release to the
South Park Commissioners all interest of the said complainant
and his assignees. And it is further ordered that the value of
said premises required to be paid be ascertained as follows A
jury shall be empanelled in this court, on the law side thereof,
to hear the evidence submitted by both parties, and said jury
shall determine by their verdict the value of the land hereinbefore described on the twenty-seventh day of August,

A.D.

1870, the time when possession was taken by the South Park
Commissioners, and the verdict shall be certified by the clerk
to the chancery side of this court, and the amount so found
shall be considered as the value of said premises on the day
aforesaid, unless set aside or changed by the further order of
this court. And it is further ordered that the complainant,
William P Kerr, make a deed and procure deeds to be made by
all persons claiming under him since the commencement of this

KERR v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Opimon of the Court.

suit, conveying to the South Park Commissioners the premises
aforesaid, when they shall pay the amount found to be due.
with interest from the twenty-seventh day of August,

A.D.

1870, at the rate of six per centum per annum, and the court
denies any relief to the complainant as to the east half of the
southwest quarter of section 13 aforesaid, and it is ordered that
the bill of complaint be dismissed as to that part of the premises. And it appearing to the court that the South Park
Commissioners have commenced proceedings to condemn the
undivided one-quarter of the west half of the southeast quarter
of section twenty-four, in township thirty-eight, north of range
fourteen, east of the third principal meridian, another of the
tracts described in the bill belonging to the complainant, it is
ordered that all questions touching the same be reserved for
the further order of the court."
Afterwards, at the October Term, 18S4, the issue directed by
the decree of October 8, 1878, was tried by a jury, who returned
a verdict fixing the value of the tracts of land in controversy,
comprising one hundred and eleven acres, as of the date of
August 29, 1870, at $155,400, which verdict was certified by
the clerk to the chancery side of the court as by the decree
was directed.
And thereupon, on January 20, 1885, the following decree
was entered
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the pleadings,
orders, and decree of October eighth, 1878, herein, and the
mandate of the Supreme Court herein filed May seventeenth,
A.D. 1882, and the verdict of the jury rendered upon the law
side of this court on the sixteenth day of December, A.D. 1884
(the motion to set aside the same having been overruled), and
certified by the clerk to the chancery side of this court, determining the value of the tracts of land described in the decree
herein entered on the eighth day of October, A.D. 1878, to have
been on the twenty-seventh day of August,

A.D.

1870, the sum

of one hundred and fifty-five thousand four hundred dollars,
and the evidence, rulings, and charge of the court upon the
trial of the issue as to said value, it is hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed that said amount of one hundred and

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

fifty-five thousand four hundred dollars be, and it is hereby,
adjudged to be the value of said tracts of land at that date,
and it appearing to the court that the said complainants cannot at present comply with said decree of October eighth,
1878. and that various claims are set up as against said complainants to said tract, or portions thereof, it is ordered that
the South Park Commissioners pay into court the said sum of
one hundred and fifty-five thousand four hundred dollars, with
interest thereon from the twenty-seventh day of August, A.D.
1870, at the rate of six per cent. per annum to the date of such
payment, and that upon such payment into court the said
South Park Commissioners be discharged from further liability
for interest in the premises, and that the distribution of said
money when paid into court be reserved until further order.
"And the South Park Commissioners exhibiting to the court
the pleadings, orders, proofs and decree of August twenty-sixth,
1882, in a certain cause on the chancery side of this court,
wherein the South Park Commissioners was complainant, and
Susie M. Kerr, Rosa L. Kerr, and Joseph lB. Kerr, executors,
etc., of William P Kerr, deceased, and others were defendants,
wherefrom it appears that on the twenty-ninth day of November, 1879, the sum of eighty-two thousand eight hundred dollars, and on the twenty-sixth day of February, 1880, the sum of
seventy-two hundred dollars, of the moneys of the said South
Park Commissioners came to the hands of the said Kerrs,
complainants in this case, and that the sum of forty-two
hundred and twenty dollars and nineteen cents was paid into
this court in that suit December first, 1882, as appears from
the order of this court in that cause on that day entered, all
these moneys being paid on account of the lands in this cause
mentioned, and it further appearing that the sum of twentyfive thousand dollars was paid into court in this cause on the
eighteenth day of February, 1884, on account of said lands, it
is ordered that said several sums of eighty-two thousand eight
hundred dollars, with interest from November twenty-ninth,
1879, seventy-two hundred dollars, with interest from February
twenty-sixth, 1880, forty-two hundred and twenty dollars and
nineteen cents as of the date of the payment into court herein

KERR v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Opimon of the Court.

provided for, and twenty-five thousand dollars with interest
from February eighteenth, 1884, be applied on said principal
sum of one hundred and fifty-five -thousand four hundred dollars, and interest, and that the South Park Commissioners pay
into court under this decree only the balance thereby arrived
at, together with the commission provided by law thereon,
and the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, the commission
on the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars so paid February
eighteenth, 1884, as aforesaid, and interest thereon from that
date.
"And it is also ordered that the deed of James R. Doolittle
referred to in said decree of August twenty-sixth, 1882, in the
cause of the South Park Commissioners against Susie M. Kerr
and others may be executed and delivered to said South Park
Commissioners, and that thereupon said sum of forty-two
hundred and twenty dollars and nineteen cents may be taken
from the registry of this court by said complainants Kerr
without prejudice to any appeal in said cause in which said
money was so paid into court, and deed directed to be delivered
as aforesaid."
From this decree the complainants have brought the present
appeal.
At the next succeeding term of, the Circuit Court after that
at which the decree appealed from was entered. it appears by
the transcript of the record that the court permitted to be filed
and made part of the record a certificate of the evidence adduced on the trial of the issue, together with the charge of the
court to the jury, verified by the signature of the circuit.
judge. It appears also from the recitals in the decree of Tannary 20, 1885, that the hearing had taken place upon the
pleadings, orders, and decree of October 8, 1878, and the mandate of the Supreme Court filed May 17, 1882, and the verdict
of the jury rendered upon the law side of the court on December 16, 1884, the motion to set aside the same having been
overruled, certified by the clerk to the chancery side of the
court, determining the value of the tracts of land described m
the decree of October 8, 1878, to have been on August 27,
1870, the sum of $155,400, and the evidence, rulings, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

charge of the court upon the trial of the issue as to said
value.
We cannot, as we are asked to do by counsel for appellees,
disregard the evidence and uilings of the court on the trial of
the issue, which are certified by the court as authentic and correctly reported, and which the decree recites to be the basis of
its findings, because they were not certified and brought on
the record at the same term at which the decree was entered.
The subsequent certificate merely ascertains and verifies what
proceedings took place before the court at the time of the hearing, and although they should regularly have been brought on
the record at the same term, we know of no rule of chancery
practice or procedure which forbids the making of a nune _pro
tune order to supply such an omission and to prevent injustice.
On the other hand, we are asked to disregard the verdict

recited in the decree as a nullity, and consequently to reverse
the decree itself on that account, because, as it is alleged, there
was a prior verdict rendered on the same issue on November
5, 1883, which had never been regularly or lawfully set aside.
But no such verdict appears in the record, otherwise than by a
recital in an order of the court made on February 18, 1884, by
which it is set aside and a new trial awarded. It is objected
that that was a proceeding on the law side of the court, and
that the verdict was never certified to the chancery side of the
court, where alone proceedings to set it aside could have been
properly taken. It is a little difficult, no doubt, to keep entirely separate, proceedings in the same cause, part of which
take place on the law side, and part on the chancery side of
the same court, when all are conducted by the same judge, but
no confusion results in the present case, because whatever was
done on the law side was approved and adopted by the chancellor, who, 'in framing his decree on the basis of the verdict of
December 16, 1884, necessarily confirmed the action of the
circuit judge in setting aside the previous verdict of November 5, 1883.
On the trial of the issue before the jury as to the value of
the land in question taken by the appellees for the purposes of
the park, the appellants offered to prove, as tending to show

KERR v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.

385

-Opinion of the Court.

the value of their land, the prices which had been actually
paid on sales of similar property situated so as to adjoin the
park, or be within its immediate vicinity, sales which had taken
place after the lines of the park boundaries had been definitely
ascertained and laid out. This eVidence was rejected, and this
ruling, together with the charge of the court to the jury on the
point, are assigned as error to the prejudice of the appellants.
The portions of the charge of the court to the jury objected
to on that ground are as follows
"A number of witnesses testified that the agitation of the
park project, the anticipation that the legislature would authorize the appropriation of lands to establish a park in the
vicinity of the present South Park, and the introduction of the
bill into the legislature, which finally became a law on the day of February, 1869, materially enhanced the value of lands
embraced in the present park lines, as well as the lands adjacent thereto and in that vicinity Any resulting benefits to
the lands within the proposed park from this and other causes,
such as the growth and prosperity, or the anticipated growth
and prosperity of the city of Chicago, you should take in account in determining the amount that will fairly compensate
the owner. But a number of witnesses also testified, and there
seemed to be less agreement upon this point than upon some
others, that the passage of the park act, its ratification by the
people, and the fixing of the proposed park boundaries by the
legislature, gave to the lands immediately fronting upon and
in the vicinity of the park, including the Midway Plaisance
and the boulevards, an additional value solely on account of
their being without the proposed park lines, but adjacent to
the park, the plaisance and the boulevards, or near enough
thereto to receive the special benefits resulting from such improvements. In the nature of things the lands within the proposed park, and which were to constitute it, could not have
been thus specially benefited, and the owner of the lands in
question should be allowed nothing on the ground that his
property was thus specially benefited.
Even the witnesses
who testified upon this branch of the case for the owner admitted that the outlying lands received a benefit from their
vOL. cxvi-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

location or relation to the park which the lands constituting
the park did not receive.
"Sales of property of like character and quality, similarly
situated and affected by the same causes, made under circumstances likely to produce coilipetition among bidders, are sometimes resorted to in determining the value of lands, but inasmuch as the lands adjacent to and in the vicinity of the park,
plaisance, and boulevards received a special benefit, and were
subject to a special burden by reason of the existence of the
park, plaisance, and boulevards, their situation and that of
lands embraced within the park lines were relatively so different that outside sales afforded no just grounds for determining
the character of the lands taken for the park, and hence all
evidence of such sales was excluded, and you are again instructed that there is no such evidence before you.
"It is for you to say whether. any of the experts in giving
their opinions of the value of the two tracts in question were
influenced, if at all, by knowledge of sales of lands which
received a special benefit by reason of their peculiar relation
to the park, plaisance, and boulevards. To the extent that
any of the witnesses based their opimons upon a knowledge of
such sales, their evidence should be disregarded. It is for you
to say, however, whether any of the witnesses gave opinions
upon this basis.
"Situated as they then were, what were they worth in cash
or on terms equivalent to cash in the market, if a market then
existed for such lands? It is to be borne in mind-it was then
known-that these lands were within the park lines and designated for park purposes. What would any one needing lands
for residence, business, or any other purpose, have paid for
them in cash , You are not at liberty to place a value upon
those lands upon the basis of what some one might have been
willing to have bought them for on time at the date named for
purely speculative purposes.
"INow, what you are to do is simply [to] determine, as I instructed you yesterday, the value of that land on the 27th
August, 1870. The market value was what land would have
sold for in cash, or on such time and terms as would be equiv-

KERR v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.
Opinion of the Court.

alent to cash. Was there any demand, was there any market
for land situated as this was at that time? What evidence is
there before you, if any, showing that the lands within the
park lines, or the designated park lines, were changing hands
after the passage of the park act r
"In that connection, however, you will bear in mind that
many of the witnesses, most of them, perhaps, testified that the
final passage of the park act, and its ratification, resulted in
special benefit to the lands around the park and in its vicinity, and that the lands within the park lines did not receive
this special benefit. For this special benefit you will allow
nothing."
We think the evidence offered was properly excluded, and
that the true rule for the valuation of the property was correctly and fairly stated in the charge of the court above quoted.
It is strictly in accordance -withthe law of Illinois as understood and expounded by the Supreme Court of the State.
In Cook v South Palrk Comrqnisoners, 61 Ill. 115, 123-4 the
court say
"The court did not err in refusing to give the eighth, ninth
and tenth instructions for appellant. The eighth and ninth
are substantially that, if lands adjacent to the park generally
increased in value in consequence of the prospect of establishing a public park, then the lands of appellant must share in
such increase. This does not fairly or necessarily follow The
adjacent lands would probably, from their peculiar situation,
derive a special benefit, and were subject to a special burden.
The lands needed for the park must be purchased and the park
maintained by special assessments upon the adjacent lands.
Their situation relatively was so different that they were not a
proper standard by which to judge the value of the lands taken
for the park."
We find no error in the decree, and it is accordingly
4Afirmned.

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

KERR & Others v. SOUTH PARK COMMISSIONERS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued January 21, 188.-Decided March 29, 1886.

The subject-matter in controversy in this suit is disposed of by the decree rendered below and affirmed in the suit between the same parties ante 879.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.X

Edwazd S. I/ham for appellants.

_Mlr iXrelville Ifr Fuller for appellees.
Mr. J UsTICE M'ATTHrEws delivered the opinion of the court.
The subject-matter in litigation in this cause is embraced in
the decree between the same parties just affirmed, which settles
the whole controversy between them.
In the present suit, the bill of complaint was filed by the
South Park Commissioners, who, in pursuance of negotiations
with Kerr, had advanced certain sums of money to enable the
latter to protect his title to a part of the lands taken for the
purposes of the park, and, as security for the same, took an assignment of certain encumbrances by way of mortgage or deed
of trust upon the premises, but in fact intending that the money
so advanced should be treated as a payment on account of
the value of the lands of Kerr taken by them for public uses.
Notwithstanding that, the present suit was pressed to a decree
for the foreclosure of the lands covered by the deed of trust,
and a strict foreclosure in substance was decreed, by directing
that, unless the representatives of Kerr repaid to the complainants the amount of their advances, the trustee holding the legal
title to the premises in controversy should convey them to the
complainants on payment of a further small sum of $3454.17.
The present appeal is from this decree.
In the cause just disposed of, the same advances made by the
South Park Commissioners are allowed to them in the decree
as credits on account of payment of the value of the whole

