OCTOBER TER3,

1885.

Syllabus.

Davidson County, Tennessee, on December 15, 1883, by the
State of Tennessee, against the Pullman Southern Car Company, a Kentucky corporation. The questions involved are the
same as those disposed of in .Ptkardv The PullmanSouthern Car Co., ante, 34. The bill sets forth the act of Tennessee
of M arch 16,1877, and alleges that from 1877 the company had
run sixty sleeping cars instead of thirty-eight each year, and
ought to have paid as a privilege tax for each car for each of
the years 1877, 1878, 1879, and 1880, $50, malting $12,000,
whereas it had paid only $7276.41, and that by an act passed
April 7, 1881, Laws of 1881, ch. 149, 202, the privilege taxwas
increased to $75 a year, for each car, making due for the years
1881 and 1882, $9000. The bill prays for a discovery, and an
account, and for judgment.
The defendant removed the suit into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Tennessee, and then
answered the bill. The answer raises the same questions which
were adjudged in the other suit, and on the same facts. The
case was heard on bill and answer. The decree gave a recovery
for $300 and interest for the taxes for 1881 and 1882 on the two
cars which ran wholly within Tennessee, but dismissed the bill
in all other respects. The plaintiff appealed to this court from
all of the decree except that part which awarded a recovery
For the reasons assigned in the opinion in the other suit, the decree in this case is
Aflirmed.

IHAGOOD & Others v. SOUTHERN & Another.
RAGOOD & Others v. WILLIAMS.
.APP ALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued January 12, 13, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

State scrip which declares on its face that it is receivable "in payment of all
taxes and dues to the State" gives the holder no right to maintain a suit

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.

53

Statement of Facts.
to compel its receipt for taxes, unless he owes the taxes for which it is
receivable.
.Afarye v. Parsons, 114 U. S. 825, and Williams v. .agood, 98 U. S. 72,
affirmed.
When a suit is brought in a court of the United States against officers of a
State to enforce performance of a contract made by the State, and the controversy is as to the validity and obligation of the contract, and the only
remedy sought is the performance of the contract by the State, and the
nominal defendants have no personal interest in the subject matter of the
suit, but defend only as representing the State, the State is the real party
against whom the relief is sought, and the suit is substantially within the
prohibition of the XIth Amendment to the Constitution of the United

States.
Louisana v. -umel,107 U. S. 711, affirmed and applied.
The jurisdictional distinction pointed out between cases m which the relief
sought is the performance of a plain official duty requiring.no exercise of
discretion, or where State officers under color of a State authority which is
unconstitutional have invaded and wiolated personal and property rights,
and cases like the present in which the relief sought is affirmative official
action by State officers in performing an obligation which, attaches to the
State in its political capacity.

These two cases were heard together in the Circuit Court
upon the same testimony, and the same decree passed in each.
The facts, common to both, were as follows
By an act of the General Assembly of South Carolina, passed
September 15, 1868, entitled "An act to authorize additional
aid to the Blue Ridge Railroad Company in South Carolina,"
the State, by a guaranty indorsed thereon, pledged its faith
and funds to the payment of the principal and interest of
bonds to be issued by the railroad company, to the amount of
$4,000,000. The bonds authorized by the act, -with the guaranty indorsed, were in fact issued.
On IMarch 2, 1872, an act of the General Assembly of South
Carolina was passed, entitled "An act to relieve the State of
South Carolina of all liability for its guaranty of the bonds of

the Blue Ridge Railroad Company by providing for the securing and destruction of the same."
The preamble to this act recited the issue of the bonds, the
fact of the guaranty indorsed, the liability of the State on account thereof, and the desire of the State to withdraw them
and thus relieve itself. It then proceeded to require that all

OCTOBVER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

such bonds then held by the financial agent of the State, as
security for advances of money made to the railroad company
by the State, should be delivered up and cancelled, releasing
the railroad company from all liability on account of such
advances.
It then provided, that, upon the surrender by the company
to the State of the balance of the issue of $4,000,000 of said
bonds, issued and guaranteed as aforesaid, the State treasurer
should issue in lieu thereof, to the amount of $1,800,000, certificates of indebtedness, styled revenue bond scrip, expressing
that the sum mentioned therein was due by the State of South
Carolina to bearer, and that the same would be received" in
payment of taxes and all other dues to the State, except special
tax levied to pay interest on the public debt. The act also
provided as follows
"SEc. 4. That the faith and funds of the State are hereby
pledged for the ultimate redemption of said revenue bond scrip,
and the county treasurers are hereby required to receive the
same in payment of all taxes levied by the State, except in
payment of special tax levied to pay interest on the public
debt, and the State treasurer and all other public officers are
hereby required to receive the same in payment of all dues to
the State, and still further to provide for the redemption of
said revenue bond scrip, an annual tax of three mills on the
dollar, in addition to all other taxes, on the assessed value of
all taxable property in the State, is hereby levied, to be collected in the same manner and at the same time as may be provided by law for the levy and collection of the regular annual
taxes of the State, and the State treasurer is hereby required
to retire, at the end of each year from their date, one-fourth of
the amount of the treasury scrip hereby authorized to be issued,
until all of it shall be retired, and to apply to such purpose
exclusively the taxes hereby requirea to be levied.
"Sxc. 5. That if any such revenue bond scrip is received in
the treasury for the payment of taxes, the treasurer be, and he
is hereby, authorized to pay out such revenue bond scrip in satisfaction of any claim against the treasury, except for interest
that may be due on the public debt."

,HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Statement of Facts.

The exchange contemplated by this act was effected, private
individuals holding the guaranteed bonds as collateral security
for loans of money to the railroad company surrendered them,
and accepted, in lieu thereof, revenue bond scrip at the lower
rate. In this way, Amos D. Williams, the appellee in one of
these causes, became and remained the holder of $165,000 of
revenue bond scrip, for which he surrendered $117,000 of guaranteed bonds, and Edward 3. Wesley became the holder of
$1,005,000 of revenue bond scrip, for which he advanced. in
cash $344,925, with which were redeemed $2,902,000 of guaranteed bonds, also surrendered to the State. Wesley became,
by leave of court, a party complainant with Williams in his
bill, before final decree. Subject to the lien of Wesley for the
payment of his cash advance as above stated, the assignees in
bankruptcy of the Blue Ridge-Railroad Company, who were
appellees in the other cause, claimed to own the revenue bond
scrip held by Wesley as collateral security for his advance.
Other bonds of said railroad company guaranteed by the State,
by like exchanges, were surrendered by other holders, who received and held corresponding amounts of said revenue bond
scrip, and who came in, under the bill of Williams, which was
filed on behalf of himself and all others in like interest choosing
to do so, and proved their claims before a master, so that the
whole issue of $1,000,000 of said bonds, except about $1,000
thereof, were shown to have been surrendered to the State and
cancelled, on the faith of said revenue bond scrip.
After the consummation of these transactions, the Legislature of the State of South Carolina, by an act passed March 13,
1872, abolished the office of State auditor, and vested his powers
in the comptroller-general, and, by an act approved October
,2, 1873, repealed the fourth section of the act of March 2,
1872, providing for an annual tax of three mills on the dollar
for the redemption of the revenue bond scrip, and also forbad
the comptroller to levy any tax for any purpose whatever, unloss expressly thereafter authorized to do so by statute.
On December 22, 1873, it also passed an act forbidding any
State or county officer to accept payment of taxes in revenue
bond scrip.
..

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

In a similar case between the same parties, in which the complainant's bill was dismissed without prejudice, and reported
as Williams v Hagood, 98 U. S. '72, it was said by this court
"This legislation was manifestly inconsistent with the undertaking of the State expressed in the act of March 2, 1872, and
in the revenue bond scrip issued thereunder, and its constitutionality and obligatory force would be a legitimate subject for
consideration if the complainant had placed himself in a position to invoke our judgment. But he has not. His bill does
not aver that he has been injured, or will be injured, by this
legislation, or by any act or neglect of the comptroller-general
or the county treasurer. It does not aver that the comptrollergeneral has neglected or refused to perform every duty imposed
upon him by the statute under which the revenue bond scrip was
issued, nor even that he threatens such neglect or refusal.
It
does not aver that the county treasurer has refused, or even
threatened to refuse, receiving the complainant's scrip, or any
scrip, in payment of taxes or dues to the State, other than taxes
levied to pay the interest on the State debt. It does not aver
any demand from the State treasury or any tender to the county
treasurer. Its object is plainly to obtain from this court a declaration that the legislative acts of October 22d and December
22d, 1873, are unconstitutional, because impairing the obligation
of the contract made by the act of 1872, ana the certificates
thereby authorized and thereunder issued, and this without any
averment that the complainant will be injured by them. The
question presented to the court is, therefore, merely an abstract
one, such a one as no court can be called upon to decide, and
the bill shows no equity in the complainant. Hence it was
properly dismissed in the court below, and it must be dismissed
here, but without prejudice to the complainant's right to bring
and prosecute another suit, when he shall be in a condition to
exhibit any equity in himself."
To supply the omissions of his former bill, it was alleged by
the complainant in the present one, that, in April, 1879, he tendered the said certificates of indebtedness, amounting to about
$166,000, to the treasurer of the State of South Carolina and
demanded payment thereof, which was refused, and that

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Statement of Facts.

thereupon, having advised the defendant Hagood, the comptroller-general of the State, of this refusal of payment by the
State treasurer, he. requested the comptroller-general, "from
time to time, to prepare and transmit to the several county auditors all such forms and instructions as he might deem necessary for collection, in the same manner and at the same time as
bad been provided by law for the levy and collection of the
regular annual taxes of the State for the current fiscal year, the
taxes provided to be levied by the 4th section of the aforesaid
act of the General Assembly for the redemption of said scrip,
which class of duties, your orator avers, were duties imposed
upon the comptroller-general by the said act of March 2d, 1872;"
but that the said comptroller-general neglected and refused to
comply with said request.
It was also alleged m the bill that the revenue bond scrip,
prior to the passage of the acts of the Legislature complained of
had a market value equal to seventy per cent. of its face value,
according to which the complainant could dispose of the same
to parties -desiring to use the same in payment of taxes levied
by the State of South Carolina, and that the complainant lately
disposed of a quantity of said scrip, on a conditional sale, that
it could be so used in payment of taxes, but that the county
treasurers of the different counties of the State, among others
of the counties of Charleston, Oconee, Anderson and Richland,
refused, and continued to refuse, to receive the said revenue
bond scrip in payment of taxes, and that thereby the said revenue bond scrip had ceased to have any market value.
It was not averred, however, in the bill that either of the
complainants, Williams or Wesley, had ever tendered revenue
bond scrip in payment of taxes due from either of them, but in
the bill filed by Southern, and Low, as assignees in bankruptcy
of the Blue Ridge Railroad Company, an averment of that
character was made.
In that bill it was alleged that the Blue Ridge Railroad Company was indebted to the State of South Carolina for taxes on
its property for the year 1812 in the sum of $10,845.33, none of
said taxes being special taxes levied to pay the interest on the
public debt, of which $7541.22 was payable to the treasurer of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Oconee County, and $3,804.11 to the treasurer of Anderson
County, to each of whom tenders had been duly made of said
revenue bond scrip by said railroad company in payment of
said taxes, but the same were refused.
The prayer of the bill in the case of Williams was, "that
the act of the Legislature of the State of South Carolina of the
2d March, 1872, may be decreed a contract binding the State
of South Carolina and affecting the said State with an obligation to do and perform, or cause to be done and performed, the
several matters and things therein stipulated and set forth to
be done and performed by the said State, through its officers
and agents, particularly so much of the said act as provides
for the levy of a tax to retire the said certificates of indebtedness, and to receive the same in payment of taxes and other
dues to the State, except the tax levied to pay interest on the
public debt, that the several parties holding, or claiming to
hold, the said treasury certificates of indebtedness, lona fide
and for value, may be called in and admitted to prove the
same before a proper person to be appointed for that purpose,
that the whole amount of such treasury certificates of indebtedness may be ascertained, that the repeal of the provisions
of the said act of the 2d March, 1872, by the Legislature
may be declared unconstitutional, null and void, because such
repeal impairs the obligation of the contract between the State
of South Carolina and your orator, and all other parties who
are bona fide holders of such treasury certificates of indebtedness, that for the purpose of defending itself in such manner
as it may be advised to be proper, the State may be allowed,
upon the application of its attorney-general in its behalf, to be
made a party to these proceedings, that, upon the ascertainment of the amount of the treasury certificates of indebtedness,
proper process may be decreed against the State treasurer to
perform the duties enjoined upon him by the 4th section of the
act of March 2d, 1872, that is to say, to redeem the aforesaid
treasury certificates of indebtedness, otherwise called revenue
bond scrip, tendered by your orator to the said State treasurer,
and that he may be required to receive the same in payment of
all dues to the State, except interest on the public debt, and that

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Statement of Facts.

proper process may be issued against the comptroller-general,
requiring him to perform the duties enjoined upon him under
and pursuant to the different sections of said act of March 2d,
1872, and for that purpose that he from time to time be decreed
to prepare and transmit to the several county auditors all such
forms and instructions as may be proper and lawful for levying and collecting, or either, in the same manner and at the
same time, as has been provided by law for the levy and collection of the regular annual taxes of the State for the current fiscal year, the taxes levied by the 4th section of the aforesaid act of the General Assembly for the redemption of said
scrip, that the county treasurers of the said State be required
to receive such treasury certificates of indebtedness as may
be established as a claim under 'the contract created by the
said act, in tender of taxes and dues to the State, except interest on the public debt, that in cases where such tender is
made, the county treasurer refusing to receive the same shall
be prevented by injunction from selling property or otherwise
enforcing-the payment of the said tax, that a mandatory injunc-.
tion may be issued out of this honorable court, requiring the
comptroller-general to cease .from refusing to levy the tax for
retiring the said treasury certificates of indebtedness, and the
county treasurers to cease from refusing to receive the same for
taxes and dues to the State, except to pay the interest on the
public debt, and for such other and further relief as to your
honors shall seem meet," &c.
The relief prayed for in the bill of the assignees of the Blue
Ridge Railroad Company included also a prayer "that the defendants, the county treasurers, may be decreed to receive the
said revenue bond scrip in payment of the said taxes due by
your orators to the State of South Carolina, that on their
refusal to do. so they may be enjoined from enforcing the said
taxes by selling the property of your orators, or in any other
manner, and that on such refusal the lien of said taxes on the
property of your orators may be declared to be discharged."
The revenue bond scrip was of different denominations, varying from $1 to $5000, and was in the form following

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

No. 91.

"100.00.

$100.00.

"1?evenw Bond Sawmp.
"THE

STATE OF

[Palmetto Tree] SoUT

CARO NA.

"CoumBiA, S. C., .X-arch -, 1872.
"Receivable as one hundred dollars m payment of all taxes
and dues to the State, except special tax levied to pay interest
on public debt.
"INILES G. PARKER, State Treas&urr
One hundred dollars.
"One hundred dollars.
[On each side of scrip ] One hundred dollars, act March, 1872."

In the case of The State ew r'el. &e.v. JHoge, ComptrollerGeneral, 4 S.C. 185, the Supreme Court of that State decided,
April 18, 1873, that the certificates of revenue bond scrip issued
under the act of Mfarch 2, 1872, were void, as being bills of
credit within the prohibition of the Constitution of the United
States, the design and intention to create by means of them a
circulating medium and currency being inferred from the whole
scope of the act, and the form and circumstances of the emission.
Decrees were entered in the two causes, which, after reciting
the findings of fact and conclusions of law reached by the Circuit Court, proceeded, as follows
"It is therefore ordered"I. That it be referred to James E. Hagood, Esq., clerk of
this court, as special master, to take proof of the claims of all
parties other than the said Amos D. Williams and Edward B.
Wesley (.whose claims are hereby adjudged as established),
holding, or claiming to hold, any of said revenue bond scrip,
on ade,and for value, who may, on contributing pro rata to
the expense of such reference and this action, prove their
claims. And that said special master do ascertain and report
the total outstanding amount of such treasury certificates of
indebtedness.
"II. That for the purpose of defending itself the State of
South Carolina may, at its option, and in such manner as it
may be advised to be proper, be allowed, upon the application

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Statement of Facts.

of the attorney-general of said State on its behalf, to be made
a party to these proceedings.
"III. That upon the ascertainment of the amount of said
treasury certificates of indebtedness outstanding, proper process
do issue out of and under the seal of this court against the
State treasurer of the State of South Carolina for the time
being, and his successors in office, compelling and requiring him
and them to perform the duties enjoined upon the incumbent
of that office by the fourth section of the act of 2d March, 1872,
to wit, to redeem the said treasury certificates of indebtedness,
and compelling and requiring him and them to receive the same
in payment of all taxes and.other dues to the State, except the
special tax levied to pay interest on the public debt, that
proper process do issue out of and under the seal of this court
against the comptroller-general of the State of South Carolina
for the time being, and is successors in office, compelling and
requiring him and them to perform the duties enjoined upon
that officer by the different sections of the act of 2d March,
1872, and compelling and requiring him from time to time to
prepare and transmit to the several county auditors all such
forms and instructions as may be proper and lawful for levying
and collecting, in the same manner as the annual taxes, the
taxes required by the fourth section of the act of 2d March,
1872, and that proper process do issue out of and under the
seal of this court compelling and requiring the different county
treasurers of the State of South Carolina for the time being,
and their successors in office, to receive such.treasury certificates of indebtedness in payment of all taxes due to the State
of South Carolina, except the special tax levied to pay interest
on the public debt. And in all cases where a tender of said
treasury certificates of indebtedness is made, and the same refused, an injunction may issue restraining the county treasurer
so refusing from selling property, or in any manner enforcing
payment of said taxes.
"IV Any party to these suits may apply at the foot of this
decree for further orders in the premises."
From those decrees the appeals were prosecuted, and the two
causes were argued as one.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellees.

.2rC'harles Richardson _Jiles, Attorney-General of South
Carolina, and .-3r Le Roy F Youmans for appellants.
HP Dennis 3'elahon for appellees (_fr Thomas S. Cavender and _2fr James EI. Rion were with him on the brief). The
distinction in .farye v Parsons,114 _U. S. 325, as to relief to
be given to persons who are tax-payers, and those who are not
tax-payers is contrary to the provision in sec. 2, Art. IV of
the Constitution, "that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States." The true ground for the decisions in that case, and
in Tilliams v Hagood, 98 T.S. 72, is, that neither had put
himself, by previous demands or tenders, in a position to ask a
judicial determination of his rights in the court. The statute
of South Carolina of March 2, 1872, when executed by the surrender of the guaranteed bonds, created a contract between
the State and the holders of the certificates. See Antonz v
Greenhow, 107 U S. 769, Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U S.
270, Williams v. Loutstana, 103 U. S. 637. The Federal
courts have jurisdiction to enforce rights under this contract.
The laws of the State impose upon the State officers who are
parties duties connected with the levying and collection of
taxes, which can be enforced by a citizen of South Carolina in
the courts of that State by remedies analogous to those sought
in these bills. D' Oyley's Case, 1 Brevard, 238, Watson v Afayrant, 1 Rich. S. 0.Eq. 449, Singletonv. Commissioners, 2 Bay,
105.

The remedies asked for are proper to be granted.

See ob-

servations of this court in Allen v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad

Co., 114 U. S.311, 315, 316. See TransportationCo. v Par
kersburgh, 107 U. S.691, 695, Tomlinson v Branch, 15 Wall.
460, Cummrngs v. Vational Bank, 101 U. S.153, 157, .Afemphis Railroad Co. v. Comm'sstoners, 112 U. S.609, Osborn v
Bank of the Vnited States, 9 Wheat. 738, Clark v. Barnard,
108 U S.436, Cunninghamv. _facon & Brunswick Railroad
Co., 109 U S. 446, Board of Zquidation v fcCormn, 95
U S. 531, 541, Davis .v Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 220. See also
.furray v Charleston, 96 U. S.432, Edwards v. Rearzey, 96

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Opimon of the Court.

U. S. 595, Tennessee v Sneed, 96 U. S. 69, Allen v Baltimore & Okso Railroad Co., 114 U. S. 311, 315, 316, Transjportatiom Co. v Pakersburgh,107 U. S. 691, 695, Tomlinson
v Branch, 15 Wall. 460, remarks in Pomdexter v. Greenhow,
114 U. S. at page 295 on equitable remedies, Cummings v
l1 ational Bank, 101 U. S. 153, 157. If the court izeaches the
conclusion that all the relief given below should not be awarded,
it may modify the decrees. But the fact that the granting the
relief in question, so far as it orders the State officers of South
Carolina to levy the tax specified and provided for in the act
of March 4, 1872, constituting the contract in question, trenches
upon the political power of the State of South Carolina, ought
not to be an objection to affirming the decree in question. See
United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115-a most remarkable
case, 2fartzn v Hunter, I Wheat. 304, _k Culloch v. State of
. a'iyland, 4 Wheat. 316, Cohens v
irginza, 6 Wheat. 264-,
Qs.born v. Bank qf tae UTnited States, 9 Wheat. 738. See observations of Field, J., in Louzstan v. Jumel, 107 U. S.733,
in his dissenting opinion.
These certificates were not issued in violation of the Constitution of the United States, nor were they issued in violation
of the provisions of the Constitution of South Carolina-1Yr
XfoJfahon also argued at length other points not passed upon
in the opinion of the court.
Aln. JuSTicE MATirHEws

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the case as above reported, he continued
No specific provision is made in these decrees for the redemption of the revenue bond scrip in which the assignees of the
Blue Ridge Railroad Company @1aim an interest, nor any
direction to the treasurers of the counties in which its taxesare due to receive the scrip in payment therefor from the company, but the command of the decrees is broad enough to
include such relief in their favor. But it is difficult to conceive
on what theory of the relation between the railroad company
and the State it can be maintained. The revenue bond scrip
was issued by the State in exchange for the bonds of the railroad company guaranteed by the State, and in order that -by

OCTOBER TERMN,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

their surrender and cancellation the State might be relieved
from its liability on that account. The State was surety for
the railroad company and not debtor to it, and was not liable
to it, either upon the guaranty or the certificates of indebtedness issued in lieu thereof. Neither was available as a demand
against the State except in the hands of a holder for value,
and neither constituted a contract until value had thus passed,
as a consideration for the promises of the State. The railroad
company is certainly not such a holder, and its assignees in
bankruptcy are in no better position. As between the railroad
company and the State, the former is primarily liable for any
debt represented by the revenue bond scrip, or for which it is
held by others as security, and is bound to indemnify the State
against loss on account of its suretyship. To authorize the
railroad company to pay its taxes in these certificates, is simply to exonerate it from taxation, and to compel payment of
them to it, is to reverse the order of the obligation,.by compelling the surety not only to become principal debtor to
strangers, but to convert its debtor into a creditor.
No other parties to these suits, including those who have
merely proved their claims before the master under the order
of reference, have made any tender of revenue bond scrip in
payment of specific taxes due from them, and, so far as the contract is that such payment may be made, no breach is shown.
The discredit cast upon the scrip by the general refusal to accept it by the tax collectors of the State, and the depreciation
in value occasioned thereby, are not actionable injuries. In
this aspect, the case falls precisely within that of 3arye v.
Pasonw, 114 U. S.325, and does not materially differ from
the case as made on the previous bill of Williams, and decided
in WMlliam v. Hxagood, 98 U. S.72. So far as the instrument
contains a promise that it will be received in payment of taxes,
it is a contract -with the holder for the time being, who has
taxes to pay, and although such a stipulation, faithfully executed, would give commercial value to the paper, in whosesoever
hands it may happen to be, it cannot be said, as a matter of
law, that the contract is broken, until it has been tendered for
taxes due from a holder and been refused, nor that the legal

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Opimon of the Court

right of the holder is threatened, unless he is in a situation to
make a present tender for that purpose. He has no legal
right to have this scrip received for taxes, unless he owes taxes
for which it isreceivable, and in order that it may be used
for the payment of the taxes of another, he must transfer it to
the new holder, and that would divest himself of all right to.
enforce a contract to which he is no longer a party and in
which he has ceased to have a legal interest.
But it is urged, with earnestness and zeal, that the complainants, Williams and Wesley, are entitled to so much of the
relief prayed for as in effect would operate to compel the
comptroller-general of the State to execute in their favor the
provisions of the act of -arch 2, 1872, relating to the levy,
collection, and application of the tax pledged by the fourth
section of that act to the redemption of the revenue bond scrip.
The ground on which that relief is based, of course, is, that
the act of March 2, 1872, must still be regarded as subsisting,
notwithstanding the subsequent formal repeal by the Legislature, which must be treated as null. and void, because it impairs and destroys the obligation of the contract between the
holders of these certificates of indebtedness and the State of'
South Carolina. Treating the repealing acts, then, as of no
force, the inference is drawn that the duty of the officers of
the State remains, as declared and defined by the act of March
2, 1872, and its performance may be enforced by judicial process in behalf of every one having a legal interest in the subject.
It is to be borne in mnd, however, that the State of South
Carolina denies the existence and validity of the alleged contract. It asserts that the revenue bond scrip was issued in
violation of the Constitution of the State, which provides, Art.
IX., sec. 7, that public debts may be contracted for the purpose of defraying extraordinary expenditures, sec. 10, that no
scrip, certificate, or other evidence of State indebtedness, shall
be issued, except for the redemption of stock, bonds, or other
evidences of indebtedness previously issued, and sec. 14, that
any debt contracted by the State shall be by loan on State
bonds, of amounts not less than $50 each, on interest, payabla
VOL. cXvII-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

within twenty years after the final passage of the law authorizing such debts. It asserts that the guaranty by the State of
the original bonds of the Blue Ridge Railroad Company was
illegal and void, because made in violation of express statutory
conditions, which, it alleges, were never repealed, as was
claimed by the holders of them, and that, consequently, the
revenue bond scrip was without consideration, which, appearing
on the face of the law itself, deprived the certificates of all
validity in whatever hands they might be found. It further
asserts, that the revenue bond scrip in question is void, as being
in violation of that provision of the Constitution of the United
States, Art. I., sec. 10, which declares that no State shall emit
bills of credit, contending that these certificates, on the face of
the instrument and of the law creating it, appear manifestly
designed to circulate as money in the ordinary transactions of
business.
It thus appears that a distinct issue is made by the State of
South Carolina with the holders of this revenue bond scrip, and
the controversy between them and the State involves the very
question of the existence and obligation of the alleged contract.
This controversy the State has undertaken to settle for itself.
By its legislative department, it has repealed the statutes authorizing its officers to execute the contract on its behalf, and
forbidden the levy, collection, and appropriation of taxes for
the payment of the scrip. Through its judicial department it
has declared as between itself and its officers, that the instruments themselves are unconstitutional and void, and without
obligation. To this judgment, however, no holder of the scrip
was a party, and, of course, it concludes no one.
The peculiarity of the alleged contract deserves to be noted.
The instrument, looked at as the sole evidence of the obligation, contains no promise whatever to pay money It declares
simply that it is receivable for the amount of money named,
in payment of taxes and dues to the State, except special
tax to pay interest on public debt. If it be read as containing the law which authorized its issue, it is a contract that
it shall be redeemed, one-fourth of the whole amount each year,
out of taxes specially to be levied for that purpose. Although

IIAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Opinion of the Court.

styled in the law "certificates of indebtedness," there is no
agreement generally to pay a named sum at a given time, in
the usual form of public securities for the payment of money,
nor even an express acknowledgment of an existing debt.
The controversy in which the validity and obligation of the
scrip are involved is the subject of the present suits. The complainants as holders of this scrip, in behalf of themselves and
of all other holders choosing to take part, are seeking to obtain
by judicial process its redemption by the State, according to
the terms of the statute in pursuance of which it was issued, by
the levy, collection, and appropriation of special taxes pledged
to that purpose, as they claim, by an irrepealable law, constituting a contract protected from violation by the Constitution
of the United States. And such are the decrees which have
been rendered according to the prayer of the bills. These suits
are accurately described as bills for the specific performance of
a contract between the complainants and the State of South
Carolina, who are the only parties to it. But to these bills the
State is not in name made a party defendant, though leave is
given to it to become such, if it chooses and, except with that
consent, it could not be brought before the court and be made
to appear and defend. And yet it is the actual party to the
alleged contract the performance of which is decreed, the one
required to perform the decree, and the only party by whom
it can be performed. Though not nominally a party to the
record, it is the real and only party in interest, the nominal defendants being the officers and agents of the State, having no
personal interest in the subject-matter of the suit, and defending
only as representing the State. And the things required by the
decrees to be done and performed by them are the very things
which, when done and performed, constitute a performance of
the alleged contract by the State. The State is not only the real
party to the controversy, but the real party against which relief
is sought by the suit, and the suit is, therefore, substantially
within the prohibition of the.XIth amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which declares that "the judicial
power of the United States shall not be construed to extend
to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

one of the United States by citizens of another State, or by
citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
The case comes thus directly within the authority of 1outst.
anav. Jumel, 107 U S. 7 11. It was there said "The question,
then, is whether the contract can be enforced, notwithstanding
the Constitution, by coercing the agents and officers of the
State, whose authority has been withdrawn in violation of the
contract, without the State itself in its political capacity being
a party to the proceedings. The relief asked will require the
officers against whom the process is issued to act contrary to
the positive orders of the supreme political power of the State,
whose creatures they are, and to which they are ultimately responsible in law for what they do. They must use the public
money in the treasury and under their official control in one
way, when the supreme power has directed them to use it in
another, and they must raise more money b7 taxation when the
same power has declared that it shall not be done." p. 21.
And "The remedy sought, in order to be complete, would
require the court to assume all the executive authority of the
State, so far as it related to the enforcement of this law, and
to supervise the conduct of all persons charged with any official duty in respect to the levy, collection and disbursement of
the tax in question, until the bonds, principal and interest, were
paid in full, and that, too, in a proceeding in which the State,
as a State, was not and could not be made a party It needs
no argument to show that the political power cannot be thus
ousted of its jurisdiction and the judiciary set in its place.
When a State submits itself -without reservation to the jurisdiction of a court in a particular case, that jurisdiction may be
used to give full effect to what the State has by its act of submission allowed to be done, and if the law permits coercion of
the public officers to enforce any judgment that may be rendered, then such coercion may be employed for that purpose.
But this is very far from authorizing the courts, when a State
cannot be sued, to set up its jurisdiction over the officers in
charge of the public moneys, so as to control them as against
the political power, in their administration of the finances of
the State." p. 727.

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Opion of the Court.

If this case is not within the class of those forbidden by the
constitutional guaranty to the States of immunity from suits
in Federal tribunals, it is difficult to conceive the frame of one
which would be. If the State is named as a defendant, it can
only be reached either by mesne or final process through its
officers and agents, and a judgment against it could neither be
obtained nor enforced, except as the public conduct and government of the ideal political body called a State could be reached
and affected through its official representatives. A judgment
against these latter, in their official and representative capacity,
commanding them to perform official functions on behalf of
-the State according to the dictates and decrees of the court, is,
if anything can be, a judicial proceeding against the State itself.
If not, it may well be asked, what would constitute such a
proceeding 2
In the present cases the decrees were not only against the
defendants in their official capacity, but, that there might be
no mistake as to the nature and extent of the duty to be per
formed, also against their successors in office.
The principle.which governs in these cases must be carefully
distinguished from that which ruled in Osborn v Bank of te
Undted States, 9 Wheat. '738, Dars v G-ray, 16 Wall. 203,
Boardof 7,qutdatiom v. .21cComb, 92 U. S. 531, and Allen v
Baltnmore & Oho Railroad Co., 114IU. S. 311 ,-a distinction
which was pointed out in loumzsana v. Jumel, ubi supra, and
in Cunnsngham v. .facon & Brunswzc RailroadCo., 109 U.S.
446. The rule for such cases was well stated by -Mr. Justice
Bradley in Board of Ltgutdation v .2cComb, ub&supra, as
follows "A State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an
individual and a court cannot substitute its own discretion for
that of executive officers in matters belonging to the proper
jurisdiction of the latter. But it has been well settled, that
when a plain official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion,
is to be performed, and performance is refused, any person who
will sustain personal injury by such refusal may have amrandamus to compel its performance, and when such duty is threatened to be violated by some positive official act, any person
who will sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to
prevent it." p. 541. And on the other hand, the rule for that
class of cases was stated by the Chief Justice in Lowswana v.
Jumel, ubi, supra, in these words "The officers owe duty to
the State alone, and have no contract relations with the bondholders. They can only act as the State directs them to act, and
hold as the State allows them to hold. It was never agreed
that their relations with the bondholders should be any other
than as officers of the State, or that they should have any control over this fund except to keep it like other funds in the
treasury and pay it out according to law They cantbe moved
through the State, but not the State through them." p. 723.
In such cases, as was said by Chief Justice Marshall in Osborn
v Bank of the United Sta es, 9 Wheat. '738, 858, "The State
not being a party on the record, and the court having jurisdiction over those who are parties on the record, the true question
is not one of jurisdiction, but whether, in the exercise of its
jurisdiction, the court ought to make a decree against the defendants, whether they are to be considered as having a real
interest, or as being only nominal parties."
A broad line of demarcation separates from such cases as the
present, in which the decrees require, by affirmative official action on the part of the defendants, the performance of an obligation which belongs to the State in its political capacity, those
in which actions at law or suits in equity are maintained against
defendants who, while claiming to act as officers of the State,
violate and invade the personal and property rights of the plaintiffs, under color of authority, unconstitutional and void. Of
such actions at law for redress of the wrong, it was said by Mr.
Justice Miller, in Cunntngham v. Haeon & Bruns wvk Railroad Co., ub?, sup.. "In these cases he is not sued as or because
he is the officer of the government, but as an individual, and the
court is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts authority
as such officer. To make out his defence he must show that
his authority was sufficient in law to protect him." p. 452. Of
such cases that of United 8tates v Lee, 106 U. S.196, is a conspicuous example, and it was upon this ground that the judgment in Pondexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270, was rested.

HAGOOD v. SOUTHERN.
Opinion of the Court.

And so the preventive remedies of equity, by injunction, may
be employed in similar cases to anticipate and prevent the
threatened wrong, where the injury would be irreparable, and
there is no plain and adequate remedy at law, as was the case
in Allen v. Baltsmore & Ow Railroad Co., 114 U. S. 311,
where many such instances are cited.
The defendants in the present cases, though officers of the
State, are not authorized to enter its appearance to the suits and
defend for it in its name. The complainants are not entitled
to compel its appearance, for the State cannot be sued without
its consent. And the court cannot proceed to the determination
of a cause and controversy, to which the State is an indispensable party, without its presence. This, however, the Circuit
Court has in fact done, and its decrees undertake to fdispose of
the matter in controversy, and enforce the judgment of the
court against the State through its officers, in a suit to which
it is not a party The suggestion that it has had the opportunity and the invitation to appear is immaterial, for it has a constitutional right to insist on its immunity from suit. For these
reasons

The decrees qf the Circuit Court are reversed, and the causes
are remanded,with anstructions to dismiss the bills of corn.1paznt.
Mr. JUsTICE FIELD and Mr. JusTIE HAiLw, while adhering
to the views expressed by them in their dissenting opinions in
loussanav Jdurl,107 U. S. 726, 748, admit that the doctrines
of that case require a reversal of the judgment in this case.

