OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

express men are intended to serve. If other courts should follow ours in this doctrine, the evils to ensue will call for other
relief.
It is in view of amelioration of these great evils that, in dissenting here, I announce the principles which I earnestly believe
ought to control the actions and the rights of these two great
public services.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissenting.
I agree with MIR. JUSTICE MILLER in the positions he has

stated, although in the cases just decided I think the decrees of
the courts below require modification in several particulars;
they go too far. But I am clear that railroad companies are
bound, as common carriers, to accommodate the public in the
transportation of goods according to its necessities, and through
the instrumentalities or in the mode best adapted to promote its
convenience. Among these instrumentalities express companies, by the mode in which their business is conducted, are the
most important and useful.
MR.
cases.

JUSTIOE MATTHEWS

took no part in the decision of these

PICKARD, Comptroller, v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN
CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNrrTED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENIESSEE.
Argued danuary 25, 26, 18SO.-Decided March 1, 1886.

Section 6 of the act of the legislature of Tennessee, passed March 16, 1877,
Laws of 1877, ch. 16, p. 26, which imposes a privilege tax of $50Ver annum on every sleeping car or coach used or run over a railroad in Tennessee and not owned by the railroad on which it is ran or used, is void so far
as it applies to the inter-State transportation of passengers carried over
railroads in Tennessee, into or out of or across that State, in sleeping cars

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO.

35

Statement of Facts.
owned by a corporation of Kentucky and leased by it for transportation
purposes to Tennessee railroad corporations, the latter receiving the transit
fare, and the former the compensation for the sleeping accommodations.

Section 28 of Article II of the Constitution of Tennessee, of
1870, contains these provisions: "All property shall be taxed according to its value, that value to be ascertained in such manner as the Legislature shall direct, so that taxes shall be equal
and uniform throughout the State. No one species of property from which a tax may be collected shall be taxed higher
than any other species of property of the same value. But the
Legislature shall have power to tax merchants, pedlers, and privileges, in such manner as they may from time to time direct."
On the 16th of March, 1877, the Legislature of Tennessee
passed an Act, entitled "An Act declaring the mode and manner of valuing the property of telegraph companies for taxation,
and of taxing sleeping cars," Laws of 1877, ch. 16, p. 26, the
6th section of which provided as follows: "That the running
and using of sleeping cars or coaches on railroads in Tennessee,
not owned by the railroads upon which they are run or used,
is declared to be a privilege, and the companies owning and
running or using said cars or coaches are required to report, on
or before the 1st day of May' of each year, to the comptroller,
the number of cars so used by them in this State; and they
shall be required to pay to the comptroller by the first of July
following $50 for each and every of said cars or coaches used
or as run over said roads; and if the said privilege tax herein
assessed be not paid as aforesaid, the comptroller shall enforce
the payment of the same by distress warrant."
Under this act the comptroller of the State claimed that
there was due from the Pullman Southern Car Company, a
corporation of Kentucky, to the State, for each of the years
1878,1879 and 1880, a privilege tax of $50 on each one of thirtyeight sleeping cars, run and used on railroads in Tennessee, and
not owned by the railroad companies on whose roads they
were used, but owned by the Pullman Company. The aggre.gate amount of the taxes claimed was $5700, and the comptroller instituted proceedings to collect them from that company,
which, under the provisions of a statute of the State, paid the

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

money under protest, and it was paid into the State trcasury,
with notice to the comptroller that it was paid under protest,
and the company, within the time prescribed by the statute,
and in August, 1881, brought an action at law against the comptroller to recover the $5700, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Tennessee.
The declaration alleged, among other things, that the sleeping cars, for the running or use of which the taxes were claimed
and collected, were not run or used by the plaintiff during any
one of the years 1878, 1879 or 1880, but were run and used by
certain railroad companies in Tennessee, though they were
owned during that time by the plaintiff, which permitted those
railroad companies to run and use them under certain contract
stipulations; that the sleeping cars so run and used were, during the whole of the years 1878, 1879 and 1880, employed by
them in inter-State commerce, being run into and through
Tennessee, from and into other States, transporting passengers from other States into or across Tennessee, or from Tennessee into other States; and that, therefore, such taxes and
the collection thereof were illegal and contrary to the Constitution of the 'United States. There was a demurrer to the
declaration, raising, among other things, the question above
stated, but, on a hearing, the demurrer was overruled, the
opinion of the court being delivered by Mr. Justice Matthews.
22 Fed. Rep. 276. The conclusion arrived at in the opinion,
which accompanies the record, was that the levying of a privilege tax on the running and using, on railroads in Tennessee,
of sleeping cars not owned by those railroads, was, as applied
to such cars when employed in inter-State transportation, a
regulation of commerce among the States, and contrary to the
Constitution of the United States, and, therefore, void. ILeave
being given to the defendant to plead over, nil debet was
pleaded, and the issue was tried by the court without a jury,
by a written stipulation between the parties, which embodigd
an agreed statement of facts, on which the cause was heard.
The agreed statement set forth that the plaintiff was a Kentucky corporation, having its chief office and place of business
at Louisville; and that, since 1872, it had been engaged, at

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO.

37

Statement of Facts.

Louisville, in manufacturing railway cars, known as drawingroom cars and sleeping cars, and in hiring those cars to various
railroad companies in Tennessee and other States, under the
following form of contract:
"This indenture, made this 19th day of June, A.D. 1872, between the Louisville and Nashville iRailroad Company, the
party of the first part, and the Pullman Southern Car Company, of the second part: Whereas, the said party of the second part is now engaged in the business of manufacturing railway cars, known as drawing-room and sleeping cars, under
certain patents belonging to them, and of hiring the same to
railroad companies, and receiving therefor income and revenue
by the sale to passengers of seats and berths, and accommodations therein; and whereas the said party of the first part is
desirous of availing itself of the use on and over its lines of
road., of the cars constructed under the sleeping and drawingroom car patents now the property of said second party, and
also of connections by means of said cars with other lines of
railroad, whereon said cars are now operated by said second
party, now this contract witnesseth: That the said party of the
second part, in consideration of the covenants and agreements
of the party of the first part, hereinafter mentioned to be by
them kept and performed, hereby agrees with the said party
of the first part, that they will furnish drawing-room cars and
sleeping cars to be used by said party for the transportation of
passengers, sufficient to meet the requirements of travel on and
over their line of railroad, and on and over all lines of railroad
which they now control, or may hereafter control, by ownership, lease, or otherwise, the said cars so furnished to be satisfactory to the general superintendent of the first party.
"2d. The said party of the second part agrees that they will
keep the carpets, upholstery, and bedding of each of the said
cars in good order and repair, and renew and improve the
same, when necessary, at their own expense, excepting repairs
and removals made necessary by accident or casualty; it being
understood that the said first party shall repair all damages to
said cars, of every kind, occasioned by accident or casualty,
during the continuance of this agreement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

3d. The said party of the second part hereby agrees, at their
own expense and cost, to furnish one or more employes, as may
be needful, upon each of said cars, whose duties shall be to collect fares for the accommodations furnished in said cars, and
generally to wait upon passengers therein, and provide for
their comfort.
"4th. The said party of the first part hereby agrees that the
general officers of said second party, and the employds named
in article third of this agreement, shall be entitled to free passage over the lines of the first party, when they are on duty
for the second party.
"5th. The party of the sec6nd part hereby agrees that the
general officers of the first party shall be entitled to free passes
in any of the cars furnished by said second party under this
agreement.
"6th. It is hereby mutually agreed, that the said employis of
the second party named in article third of this agreement shall
be governed by and subject to the rules and regulations of the
said first party, which are, or may be, adopted from time to
time, for the government of their own employ6s, and, in the
event of any liability arising against said first party for personal injury, death, or otherwise of any employ6 of said second
party, it is hereby distinctly understood and agreed, that the
said first party shall be liable only to the same extent they
would be if the person injured was an employ6 in fact of said
first party, and for all liability in excess thereof shall be indemnified and paid by said second party.
" 7th. The party of the first part, in consideration of the use
of the aforesaid cars, hereby agrees to haul the same on the
passenger trains on their line of road, and on all roads which
they now control or may hereafter control by ownership, lease,
or otherwise, and also on all passenger trains on which they
may, by virtue of contracts or running arrangements with
other roads, have the right to use such cars in such manner as
will best accommodate passengers desiring the use of said cars;
and the said party of the first part shall, at their own expense,
furnish fuel for the cars and materials for the lights, shall wash
and cleanse said cars, and shall also keep said cars in good

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO. 39
Statement of Facts.
order and repair, including renewals of worn-out parts, and all
things appertaining to said cars, necessary to keep them in
first-class condition, except such as are provided for in article
second of this agreement.
"8th. The party of the first part agrees to furnish said party
of the second part, at convenient points, room and conveniences
for airing and storing bedding.
"9th. The said party of the first part further agrees, that the
said party of the second part shall be entitled to collect from
each and every person occupying said cars, such sums for said
occupancy as may be usual on competing lines furnishing equal
accommodations, and that such rules and regulations shall be
agreed upon as will most favor the renting of seats and
couches in said cars.
"10th. The party of the first part hereby agrees to permit
the party of the second part to place their tickets for seats and
couches for sale in such of the railroad ticket offices as may
be desired by said second party, and such services shall be performed by and as part of the general duties of the ticket agents,
and without charge to the party of the second part; proceeds
of such sales to be at the risk of said second party.
"11th. The party of the first part hereby agrees that said
second party shall have the exclusive right, for a term of fifteen years from the date hereof, to furnish for the use of the
first party drawing-room or parlor cars and sleeping cars, including reclining-chair cars, on all the passenger trains of said
first party, and over their entire lines of railroad, and on all
railroads which they may control, or may hereafter control,
by ownership, lease, or otherwise, and also on all passenger
trains on which they may, by virtue of contracts or running
arrangements with other roads, have the right to use such
cars, and that they will not contract with any other parties to
run said class of cars on or over said lines of road during said
period of fifteen years.
"The said second partyfor the consideration aforesaid, hereby
guarantees said first party against all damages of whatsoever
kind which may be by said first party incurred in consequence
of any infringement of patent rights in the construction and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

use of any of said cars which may be used by said second
party upon the lines of said first party under this arrangement,
it being the meaning and intent of this article, that the second
party shall secure said first party against all manner of expenditures which may be incurred by said first party in consequence of any litigation connected with alleged infringements
of patent rights for the interior arrangements of said cars, and
that they will pay off and discharge all judgments obtained at
any time against said first party on account of such infringements.
"12th. It is mutually agreed between the parties hereto, that,
in case either of said parties shall, at any time hereafter, fail to
keep and perform any of the covenants herein contained to be
by them respectively kept and performed, then, and in that
case, after written notice shall have been given to the defaulting party thereto of the default complained of, if the said defaulting party shall refuse or neglect to make good, keep, and
perform such unfulfilled covenants and conditions of this
agreement within a reasonable time after such notice, the
other party shall be at liberty to declare this contract ended
and no longer in force."
The agreed statement further set forth, that the plaintiff had
never had any branch office or establishment of any kind in
Tennessee, unless the fact that the plaintiff had placed its
tickets for sale with railway agents in that State constituted
the offices of such agents branch offices or establishments of
the plaintiff; that it had never had any ticket agents of its
own in Tennessee, except in so far as the ticket agents of the
railway companies with whom the tickets of the plaintiff had
been placed for sale might be regarded as the agents of the
plaintiff; that the plaintiff had never had any other agents,
officers or employds in Tennessee, except the conductors and
porters which it furnished with its cars under its contracts
with the railroad companies; that the cars furnished by the
plaintiff under those contracts constituted all the property
owned by it in Tennessee, and the business done by it under
those contracts, such as it was, was the only business done by
it in Tennessee; that the cars furnished by it under those con-

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN OAR CO.

41

Statement of Facts.

tracts (with the exception of two sleeping cars running between Nashville and Memphis), were used in transporting
passengers from other States into or across Tennessee, and
from points in Tennessee to points in other States; that the
same cars also transported passengers from points in Tennessee
to other points in that State whenever they properly applied
for such transportation, but the number of such passengers
bore an inconsiderable proportion to the -other passengers
transported in those cars; that those cars ran into, out of or
across Tennessee, making such stops as the trains to which they
were attached made; that, in the case of passengers travelling
across Tennessee, or from points out of it to points in it, their
sleeeping-car tickets were purchased and paid for before they
entered Tennessee, but in the case of passengers from points in
Tennessee to points in other States, or in Tennessee, the tickets
were purchased and paid for in Tennessee; that the railroad
companies of Tennessee with whom such contracts were made
were duly chartered by that State, or organized or operated
under its laws, with power to transport passengers for hire;
that they were taxed by that State on the value of their roads,
rolling stock and other tangible property, and also on the
value of' their franchises; that from March 16, 1877, to the
present time, the Memphis and Charleston Railroad Company,
and the East Tennessee, Virginia and Georgia Railroad Company, both of them Tennessee corporations, had owned sleeping cars which they had run and used during that time as
sleeping cars upon their respective roads, and they had not
been required by the State to pay any tax for running or using
said sleeping cars upon their roads, except in so far as such a
tax might have been included in the tax assessed on the value
of their franchises; and that the thirty-eight cars before mentioned included the two cars run between Nashville and Mem-

phis.
The agreed statement set forth the other facts hereinbefore
contained, necessary to a recovery; and, on the 29th of December, 1884, a judgment was entered, which stated that the cause
was heard on an agreed statement of facts,.and that it was
thereby made a part of the record at large in the cause, and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

that the court found the issue joined in favor of the plaintiff.
It then set forth the material facts contained in the agreed
statement, and awarded a judgment for $5400, for the taxes
on the thirty-six cars, and for $1089.90 interest, and for costs,
assigning as a reason that the State had no power to impose a
privilege tax on the plaintiff for running or using the thirty-six
cars in the State, the tax being a regulation of commerce between the States, and, therefore, a violation of the Constitution
of the United States. To reverse this judgment the defendant
sued out a writ of error.
21r. J B. Heiskell for plaintiff in error (_Jfr. S. A. C/am_ion was with him on the brief), argued:
I. That all State questions had been eliminated by the decision in the case of Pullma Southern Car Co. v. Gaines, 3
Tenn. Ch. 587, and the only contentions now before this court
were contained in the Federal - questions involved. Stone v. Wisconsin, 94 U. S. 181, 183; Fairjleldv. County of Gallatin,100
U. S. 47,52; Baryess v, Seligman, 107 U. S. 29, 34; Railroad
Co. v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, 709.
II. That the fact that certain parts of attachments of the
sleeping cars were patented could in no way interfere *ith the
right of the legislature to levy a privilege tax upon the "running and using" of sleeping cars over the railroads in the State
owned by foreign corporations and run for the accommodation
of passengers into, out of or through the State.
III. That the contract between the Pullman Southern Car
Company and the various railroad companies exhibited in the
record, showed that the arrangement irftended to be made with
the railroad companies was to secure the privilege of running
and using sleeping cars or coaches over the lines of the various
railroads, and was not a contract of hiring or leasing cars by the
railroad companies, and that the business was done by the
defendants and not by the railroad companies.
IV. That the running and using of cars for sleeping purposes
only, not owned by the railroads upon which they were run or
used, was not such inter-State commerce, the regulation of which
is placed by the Constitution of the United States under the

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO.

43

Opinion of the Court.

control of Congress, nor did the regulation of this occupation
such as was imposed by the'privilege tax in question, interfere
with transportation or commerce among the States. Sinnot v.
Davenport, 22 How. 227; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 210214; Foster v. Davenp)ort, 22 How. 244; Crandallv. Nevada,
6 Wall. 35; Osborne v. -Mobile, 16 Wall. 479; State Tax on
Railway Gross Receits, 15 Wall. 284; Wiggins Ferry Co. v.
East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365; Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U.
S. 69 ; Pullman Southern Car Co. v. Gaines,3 Tenn. Ch. 587;
Dun v. Cullen, 13 Lea, 202; Lightburn,v. Taxing District,4
Lea, 219.
V. That a tax laid upon the instruments of commerce was
not a tax upon commerce itself.
VI. That it is a well-settled rule, long adhered to by this
court, that a construction given by State courts of last resort to
legislative enactments and provisions of State constitutions
ought, as a rule, to be followed in the Federal courts; and while
this court is not necessarily governed by previous decisions of
said courts upon the same or similar points, except where they
have been so firmly established as to constitute a rule of property, yet unless the decision in question is held to be unreasonable, violative of some fundamental law or well-established
principle, this court will be governed by the construction given
by the Supreme Court of the State. Railroad Co. v. Gaines,
97 U. S. 697, 709; Stone v. Wisconsin, 94- U. S. 181.
Zr&. Towmas Z. Dodd on behalf of Davidson County for
plaintiff in error.
.21r. 0. -A. -Loc rane and il-r. E. S. Isham for defendant in
error.
X]1. JUSTIcrE BLATCnlORD delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the Case as above reported, he continued:
The point upon which the final judgment was rendered in
the case was the one considered and adjudged in the decision
given on the demurrer to the declaration. The tax was not a
property tax, because, under the Constitution of Tennessee, all
property must be taxed according to its value, and this tax was*

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

not measured by value, but was an arbitrary charge. What
was done by the plaintiff was taxed as a privilege, it being assumed by the State authorities, that the Legislature had the
power, under the Constitution of Tennessee, to enact the 6th
section of the Act of 187, and that the plaintiff had done
what that section declared to be a privilege. By the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Tennessee, cited in the opinion of the
Circuit Court on the demurrer, it is held, that the Legislature
may declare the right to carry on any business or occupation
to be a privilege, to be purchased from the State on such conditions as the statute law may prescribe, and that it is illegal to
carry on such business without complying with those conditions.
In this case, the payment of the tax imposed was a condition
prescribed, without complying with which what was done by
the plaintiff was made illegal. The tax was imposed as a condition precedent to the right of the plaintiff to run and use the
thirty-six sleeping cars owned by it, as it ran and used them
on railroads in Tennessee. The privilege tax is held by the
Suprenfe Court of Tennessee to be a license tax, for the privilege of doing the thing for which the tax is imposed, it being
unlawful to do the thing without paying the tax. What was
done by the plaintiff in this case, in connection with the use of
the thirty-six cars, if wholly a branch of inter-State commerce,
was made by the State of Tennessee unlawful unless the tax
should be paid, and, to the extent of the tax, a burden was
placed on such commerce; and, upon principle, the tax, if lawful, might equally well have been large enough to practically
stop altogether the particular species of commerce.
What was that commerce? The plaintiff, by its contract,
furnished sleeping cars to the railroad company, to be used by
the latter "for the transportation of passengers," sufficient in
numbers to meet the requirements of travel on the road. The
plaintiff kept in order and renewed the carpets, upholstery andc
bedding of the cars, except repairs and renewals made necessary by accident or casualty, but all damages to the cars by
accident or casualty were repaired by the railroad company.
The plaintiff furnished employ6s on each car to collect fares
for the accommodations furnished by the car, and to wait upon

PICKARD v. PULLM1AN SOUTHERN CAR CO.

45

Opinion of the Court.

passengers and provide for their comfort. Those employes
were governed by the rules adopted by the railroad company
to govern its own employ6s, and the railroad company was
liable for personal injury to, or the death of, any such employe
of the plaintiff to the same extent only as if such employ6 was
in fact an employ6 of the railroad company, and the latter was
indemnified by the plaintiff for all liability in excess thereof.
The railroad company carried free on its line such employ4s of
the plaintiff and its general officers when on duty for it, and
the plaintiff carried free in the cars it so furnished the general
officers of the railroad company. In consideration of the use
of such cars, the railroad company hauled them on the passenger trains on its line, in such manner as best accommodated
passengers desiring to use the cars, and furnished, at its own
expense, fuel for them and materials for the lights, and washed
and cleansed them, and kept them in good order and repair,
including renewals of worn-out parts, and all things appertaining
to them, necessary to keep them in first-class condition, with the
exceptions before specified in regard to carpets, upholstery and
bedding, and furnished room and conveniencies for airing and
storing bedding. The plaintiff collected fTom every person
occupying the car compensation for its accommodations in seats
and couches. The railroad company permitted the plaintiff to
place its tickets for seats and couches on sale in the ticket offices of the railroad company, the sale to be a part of the general
duties of the ticket agents of the latter, and to be without
charge to the plaintiff, but the proceeds of sales to be at its
risk. The contract was made an exclusive one for fifteen years,
and the plaintiff agreed to protect the railroad company against
all liability for the infringement of any patent in the construction and use of the cars, and there was a provision for the termination of the contract by either party on a breach of it by
the other.
On these facts, the cars in question were cars for the transportation of the passengers who occupied them, in their transit
into, or through, or out of Tennessee. They were used by the
railroad company for such transportation, and it received the
transit fare or compensation. For purposes of transit, it dealt

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

with the cars as it would with cars'owned by itself. It hauled
them, furnished fuel and materials for lights, washed and
cleansed them, kept them in repair, renewed worn-out parts,
repaired all damages to them by accident or casualty, and even
repaired and renewed carpets, upholstery, and bedding damaged
or destroyed by accident or casualty; all at its own expense,
and without charge to the plaintiff; leaving to the plaintiff
only to make good the ordinary wear and tear of the sitting
and sleeping conveniencies, and allowing it to have the compensation for such conveniences, and furnishing it free of charge
with all facilities for selling seats and couches.
The tax was a unit, for the privilege of the transit of the
passenger and all its accessories. No distinction was made in
the tax between the right of transit, as a branch of commerce
between the States, and the sleeping and other conveniences
which appertained to a transit in the car. The tax was really
one on the right of transit, though laid wholly on the owner of
the car. So, too, the service rendered to the passenger was a
unit. The car was equally a vehicle of transit, as if it had been
a car owned by the railroad company, and the special conveniencies or comforts furnished to the passenger had been furnished by the railroad company itself. As such vehicle of
transit, the car, so far as it was engaged in inter-State commerce, was not taxable by the State of Tennessee; because the
plaintiff had no domicil in Tennessee, and was not subject to
its jurisdiction for purposes of taxation; and the cars had no
situs within the State for purposes of taxation; and the plaintiff carried on no business within the State, in the sense in which
the carrying on of business in a State is taxable by way of
license or privilege.
The case of Attorney-General v. Zondom&& North Western
Railway Co., in the Court of Appeal, 6 Q. B. Div. 216, before
Lord Chief Justice Coleridge, and Lord Justices Baggallay and
Brett, affirming the judgment of the Exchequer Division, 5 Ex.
Div. 241, is instructive in the above point of view, as to the
subject in hand. There, the railway company attached to its
night trains sleeping carriages for the accommodation of such
of its first class passengers as might choose to avail them-

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO.

47

Opinion of the Court.
selves of it. For the use of these carriages they were charged
an extra sum in addition to the ordinary first-class fare. Bebsides couches with pillows, sheets and blankets, each carriage
contained a lavatory, and other conveniences. Passengers
using such carriages were not disturbed during the night by
demands for their tickets, and, if they arrived at their destination in the night, the passengers were allowed to remain in
their beds until the morning. Under a statute imposing a;percentage duty "upon all sums received or charged for the hire,
fare or conveyance of passengers" on any railway, the Government claimed and was allowed the duty on the extra sum
charged for the use of the sleeping carriage. The Court of
Appeal, by Lord Coleridge, said: "We regard the additional
accommodation afforded by the sleeping carriages as differing
in no essential particular from the superior accommodation
afforded by a second-class carriage over a third, or by a firstclass carriage over both. If the company issued tickets to all
passengers alike, at the price charged to passengers travellifhg in
third-class carriages, and then issued tickets, at corresponding
prices, to those desiring to travel in a higher class of carriage,
it could hardly be contended that duty would not be payable
upon the prices paid for such second ticket. The passenger who
is content to travel in a third-class or second-class carriage in
the day, might well desire to travel in a carriage of a higher
class by night; and, in like manner, a passenger ordinarily
travelling by day in a first-class carriage might desire the additional accommodation at night of a sleeping carriage. No
separate charge is made in the present case; the charge, though
written on a separate ticket, is, in our opinion, part of one
charge for the conveyance of the passenger in a particular way,
and is, therefore, a part of the charge for the conveyance of a
passenger, received and charged for such conveyance." That
case is in harmony with the views before taken in regard to
the present case. The fare paid by the inter-State passenger to
the railroad company, and that paid to the plaintiff, added together, were merely a charge for his conveyance in a particular way, and there was really but one charge for the transit,
though the total amount paid was divided among two recipi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ents.

The service was a single one, of inter-State transit, with

certain accommodations for comfort, and what was paid to the
plaintiff was part of a charge for the conveyance of the passenger:
-The views above expressed are in harmony with numerous
decisions which have been made by this court on the subject to
which they relate. In Alviy v. Thk State of California,24
How. 169, a stamp tax had been imposed by the State on bills
of lading for the transportation of. gold or silver from any
point within the State to any point without it, and was held by
this court to be invalid; and in WVoodruvf v. Parham, 8 Wall.
123, 138, it was said by this court, Mr. Justice Miller delivering its opinion, that that stamp tax "was a regulation of commerce, a tax imposed upon the transportation of goods from
one State to another, over the high seas, in conflict with the
freedom of transit of goods and persons between one State and
another, which is within the rule laid down in Crandall v. _evada, 6 Wall. 35, and with the authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the States."
In the State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232, 281, it was said
that a State cannot tax persons for passing through or out of
it; that inter-State transportation of passengers is beyond the
Teach of a State legislature; and that a tax upon itamounts to
a tax upon the passengers transported.
In Railroad Co. v. .- aryland,21 Wall. 456, 472, Mr. Justice
Bradley, in speaking for the court, said, that a State cannot
impose a tax or duty on the movements or operations of commerce between the States, because it would be a regulation of
such commerce "in a matter which is essential to the rights of
all, and, therefore, requiring the exclusive legislation of Congress," being "a tax because of the transportation," and
"therefore, virtually, a tax on the transportation."
The decisions in the various cases in this court on the subject
of a tax by a State on the bringing in of passengers from foreign countries, and which are collected and commented on by
Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion of this court in the
Head .3foney Cases, 112 IT. S. 580, 591, show it to be a settled
matter that to tax the transit of passengers from foreign countries or between the States, is to regulate commerce.

PICKARD v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR 00.

49

Opinion of the Court.

The principles which governed the decisions in Felton v.
_fsisouri, 91 U. S. 275, Guy v. Baltimore, 100 U. S. 434, and
_Moran v. New Orleans, 112 U. S. 69, holding unlawful the
State taxes in those cases on inter-State commerce in merchandise, are equally applicable to the tax in this case on the transit
of passengers. The rule which governs the subject is accurately and tersely'stated by Mr. Justice Field, in delivering the
opinion of the court, in GMoucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196, 211: "While it is conceded that the property in
a State, belonging to a foreign corporation engaged in foreign
or inter-State commerce, may be taxed equally with like prop-.
erty of a domestic corporation engaged in that business, we are
clear that a tax or other burden imposed on the property of
either corporation because it is used to carry on that commerce, or upon the transportation of persons or property, or
for the navigation of the public waters over which the transportation is made, is invalid and void, as an interference with,
and an obstruction of, the power of Congress in the regulation
of. such commerce." The case of Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105
U. S. 460, in regard to a State tax on telegraphic messages sent
out of a State, is a kindred case. The whole subject, in reference to a State tax imposed for selling goods brought irito a
State from other States, was recently fully considered by this
court in Walling v..ichigan,116 U. S. 446. And in that
case Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, says: "We
have also repeatedly held, that, so long as Congress does not
pass any law to regulate commerce am6ng the several States,
it thereby indicates its will that such commerce shall be free
and untrammeled." See elton,v. .Aissouri,91 U. S. 275, 282;
3fachine Co. v. Gage, 100 I. S. 676, 678 ; County of .fobile v.
Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Gloucester erry Co. v. Pennsylvania,114 U. S. 196, 204; Brown v. Houston, 114 ]U. S. 622,
631, where the cases on that point are collected.
It is urged that the decison of the Circuit court in this case
was inconsistent with the rulings in Osborne v. 2Jfobile, 16 Wall.
479, and in WigginsFerry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365.
It becomes necessary, therefore, to examine those cases.
In Osborne v. .Mobile, Osborne was an agent, at M obile, AlaVOL. cXV--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

bama, of a Georgia corporation, an express company, and, as
such, transacted at Mobile a general express business within
and extending beyond the limits of Alabama. An ordinance
of the city of Mobile required an annual license fee of $500 to
be paid by every express company doing business in Mobile,
and having a business extending beyond the limits of Alabama,
while every express company doing business within the limits
of the State was required to pay a license fee of only $100, and
every such company doing business within the city was required
to pay a license fee of only $50. A fine was prescribed for a
violation of the ordinance. Osborne violated it and was fined.
The legality of the tax was upheld. Chief Justice Chase, in
delivering the opinion of the court, cited the State _Freight Tax
Case, 15 Wall. 232, decided at the same term, as holding "that
the State could not constitutionally impose' and collect a tax
upon the tonnage of freight taken up within its limits and carried beyond them, or taken up beyond its limits and brought
within them; that is to say, in other words, upon inter-State
transportation"; "because it was, in effect, a restriction upon
inter-State commerce, which by the Constitution was designed
to be entirely free." The tax on the Georgia Express Company was upheld as a tax "upon a business carried on within
the city of Mobile." Osborne was a local agent, personally
subject to the taxing jurisdiction of the State, as representing
his principal, and the tax -was on the general business he carried on, and the subject of the tax was not, as here, the act of
inter-State transportation. In Osborne v. 3fobile, the court
drew the distinction between the case before it and the Stiite
-FreightTax Case. The present case falls within the latter.
In T ggins .Ferry Co. v. East &.
&
ouis, the decision was
that the State had power to impose a license fee, upon a ferrykeeper living in the State, for boats which he owned and lised
in conveying from the State passengers and goods across a
navigable river to another State; and that the levying of a tax
on such boats, or the exaction of a license fee in respect of
them, by the State in which they had their situs, was not a
regulation of commerce within the meaning of the Constifiution. In the case at bar the plaintiff was not a Tennessee cor-

TENNESSEE v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR CO. 51
Opimon of the Court.

poration, and had no domlcil in Tennessee, and the sleeping
cars in question, as before said, had not any situs in Tennessee
for the purposes of taxation.
The question involved in this case was before the Court of
Chancery of Tennessee in Pullman &out/ern Car Co. v
Gasnes, 3 Tenn. Ch. 587, on the same facts, as to the privilege
tax for 1871. That court held (and it is stated that the Supreme Court of Tennessee, on appeal, affirmed its ruling), that
this privilege tax, as to such of the cars as passed and repassed
through the State, and did not abide in it, was-not amenable
to the objection that it interfered with inter-State commerce.
The view taken was that the property of the foreign corpora,
tion, used in Tennessee, could be taxed as property or by an
excise on its use, and that the tax in this case was not directly
on the object of commerce, or directly aimed at commerce.
We have given to the views set forth by the Tennessee Chancery Court the consideration due to the judgments of that tribunal, but are unable to concur in its conclusion.

JTdgment aflrimed.

TENNESSEE v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN CAR
PANY
APPEAL FROM THE

COM-

flRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January 25, 26, 1886.-Decided March 1, 18S6.

The case of Pickard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., ante, p. 34, confirmed and
applied to a privilege tax of $75 a year, on each sleeping car, imposed by
the act of Tennessee, of April 7, 1881, Laws of 1881, ch. 149, p. 202.

This case was argued with Pickard v Pullman Southern
Car Co., ante, 31, by the same counsel.

MR[t. JUSTICE BLATCNHoR delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought in the Chancery Court of

