DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKINSON.
Syllabus.

ground of presumption of the surrender of the franchise,
though the same period of nonuser would be a ground of forfeiture in a direct proceeding on the part of the State to revoke
the franchise. We think the reasoning of the Supreme Court
of New Jersey in this case is entirely satisfactory

The judgment is aljirmed.

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKIISON.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued March 22, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

Astatute of Kentucky authorized a county court to subscribe to such an
amount as it might determine in the stock of a railroad company, and to
levy the taxes necessary to pay for the stock so subscribed, or to issue bonds
of the county for the amount, the bonds to be in such sums and payable at
such times as the comity court might determine, but provided that a
proposition to subscribe for stock to an amount to be suggested and fixed
by commissioners named in the statute should be first submitted to the
voters of the county, and approved by a majority of the votes cast. The
county court, upon the suggestion of those commissioners, submitted to
the voters a proposition to subscribe for $250,0C0 of the stock, and, in
obedience to their vote, ordered that the county court subscribe that
amount, and that bonds to that amount, for sums and payable at times
specified in the order, with the signatures of the presiding judge and the
clerk of the county court and the seal of the county, should be sold or disposed of by a committee appointed for the purpose, and a list of them
entered upon the records of the county. The presiding judge and clerk issued such bonds for a greater amount, so signed and sealed, and with a
certificate on the back of each, signed by the judge only, that it was issued
as authorized by the statute and by an order of the county court in pursuance thereof. All the bonds as they were delivered were entered upon the
records of the county court, in a register open to public inspection. Held,
That the county court had power to issue bonds to the amount of $250,000
only, that the bonds issued in excess of that amount were unlawful and
void, even as against a purchaser before maturity, for value, and without
notice of the over-issue; that the bonds to that amount, wich were first
delivered, were the valid ones, and that the county was not estopped to
deny the validity of the others, either by the certificate endorsed thereon
by the judge, or by payment of interest on all the bonds.
vOL. cxV--42

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

This was an action brought April 3, 1879, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, by
Dickinson against the County of Daviess, on bonds and coupons, alleged to have been issued under the statute of Kentucky of February 27, 1867, ch. 1505, incorporating the Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company, the material provisions
of which were as follows
By § 1, five persons named in Daviess County, and certain
other persons named in each of four other counties, are "appointed commissioners, under the direction of whom, or any
three of whom, in each of said counties, subscription may be received to the capital stock of the Owensboro and Russellville
Railroad Company hereby incorporated."
By § 2, "The capital stock of said Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company shall be one million dollars, in shares
of twenty-five dollars each."
By § 19, "The county courts of Daviess," and those four
other counties, "shall have power, and are hereby authorized,
to subscribe to the capital stock of said company in such number of shares as may be determined by said county courts respectively, and to levy upon the taxpayers of such counties
respectively such taxes as may be necessary to pay the stock so
by them respectively subscribed, and said county courts may, if
they shall deem it prudent, issue the bonds of said counties
respectively for the amount of stock subscribed, or any part
thereof, said bonds to be in such sums, and payable at such
times, as said county courts may determine upon. But before
such stock shall be subscribed by said county courts, the said
county courts shall submit to the voters of said counties the
proposition to subscribe stock and the amount thereof, (to be
suggested and fixed by the commissioners named herein in each
of said counties,) at an election to be held on the third Monday
in April, 1867, in each of the counties aforesaid, due notice of
which shall be given by the sheriffs in each of said counties, by
written advertisements posted in each of the voting precincts
thereof for at least thirty days before said day of election, and
said stock shall not be subscribed unless a majority of all the
votes cast at said election be in favor of such proposition, and

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKINSON.
Statement of Facts.

said county courts shall have power to appoint suitable and
necessary officers to conduct such election, and to provide for
the collection of the tax aforesaid, if a majority of the votes
cast at such election is in favor of the proposition aforesaid."
At the trial the following facts were admitted.
At March Term, 1867, of the Daviess County Court, upon the
suggestion of the five commissioners named in the charter of
the railroad company, that court ordered to be submitted to the
voters of the county, on the third Monday in April, 1867, this
proposition. "Shall or shall not the County Court of Daviess
County subscribe ten thousand shares, being the sum of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, to the capital stock of said
Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company? "
At April Term, 1868, George W Triplett, presiding judge, and
a majority of the justices of the peace of the county being present, the county court, upon motion of Edward C. Berry, one of
those justices, adopted the following order- "In obedience to
the will of the majority of the voters and taxpayers of this
county, as expressed and recorded in the poll-book at the election held on the 15th day of April, 1867, it is now ordered that
this court do subscribe two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
to the capital stock of the Owensboro and Russellville Railroad
Company, and George W Triplett, presiding judge of this
court, is ordered and directed to make said subscription of said
stock in manner and form as prescribed .by the charter incorporating said company"
At July term, 1868, of the county court, "It is ordered, that
George W Triplett, presiding judge of Daviess County Court,
William B. Tyler [who was the treasurer of the railroad company] and E. C. Berry be and are hereby appointed a committee on behalf of the County Court of Daviess County, to have
bonds executed and prepared of a sufficient amount to satisfy
and pay off the subscription on the part of the county of Daviess to the Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company;
that said bonds be executed and made payable as follows, viz..
"Fifty thousand dollars, five years from date.
"Fifty thousand dollars, ten years from date.
"Seventy-five thousand dollars, fifteen years from date.

OCTOBER TER1, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Seventy-five thousand dollars, twenty years from date.
"The county reserving the right to pay at any time after
five years, the interest on the same, at the rate of six per cent.
per annum, to be due and payable sei-annually at such place
or places as the committee may determine upon, and that said
bonds shall be of such denominations as said committee shall
deem best, with interest coupons attached, and said bonds shall
be signed by the presiding judge of Daviess County and the
clerk of the County Court of Daviess County, and have the seal
of the county impressed on each, and said committee, or a
majority of the same, may sell and dispose of said bonds, either
to the Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company, or to
individuals or other corporations, on such terms as said committee may deem best and most advisable, to the interests of
the county of Daviess in paying the subscription of said county
to the said Owensboro and Russellville Railroad Company,
and they are hereby authorized to raise funds from said bonds,
either by sale to individuals or corporations, or by contract
with said railroad company, so as to pay off and meet all calls
made by the Owensboro and iRussellville Railroad Company
by reason of the subscription of stock on behalf of the county
of Daviess to said railroad company
"It is further ordered, that whenever any bond shall be
sola or otherwise disposed of by said committee for the purposes aforesaid, that.a list of said bonds shall be made, giving
the amount, number and denomination of same, with the
amount of coupons attached to each at the time of their disposal, and said list so furnished shall be entered upon the
records of the County Court of Daviess by the clerk of same."
George W Triplett, the presiding judge, and Thomas 0.
Jones, the clerk of the County Court, claiming to act under the
authority of this order, signed as such judge and clerk bonds of
the county, and under the seal of the county court, as follows
$51,250
Bonds payable in five years, to the amount of.
65,200
Bonds payable in ten years, to the amount of.
76,500
Bonds payable in fifteen years, to the amount of.
127,500
Bonds payable in twenty years. to the amount of.
$320,450

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKINSON.
Statement of Facts.

The bonds of each class had distinct letters and were numbered in a series, and each bond, omitting the letter and number, the sum and the time of payment. and the coupons annexed,
was as follows
"United States of America,
"County of Daviess, State of Kentucky
"On account of stock subscribed in the Owensboro and Rusyears after date the County
sellville Railroad Company of Daviess in the State of Kentucky promise to pay to bearer
- dollars, with interest thereon at the rate of
the sum of
six per cent. per annum, payable semi-annually, upon presentation of the proper coupons hereto attached, the principal and
interest being payable at the Deposit Bank, Owensboro, and
to secure the payment of which the property and credit of the
county are pledged.
"In testimony whereof, the judge of the County Court of
Daviess County has hereunto set his hand and affixed the seal
of the said court, and caused the same to be countersigned by
the clerk of the said court, who has also signed the coupons
hereto attached, this -

day of

[SEAL.]

,

18-

" GEORGE

W

TRIPLmTT,

"Judge of County Court.

"T. C. JoNEs, County Clerk."
Each bond had the following certificate, plainly printed on
the back thereof "This bond is issued as authorized by an act
of the Kentucky legislature, approved February 27, 1867, en-titled 'An Act to charter the Owensboro and Russellville IRailroad Company,' and by an ordinance of the County Court of
Daviess in pursuance thereof," and signed "George W Triplett, Judge of the County Court of Daviess."
All the bonds so issued (except bonds to the amount of $800,
payable in five years, and of $200, payable in ten years, which
were sold and delivered to individuals by Triplett, Tyler and
Berry, committee as aforesaid, in September, 1879) were delivered by Triplett to the railroad company in various amounts
on different days from June 5, 1869, to March 22, 1870. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

last two deliveries were as follows On February 17, 1870, were
delivered bonds payable in ten years, to the amount of $12,500,
like bonds to the amount of $53,700 having been delivered previously On March 22, 1870, were delivered bonds payable in
twenty years, to the amount of $92,500, the amount of like
bonds previously delivered being $35,000, and the amount of
all bonds previously delivered being $227,950. Of the bonds delivered to the railroad company before February 17, 1870, there
were afterwards returned by the company, and cancelled and
destroyed by the county, bonds payable in five years to the
amount of $100, and bonds payable in fifteen years to the
amount of $3000, leaving the excess issued $67,350.
Among the records of the county court was a register, open
to public inspection, m which were registered all the bonds as
they were delivered.
The coupons on all the bonds were paid by the county up to
and including January 1, 1877. The county also paid, before
July 1, 1877, all or nearly all the bonds payable in five years,
as well as five bonds of $100 each payable in ten years. The
other bonds have not been paid.
The court, against the defendant's objection, admitted testimony of the plaintiff that at various dates from February 1,
1870, to July 9, 1875, he purchased, before maturity and for
value, the bonds and coupons sued on. These consisted mostly
of bonds payable in ten years to the amount of $9000, being
some of those delivered to the railroad company on February
17, 1870, and the unpaid coupons annexed, and of coupons for
$1380, detached from some of the bonds payable in twenty
years, which had been delivered to the railroad company on
March 22, 1870. Payment of the bonds and coupons held by
the plaintiff was demanded by him on January 1, 1879, and refused by the county
Upon a bill filed May 12, 1875, by taxpayers of ihe county
against the county court, the railroad company, and various
bondholders by name (not including the present plaintiff), the
Circuit Court of the county, on January 24, 1876, adjudged
that the issue of bonds beyond $250,000 was unlawful and
void, and that the county court be restrained by injunction

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKINSON.
Opinion of the Court.

from levying any tax to pay the excess of $67,350, or interest
thereon, and on March 30, 1876, the decree was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. Davwess County Court v Howard, 13
Bush, 101.
The defendant moved the court to instruct the jury to find
for the defendant. But the court overruled the motion, and,
at the plaintiff's request, instructed the jury that if they believed that the plaintiff purchased the bonds and coupons sued
on, before their maturity and for value, and without notice that
more than $250,000 of bonds bad been issued by the defendant,
the law was for the plaintiff, and that the plaintiff, before
purchasing the bonds, was not bound to examine -the records
of the county court, and cannot be presumed to have known
what the records contained when he made the purchase. The
defendant excepted to these rulings and instructions, and, after
verdict for the plaintiff, sued out this writ of error.
-3fr J D. Atcuson for plaintiff in error. AXr. GeorgeTF Jolly
filed a brief.
_fr J Hub1ey Ashton for defendant in error. 31r James
S£peed and XAr P B. Xwtr were with him on the brief.
after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The county court has no power to subscribe for stock in the
railroad corporation, or to issue bonds therefor, except as authorized by statute. The statute authorized the county court
to subscribe for such an amount of stock only, as should be
fixed and proposed by the commissioners named m the statute,
and be approved by the vote of a majority of the voters of the
county, and the authority of the county court, either to levy
taxes, or to issue bonds, was limited to the amount so proposed
and voted. That amount was $250,000.. The county court therefore had no authority to issue bonds for a greater amount, and
any bonds issued in excess of that amount were unlawful and
void.
By the statute, the bonds were to be in such sums, and payMr. JUSTICE GnRA,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

able at such times, as the county court should determine. The
county court ordered that the bonds should be executed and
made payable, $50,000 in five years, $50,000 in ten years,
$75,000 in fifteen years, and $75,000 in twenty years, and that
the bonds should be signed by the judge and the clerk of the
county court, and have the seal of the county impressed on
each. Notwithstanding this, bonds so signed and sealed were
issued of each class to a larger amount, amounting in all to
$320,450, showing, after deducting bonds returned and cancelled, an excess of $67,350. To the extent of this excess, the
bonds were invalid, and the county is liable upon bonds to the
amount of $250,000 only It does not deny its liability to that
amount.
Then comes the question which of the bonds are valid and
which invalid. We can have no doubt that the test is which
were first delivered, if that can be ascertained, and without
regard to the classification of bonds according to times of
payment in the order of the county court, for, as the county
court was authorized to determine at what time the bonds
should be payable, any one, taking a bond signed by the presiding judge and the clerk and bearing the seal of the county,
had the right to presume that it was valid, provided the county
court had not already issued bonds to the amount limited by
the statute and by the vote.
The certificate of the judge of the county court upon the
back of each bond, that it was issued as authorized by the
statute and by an order of the county court in pursuance
thereof, cannot estop the county to deny that the particular
bond is void because the county court, at the time of issuing it,
had exhausted the power conferred by the act of the legislature and the vote of the people. The certificate is not a recital in the bond. It is not the act of the county court, is not
under its seal, nor signed by its clerk but is simply the certificate of the person holding the office of judge of that court.
Neither the statute, nor the vote of the people, nor the order
of the county court, empowered him to make such a certificate,
or to determine the question whether the county court had
exceeded the power conferred upon it. An officer's certificate

PHILLIPS v. NEGLEY.
Syllabus.

of a fact which he has no authority to determine is of no legal
effect. Dzxon County v FieZd, 111 U. S. 83.
Nor can the payment of interest on all the bonds have the
effect of ratifying bonds issued beyond the lawful limit, for a
ratification can have no greater force than a previous authority, and the county cannot ratify what it could not have
authorized. M3zrsk v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676.
The necessary consequence is that the court below erred in
instructing the jury that the plaintiff was entitled to recover
on all the bonds and coupons sued on, if he purchased them
before their maturity and for value, and without notice that
more than $250,000 of bonds had been issued by the defendant. iferc/onts' Bank v Bergen County, 115 U. S. 384-.
The judgment must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to set aside the verdict and order a
new trial. What part of his bonds and coupons the plaintiff
may enforce against the county may depend upon further
evidence of the exact dates of the delivery and the purchase of
the several bonds, that may be introduced upon another trial
of this case, or perhaps in some other suit to which all the
bondholders may be made parties, and therefore no opinion is
expressed upon that question.
Judgment reversed.

PHILLIPS & Another, Executors, v. NEGLEY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIT OF CIOLUMBIA.
Argued March 25, 26, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

Final judgments at law cannot, by proceedings taken after the close of the
term at which they were entered, be reversed or annulled for errors of fact
or law by the court which rendered them; except that clerical mistakes, and
such mistakes of fact not put in issue or passed upon as may be corrected
by writ of error coram vobes (or on motion in place of that writ where
such practice prevails), and a mistake in the dismissal of a cause, maybecor.
rected after that time the same rule applies in equity, excepting, further,
the right to take jurisdiction of bills for review.

