EX PARTE PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO.
Statement of Facts.

settled by leave of the court or otherwise, but at the first term
at which the cause, as a cause, could be tried." This rule has
been strictly adhered to. Edrmngton v Jefferson, 111 U. S.770,
775, Pullman Palace Car Co. v ,Speck, 113 U. S. 84, 87,
Gi'egory v H7-artley, 113 U. S. 742, 745. Here the suit was begun
July 19, issue joined August 26, 1880, and a trial had February
23, 1881, which resulted in a verdict and judgment for the
present plaintiff in error. This judgment was reversed by an
appellate court October 19, 1881, and the causesent back for
a new trial. In the trial court an amended answer which contained a counter-claim was filed on leave May 20, 1882, and
the petition for removal was not filed until September la, 1882.
This was clearly too late.
A firmed.

EX PARTE PH(EIIX INSURANCE COMPANY &
Others.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 22-,1886.-Decided March 29, iSS6.

Distinct decrees against 1istinct parties, on distinct causes of action, or on a
single cause of action in which there are distinct liabilities, cannot be
joined to give this court jurisdiction on appeal.

Rule to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not
issue to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Vermont, commanding them to allow an
appeal from decrees and rulings made by that court in a suit
in equity, in which the petitioners were respondents, and Robert Fitton and Helen M. Fitton his wife were complainants.
The relief sought in the bill was the discovery of certain policies of insurance made by the Phcemx Insurance Company, the
Guardian Fire and Life Insurance Company, the North British
Mercantile Insurance Company, and the Commercial Union
Assurance Company through their agent, and that the defendants might be decreed to pay the complainant the sum of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

$12,000 insured by the policies, the property insured having
been destroyed by fire. Sundry proceedings in the suit were
set forth in the petition, among which were that issues of fact
were submitted to a jury on the law side of the court and a
verdict thereon was had in favor of the complainants, and
that thereupon a master found that the damages sustained by
complainants were greater than the amount demanded in the
bill, and then the petition made the following allegations
"Thereafter, during the October Term of said Circuit Court,
1885, the complainants in said bill moved for a judgment
against each of the respondents for three thousand dollars
(being one-fourth of the said sum of twelve thousand dollars),
with interest and one fourth of the costs of the suit, which
motion, after the parties had been duly heard thereon, was
granted by the court in an opinion filed by the aforesaid District Judge, December 29th, 1885, closing with the following
decretal order ' Let a decree for the orators be entered for
the payments by the defendants each, respectively, to the oratrix of three thousand dollars, with interest and one-fourth of
the costs of suit within thirty days from the entry of the
decree.'
"And thereafter, at the same term, to wit, on the twenty'sixth day of January, A. D. 1886, the said Honorable Hoyt H.
Wheeler, district judge, presiding, on motion of the complainants in said suit the following final decree was entered
"' This cause came on to be further heard at this term, and
was argued by counsel, and thereupon, upon consideration
thereof, it was ordered, adjudged and decreed that each of
said defendants pay to said oratrix the sum of three thousand
dollars, with interest thereon from the 29th day of August,
A. D. 1883, amounting to the sum of three thousand four hundred and thirty-three dollars and fifty cents, that each of said
defendants pay to said orators one-fourth of the orators' costs
in and about this suit, said one-fourth being taxed and allowed
at the sum of one hundred and seven dollars and sixty-one
cents, said sum due in equity, and said costs, amounting to the
sum of three thousand five hundred and forty-one dollars and

EX PARTE PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

eleven cents, and which said sum it is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed shall be paid to said orators within thirty days from
the twenty-sixth day of January, A. D. 1886, with interest from
this last-named date to the time of payment, and thereof the
said orators may have execution at the expiration of said thirty
days against each of said defendants.'
"Done in court, in said term, this 26th day of January, A.D.
1886.
"iHOYT

H.

WHEELERi."

The petition then set forth a motion for allowance of an
appeal. and that application was made for stay of proceedings
"that the cause may pass to the Supreme Court," and denial
of the motion and application upon the ground that "the cause
was not appealable."
On the return of the rule a hearing was had.
31r W S B.

opkns for petitioners.

XTr fartin H. Goddard for respondents. The court declined to hear argument on the part of respondents.
Mr. CnE-F JusTrcE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The rule is well settled that distinct decrees against distinct
parties on distinct causes of action, or on a single cause of action
in which there are distinct liabilities, cannot be joined to give
this court jurisdiction on appeal. Seaver v Bzgelows, 5 Wall.
208, Ex parte Baltzmore & Oho Railroad Co., 106 U. S. 5,
Schwed v Smith, 106 U. S. 188, Farmers'Zoan and Trust Co.
v Turner, 106 U. 5. 265, 270, Adams v Crittenden, 106 U. S.
576, Hawley v. Farbanks,108 U S. 543, Fourth lNational
Bank v Stout, 113 U. S. 684, Stewart v Dunham, 115 U. S.
61, 64. This is such a case. The suit was brought on a single instrument, by which, as it was adjudged, an agent of the several
insurance companies named bound them severally, each for its
proportionate share of one-fourth, to insure the property of Mrs.
Helen M. Fitton for $12,000, and the decree is against each
company separately for its separate obligation under this instrument, to wit, $3"33.50, and no more. The bill alleged the
VOL. cxvir-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

separate liability of each company, and prayed in substance,
for decrees against them severally for the proportion assumed
by each in the contract. Each company answered separately,
all setting up the same defences.
Under these circumstances it was right for the Circuit Court
to refuse the allowance of an appeal, and
The 2petz'tn for a mandamus u corsequently d ed.

VAN IISWICK v. SPALDING and Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMfBIA.
Arguccd March 10, 1886.-Decided March 22, i8S6.

A creditor, who, by the terms of a trust deed executed in good faith by the
debtor to secure payment of the debt, has the power to order the land to
be sold either by public auction or private sale, and to direct the trustee to
convey to the purchaser, and the amount of whose debt is thrice the value
of the land, may accept the land in satisfaction of the debt, and cause it to
be conveyed by the trustee to the debtor's children, as a gift to them from
the creditor, without affording to other creditors of the debtor any 3ust
cause of complaint.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr T A. Lambert for appellant.
.r

Zegh Rob?.nson for appellee.

Mr. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity by a judgment creditor of William E.
Spalding against Spalding, his children, William W IRapley,
William H. Thomas, trustee, and George W Bonnell, to set
aside conveyances of land in Washington, and to have it sold
and applied to the payment of Spalding's judgment debts.
The material facts of the case, as appearing by the pleadings
and proofs upon which it was heard in the court below, are as
follows

