OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

defeat the prior lien altogether. Having failed in that, they
were willing to submit to a decree for the larger amount, leaving the disputed question as to the one hundred and three
bonds to be settled afterwards in the proceeding that had been
begun for that purpose, or any other that might be instituted.
This was not an abandonment by either party The decree
was silent as to these bonds, and the petition for their delivery to the trustees on file in the Anderson suit, where the
bonds were, was allowed to remain. It is now being prosecuted by the trustees as a mode of obtaining satisfaction of the
decree in their favor. If they succeed it may enure to the
benefit of the purchasers at the sale under the Sehutte decree,
but of this Calvin Littlefield has no right to complain. If he
did not own the bonds it is a matter of no importance to him
what disposition the trustees may make of them. All his
rights depend alone on his ownership. If he is not the owner
he is entirely out of all the litigation between the rest of the
parties. Neither the railroad company nor the Schutte bondholders, who are alone interested in the amount for which the
sale was made, are here to complain. The trustees alone can
control the bonds. Having protected all who had the right to
look to the original unpaid purchase money for the satisfaction
of their bonds, they have performed their whole duty as trustees, so far as the bondholders are concerned.
The decree of the Circuit Court ts a rrned.

STONE v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued Mareh 5, 1886-Decided April 5, 1MS.

A State court is not bound to surrender its jurisdiction of a suit on petition for
removal, until a case has been made which on its face shows that the petitioner has a right to the transfer- and if it decides against the removal and
proceeds with the cause, its ruling is reviewable here after final judgment.
All issues of fact made upon a petition for removal must be tried in the Circuit Court.

STONE v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
Opinion of the Court.
A suit between a State on the one side and citiiens on the other, cannot be removed on the ground of citizenship.
A suit against partners to recover money received, for which they are jointly
liable, cannot be removed on the ground of a separable- controversy on the
petition of one of the partners.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.7r William

. Earle for plaintiff in error.

.Yr Oliarles _2whcardson 3files, Attorney General of South
Carolina, and .3r James Lowndes for defendant in error.
Mn. CHIEF JusTicE WArr delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought by the State of South Carolina, in the
Court of Common Pleas of Richland County, on the 1st of
August, 1811, against Daniel T. Corbin and William Stone,
partners as attorneys at law under the name of Corbin & Stone,
to recover a balance claimed to be due for moneys collected by
the firm for the State and not paid over. On the 27th of April,
1878, Stone presented to the court a petition for the.removal of
the suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina. The statement in the petition material to the question arising on this writ of error is as follows:,
" That the petitioner is now, and was at the time when this
action was commenced, a citizen of the State of New York and
a resident therein, and his co-defendant is a citizen of South
Carolina, and the plaintiff is also a citizen of the State of South
Carolina. That, under and by virtue of the statutes of the
United States and of the State of South Carolina, this suit is
one in which there can be a final determination of the controversy, so far as the petitioner is concerned, without the presence of his co-defendant as a party to the cause."
The State court proceeded with the suit notWithstanding the
petition, and after a trial gave judgment against both defendants. During the whole of such proceeding Stone denied the
jurisdiction of the court after the filing of his petition. The
Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment of the Common Pleas, and to reverse this judgment of affirmance the present writ of error was brought.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

A State court is not bound to surrender its jurisdiction of a
suit on a petition for removal until a case has been made which
on its face shows that the petitioner has a right to the transfer.
Yulee v Vose, 99 U. S. 539, 545, ]iemoval Cases, 100 U. S. 457,
474. It is undoubtedly true, as was said in Steamshp Comyany
v.Tugnrun, 106 U. S. 118,122, that upon the filing of the petition
and bond-the suit being removable under the statute-the
jurisdiction of the State court absolutely ceases, and that of
the Circuit Court of the United States immediately attaches, but
still, as the right of removal is statutory, before a party can avail
himself of it, he must show upon the record that his is a case
which comes within the provision of the statute. As was said in
-mtsurance Comanyv.Peckner,95TU S. 183,185, "his petition for
removal when filed becomes a part of the record in the cause.
It should state facts which, when taken in connection with such
as already appear, entitle him to the transfer. If he fails in
this, he has not, in law, shown to the court that it cannot ' proceed further with the suit.' Having once acquired jurisdiction,
the court may proceed until it has been judicially informed that
its power over the cause has been suspended." The mere filing
of a petition for the removal of a suit, which is not removable,
does not work a transfer. To accomplish this the suit must be
one that may be removed, and the petition must show a right
in the petitioner to demand the removal. This being made to
appear on the record, and the necessary security having been
given, the power of the State court in the case ends and that
of the Circuit Court begins.
All issues of fact made upon the petition for removal must
be tried in the Circuit Court, but the State court is at liberty
to determine for itself whether, on the face of the record, a removal has been effected. If it decides against the removal and
proceeds with the cause notwithstanding .the petition, its ruling
on that question will be reviewable here after final judgment
under section 709 of the Revised Statutes. Removal Cases,100
U. S. 457, 472, ?ailroadCo. v 3iiszsszpp?, 102 U. S. 135, 141,
Kerr v Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 485, Railroad Co. v Koontz,
104 U. S. 5, 15, Chesapeake & O7o Railroad Co. v. WMdte, 111
U. S. 134, 137. If the State court proceeds after a petition for

STONE v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
Opmion of the Court.

removal it does so at the risk of having its final judgment reversed, if the record on its face shows that when the petition
was filed that court ought to have given up its jurisdiction.
What effect the writ of certiorart provided for in ยง 7 of the
act of 1875, to require the State court to make return of the
record to the Circuit Court, would have upon the further
power of the State court to proceed we do not now decide, as
no such writ was issued in this case.
It only remains to consider whether on the face of this
record it appears that the suit was removed from the State
court by the presentation of the petition of Stone, and
about that little need be said. It is not pretended that the
suit was one arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and it certainly is not one between citizens of
different States. The State of South Carolina is the sole plaintiff, and the defendants are citizens, one of South Carolina and
the other of New York. The cause of action is joint, and only
one of the defendants petitions for removal. There is no statute which authorizes the removal of a suit between a State
and citizens on the ground of citizenship, for a State cannot in
the nature of things be a citizen of any State. In Ames v
RYnsas, 111 U. S. 449, the removal of a suit arising under the
Constitution and laws of the United States brought by a State
against a corporation amenable to its own process, was sustained, but this was because of the subject-matter of the action,
and not because of the citizenship of the parties.
Neither is there any separable controversy in the case, 'such
as might, if the necessary citizenship existed, allow Stone alone
to remove the suit without joining Corbin with him in the
petition for removal. The money sued for was received by
the defendants as partners, and they are liable jointly for its
payment, if they are liable at all. Such a case is not removable unless all the parties on one side of the controversy unite
in the petition. Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, Blake v.
.2lbEHim, 103 U. S. 336, Hyde v .Ruble, 104 U S. 409.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of South Carolina is
-Affir~ned,
VOL. cxvi-28

