OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

UNION TRUST COMPANY v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND
RAILWAY COMPANY
BORG & Another v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND RAILWAY
COMPANY
WARING & Others v. UNION TRUST COMPANY
FLETCHIER & Others v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND RAILWAY COMPANY & Another.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 12, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1886.
Three railroad companies m Illinois, with roads, one from Peoria to Decatur,
one from Paris to Decatur, and one from Paris to the Indiana. line, in the
direction of Terre Haute, Indiana, each, before September, 1874, issued
bonds secured by a mortgage on its road. In September, 1874, each of the
other two companies conveyed its road to the Peoria and Decatur Company, the latter assuming "all the bonded and floating indebtedness" of
the other compames. In November, 1874, it changed its name to that of
the Illinois Midland Company, and in January, 1875, issued bonds secured
by a mortgage covering all its property, original and purchased, with the
view of exchanging them, dollar for ilollar, for the bonds of the sectional
roads. In September, 1875, the owner of a majority of the stock of the
companies, witli judgment creditors of the Paris and Decatur Company,
brought a suit in equity in a State Court in Illinois against the Illinois
Midland Company, to have a receiver of all its property appointed, and
an account taken of all the claims and liens of its stockholders and creditors, and of those of the sectional companies, and to have them paid and
adjusted according to equity. Such a receiver was immediately appointed,
with power to run the road. In December, 1876, the Union Trust Company, trustee in the mortgages on the Paris and Decatur road, the Paris
and Terre Haute road, and the Illinois Midland road, filed a bill in the
proper Circuit Court of the United States in Illinois to foreclose those
three mortgages , and in September, 1877, it was made a defendant in the
State court suit, on its own petition, alleging a default by October 1, 1875,
in the payment of interest on the bonds embraced in all three of the
mortgages. In February, 1878, it filed two bills in the same Federal
court, each for.the foreclosure of one of the two secti~nal road mortgages
held by it. In April, 1878, it removed into that court the State court suit.

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

435

Syllabus.
In August) 1881, holders of Paris and Decatur bonds filed a bill in the same
Federal court to foreclose the Paris and Decatur mortgage. By an order
made in June, 1882, that court consolidated all the suits. Successive receivers, each displacing the prior one, were appointed by the State court in
August, 1876, and by the Federal court in December, 1878, and April, 1882.
In June, 1882, a special commissioner was appointed to report as to the
certificates of indebtedness issued by the receivers. He made his report in
April, 1883, and, on exceptions to it, an interlocutory decree was made in
June, 1881, making specific adjudications as to various receiver's certificates and other receiver's debts, and directing the commissioner to -report as to other matters. He did so in January, 1885, and exceptions
were filed to the report. A final decree in June, 1885, disposed of the
litigated questions, and provided for a sale of the mortgaged property and
the distribution of the proceeds. Holders of Paris and Decatur bonds appealed because the decree gave to sixteen receiver's certificates priority
over those bonds. When the firAt order was made under which six of the
certificates were issued, neither any of the Paris and Decatur bondholders,
nor their trustee, were parties to the suit, but before any other order was
made under which any of the certificates wee issued, the trustee was made
a party, and the Paris and Decatur interest had been in default for ten
months when such first order was made Held,
(1.) Certificates issued for necessary repairs must be allowed priority.
(2.) It is no objection to this rule, that the suit in which the first receiver was
appointed was not brought by the bondholders, or their trustee
(3.) The bill in that suit was sufficient to enable a court of equity to administer
the property and marshal the debts,
(4.) It was sufficient, if the bondholders and their trustee were, after they
were made parties, heard as to the merits of such first order, and the application of the money for which the certificates were issued,
(5.) The certificates issued to pay tax liens are to have priority,
(G.) Persons having no connection with the case or the parties, who take
directly from the receiver receiver's certificates issued to pay for necessary
repairs, are not bound to see to the application of the proceeds,
(7.) The holders of interest-bearing receiver's certificatestaken within the limit
of discount allowed by the court in the order authorizing the certificates to
be issued, are entitled to the face of the certificates and the interest,
(8.) Receiver's certificates issued to replace earnings diverted from paying for
,operating expenses and ordinary repairs, to pay for replacing worn-out parts
of the road, while large debts had been incurred for the operating expenses
and ordinary repairs, are to be allowed priority,
(9.) It was not necessary to have the express consent of the bondholders, to
create a lien prior to the bonds on the corpus of the property, on the facts
of this case, and in view of the neglect of their trustee to interpose all the
while the road was openly in the charge of the receiver, and being run,
with the interest on the bonds in arrear,
(10.) Items for wages due employes of receiver , debts due from them to other
railroad companies, and for supplies and damages, wages due employes

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1s85.
Syllabus.

of the road within six months immediately preceding the appointment of
the first receiver, and debts incurred for the ordinary expenses of the receivers in operating- the road may be allowed prority out of the corpus
of the property, if there is no income fund, after scrutiny and opportunity
for those opposing to be heard,
(11.) The terms of the first order appointing the receiver did not impair or
exclude the authority of the court to give priority to the claims above
mentioned
(12.) It is proper to apportion among the three sectional roads, in proportion
to their lengths, the items so allowed priority of lien, which include the terminal expenses and track rentals of the three sectional roads, although such
expenses and rentals were different for each of them,
(18.) The objection that there was no authority to buy the Paris and Decatur
road cannot prevail, because the non-action of the bondholders and their
trustee, in allowig the court and the receivers to go on contracting debts
in respect to the line operated as a unit, under circumstances where no
separation can be made as to the matters questioned, and where important
rights have accrued on the faith of the unity of the interests, amounts to
such acqmescence as shouldoperate as an estoppel.
As to 994 Pans and Decatur bonds, surrendered and exchanged absolutely for
Illinois Midland bonds, and marked "cancelled," they cannot be reinstated
and put on a footing with bonds not exchanged, because the contracts under
which they were exchanged were complied with, and the transaction was
completed, no surrender of any of the bonds having been made dependent
on the surrender of any other bonds, or of the whole.
There being five several properties to be sold, it is proper to put up for sale
each of the five separately, and then all five in gross, and, if the highest
bid for the five in gross exceeds the aggregate of the highest separate bids,
to strike off and sell the whole as an entirety to the person making the bid,
and divide the proceeds into five parts, in proportion to the separate bids,
and make distribution accordingly.
Certain debts due by the receivership to other railroads for rent of track,
materials and stores supplied, labor performed, and traffic balances, the
debts having been purchased by other parties, are to be allowed priority.
Debts for large sums of money borrowed by the receiver without previous
authority from the court, are not to be allowed priority, although the
moneys were applied to pay expenses of the receivership, repairs, supplies,
and pay-rolls, and to replace moneys which had been so applied because
there never could be any difficulty in obtaining an order of the court, if
one were proper, to borrow money to a specified total amount, for specific
purposes.
Rents due for use of rolling stock, and money due for extraordinary depreciation of rolling stock, and certain other items, were not allowed pnority-im
this case.
No priority or preference among the debts and claims, whether receiver's
certificates or other debts, given precedence over the mortgage bonds, was
allowed, (except as to debts for taxes, and receiver's certificates issued to

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS 3IDLAND CO.

437

Opinion of the Court.
borrow money to pay taxes, or to discharge tax liens), although, in the
orders under which some of the certificates so given precedence were issued,
it was declared that each certificate should be a lien on the property in
respect of whnch it should be issued, superior to all mortgage bonds and
receivers debts, except receiver's debts theretofore declared, by order of
court, to be special liens on such property.
Each one of the two principal appellants having succeeded in part on his appeal, no costs were allowed in this court for or against any party, and the
expense of printing the record was charged equally on such two appellants.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr -EdwardS. Isham. and .Xr Wheeler H. Peckham for
Union Trust Company
Xr -EdwardS. Isham for Borg & others.
.2& H. Crea and Xr
others.

aharles A. Ewmng for Waring &

Xr John X. Butler, .f'r John T
Fis]Iack for Fletcher & another.
.MY H.IS.
Company

-Dye and .

WT P

Greene for Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific Railway,

_fr John X Palmer and J3.r Josiah X. Clokey for Sylvester & others.
MR. JUsTIcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
The Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Railroad Company was
incorporated as an Illinois corporation, in 1869, to construct a
railroad from Peoria, in Tazewell County, in a general southeasterly direction, through Atlanta, in Logan County, to Decatur, in Macon County Such of the road as was constructed
was built in 1873 and 1874, from a point five miles east of
Peoria, on what is now the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific
Railroad, to a place called Maroa, on the Illinois Central Railroad, thirteen miles north of Decatur. It did not reach either
Peoria or Decatur, and the company owned no station grounds
or terminal facilities at either place, but used, by lease, five

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

miles of what is now the Wabash, St. Louis and Pacific Railroad, to reach Peoria, and thirteen miles of the Illinois Central
Railroad, to reach Decatur. On the 25th of April, 1872, the
company executed a mortgage to James F Secor, as trustee.
The mortgage recited that the company had commenced to
construct a rail'oad to "extend from Cunningham's crossing,
five miles from the city of Peoria, on the Toledo, Peoria and
Warsaw Railway, thence southeast, to a point at or near to
the city of Decatur," "a distance of about sixty-seven miles,"
and it covered the company's franchises, and its road and
property, as constructed and to be constructed, acquired and
to be acquired, "commencing at Cunningham's crossing, five
miles from the city of Peoria, on the Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw Railway, to the city of Decatur," "a distance of sixtyseven miles." It was given to secure 1300 coupon bonds of
the company, of $1000 each, payable to bearer, amounting to
$1,300,000, carrying semi-annual interest at seven per cent.
per annum, and payable M ay 1, 1902. The mortgage provided that on default continuing more than sixty days in the
payment of any interest on any bond, the trustee, on the
request of the holders of a majority of the bonds, might and
should take actual possession of the mortgaged property, and
operate the road, and receive its income, to pay the bonds, or,
on the written request of the holders of at least one-half of the
outstanding bonds. cause the mortgaged property to be sold at
public auction, and convey it to the purchaser, and, "after
deducting from the proceeds of said sale the costs and expenses thereof, and of managing such property," apply the proceeds to pay the principal and interest of the bonds. The
mortgage also provided that the trustee should "be entitled to
have proper compensation for every labor or service performed
by himi m the discharge of this trust, in case he shall be conpelled to take possession of said premises and manage the
same." This mortgage was delivered and duly recorded.
The Paris and Decatur Railroad Company was incorporated
as an Illinois corporation, in 1861, to construct a railroad from
Paris, in Edgar County, westwardly to reach Decatur. This
road was constructed, in 1871 and. 1872, from Paris to a point

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

439

Opinion of the Court.

on the Illinois Central :Railroad about two miles south of Decatur, and, although it had its own station and grounds at Decatur, it entered them by using, by lease, about two miles of
the track of the Illinois Central Railroad. On the 1st of July,
1871, the Paris and Decatur Company executed a mortgage to
Joseph U. Orvis and William Adams, Senior, covering its franchises and its line of road and property, constructed and to be
constructed, acquired and to be acquired, extending from Paris
to Decatur, "a distance of seventy-five miles," to secure 800
coupon bonds of $1000 each, and 800 coupon bonds of $500
each, in all $1,200,000. The mortgage was delivered and recorded, and the bonds were put into the hands of the trustees,
and some of them were issued but afterwards retired, and all
of them were destroyed, but the mortgage remains on record,
not released. On the 1st of July, 1872, the Paris and Decatur Company executed a mortgage to the Union Trust Company,
a New York corporation, covering its franchises, and its road
and property, constructed and to be constructed, acquired and
to be acquired, extending from Paris to Decatur, "a distance of
seventy-five miles," to secure 2400 coupon bonds, of $500 each,
payable to bearer, m all $1,200,000, carrying semi-annual interest
at seven per cent. per annum, and payable July 1, 1892. The
mortgage provided, that in case default in paying any interest
on any bond should continue for six months after demand, the
principal 'of all the bonds should forthwith become due, and
the lien might be at once enforced, in which case it should be
lawful for the trustee to enter on the mortgaged property, and
to use and operate it until it should be sold under the power
contained in the mortgage, or under the decree of a competent
court, "and until such time, and from time to time, to make all
needful repairs and replacements, and such useful alterations,
additions and improvements to said railroad as may be neces.sary for the proper working of the same, and to receive the
tolls, freights, incomes, rents, issues and profits thereof, and,
after deducting the expenses of operating and managing the
said railroad and other property, and of the said repairs, replacements, additions and improvements, as well as' just compensation for its own services and for the services and disburse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

ments of such attorneys and counsel as it may employ, to apply
the moneys accruing as aforesaid to the payment of said bonds
_pro rata." The mortgage also provided, that, in case default
should be made and should continue as aforesaid, the trustee
might, and, upon the written request of the holders of at least
one thousand of the bonds outstanding, should, foreclose the
mortgage by legal proceedings, or should sell the mortgaged
property at public auction at New York or at Paris, and convey it to the purchaser, and that, in case of such sale, the trustee should deduct from. the proceeds its just allowances for the
expenses thereof, including attorney's and counsel fees and disbursements, "and all expenses which may be incurred in operating, managing or maintaining the said railroad, or in managing the business thereof, as well as just compensation for the
services of said trustee," and thereafter apply the proceeds to
pay the principal and interest of the bonds ro rata. This mortgage was delivered and duly recorded.
The Paris and Terre Haute IRailroad Company was organized
as a corporation, under the general railroad laws of Illinois, in
1873, and the road was built in 1873 and 1874. It runs eastwardly from Paris to Farrington, in Illinois, a point on the St.
Louis, Vandalia and Terre Haute iRailroad, seven miles west of
Terre Haute, and the company uses, by lease, the track of the
latter road to reach Terre Haute. On the 1st of April, 1874,
the company executed a mortgage to the Union Trust Company,
covering its franchises and its road and property, constructed
and to be constructed, acquired and to be acquired, extending
from Paris to the junction with the St. Louis, Vandalia and
Terre Haute Railroad, a distance of about fourteen miles, to
secure 280 coupon bonds, of $1000 each, payable to bearer, in
all $280,000, carrying semi-annual interest at the rate of seven
per cent. per annum, and payable.April 1, 1894. The mortgage contained like provisions with the Paris and Decatur mortgage as to what might be done after six months' default in interest, and as to taking possession of the property, and as to
the powers of the trustee, and as to foreclosure or sale and disposition of the proceeds. This mortgage wap delivered and
duly recorded.

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

441

Opinion of the Court.

On the 19th of September, 1874, the Paris and Decatur Company conveyed by deed to the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur
Company, in consideration that the latter company thereby
assumed "all the bonded and floating indebtedness" of the
former company, the railroad then in operation, described as
extending from Paris to Decatur, "passing into and through
the counties of Edgar, Coles, Douglass, Moultrie and Mason,"
including the franchises of the former company, and all its
property acqmred and to be acquired.
On the same day the Paris and Terre Haute Company conveyed by deed to the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company,
in consideration that the latter company thereby assumed the
payment of "all the bonded and floating indebtedness" of the
former company, the railroad then in operation, described as
extending from Paris to the line between Indiana and Illinois,
"passing into the counties of Edgar and Clark," including the
franchises of the former company, and all its property acquired
and to be acquired.
These purchases on these terms were authorized by the
stockholders and directors of the purchasing company, and
by the respective stockholders and directors of the selling
companies, and the deeds were delivered and duly recorded.
On November 2, 1874, the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur
Company, under the provisions of the general law of Illinois,
changed its name to that of the "Illinois Midland Railway
Company" On the 1st of January, 1875, that company executed to the Union Trust Company a mortgage covering all of
its property, including that so purchased, to secure 8350 coupon
bonds, of $500 each, in all $4,175,000, bearing semi-annual interest at seven per cent. per annum, and payable January 1,
1905. This mortgage was delivered and recorded.
On the 11th of September, 1875, Robert G. Hervey and two
other parties filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court of Edgar
County, Illinois, against the Illinois Midland Railway Company It set forth that Hervey owned a majority of the stock
of the corporations above named, and that the other plaintiffs
were judgment creditors of the Paris and Decatur Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

with executions returned unsatisfied, that there were judgments to the amount of about $200,000 against the Illinois
Midland Company, on account of the construction and operation of the various corporations, and pending suits against it
for about $100,000, on like account, and executions out against
it for over $100,000, on debts of the various corporations, on
which its property was advertised for sale, that certain creditors and stockholders of the Paris and Decatur Company, a
minority in number and amount, were threatening to have the
Illinois Midland Company and its property placed in the hands
of a receiver, that the plaintiffs represented a majority of the
stock in all of the corporations, and desired to have a receiver
of the franchises, railways and rolling-stock of the corporations
appointed immediately, and without further notice, or the
rights of the creditors and stockholders would be irreparably
prejudiced, that negotiations were pending, which the plaintiffs believed would be successful, to raise sufficient money to
pay off all judgments, liens and claims against the company, if
left under the present control, or under that of the holders of
a majority of the stock, that, to effect such loans or advances
of money, it was absolutely necessary that the respective debts
of the! various corporations should be ascertained, and, when
their respective liabilities to each other and to their respective
creditors were fixed, they could, on their joint stock and assets,
raise sufficient money to relieve them from their embarrassments and pay all their creditors, that, if a receiver was appointed to take charge of them and settle their affairs, their
credit would be restored as soon as their condition should be
adjudged by the court, and that they had ample assets, if not
sacrificed by sales on execution and construction liens, to pay
all indebtedness and leave a sufficient surplus to run the road
for the benefit of the stockholders. The prayer of the bill
was, that a receiver be appointed of all the rights and franchises of the Illinois Midland Company, and of all the property in its control, and that an account be taken of all the
claims, liens and liabilities of its stockholders and creditors, and
of those of the corporations above named, and they be ordered
to be paid and adjusted, as the respective rights and interests

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINQIS MDLAND CO.

443

Opinion of the Court.

of such stockholders and creditors should appear, and for further and other relief, according to equity
On the same day the Illinois Midland Company appeared to
the bill by attorney, and waived notice, and submitted itself
to the court for such order in the premises as might in equity
be right and proper, and the judge of the court, at chambers,
made an order appointing as receiver George Dole, of Paris,
and requiring him to give a bond for $75,000, with security,
and then to "forthwith take possession of all the personal,
real and mixed property of every kind belonging to or in the
possession of said Illinois Midland Railway Company, including the property formerly owned and possessed by the Peoria,
Atlanta and Decatur Railroad Company, the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company, and the Paris and Terre Haute Railroad
Company, and, if necessary, to sue for, in the name of said
receiver, and recover, all the property of said company or
companies, whether real, personal or mixed, and whether in
possession or in action." The order also provided as follows
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that said receiver be, and is hereby, empowered and directed to carry on
the business of said railway companies until the respective
rights pf the parties in interest can be fully ascertained and
determined, under and subject to the revision and direction of
this court, and until otherwise ordered by this court, and to
use and employ the property, franchises, rights of way, roadbed, tracks, locomotives, rolling-stock, machinery, fixtures, and
property of whatever kind or nature, and said receiver shall
be, and hereby is, invested with all the rights and franchises
vested by law in said railway company or companies, in the
execution of the duties and trusts aforesaid. Said receiver
shall have authority to employ all necessary and proper agents,
attorneys, officers and laborers, and to fix and alter the compensation of said agents, attorneys, officers and laborers, subject to the revision of this court. Said receiver shall also have
authority, subject to the revision of this court, to make such
repairs and necessary additions to said railway, or railroads,
and property, as may be essential to the interests and safety of
the same, and proper in his judgment for carrying on said buss

OCTOIER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

mess, also to make all contracts that may be necessary in
carrying on the business of said company or companies, subject to like supervision of this court, also to collect in his own
name, as receiver aforesaid, all debts, claims or demands, of
whatever kind or nature, owing, or that may become due and
owing, to the said company or companies, or to said receiver,
from any and all sources. Said receiver is also ordered to
make a full, true and correct inventory of all the property
that may come into his hands as such receiver. It is further
ordered, adjudged and decreed, that, out of the moneys that
shall come into the hands of said receiver from the operation
of said railway, he shall. First. Pay all current expenses incident to the creation or administration of this trust, and to the
operating of said railway or railroads. Second. Pay all sums
due or to become due connecting or intersecting lines of railroads, arising from the interchange of business, and for track
service of other railroads used by said Illinois Midland Railway
Company in the operation of its lines, and all amounts now
legally due from said railway company or companies for taxes.
[I'h1rd. Pay all amounts due to all operatives and employes
and attorneys and agents of said company or companes, for
any service rendered said company or companies since the
11th day of March, A. D. 1875. Fourth. Pay all amounts due
for supplies purchased and used in operating said railway
or railroads by said company or companies, for supplies furnished to laborers and credited against their labor, since the
11th day of March, A. D. 1875. Fifth. And all amounts due
from said railway company for or on account of the rental of
rolling-stock; and the money belonging to said railway company, except as heretofore directed, shall be held by said receiver until he is authorized to disburse the same under the
order or decree of this court. Si.rth. And said receiver is further authorized, in case it is proper in his judgment, with the
sanction of the court, to use any balance of funds arising from
the operating of said railway or railroads, for the purpose of
protecting such of the real or personal property of said corporation or corporations, under lien, sale, pledge, mortgage or
contract. It is further ordered, that, upon demand, the said

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND 00.

445

Opinion of the Court.

company or companies, their officers or agents, shall forthwith
deliver over to the receiver all the property aforesaid, and that
neither said company or companes, nor any officer or agent or
employe of said companies, shall interfere with or molest the
possession or enjoyment of any of said property in the possession of or placed under the control of said receiver. It is further ordered, that said receiver shall retain possession and
continue to discharge the duties and trusts aforesaid, until the
further order of this court in the premises, and that he shall,
from tine to time, make report of his doings in the premises,
and may, from time to time, apply to this court for such other
and further order and direction in the premises as he may deem
necessary and requisite to a due administration of said trust,
and said receiver is hereby vested, in addition to the powers
aforesaid, with all the general powers of receiver in cases of this
kind, subject to the supervision of this court." The bond was
given and was approved by the court, and at September Term,
1875, an order was made entering of record the order at chambers, and the receiver's bond and oath, and directing him to
proceed, as before ordered.
On the 16th of October, 1875, an amended bill was filed, the
plaintiffs in which were Hervey, and also William Waring,
Henry Waring, and Charles Waring, partners, as Waring
Brothers, and thirty-one other persons. It set forth that Hervey then owned 27,500 shares, or $1,375,000, of the 32,000
shares, at $50 each, or $1,600,000, of the capital stock of the
Paris and Decatur Company, and 14,200 shares, or $1,420,000,
of the 20,000 shares, at $100 each, or $2,000,000, of the capital
stock of the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company, and 4500
shares, at $100 each, or 8450,000,'being the entire capital stock
of the Paris and Terre Haute Company It also set forth that
Waring Brothers then owned one-fourth, or $500,000, of the
capital stock of the Illinois IMidland Company, and 1543
of the bonds of that company, and 885 others of its bonds,
which they had taken in exchange for 885 bonds of the Paris
and Decatur Company, of like amount. The other plaintiffs
were judgment and general creditors of the four corporations,
whose debts were stated at $108,112.23, on account of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

construction and operation of the various companies. The
amended bill averred that, in consequence of the facts set forth
in the original bill, and which were repeated, the Illinois Midland Company was unable to transact its necessary business,
that the executions and levies referred to had removed from
its use a large portion of its rolling-stock, that the suits and
judgments had seriously impaired its credit, and it was unable
to procure the necessary supplies, materials and labor to successfully operate the road, and that some of the hands employed in maintaining its track had declined to labor turther,
whereby its track had become unsafe. The prayer of the
amended bill was the same as that of the original bill.
The further action of the court in regard to the receiver and
his successors, and their proceedings, will be referred to hereafter, as questions in regard to those proceedings shall be considered.
On the 15th of February, 1876, Albert Grant and Maurice
Grant, partners, as Grant Brothers & Co., of London, and also
James F Secor, petitioned and were admitted to be defendants, and on the same day they filed their respective answers
to the amended bill. Grant Brothers & Co. claimed to own
1200. or one-half of the Paris and Decatur bonds, 1200 of the
1300 Peoria. Atlanta and Decatur bonds, and all (280) of the
Paris and Terre Haute bonds, and that the lien of their bonds
was superior to the claims of any of the plaintiffs.
The answer of Secor set up his mortgage, and alleged that
none of the interest due May 1, 1875, on the bonds of the
Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company, had been paid, and he
had been requested by the holders of a majority of those bonds
to take steps to protect their interests, and that by the terms
of the mortgage he was entitled to take posgession of the road
for the benefit of the bondholders. He asked that the court
would order the receiver to turn over to him the property covered
by the mortgage of the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company
On the 4th of October, 1876, the Paris and Decatur Company and the Paris and Terre Haute Company were made
defendants to the bill, and they severally appeared on October
10, 1876, and at the March Term, 1877, put in answers.

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

44t

Opimon of the Court.

On the 5th of December, 1876, the Union Trust Company
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois, against the four corporations and
Hervey and Secor, to foreclose the three mortgages made to
the Union Trust Company But this suit does not appear to
have been further prosecuted, except that by the interlocutory
decree of June 11, 1881, hereafter mentioned, it was consolidated with the other causes.
At September Term, 1871, the Union Trust Company was,
by order, made a party defendant in the Hiervey suit, "with
all the rights and privileges as though it had been an original
defendant," on its petition setting forth a default July 1, 1875,
in the payment of interest on the Paris and Decatur bonds, and
that it had demanded and been refused payment of such interest, and that the principal and interest of the bonds had become
due, and that a majority of the holders of the bonds had required it to proceed to foreclose the mortgage, and that the
same was true as to a default October 1, 1875, in the payment
of the interest on the Paris and Terre Haute bonds, and as to
a default July 1, 1875, in the payment of the interest on the
Illinois Midland bonds.
On the 15th of February, 1878, the Union Trust Company
filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois, against the Paris and Decatur
Company and the Illinois Midland Company, to foreclose the
Paris and Decatur mortgage, alleging a default January 1,
1876, in the payment of interest on the Paris and Decatur
bonds, that the Illinois Midland Company, in issuing its 8350
bonds, intended to exchange them, dollar for dollar, for the
bonds of the other three corporations, and that more or less
of the Paris and Decatur bonds were exchanged, and some
were, on exchange, marked cancelled, but the persons who exchanged them claimed that the purchases by the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company of the other two roads were void,
and that the bonds issued by the Midland Company were void,
and that the exchange and cancellation of the Paris and Decatur bonds were void, and that those bonds remained the property of their former owners.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

On the same day the Union Trust Company filed a bill in the
same Federal court against the Paris and Terre Haute Company and the Illinois Midland Company, to foreclose the Paris
and Terre Haute mortgage, alleging a default October 1, 1875,
in the payment of interest on the Paris and Terre Haute bonds,
and containing, in regard to the exchange of those bonds, like
allegations with those above set forth as to Paris and Decatur
bonds, in the bill to foreclose the Paris and Decatur mortgage.

On the same day Secor filed a bill in the same Federal court,
against the Illinois Midland Company, to foreclose the Peoria,
Atlanta and Decatur mortgage, alleging a default May 1,
1875, in the payment of interest on the Peoria, Atlanta and
Decatur bonds.
On the 6th of April, 1878, by an order of the State court, the
Hervey suit was, on a petition filed by the Union Trust Company, removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Illinois.
On the 13th of August, 1879, the last two suits brought by
the Union Trust Company and the suit brought by Secor were
consolidated by the Federal court.
On the 31st of August, 1881, Abe Freidenberg, on behalf of
himself and other holders of Paris and Decatur bonds, filed a
bill to foreclose the Parts and Decatur mortgage, in the same
Federal court.
The last two suits brought by the Union Trust Company, the
suit brought by Secor, the Hervey suit, the Freldenberg suit,
and a suit which had been brought in the same Federal court,
by the Kansas Rolling-Mill Company, in January Term, 1879,
against the Illinois Midland Railway Company and others,
were consolidated by an order made June 23, 1882.
Many of the contested questions in these cases arise out of
the transactions of the receiver originally appointed and his
successors, especially in issuing receiver's certificates, and the
contest, as presented to this court, is substantially one between
the Paris and Decatur bondholders on one side, and those who
claim a priority of lien over the bonds on the other.
On the 31st of August, 1876, Richard J Rees was, by an
order made at chambers, by the Judge of the State court, in

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

449

Opmon of the Court.

the Hervey suit, appointed receiver in the place of Dole,
resigned, and the order was confirmed by the court at the
September Term, 1876. On the 10th of December, 1878,
Louis Genis was, by an order made by the Federal court in
the Hervey suit, appointed receiver in the place of Rees,
resigned. On the 4th of April, 1882, by an order made in the
Freidenberg suit, David H. Conklin was appointed receiver in
the place of Rees, resigned, and on the 13th of April, 1882, a
like order was made in the Hervey case. Gems having filed
his final report, the court made an order, on May 13, 1882,
appointing a special commissioner to examine and report
thereon, and on the correctness of Gems' accounts. By an
order made June 13, 1882, power was given to the commissioner to examine witnesses as to the contents of the report
and the acts of Gems as receiver. By an order made June 22,
1882, the commissioner was directed to investigate and report
in detail the number and amount of certificates of indebtedness
issued by the several receivers, and for what purpose they were
issued, and to whom, and the number and amount of such as
were special liens on any of the property, and the character of
the charge of all which were not specific liens. By an order
made June 23, 1882, it was ordered that the issues in the consolidated causes be made up by a day named, and that by that
day the commissioner report the amount of receiver's certificates outstanding, for what they were given, and by whom
held, and the amount of the receivers' indebtedness and to
whom due.
On the 18th of April, 1883, the commissioner made a report,
as to the matters referred to him, to which exceptions were
fied by Freidenberg, by the Union Trust Company and Secor,
and by judgment creditors of the Paris and Decatur Company,
and by Adams and Orvis. On the 7th of June, 1884, the commissioner filed a supplemental report. He also reported the
testimony taken before him. The cases were brought to a
hearing in the Circuit Court before Mr. Justice H=arlan, (all
orders made in them prior to that time, in the Federal court,
having been made by the District Judge), and he passed on
the various questions raised, in an opinion filed February 29,
voL. cxvii-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

1884. An interlocutory decree was entered June 11, 1884,
confirming the report of the commissioner in all things, and
making specific adjudications as to the validity and status of
eighteen different series of receiver's certificates, and of other
debts incurred by the receiver, and referring it to the same
commissioner to take certain accounts, and to report the
amounts due on the various outstanding bonds, and the numbers and amounts of the bonds of the sectional mortgages
which had been surrendered and exchanged for Illinois Midland
bonds, and-what Paris and Decatur bonds remained outstanding, which had not been exchanged for Illinois Midland bonds,
and the amount due from one to the other of the three sectional
roads, making proper allowance for the use by them respectively of rolling-stock or terminal facilities belonging to the
others, and for moneys paid by one for expenses or debts
properly payable by another, and to report a proper distribution of the liens or obligations on or of the different roads, to
pay any of the receiver's certificates or indebtedness, and as
to which road should pay for terminal facilities, and what indebtedness the receivers had incurred therefor, and for rent of
rolling-stock, motive power, and other matters, and to take
and report all other testimony offered by any party, pertinent
to the issues. The commssioner was also directed to take an
account of all the indebtedness of the receivership, and of all
claims of employes which accrued within six months before
the first appointment of a receiver, and of all claims for rights
of way or lands used for railroad purposes, not paid for, and
of all bonded indebtedness of the four corporations, properly
classified, and to report as to all contested claims, with the
testimony thereon.
The commissioner made his report on the 15th of January,
1885, accompanied by the additional testimony he had taken.
Freidenberg and other holders of Paris and Decatur bonds filed
exceptions to it, as did Waring Brothers and certain judgment
creditors of the Paris and Decatur Company and of the Illinois
Midland Company.
The case was heard in the Circuit Court by Mr. Justice
Harlan, and on the 3d of June, 1885, a final decree was en-

UNhION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

451

Opnion of the Court.

tered disposing of the questions litigated, and providing for a
sale of the mortgaged property and the distribution of the proceeds. Freidenberg appealed to this court from specified parts
of the decree of June 11, 1884, and from specified parts of the
decree of June 3, f885, as representing holders of Paris and
Decatur bonds, but this appeal was not perfected, and in place
of it, Simon Borg, Leo Speyer, and Samuel Lichtenstadter
were admitted as parties to the consolidated causes, as holders
of Paris and Decatur bonds, and by leave took and perfected
an appeal from specified parts of both decrees. Waring
Brothers and the Union Trust Company have taken separate
appeals from the last decree, and Stoughton J Fletcher and
Francis M. Churchman, partners as S. A. Fletcher and Company, have appealed, as holders of receiver's certificates, from
that decree.
It will be proper to first consider the question of the receiver's certificates.
The final decree declares that the lien of the Paris -and Decatur bonds is subject to certain receiver's certificates of the
8th, 12th, 14th, 16th, 17th and 18th series, which are to have
priority in payment to the Paris and Decatur bonds, out of the
proceeds of sale of the Paris and Decatur road, and which
amount, with interest to January 15, 1885, to $200,408.87.
There are six certificates of $5000 each, of the 8th series,
bearing ten per cent. interest. They were issued under an
order made October 9, 1876, which states that the court finds
that the entire line from Peoria to Terre Haute is in great
need- of immediate repair, and in an unsafe condition to be
operated, and that the line between Paris and Decatur is in a
worse condition than any of said line, and requires an immediate outlay, for iron, ties, and other materials, ballasting and
labor, to put it in a safe condition, of $34,076, and authorizes
the receiver to borrow $34,360, to be expended in repairing
the Paris and Decatur road, and to issue receiver's certificates
therefor in sums of $5000 each, bearing ten per cent. interest,
and declares that the certificates "shall be a first lien on the
right of way, iron, ties, bridges and entire railway property on
said portion of the line between Paris and Decatur." The

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

commissioner finds that the moneys were expended in accordance with the order.
There is one certificate of the 12th series, for $32,475.20,
with ten per cent. interest, issued under two orders, to borrow
money to pay off tax liens, the orders declaring that it should
be a lien on the Paris and Decatur line superior to the mortgage and to all prior certificates. It was taken at par. When
it was issued the legal rate of interest was eight per cent., ten
per cent. having been the legal rate at the time of the first
order, and having been the rate specified in that order, and the
authority conferred by the first order being made part of the
second. The commissioner states that the only dispute was as
to the rate of interest, that the money was advanced under
the first order, made July 26, 1878, before the issue of the cirtificate, and at a time when the legal rate of interest was ten
per cent., that that order authorized the sale of the certificate
at ninety cents on the dollar, that the mortgagees and bondholders waive any plea of usury, and the corporation itself
could not plead usury, and that that defence was made only
by the trustee for the holders of surrendered bonds and by
judgment creditors. The commissioner reported it as his
opinion that the certificate should have effect, as to its amount
and lien and rate of interest, as authorized, and according to
its purport. The Circuit Court confirmed this view
There is one certificate of the 14th series, for $4376 and
eight per cent. interest, issued under the before-named order
of October 9, 1876, and a subsequent order made January 29,
1881, for money to repair the Paris and Decatur road, being
for the balance of money authorized by the first order, the
second order declaring the like lien as the first order.
There is one certificate of the 16th series, for $9505 and
eight per cent. interest, and three certificates of the 17th series,
two of them for $10,000 each, and one for $5495, all with eight
per cent. interest, issued under an order made June 29, 1881,
which set forth that it was necessary to the protection of the
railroad property that an outlay should be made forthwith for
betterments, and authorized the receiver to expend in betterments on the line between Paris and Decatur, $35,000, and to

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

453

Opinon of the Court.
issue certificates to procure money for tl]at purpose, and sell
them at not less than ninety cents on the dollar, the same to
be a special charge on the line and railroad property between
Paris and Decatur, superior to all liens and debts, except receiver's debts before declared by order of court to be special
charges or liens on that portion of the railroad. The commissioner states that these certificates were sold, some at four and
some at six per cent. discount, and that the holders of the certificates, when they bought them, had no connection with the
case or with the parties.
There are four certificates of the 18th series, three of them
for $10,000 each, and one for $8,288.98, all at eight per cent
interest, issued under another order made June 29, 1881,
which set forth that the receiver had expended on the Illinois
Midland road, for side tracks and other betterments, $80,037.98,
of which $42,664.98 had been expended on the line between
Paris and Decatur, that of the $80,037.98, $63,037.98 had been
paid out of the earnings of the line, of which $38,288.98 was
expended on the line between Paris and Decatur, that the
earnings of the whole line had not been sufficient to meet the
usual expenses of operation and the ordinary repairs of the permanent way, and that the receiver had incurred unpaid debts
to a larger amount than $63,037.98, in the usual operation of
the line and in ordinary repairs of the permanent way The
order approved and confirmed the appropriation of the $63,037.98 out of the earnings in payment for betterments, declared that that sum was a special charge and lien on the several portions of the line in proportion to the amounts expended
on the respective portions, and authorized the receiver to issue
certificates to the amount of $38,288.98, at eight per cent. interest, as representing so much of the $63,037.98 as was expended for betterments on the line between Paris and Decatur,
the same to be a special charge and lien on the line and railroad
property between Paris and Decatur, superior to all liens and
debts except receiver's debts before declared by order of court to be
special charges and liens on that portion of the railway, and the
certificates to be sold at not less than ninety cents on the dollar.
The certificates were sold at a discount within that permitted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Simon Borg and others appeal because of the priority awarded
to the above-named sixteen receiver's certificates.
When the order of October 9, 1876, was made, under which
the six certificates of the 8th series were issued, neither the
trustee nor any of the bondholders of the Paris and Decatur
Company were parties to the suit. But before any other order
was made under which any of the sixteen certificates referred
to were issued, the Union Trust Company had become a party
to the ilervey suit as trustee in the Paris and Decatur mortgage, and the default in the payment of the interest on the Paris
and Decatur bonds had occurred by January 1, 1876.
The certificates of the 8th and 14th series were issued for
necessary repairs, that of the 12th to pay tax liens, those of
the 16th and 17th for betterments, and those of the 18th to replace earnings diverted from paying for operating expenses and
ordinary repairs, to pay for betterments, while debts to a larger
amount had been incurred for the operating expenses and ordinary repairs.
In regard to the certificates issued for necessary repairs there
can be no doubt, either on authority or on principle. In alralace v /oomms, 97 U. S. 146, on the fMling of a bill by the trustees of the first mortgage on a railroad, to foreclose it, the
court appointed receivers, "with power to put the road and
property in repair, and to complete any uncompleted portions
thereof, and to procure rolling-stock, and to manage and operate the road to the best advantage, so as to prevent the property from further deteriorating and to save and preserve it for
the benefit and interest of the first mortgage bondholders and
all others having an interest therein," and with power, also,
for those purposes, to raise money, by loan, to an amount limited in the order, by issuing certificates "which should be a
first lien on the property " The final decree declared that the
moneys raised by loan, or advanced by the receivers and expended on the road pursuant to the order, were a lien paramount to the first mortgage, and should be paid out of the proceeds of sale before the first mortgage bonds were paid. A
holder of second mortgage bonds objected to such priority On
that subject, this court said, by Mr. Justice Bradley "The

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

455

Opinion of the Court.
power of a court of equity to appoint managing receivers of
such property as a railroad, when taken under its charge as a
trust fund for the payment of incumbrances, and to authorize
such receivers to raise money necessary for the preservation
and management of the property, and make the same chargeable as a lien thereon for its repayment, cannot, at this day, be
seriously disputed. It is a part of that jurisdiction, always exercised by the court, by which it is its duty to protect and preserve the trust funds in its hands. It is, undoubtedly, a power
to be exercised with great caution, and, if possible, with the
consent or acquiescence of the parties interested in the fund."
It is true that the second mortgage trustees in that case were
parties to the suit when the order was made, and had due notice
of the application, and made no objection. As to that the
court said, that the bondholders were represented by their trustees and must be regarded as bound by their acts, at least so
far as concerned "the power of the court to act, in making the
order, and so far as the interest of third persons acting upon the
faith of it 'iight be affected." pp. 162-3. It also said that,
when the appellant became a party, he suggested no objection
to the terms of the order appointing the receivers, and that
there was no just exception to the order or the decree.
Property subject to liens and claims and debts, of various
characters and ranks, which is brought within the cognizance of
a court of equity for administration, and conversion into money,
and distribution, is a trust fund. It is to be preserved for those
entitled to it. This must be done by the hands of the court,
through officers. The character of the property gives character to the particular species of preservation which it requires.
Unimproved land may lie idle, with only payment of taxes.
Improved property should be rented. Movable property that
is not perishable may be locked up and kept, but if perishable,
it must be 8old, by way of preservation. A railroad, and its appurtenances, is a peculiar species of property Not only will
its structures deteriorate and decay and perish if not cared for
and kept up, but its business and good will will pass away if
it is not run and kept in good order. Moreover, a railroad is a
matter of public concern. The franchises and rights -of the,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnon of the Court.

corporation which constructed it were given not merely for
private gain to the corporators, but to furnish a public highway, and all persons who deal with the corporation as creditors or holders of its obligations, must necessarily be held to do
so in the view, that, if it falls into insolvency and its affairs
come into a court of equity for adjustment, involving the transfer of its franchises and property, by a sale, into other hands,
to have the purposes of its creation still carried out, the court,
while in charge of the property, has the power, and, under some
circumstances, it may be its duty, to make such repairs as are
necessary to keep the road and its structures in a safe and
proper condition to serve the public. Its power to do this does
not depend on consent, nor on prior notice. Consent is desirable, but is seldom practicable, where the debts exceed the
value of the property Though prior notice to persons interested, by notifying them as parties, first requiring them to be
made parties if they are not, is generally the better way, yet
many circumstances may be judicially equivalent to prior
notice. A full opportunity, as in this case, to be heard, on
evidence, as to the propriety of the expenditures and of making
them a first lien, is judicially equivalent. The receiver, and
those lending money to him on certificates issued on orders
made without prior notice to parties interested, take the risk of
the final action of the court, in regard to the loans. The court
always retains control of the matter, its records are accessible
to lenders and subsequent holders, and the certificates are not
negotiable instruments.
The principle laid down in M llace v Loomts, was applied in
Xfiltenbergerv ZogansportRailway Co., 106 U. S. 286, 311, 312.
In that case a bill was filed by a second mortgagee against the
mortgagor, and a first mortgagee, and judgment creditors of
the mortgagor, to foreclose a mortgage on a railroad. On
the day the bill was fied, and without notice to the first mortgagee, a receiver was appointed, and power given him to operate and manage the road, "receive its revenues, pay its operating expenses, make repairs, and manage its entire business,
and to pay the arrears due for operating expenses for a period
in the past not exceeding ninety days, and to pay into the court

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

457

Opimon of the Court.
all revenue over operating expenses." After that, and without
notice to the first mortgagee, who had not appeared, though
notified of the order appointing the receiver, and of the pendency of the suit, the court authorized the receiver to purchase
engines and cars, and to adjust liens on cars, owned by the
mortgagor, and to pay indebtedness not exceeding $10,000, to
other connecting lines of road, in settlement of ticket and
freight accounts and balances, and for materials and repairs,
which had accrued in part more than ninety days before the
order appointing the receiver was made, and to construct five
miles of new road, and a bridge. The petition for the order
stated the necessity for the rolling-stock and for the adjustment
of the liens, that the payment of the connecting lines was indispensable to the business of the road, and it would suffer great
detriment unless that was provided for, and that the new road
and the bridge would come under the mortgages, and their
construction would be to the advantage of the bondholders.
After the first mortgagee had appeared and answered, an order
was made, but not on prior notice to it, authorizing the receiver
to issue certificates to pay for rolling-stock he had bought under
orders of the court, and to pay debts incurred for building the
five miles of road and the bridge, under those orders, and to
pay debts incurred for taxes, and rights of way, and back
pay and supplies in operating the road, the certificates to be
payable out of income, and, if not so paid, to be provided for
by the court in its final order. Claims thus arising were afterwards allowed, to be paid out of the proceeds of sale, before
the mortgage bonds. This court upheld such priority, as to
the debts for the purchase of rolling-stock, and for the adjustment of liens, and for the construction of the five miles of road
and the bridge, and for the amount due connecting lines, some of
which was incurred more than ninety days before the receiver
was appointed. On the latter branch of the subject it said
"It cannot be affirmed that no items which accrued before the
appointment of a receiver can be allowed in any case. Many
circumstances may exist which may make it necessary and indispensable to the business of the road and the preservation of
the property, for the receiver to pay pre-existing debts of cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tam classes, out of the earnings of the receivership, or even the
coeipus of the property, under the order of the court, with a
priority of lien. Yet the discretion to do so should be exercised with very great care. The payment of such debts stands,
.prrmafacte, on a different basis from the payment of claims
arising under the receivership, while it may be brought within
the principle of the latter by special circumstances. It is easy
to see that the payment of unpaid debts for operating expenses,
accrued within ninety days, due by a railroad company suddenly deprived of the control of its property, due to operatives
in its employ, whose cessation from work simultaneously is to be
deprecated, in the interests both of the property and of the
public, and the payment of limited amounts due to other and
connecting lines of road for materials and repairs, and for unpaid ticket and freight balances, the outcome of indispensable
business relations, where a stoppage of the continuance of such
business relations would be a probable result, in case of nonpayment, the general consequence involving largely, also, the
interests and accommodation of travel and traffic, may well
place such payments in the category of payments to preserve
the mortgaged property in a large sense, by maintaining the
good will and integrity of the enterprise, and entitle them to
be made a first lien. This view of the public interest in such
a highway for public use as a railroad is, as bearing on the
maintenance and use of its franchises and property in the hands
of a receiver, with a view to public convenience, was the subject
of approval by this court, speaking by Mr. Justice Woods, in
Barton v. Barbour, 104 U. S. 126."
In allowing the certificates of the 8th and 14th series, for
necessary repairs, with priority, the master acted, and we think
properly, on the authority of the cases of W'allace v. Looms
and -Miltenbergerv. Loga&sport Railway Co.
In this connection it is objected that in those cases the suits
were foreclosure suits brought by trustees under mortgages,
and that a different rule should obtain in a case where the
trustees or the bondholders do not come into court initially,
asking the aid of equity in the appointment of a receiver. It,
is said that the Hervey suit was not such a suit. ]But_ the co-

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

459

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs with Hervey were judgment creditors of the Paris
and Decatur Company, with executions returned unsatisfied.
The bill set out the precarious condition of all the property
held and used by the Illinois Midland Company, and the necessity for a receiver in the interest of all the creditors of all four
of the corporations, to prevent the levy of executions on such
property; and it prayed for a judicial ascertainment and marshalling of all the debts of all the corporations, and their payment and adjustment as the respective rights and interests of
the creditors might appear, and for general relief. The plaintiffs set forth that they represented a majority of the stock in
all the corporations. This bill was quite sufficient to enable a
court of equity to administer the property and marshal the
debts, including those due the mortgage bondholders, makung
proper parties before adjudging the merits.
In regard to the fact that neither the Paris and Decatur
bondholders nor their trustee were parties to the suit when the
order of October 9, 1876, was made, the commissioner took the
view, which the Circuit Court confirmed, that while they ought
to beheard before the order was made conclusive against them,
yet, as the objections to the merits of the order would not have
been availing if made before it was entered, and the money
had been actually and faithfully applied, under the order of
the court, to the improvement of the mortgaged property, no
equitable reason appeared why the bondholders should keep
the benefits and escape the burden.
The certificate of the 14th series was issued not only under
the order of October 9, 1876, but under that of January 29,
1881. The Union Trust Company was admitted, on its own
petition, to be a party defendant in the Hervey suit in September, 1877. That petition stated that the interest on the Paris
and Decatur bonds had been in default since July 1, 1875.
The order of January 29, 1881, was made by the Federal court.
The Union Trust Company had removed the Hervey suit intothe Federal court in April. 1878, and.had filed in that court a
foreclosure bill on the Paris and Decatur mortgage as early as
December, 1876, and another such bill in February, 1878. The
interest on the Paris and Decatur bonds had been in default,,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

as the latter bill alleged, since January 1, 1876, and the receiver
was in open possession of the entire line of road, and running
it, and exercising the powers which the orders of the courts had
conferred upon him. Under these circumstances, the Paris
and Decatur trustee and its bondholders in court, through it,
can be heard to make no other objections to the orders except
such as arise as to the merits of the expenditures made under
them. The view of the commissioner and the Circuit Court
was, that the bondholders should have such rights and equities
as they could have properly claimed as parties a& initw, and
that this view should apply against them as well as for them.
In this we concur.
The principles properly applicable to this branch of the case
were well expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan in his opinion of
February 29, 1884, as follows "Those who take receiver's certificates must be deemed to have taken them subject to the
rights of parties who have prior liens upon the property, and
who have not, but should have been, brought before the court.
While the court, under some circumstances, and for some purposes, and in advance of the prior lien-holders being made parties, may have jurisdiction to charge the property with the
amount of receiver's certificates issued by its authority, it cannot, without giving such parties their day in court, deprive
them of their priority of lien. When such prior lien-holders
are brought before the court, they become entitled, upon the
plainest principles of justice and equity, to contest the necessity, validity, effect, and amount of all such certificates, as fully
as if such questions were then, for the first time, presented for
determination. If it appears that they ought not to have been
made a charge upon the property, superior to the lien created
by the mortgages, then the contract rights of the prior lienholders must be protected. On the other hand, if it appears
that the court did what ought to have been done, even had the
trustee and the bondholders been before it when the certificates
were authorized to be issued, the property should not be relieved from the charge made upon it, in good faith, for its
protection and preservation. Of these rules or principles the
parties who inaugurated this litigation cannot justly complain.

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO. 461
Opimon of the Court.

They were not ignorant of the fact that there were existing
mortgages upon this property, and that fact should have been
brought to the attention of the court at the very outset. Nor
have the bondholders any ground of complaint if the court
charges upon the property such expenditures as now appear to
have been rightfully made in the interest of all concerned in
its management, while in the hands of a receiver. As to receiver's certificates issued, with the sanction of the court, after
the trustees became parties, the purchasers and holders should
be accorded such rights as, by the settled principles of equity,
are accorded to those who deal with judicial tribunals having
jurisdiction in the premises."
The propriety of the allowance of the certificate of the 12th
series for tax liens needs no argument, and we think the interest, as allowed, was proper.
As to the $35,000 of certificates of the 16th and 17th series,
issued to pay for betterments, the present holders, who bought.
them directly from the receiver, had no connection with the
case or with the parties. A question was made before the
commissioner that the receiver did not faithfully apply the
money as directed by the court. He held, and the Circuit
Court sustained him, that these purchasers were not bound to
see to the application of the proceeds, citing the decision to
that effect by Mr. Justice Woods, in Stanton v. Alabama 6
Chattanooga Railroad Co., 2 Woods, 506. In this view we
concur.
It was also contended before the commissioner, that all that
the holders of these certificates were equitably entitled to was
the money they paid, and without interest, and not the face
of the certificates and interest. The view taken by the commissioner and confirmed by the Circuit Court, was that, as the
certificates were issued for debts contracted by the court, when
it had jurisdiction of the parties and of the subject matter, to
persons who in good faith invested their money for the benefit
of the property in the possession of the court, the certificates
should be paid according to their tenor, as authorized. We
concur in these views. It may be added that, as the order of
June 29, 1881, authorized the certificates to be sold at not

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnuon of the Court.

more than ten per cent. discount, it must be presumed that the
parties taking the certificates relied on the promise to pay
their face, and would not otherwise have trusted the receiver
or the fund. The court which made that order thought the
limit of discount a reasonable one, and the certificates were
sold within that limit.
In regard to what the order calls "betterments," it appears
from the petition of the receiver, on which the order was made,
that the $35,000 were to be expended for ties, rails, new turntable and foundations, bridges and fences, on the existing line
of road, and not for any new extent of road. An affidavit
annexed to the petition, made by the roadmaster of the Illinois
Midland Company, states that, in order to place the railway in
a suitable condition for the safe transportation of business,
the expenditure contemplated was absolutely necessary The
commissioner finds that the money was expended in substantial compliance with the order of the court, and that the improvements made by the receiver no more than made up for
the deterioration or the road, especially in view of its imperfect construction and inferior material from the beginning.
This finding was approved by the Circuit Court.
As to the certificates of the 18th series issued to replace earnings diverted from paying for operating expenses and ordinary
repairs, to pay for betterments, while debts to a large amount
had been incurred for the operating expenses and ordinary
repairs, it appears by the petition of the receiver and the affidavit of the roadmaster annexed to it, on which the order
of June 29, 1881, under which the certificates were issued, was
made, that the expenditures for new side tracks and betterments so paid for out of earnings consisted principally of expenditures for road-bed, bridges, iron and ties, which were in
a worn out and insufficient condition.
The commissioner and the Circuit Court rested the allowance
of these certificates on what was said by this court in the case
of Fosdick v. Scluill, 99 U. S. 235, 253, 254, which views were
applied in Burnham v B wen, 111 U S. 776, to the effect
that, when the current income of a railroad in the hands of a
receiver is diverted to the improvement of the property by the

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MHIDLAND CO.

463

Opimon of the Court.

receiver, and debts for operating expenses are not paid, provision should be made, in foreclosing a mortgage on the road, to
pay such debts out of the proceeds of the sale of the property
See, also, Uonw Trust Co. v Souther, 107 U. S. 591.
The general principles hereinbefore stated, on which the receiver's certificates referred to are allowed, are those sanctioned
in ]Jfeyer v Johnston, 53 Ala. 237, and Hoover v. lfontolazr 6
Greenwood Zake Railway Co., 2 Stewart (29 N. J Eq.), 4.
The strenuous contention on the part of the Paris and Decatur bondholders is, that a court of chancery had no power,
by a receiver, and, without their consent, to create, on the cor_us of the property, any lien taking priority over the mortgage
lien. But these bondholders were represented by their trustee,
the Union Trust Company It filed a bill in the Federal court
as early as December, 1876, to foreclose the Paris and Decatur
mortgage, and it was made a party, on its own petition, to the
suit in the State court, in September, 1877. The Paris and
Decatur mortgage provided, that, in case of default for six
months in paying interest on the bonds, (and such default occurred at latest on January 1, 1876, and the six months expired July 1, 1876, more than three months before any order
was made on which any of the certificates were issued), all the
bonds should become due and the lien might be enforced, and
the trustee might enter on the property, and operate it till sold,
and make all needful repairs and replacements, and such useful
alterations, additions, and improvements to the road as might
be necessary for its proper working, and pay for them out of
the income, and, also, that, in ca,e of a default so continuing,
the trustee might foreclose the mortgage by legal proceedings
or sell the property by public auction, and should, in case of
such sale, deduct from the proceeds all expenses incurred in
operating, managing, or maintaining the road, or in managing
its business, and thereafter apply the proceeds to pay the bonds.
In the face of these provisions of the mortgage under which
the bonds are held, and of the facts before recited as to the
negligence of the trustee all the while the property was in the
hands of the cQurt, it does not at all comport with the principles
of equity for the bondholders now to insist that the want of o

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

affirmative consent by them or their trustee could paralyze the
arm of the court in the discharge of its duty The want of that
aid which it was the duty of the trustee and the bondholders
to give to the court in discharging its responsible functions,
with the road openly in charge of the receiver and being run
by him, and his acts plain to view, and the interest on the
bonds in arrear, cannot be urged to a court of equity as a ground
for denying its power to do what was thought by it best for the
interests of all concerned, including even those who thus wilfully
stood aloof.
The appellants Borg and others also complain of provisions
in the final decree, giving priority over the Paris and Decatur
bonds to just and equitable proportions of the following items
(1) amount of wages due employes of receivers Dole, Rees and
Genis, as shown by schedules J and K of the report of the commissioner, the total amount being $76,820.90, (2) the indebtedness due from the receivership to railroad companies, as shown
by schedule L of the report, amounting to $84,615.21, (3) the
general indebtedness of the receivership, as shown by schedule
Al of the report, under the head of supplies, amounting to $67,787.76, and under the head of "damages," amounting to $5871.04, and forty-four items under the head of "miscellaneous,"
amounting to $32,937.49, (4) seven claims theretofore allowed
and ordered to be paid by the court, amounting to $1493.18,
(5) four claims on intervening petitions, allowed at $11,642.29,
(6)amount of wages due emplovgs of the Illinois Midland Company within six months immediately preceding the appointment
of the first receiver, as shown by schedule 1H of the report,
such equitable proportions of the receiver's indebtedness and of
the six months' labor claims to be ascertained in the manner
provided by the decree.
As to items (1) (2) (3) (4)and (5), while it is admitted that these
debts were incurred for the ordinary expenses of the receivers
in operating the road, it is contended that they are entitled to
priority only out of the income of the road, and not out of.the
proceeds of the property itself. Of course, such items are payable out of income, if any, before the corpus is resorted to, but
that may be resorted to when the items are proper ones to be

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

465

Opimon of the Court.

allowed for operating expenses, after scrutiny and opportunity
for those opposing to be heard. This view is in accordance
with the principles above laid down and the authorities above
cited.
It is contended, however, that, in the order of September 11,
1875, appointing Dole receiver, while authority was given to
him to carry on the business of the road, and.to make repairs
and additions essential 'to its interests and safety, it was provided, that, out of the moneys he should receive from its opera-.
tion, he should pay for the expenses of operation, that he was
not authorized by that order to contract any debt which the
receipts of the road would not pay, that the terms of the
order were such as to exclude the payment of any of the expenses embraced in the six items above named out of any fund
other than the receipts from the operation of the road, and
that the orders appointing Rees and Genis were equally
limited. But we think this view is not correct. The terms of
these orders do not impair or exclude the ample authority
which the court would otherwise have, and otherwise has, to
order the claims in question to be paid out of the property
itself, with priority
The claims embraced in the six items have been carefully
scrutinized and reported on favorably by the commissioner,
and allowed by the Circuit Court, within and in accordance
with the principles above laid down, and we think that all of
them, including the "six months' labor claims" were properly
allowed.
The appellants Borg and others also complain that the final
decree declares that the just and equitable proportion of the
floating indebtedness of the receivership, and of the six months'
labor claims, so mad& liens prior to the bonds, shall be borne
by and imposed upon the three several railroad properties, on
the basis of the relative lengths of the roads, being for the
Paris and Decatur 67 miles, the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur
60 , and the Paris and Terre Haute 13-. It is urged that, in
the total amount of debt to be thus apportioned among the
several roads, there are included debts which, as against the
Paris and Decatur bondholders, belong distinctively to the
vOL. cxv-80

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

other two roads, and should be charged exclusively on them.
This view is based on these allegations. that the Peoria,
Atlanta and Decatur road was never finished at either end,
and always paid rent for access to Peoria at one end and to
Decatur at the other; that the Paris and Terre Haute road
uses the track of another road to reach Terre Haute and its
terminal facilities there, and does not own one-half in value of
the track between Paris and Terre Haute, and that the Paris
and Decatur road uses only two miles of another road at
Decatur, and has good eastern connections at Paris. In this
view, it is insisted that each road should pay its own terminal
charges, and the cost of reaching its own charter points. The
terminal expenses and track rentals of the two roads, other than
the Paris and Decatur, were always charged by the receivers
against the combined Illinois Midland road. The view taken
by the commissioner and the Circuit Court was, that the
receiver took the roads as he found them, each incomplete, and
no one reaching any important point, and was obliged to continue the leasing arrangements of the Illinois Midland Company, so as to have a continuous line from Peoria to Terre
Haute, which he operated as an entirety The commissioner
stated his conclusions thus. "In the operation of the road, no
separate accounts of receipts or disbursements for each section,
nor of the amount of business contributed by each section, nor
of the extent of the use of each road, in the transaction of the
various items of business taken at the several stations, were
kept, nor indeed has it been possible to keep such accounts.
The Paris and Decatur road received its share of the benefits
accruing from the use of the ]eased lines, the exact relative
proportion of benefits to each sectional road it is impossible
to ascertain. The operating expenses have been incurred in the
management of a single undertaking for the common benefit
of all parties in interest. The use of the several leased tracks
was necessary for that common undertaking. Without the
use of the leased tracks the road could not have entered either
of its terminal points, nor the city of Decatur, which was equally
essential. Neither of the sectional roads enters any one of the
-three main points on the line. Indeed, without the leased lines

UNION TRUST CO. v.ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

467

Opinion of the Court.

the operation of the road, or either of the sections, would have
been impracticable. And it seems to me that the rentals for
the use of the leased lines were incurred as much for the common benefit as were the expenses for employes and supplies
along the line. If the management of the road had been so
profitable as to have left a net income to apply on the mortgage debt, the Paris and Decatur bondholders would have been
entitled to their proportionate share of the income derived from
the use of the leased lines, they could scarcely have expected
that without contributing to the payment for the use of those
lines." These views apply equally to the- terminal facilities
furnished by the leasing roads.
In opposition to these considerations it is urged that, while
they may properly apply among the companies which were
parties to the sales and purchases, they do not apply to the
holders of unsurrendered and unexchanged Paris and Decatur
bonds, on the ground that they had nothing to do with the
conduct of a joint enterprise, and could derive no benefit therefrom, and that they denied, in the pleadings of their trustee,
and now deny, the validity of the sales, and did not acquiesce
in any act of union of the roads.
An argument is made that there was no affirmative legislative authority for the purchase and sale of the Paris and Decatur road. This question was considered by the Circuit Court
in its opinion, and it said that, while the question was by no
means free from difficulty, it was inclined to think that the
warrant for the purchase was found in the charter of the purchasing company, and that, as the effect of the arrangement
was to establish a continuous line from Peoria vzu Decatur to
Terre Haute, to be operated under a common management,
and as there was nothing in the charters of the selling companies expressly forbidding the arrangements they made with
the purchasing company, and as what was done was fully
executed, and its validity had never been questioned in a direct
proceeding by the State or by those interested in the selling
companies, it was not disposed to make the rights of the parties in this litigation depend upon the inquiry whether the
contracts were technically valid or not. Its conclusion was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

stated thus "In T/owres v. Railroad Co., 101 U. S. II1, the
court said that 'there can be no question that, in many instances, where an invalid contract, which the party to it might
have avoided or refused to perform, has been fully performed
on both sides, whereby money has been paid or property
changed hands, the courts have refused to sustain an action
for the recovery of the property or the money so transferred,'
further, ' that the executed dealings of corporations must be
allowed to stand for and against both parties when the plainest rules of good faith require it,' still further, ' that contracts
which, though invalid for want of corporate power, have been
fully executed, shall remain as the foundation of rights acquired by the transaction.' I am the more readily inclined to
act upon the view indicated, because, as said by Judge Drummond, in Dzmpfel v. Oko & fMiss sz&i Railway Co., 9 Bissell, 129, 'both by the legislation of the State and by the
construction of the same by its highest court, great encouragement has been given to the union of lines of railroad for
the purpose of having them operated under some general management, the result of which has been the consolidation of
many lines of road which were originally separate and distinct, but which are now operated under a uniform system.'
Those who were parties to the arrangement in question, those
who acquiesced in it, and those who failed in due time, by
some proper proceeding, to question its validity, should be held
to be estopped to raise any such question in these causes. The
litigation must, therefore, be conducted to a conclusion upon
the basis that the sale and transfer by the Paris and Decatur
Railroad Company and the Paris and Terre IHaute Railroad
Company to the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Railroad Company is not to be here questioned." Independently of this,
it is entirely sufficient to rest our conclusion on the principle
that nonaction on the part of the Paris and Decatur bondholders and their trustee, which allowed the court and the
receivers to go on during the entire litigation, contracting
debts in respect to the whole line operated as a unit, and administering the property as one, under circumstances where, as
shown, it was and is impossible to separate the interests as to

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

469

Opimon of the Court.
expenditures and benefits, in respect to the matters now questioned, and where important rights have accrued on the faith
of the unity of the interests, amounts to such acquiescence as
should operate as an estoppel. The interlocutory decree contams a clause in accordance with the foregoing conclusion,
and, for the reasons above stated, we think it is right,
It is further contended, on behalf of Borg and others, that
all of the receiver's debt should be borne primarily by the
Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur Company, in exoneration of the
Parts and Decatur mortgage, on the ground that, by the terms
of the conveyance from the Paris and Decatur Company to
the purchasing company, the latter assumed "all the bonded
and floating indebtedness" of the selling company It is contended that, both from the contract and by general principles,
the purchasing company is bound to bear alone all expenses
that will impair the security of the Paris and Decatur mortgage, and especially the expenses of running the road as a
public servitude, and that the court and the receivers are
bound by the same .limitation. The idea underlying this view
is, that the receiver appointed by the court is merely the agent
of the purchasing company, and his management of the purchased road is merely a continuation of the management of
the purchasing company The view taken by the commissioner, and confirmed by the Circuit Court, was, that the receiver, as an executive officer of the court, was entrusted with
all the properties committed to his charge, to use and preserve
them, under the direction of the court, for the benefit of all
parties in interest, that the receiver sustained the same relation to the bondholders of each of. the constituent companies,
that, as the property of each of them has been used and preserved for the benefit of its bondholders, it is equitable that
each property should contribute its just proportion towards
defraying the necessary expenses, that, as the Peoria, Atlanta
and Decatur mortgage was executed more than two years
before the purchase of the Paris and Decatur road, and as the
obligation of operating the latter road, assumed by the purchasing company, was an ordinary liability and an unsecured
obligation, the equities of the Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

bondholders require that the expenses of operating the purchased road, whether before or after the appointment of a
receiver, should not take precedence, out of the coiyus of the
property of the purchasing company, over its bonds, issued
and negotiated before the transfer, to the exoneration of the
bonds of the purchased road, and that it is more equitable
that the expenses of the receivership, incurred under the direction of the court for the benefit of one road as well as the
other, should be borne, by each proportionally We think
these views are correct, and that it is right to measure the
proportions according to the lengths of the roads.
Borg and others complain of the following part of the final
decree "That Waring Brothers hold nine hundred and ninetyfour (994) bonds of the Paris and Decatur Railroad Company,
from which the first five coupons have been detached, the
numbers of which bonds are given in ' Schedule F-Exchanged
Paris and Decatur bonds,' attached to said special commissioner's last mentioned report," (filed January 15, 1885), "that
there is now due on said 994 bonds the principal sum of
$497,000, -with interest thereon as provided in said bonds and
the coupons thereto attached, the principal and interest to this
date amounting to the sum of $859,589.13, and that said Warmg Brothers are entitled to the full benefit and advantage of
said 994 bonds, the same as if said bonds had not been exchanged for those of the Illinois Midland Railway Company,
and as if there had been no cancellation or attempted cancellation of the same, and it is ordered by the court, that, upon
the surrender into court, for cancellation, by said Waring
Brothers, of bonds of the Illinois Midland Company to an
amount equal to the said 994 bonds of the Paris and Decatur
Railroad Company, then the said 994 bonds of the Paris and
Decatur Railroad Company shall be held, and are hereby declared to be, in full force and unsatisfied, in the hands of said
Waring Brothers, the same and with like effect as the other
said valid outstanding bonds of the said Paris and Decatur
Railroad Company, any exchange or cancellation thereof to
the contrary notwithstanding; and the special commissioner
hereinafter appointed is directed to hold for cancellation such

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLIN OIS MIDLAND CO.

471

Opinion of the Court.

Illinois Midland Railway bonds, when so surrendered, and to
report the fact of such surrender, and holding for cancellation,
to the court." The report of the commissioner shows that
each of the 994 bon(ls has the word "cancelled" stamped
thereon, and each has a hole punched through the signature
of the president of the company
The argument on the part of Waring Brothers, to sustain the
above provisions of the decree in regard to the 994 bonds, is,
that the Illinois Midland bonds, amounting to $4,175,000, were
intended to be largely used in retiring, by exchange, the bonds
of the three sectional roads, amounting to $2,780,000, that, in
the agreements made between Hervey and Grant Brothers 4&
Co., and between Hervey and Waring Brothers, and between
Waring Brothers and Grant Brothers & Co., in regard to the
issuing of Illinois Midland bonds, and the exchange of the
bonds of the sectional roads for them, the underlying contract"
was that the three sectional companies should be legally consolidated, so as to make the new Illinois -Midlandmortgage to
be issued a first lien on the entire property, that the three
parties above named owned, among them, all but a few of the
Peoria, Atlanta and Decatur bonds, and all of the Paris and
Terre Haute bonds, and a large portion of the Paris and Decatur bonds, that the agreement was, as understood by all
parties, that the sectional bonds should be exchanged for the
new Illinois Midland bonds, dollar for dollar, and that, as to
such of the Paris and Decatur bonds as should not be retired
by exchange, an equal amount, of the new Illinois Midland
bonds should be destroyed, that, under this arrangement,
Grant Brothers & Co. and Waring Brothers would surrender
their sectional bonds, secured by sectional first mortgages, and
accept in lieu thereof Illinois Midland bonds, secured by what
would be a first mortgage on the three Toads, subject to the
unexchanged Paris and Decatur bonds, that the written contracts on the subject stipulated that the three railroads should
be "consolidated into one company under the name of the Illinois Midland Railroad Company;" that the purchases and
fusion which took place were not a consolidation, within the
meaning of the contracts, and that what was contracted for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

was to be not merely a consolidation of the properties of the
three companies, so that all those properties should pass to the
ownership of one of the companies, but a consolidation of the
companies themselves, they to be so united as to become one
company and one artificial body
We are unable to concur in this view, and are of opinion
that what was done was a substantial compliance with the
contracts. What Hervey did m procuring the sales of the
roads, and the change of the name of the purchasing company, and in making the new mortgage and bonds, was done
with the concurrence of Grant Brothers & Co. and Waring
Brothers. The exchanges made of the Paris and Decatur bonds
for the Midland bonds were not isolated transactions, but followed as parts of one transaction, by which the roads were
united and the new bonds created and exchanged. The transaction contemplated by the contracts was fully performed, and
the Paris and Decatur bonds, which Waring Brothers surrendered, were exchanged and surrendered specifically for cancellation. In the contract of July 4, 1874, between Waring
Brothers and Grant Brothers & Co., it was provided that 907
Paris and Decatur bonds held by Waring Brothers should be
exchanged for 907 of the new bonds of the Illinois Midland
Company, and cancelled. The evidence and the written contracts show that it was contemplated by the parties, including
Waring Brothers, that such of the Paris and Decatur bonds as
should not be surrendered and exchanged should retain their
precedence over the Illinois Midland bonds, and their priority
of lien on the Paris and Decatur property In the contract
between Hervey and Grant Brothers & Co., of July 4, 1874, it
was agreed that the latter should retain in their hands Illinois
Midland bonds equal in amount to any Paris and Decatur
bonds which should be outstanding, and should cancel and
return to Hervey all Paris and Decatur bonds which should
be exchanged by their holders for Illinois Midland bonds, and
that if, after July 1, 1876, there should be any outstanding
unexchanged Paris and Decatur bonds, Grant Brothers & Co.,
should cancel and return to Hervey an amount of Illinois Midland bonds equal to the amount of the then outstanding unex-

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

473

Opinion of the Court.

changed Paris and Decatur bonds. In the schedule to the
agreement of July 4, 1874, between Grant Brothers & Co.
and Waring Brothers, it was stated that the Illinois Midland
bonds were to be issued "subject and in subordination only to
such bonds already issued by the Paris and Decatur Railroad
Company as for the time being shall be existing and be preferentially charged on the portion of the undertaking which shall
have been constituted with or represent the undertaking of the
said last mentioned railway company" The president of the
Union Trust Company was advised of these agreements, m
December, 1874. Waring Brothers surrendered to Grant
Brothers & Co. 887 Paris and Decatur bonds and took from
them this receipt
"LoNDoN, February 17, 1875.

"leceived from Messrs. Waring Brothers. 885 bonds of Paris
and Decatur Railroad Co., as per attached list, in exchange for
a like number of Illinois Midland bonds, in fulfilment of first
clause of our agreement of July 4th, 1874, the difference between
885 bonds and 907 bonds mentioned in agreement having been
drawn and cancelled between date of agreement and the present
time, which 885 bonds of Paris and Decatur Railroad Co. are
to be cancelled forthwith, in accordance with said agreement.
GRANT BioTnRus & Co."

In the agreement made as late as May 4, 1877, between
Grant Brothers & Co. and Waring Brothers, it was agreed that
the former should use their best exertions "to obtain the exchange of the outstanding Paris and Decatur bonds which have
not yet been exchanged for Illinois Midland bonds, so as to
complete the amalgamation."
The exchange and surrender of the 885 bonds was a completed transaction. No surrender of any of the Paris and Decatur bonds by any one was made dependent on the surrender
of any others of them or of the whole. Each person who surrendered gave up his lien under the Paris and Decatur mortgage, and took one under the Illinois Midland mortgage, as it
was, and took the risk of its value. He left those who did not
surrender to hold under the Paris and Decatur mortgage.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

There was no contingency and no reservation on the part of
those surrendering. The surrender was for cancellation and
was cancellation. The Illinois Midland mortgage and bonds
were and are valid. All parties got what they contracted
for.
In regard to the other 109 Paris and Decatur bonds (to
make up the 994 exchanged bonds now presented by Warmg
Brothers, as holders), each of them is stamped with the word
"cancelled," and each has a hole punched through the signature of the president of the company In 1872, Warig
-Brothers purchased from Grant Brothers & Co. 928 Paris and
Decatur bonds. July 4, 1874, they still held 907 of them.
February 17, 1875, they had only 885. Afterwards Gems,
acting for them and for Grant Brothers & Co., brought with
him from London to the United States all the Paris and Decatur
bonds which had been surrendered by any one and cancelled,
receiving them from the custody of Grant Brothers & Co.
These bonds included not only the 885, but undoubtedly the 22
others mentioned in the receipt, and 87 more necessary to make
up the 994. All of the 109 bonds being marked cancelled, and
the evidence as to the entire 994 being what it is, it must be
held that the 109, as well as the 885, were exchanged, surrendered and cancelled, and that the decree is erroneous and must
be reversed in regard to all of the 994.
The decree provides that the special commissioner, charged
with its execution as to a sale, shall first offer the three railroad
properties for sale each separately, and four locomotive engines
(on which there is a specific lien) separately, and all other property acquired by the receivers otherwise than from said railroad
companies separately, and, after having so offered said properties, shall then offer the whole of them for sale en masse,
and, if the highest bid received by him for the entire properties
shall exceed the aggregate amount of the several highest bids
for them when offered separately, then the whole shall be
struck off and sold as an entirety to the person making the
bid, and the proceeds be divided into five parts, in proportion
to the amounts bid separately, on the five constituent parts,
and distributed to the lienholders and bondholders m the

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

475

Opimon of the Court.

same manner as if the five constituent parts had been sold
separately
Borg and others object to that provision, and claim that the
holders of the unexchanged Paris and Decatur bonds are entitled to have a separate sale of the property covered by the
Paris and Decatur mortgage. We have considered the views
urged in opposition to the above clause, but are of opinion that
under it, taken m connection with all the other provisions
of the decree, the rights of the Paris and Decatur bondholders
are sufficiently secured and that they have substantially the
benefit of a separate sale. No one of all parties can get Jess
by the sale in gross.
The appeal of the Union Trust Company does not cover any
thing not embraced in the appeal of Borg and others.
The appeal of Waring Brothers is next to be considered.
They object that certain claims of theirs under the head of
" liscellaneous" in schedule M to the commissioner's report,
part of the receiver's indebtedness, are by the decree declared
to be subordinate to the mortgages and bonds of the three sectional roads, namely
"830,322.09. Claim assigned by Terre Haute and Indianapolis Railroad Company
$14,140.67. Terminal facilities at west end, assigned by
Toledo, Peoria and Warsaw Railroad Company
$54,900. Loan account, allowed by order of court, June
11, 1884.
$32,000. Loan account, allowed by order of court, June
11, 1884.
$29,064.8,. Rees' notes, allowed by order of court, June
11, 1884."
As to the $30,322.09, Waring Brothers bought the claim in
August, 1877, from the Terre Haute and Indianapolis Company The receivership owed that amount to that company
for rent of track, materials supplied and traffic balances. The
$14,140.67 was a claim bought by Waring Brothers, m September, 1877, from the receiver of the Toledo, Peoria and War-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

saw Company It was for rent of track, stores supplied and
labor performed. As to both of these items, the debts were
contracted by the receiver, and fall within the principle under
which claims of like character are allowed priority
As to the items of $54,900 and $32,000, "Loan Account,"
the commissioner, in his first report, made this statement "The
Loan Account.. Receiver Genis borrowed of the First National
Bank of Terre Haute the sum of $57,400 for the current expenses of the road, upon which he paid $2500, leaving a balance due the bank of $54,900. He had also a running loan
account with MeKeen & Co., another banking-house in Terre
Haute, for moneys borrowed for the use of the road, upon which
there is a balance due the bank of $32,000. These moneys
were borrowed by the receiver as such, but the greater part
thereof was further secured by the personal obligations of Mr.
Gems or Waring Brothers. The transactions are, therefore,
characterized by Mr. Freidenberg's counsel, as the personal accounts of those parties, and not the accounts of the receiver as
such. But, even if it were true that these moneys were those
of Mr. Genis individually, yet, if it were further true that Mr.
Genis was authorized to make the expenditures for the protection, reparation or safety of the trust estate, and if he advanced
his own moneys for that purpose, he could, I think, on principle, have a lien on the trust estate for moneys so advanced.
.Sewv _Nicoll, 73 N Y 131. But there appears to have been
no express authority from the court to borrow these moneys.
While a receiver entrusted with the operation of a railroad
must necessarily be allowed a certain discretion as to outlays of
money made in good faith in the ordinary course of business,
and to a certain extent the details of the business must be left
to his discretion, yet transactions of such magnitude as the loans
in question are, I think, unwarrantable without the previous
authority of the court, and the conduct of the receiver in this
respect ought not to be sanctioned, and certainly cannot be
permitted to become a precedent. At the same time, the evidence appears to show that the sums so borrowed were applied
directly to pay the expenses of the receivership, repairs, supplies,
pay-rolls, or to replace .moneys which had been so applied.

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

471

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Gems' testimony is very specific on these points. He says
that, after applying the income of the road towards expenses,
(repairs, supplies, pay-rolls,) and, when he could not longer postpone payment of balance, he had to borrow While reprehending this unauthorized action, yet as the money was applied for
repairs on the property and expenses of adriinistering the trust,
and as the transaction was thus beneficial to the parties in interest, and as no bad faith appears to be imputed to the lenders,
it seems to me that the rejection of these claims, as against the
lenders, would be harsh and inequitable. And, as Waring
Brothers, upon whose credit, in part at least, these sums were
advanced, have since paid the same to the original lenders, and
taken an assignment of the claims, I see no reason why they
are not likewise entitled to payment." In the opinion on this
report the Circuit Court said that it approved the conclusions
of the commissioner as to "Loan Account." In the interlocutory decree of June 11, 1884, is this clause "And the court
approves the findings and conclusions of the said special commissioner under the head of ' The Loan Account,' in said report,
and finds that the receiver borrowed of the First National Bank
of Terre haute, Ind., and of fcKeen & Co., bankers, certain
sums of money, which he applied directly to pay the necessary
expenses of the execution of his trust herein, and that there are
balances of $54,900 and $32,000, respectively, due on account
of such loans, and the court orders, adjudges and decrees that
the holders of said claims are entitled to priority of payment
out of the trust estate, before payment of bonds." But, by the
final decree, the items of $54,900 and $32,000 arg declared to
be subordinate to the mortgage bonds, while allowed as indebtedness contracted by the receivers. We are of opihion that
these two claims ought not to be allowed priority The debts
were contracted without the previous authority of the court.
The amounts were large, and we cannot sanction the action
of the receiver in borrowing sums of money so large in amount,
without the previous authority of the court, even though the
purposes to which the moneys were applied were such as is
shown.
As to the item of $29,064.84, it consists of eight notes given
by receiver Rees, in May and December, 1818, as shown by
0

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

Exhibit X to the first report of the commissioner, in regard to
which the commissioner said, in that report, under the head of
"Accounts of Waring Brothers:" "The acceptances or notes
of Dole and Rees, Exhibit X, aggregating $29,064.81, are contested upon the ground that those receivers had no power to
contract the debts. Mr. Genis' explanation of the item appears on page 140 of the abstract. Seven of the eight notes
appear to have been given for legitimate and necessary purposes,
such as rent of railroad track, repairing of engine, purchase of
stationary engine, money advanced for general expenses, etc.,
etc. The several amounts were small, and, I think, within the
discretion of the receiver to contract. It would be very trying
on the court, as well as receiver, if the latter, in operating a
railroad, were compelled to obtain the sanction of the court
for all sums as small as these. The last item, of $7000, is
more vigorously contested. An account of the transaction is
given by Mir. Gems, (Abstract, 192). Waring Brothers were
desirous that Rees should resign, and Gems, on their behalf,
acceded to his demand for the payment of a forfeiture provided in Rees' private contract of employment with Waring
Brothers, as a condition precedent to his resignation, and thus
he ended his agency and his receivership at the same time.
The payment of the forfeiture was made out of Waring
Brothers' own funds, and there is no claim that it is a charge
against the trust fund. On the day Rees resigned, he further
insisted that Waring Brothers should advance moneys with
which to pay a certain claim before he resigned. This was a
debt of $7000 to a bank. It was a debt of the receivership,
upon which he was also personally liable. On page 141, abstract, speaking of this item, -Mr.Genis says ' The last item,
$7000, is cash given Mr. Rees, as receiver, and passed into the
general funds, as the books will show' It is broadly charged
that this transaction was bribery, and that the bribe is now
asked to be repaid out of the trust funds. Undoubtedly the
debt paid was a debt of the receivership, the trust fund got the
benefit of the payment, and the only benefit Rees received
was his release as surety upon a debt of the receivership.
Waring Brothers' money was loaned to the receiver, and was
used by him to pay a debt for which the receivership was

UITION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

479

Opimon of the Court.

primarily liable, and the fact that such payment was demanded by the retiring receiver, does not make it any the less
a present debt against the receivership." In its opinion on
that report- the Circuit Court said that it approved the commissioner's conclusions as to "Accounts of Waring Brothers,"
and, in the decree of June 11, 1884, it stated that "the court
approves the findings and conclusions of said special commissioner under the head of ' Accounts of Wring Brothers,' but
the question of the priority of the item of $29,064.84, over the
bonds appears to have been reserved by that decree. In the
final report of the commissioner, under the head of " Relative
equities of receiver's floating indebtedness and the mortgage
bonds," after discussing the subject at length, he said "I am,
therefore, of opinion that all just indebtedness contracted by
the receivers in the execution of their trust and in the operation of the road, including claims for labor and supplies, liabilities incurred in sustaining necessary business relations with
other railroad companies, liabilities as a common carrier,
damages to persons and property in operating the roads, obligations to shippers properly incurred in due course of business,
and other claims, if any, of like character, and coming within
the same principle, are entitled to priority in payment over
bonds." But in the final decree, the item of $29,064.84 is not
given such priority We are of opinion that this item cannot
be allowed priority, for the reason that the borrowing of the
money for which the notes were given was not sanctioned in
advance by the court. Though made up of amounts not, perhaps, large in themselves, the aggregate cannot be called
small, and there never could be any difficulty in obtaining an
order of the court, if one were proper, to borrow money to a
specified total amount, for specific purposes. In any event,
the item of $7000 could not be allowed priority, as the purposes for which that sum was used were not sufficiently shown.
Waring Brothers also object because the final decree orders
that the "rents due Waring Brothers, for use of rolling-stock,
as shown by Schedules U and W of" the final "report of the
special commissioner," and "the sum of $21,099.43 due Waring Brothers for extraordinary depreciation of rolling-stock,"
be subordinated to the mortgage bonds of the three sectional

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

roads respectively The net amount due for the above rents,
as stated in those schedules, with interest to January 15, 1885,
is $325,354.35, and that amount is allowed as a debt by the
commissioner. The court did not allow it priority, and we
see no sufficient ground for reversing the decision. The same
conclusion is reached as to the item for $21,099.43.
Waring Brothers also object because the court did not, in
the final decree, specifically allow ten claims of theirs, amounting to $67,488.81, set forth under the head of " Right of way
claims and outstanding titles," in Schedule I to the second
report of the commissioner, and give them priority to the
mortgage bonds, and because that decree remitted the holders
of those claims to such suits as they might "properly bring in
any court of competent jurisdiction against the company alleged to be liable thereon, or against the purchaser or purchasers" at the sale to be made under the decree. We see no
error in the decree in this respect, nor an its failure to allow
interest on the items of $4500, $9100 and $17,001.47, nor in
its failure to allow more to Waring Brothers for right of way,
land, buildings and mechanics' liens, or to make any different
provision from that made in regard to the use of any claims
by them in payment of the railroad property, if they should
purchase it, nor in its failure to give precedence over the
mortgage bonds to the claims of Waring Brothers, called "six
months' supply claims."
We come now to the appeal of S. A. Fletcher & Co. They
are the holders of the three certificates of the 17th series,
and the four certificates of the 18th series, before mentioned,
and allowed with priority, and of seven other receiver's certificates named in Schedule N to the commissioner's second
report, and allowed with priority, seven of the entire fourteen
having been issued under one of the two orders before mentioned, each dated June 29, 1881, and the other seven under
the other of those two orders. The Circuit Court, in its final
decree, reserved for future determination all questions of the
relative priorities and equities among those who were given
liens prior to the mortgage bonds, in case the respective properties should not sell for amounts in excess respectively of
the liens to which precedence was given over the mortgage

UNION TRUST CO. v. ILLINOIS MIDLAND CO.

481

Opimon of the Court.

debts. S. A. Fletcher & Co. appeal from that part of the
decree, and insist that the decree ought to have found that. the
receiver's certificates held by them were liens of the force,
character and effect, and to the extent, provided by the two
orders of June 29, 1881, according to the purport of the certificates, and entitled to priority of payment over all bonds and
debts, and all receiver's debts and certificates, except the receiver's certificates specially excepted in those orders. By each
of the orders of June 29, 1881, each certificate to be issued
under it was declared to be a special charge and lien on the
line and property in respect of which it should be issued, superior in lien to all mortgage bonds and debts of the company,
and receiver's debts, except such receiver's debts as had theretofore been declared by order of court to be special charges
and liens on such line and property We are of opinion that
(with the exception of debts for taxes and receiver's certificates
issued to borrow money to -pay taxes, or to discharge tax liens)
there should be no priority or preference among the debts and
claims, whether receiver's certificates or other debts, which are
allowed precedence over the mortgage bonds of any road, but
that all should stand alike, notwithstanding any orders heretofore made, and that the decree should so provide.
It results that the decrees are reversed so far as they allow to
farzng Brothers the benefit of the 994 Parisand -Decatur
bonds as unexchanged and uncancelled bonds, and so far
as they deny prwrity over the Pars and Decatur bonds to
the items of $30,322.09 and $14,140.67, and so far as they
fail to provide that there shall be no przority or prference (with the exception above statecT) among the debts and
claims, whether receiver's certificates or other debts, whwh
are allowed'precedenceover the mortgage bonds of any road,
and the causes are remanded to the Circuit Court, with a
direction to make those modifications in the decrees; and in
all other respects the decrees are.afflrmed. .2ro costs are
allowed in this court for or aganst any party, and the
exfpense of printing the record ss to be borne equally by
Borg and others and War-ing Brothers.
VOL.

cxvii-81

