AKERS v. AKERS.
Statement of Facts.

proved, nor did he rely upon any act of fraud, and for that
reason he refused to set aside the sale, but permitted, under a
new prayer m the bill, the appellee to redeem on payment of
the debt, interest and all costs, including fees of counsel. The
counsel of appellee in the brief expressly declines to rely upon
an actual fraud on the part of Graffam. In our opinion there
is no evidence of such misconduct on his part as afforded any
ground, in law or equity, to justify appellee in her failure to
redeem from the sale. There is no reason why she did not
pay the judgment rendered against her, of which she had full
notice. Cettainly no obstruction was interposed to her exercise of the right of redemption, and no promise made to induce
her to forego it. Yet, after Graffam had acquired a complete
legal title under judicial proceedings which were unimpeachable, the court treats the case as if the whole matter was still
z nferz, and gives further time for redemption.
I do not deem it appropriate to enter into the discussion of
the evidence in this case, but I dissent from the judgment and
the opinion of the court as leading to evil results, in discrediting judicial sales, and embarrassing the due and just exercise
of the right of redemption, by turning it into a question of
judicial discretion.
JUSTICES WooDs, MATTHEWS and GRAY concur m this opinion.

AKERS,. Executor v. AKERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

FOR THE

Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided March 8, 1886.

A suit cannot be removed from a State court under the act of March 3, 1875,
unless the reqisite citizenship for removal existed when the suit was begun, as well as when the application for removal was made.
Gibson v. Bruce, 108 U. S. 561 affirmed and applied.

This cause was commenced in a State court of Tennessee in
Mlarch, 1882. In the following October an order for its re-

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opnion of the Court.

moval into the Circuit Court of the United States, founded on
a petition of defendant's, which averred, among other things,
"that the controversy in said suit is between citizens of different States, and that the petitioner is a citizen of the State
of Kentucky," was made. The Circuit Court on the 25th October, 1882, made the following order and judgment.
"The petition for the removal of this case from the State
court to this court failing to aver that the parties were citizens
of different States at the commencement of this suit, and it
further appearing from the admission of said parties that both
plaintiff and defendant were citizens of Tennessee at the time
said suit was commenced, the court entertains the opinion
that it is without jurisdiction, and doth thereupon order and
adjudge that the cause be remanded to the Circuit Court of
Davidson County, the tribunal from which it came, and it is
further considered by the court that the plaintiff have and recover of the defendant his costs incurred in this court, for
which execution is awarded, to which judgment of the court
the defendant then and there excepted."
The defendant sued out this writ of error to review that
judgment. On motion of the defendant in error the cause
was advanced under Rule 32, and was then submitted.
.r

&. Vatson for defendant in error.

No appearance for plaintiff in error.
Mr. CmiEF

The order
of Gibson v.
the plaintiff
the time the

delivered the opinion of the court.
remanding this cause is affirmed on the authority
Bruce, 108 U. S. 561, it being admitted that both
and the defendant were citizens of Tennessee at
suit was brought.
Affirmed.
JusTiCE-WAITE

