APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

255

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAr delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an original application by W L. Royall, to this court.
for a writ of habeas corpus, directed to N. M. Lee, sergeant of
the city of Richmond, Virginia, commanding him to produce
the body of the petitioner before this court, together with the
cause of his detention, that he may be discharged from the
custody of said officer. The writ is asked upon the ground
that the statute under which he was arrested and is held in
custody is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
and, consequently, that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of that instrument. The petition was filed here on the
1st day of December, 1884. It states the same facts as are set
out in the petition in -x parte 1oyall Hfo. 1, and Ex _parte
]?oyall -Mo. 2, ante, 241, just determined.
The application for the writ must be denied. It is sufficient
to say that if this court has power, under existing legislation,
and upon habeas corpus, to discharge the petitioner, who is in
custody, under the process of a State court of original jurisdiction, for trial on an indictment charging him with an offence
against the laws of that State-upon which it is not necessary
to express an opinion-such power ought not, for the reasons
given in the other cases just decided, to be exercised in advance
of his trial.
.Dewted.

APPLEGATE & Others v. LEXINGTON & CARTER
COUNTY MINING COMPANY & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued March 4, 1886.-Decided March 15, I86.
When an ancient deed forms part of the original papers in a suit in a court of
record to determine the title to land to which the deed relates, the record of
the case is admissible against persons who are not parties or privies to the
suit in order to prove the antiquity of the deed and to account for its custody.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
An ancient, incontradicted, and apparently genuine certificate of a recorder
that a deed was recorded in a specified year long gone by, indorsed upon
the original deed, is competent and sufficient evidence that the deed was
put on record in the year named. Stebbins v. Duncan, 108 U. S. 32, affirmed.
When it appears that a deed is at least thirty years old, and that it is found
in proper custody, and possession under it is shown, or other equivalent corroborative proof of authenticity, the deed may be admitted in evidence.
The act of the Legislature of Kentucky, of December 19, 1793, "to establish
District Courts in this Commonwealth," conferred upon such a court jurisdiction over suits to foreclose mortgages upon real estate situated within
its territorial jurisdiction.
When a court of general jurisdiction, empowered by statute to acquire by
constructive notice jurisdiction over rights of non-resident defendants
in property within its jurisdiction, takes jurisdiction of a cause involving
such rights, after ordering service of notice upon an absent defendant in
the manner required by the statute and after the lapse of the requisite
time for service, and adjudges the case, it will be presumed that every step
necessary to obtain jurisdiction has been taken, unless the statute requires
evidence of it to appear in the record.

This suit was in the nature of an action of ejeotment to recover possession of a tract of land formerly in Mason County,
but now in Greenup, Carter, and Boyd Counties, in Kentucky
The plaintiffs in error were the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court.
They alleged in their petition that they were the lineal heirs
of Carey L. Clark, who died seized of a tract of eight thousand
three hundred and thirty-four acres. part of a tract of eighteen
thousand acres, granted by patent from the Commonwealth of
Virginia, dated April 21, 1792, to Charles Fleming, from whom
their ancestor, Carey L. Clark, derived title by a regular chain
of conveyances, that the plaintiffs were the owners, and entitled to the possession of the land sued for, and that the defendants had unlawfully entered upon and unlawfully withheld
possession of the same.
The defendants, by their answers, denied these allegations,
and averred that they were seized of the premises by paramount title. The answers were traversed by the plaintiffs'

reply
There was a jury trial. The plaintiffs, to sustain the issue
on their part, offered in evidence the following documents as
links in their chain of title

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

257

Statement of Facts.
1. A copy, duly certified from the land office of the State of
Kentucky, of the patent from the State of Virginia to Charles
Fleming, for the tract of land of which the land m controversy
was originally a part.
2. A copy of the will of Charles Fleming, devising a moiety
of said tract of land to William Fleming, John Bernard, Jr.,
and Richard Bernard, as trustees.
3. A copy of a deed from Samuel Sackett and wife to Joseph Conkling and others, dated August 29, 1795, for the particular land in controversy in this case, together with certain
other tracts that had been patented by the State of Virginia
to Charles Fleming.
4. A copy of a mortgage from-Joseph Conkling and others,
the grantees above named, to Samuel Sackett, the grantor
above named, conveying the same lands as above, and dated
August 29, 1795.
5. A copy of a deed from William Fleming and the Bernards, trustees as above under the will of Charles Fleming, to
John Bryan, conveying to Bryan the lands devised to them by
the will of Fleming, and dated December 31, 1796.
6. The original of the deed last named.
'7. A copy of a deed from John Bryan and wife to Samuel
Sackett, dated January 28, 1797, conveying the same land conveyed to Bryan by deed last above named.
8. The original of the deed last above named.
9. The original of a deed from Charles Fleming, dated August 8, 1794, to John and William Bryan, conveying to them
13,300 acres of the land that had been patented to said Charles
Fleming and being part of the 18,000 acre tract, of which tract
the land in controversy is also a part.
10. A certified copy from the Mason County Circuit Court
of the record in the case of Carey L. Clark v Joseph Conkling
and others, in which Clark, as the assignee of the above mentioned mortgage of Joseph Conkling and others to Samuel
Sackett, brought suit to foreclose the same.
It was shown that a short time before the trial in the Circuit Court, deeds 6, 8, and 9 were discovered in the office of,
the clerk of the Circuit Court of Greenup County, Kentucky,
VOL. CX='-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendants m Error.

among the original papers in a suit brought there in 1816 to
quiet title to part of the land conveyed by the deed of William
Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan. The deeds were
produced by the clerk in obedience to a subpoena duces teoum.
The court admitted in evidence the first four of the documents above mentioned. All the others were rejected, namely,
the original and the copy of the deed from William Fleming
and the Bernards to John Bryan, the original and the copy of
the deed from Bryan to Sackett, the original of the deed from
Charles Fleming to John and William Bryan, and the copy of
the record from the Mason County Circuit Court in the case
of 0lark v Conkling and others.
The court having excluded these documents, the plaintiffs
were unable to trace title to themselves for the premises in
controversy, thereupon the jury, under the instruction of the
court, returned a verdict for the defendants, upon which the
court rendered judgment, and the plaintiffs sued out this writ
of error.
ilfr Dawd IF Armstrong for plaintiffs in error. Xr WF
TTHelm was with in on his brief. 2r IV T Crutchftld,
also for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his brief.
.r Edward F Dulin and ifr 7oh7n F Hager, for defendants in error, submitted on their brief.
I. A copy of a deed is admissible as evidence only when
acknowledgment or proof thereof is legally sufficient to entitle
it to record. Edwards v Hannah, 5 J J Marsh. 117, Winlock v Hardy, 4 Littell, 272, Taylor v Bush, 5 T. B. Mon.
84, Harms v Prwce, 14 B. Mon. 414, Carpenter v Dexter, 8
Wall. 513, Carter v Ckampzon, 8 Conn. 549, DelTitt v _Aioulton, 17 Maine, 418, Tilman v Cowand, 12 Sm. & Marsh. 262,
Iferns v Swope, 2 Watts, 75.
IL Mere antiquity of a deed is not sufficient to entitle it to
be read as evidence, nor can the record of it, against one not a
party, be received as corroborating proof of its execution.
Dams v Wood, 1 Wheat. 6, Tappan v Beardsley, 10 Wall.
427, Owzngs v. Hull, 9 Pet. 607, Fenwwk v ffacy, 2 B.

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

259

Argument for Defendants m Error.

Mon. 469, Beckwith v JAarrymav, 2 Dana, 371, Samuels
v -Hall,9 B. Mon. 374, Sargeant v State Bank of ]idian,
12 How. 31, Leww v. Iobards,3 T. B. Mon. 406, Crowderv
Hopkins, 10 Paige, 183, Starzng v. Bowen, 6 Barb. 109, Jackson-v. Blanshan, 3 Johns. 292, Willson v Betts, 4 Demo, 201,
Clark v Owens, 18 N. Y 434, R-dgley v ohnson, 11 Barb.
527.
III. The Washington District Court had no power to hear
and determine the cause. This is the test of jurisdiction,
Grzgnon's Lessee v. Astor, 2 How 338, to be determined by
statute, not by common law or usage. -Dunnv .Mc3Eillen, 1
Bibb, 409.
The act in question is that of 1196, Vol. I. Morehead &
Brown's Statutes, 91, 94, and is directory of the method of
proceeding in courts of equity against absent debtors or other
absent defendants. It is evident that Clark's suit was brought
and attempted to be maintained under the fourth section of
this act. As we read and understand the first section, it authorized proceedings against absent defendants only in cases
where debts were due them or their effects were in the hands
of some one resident of Kentucky, and was restricted in this
application to choses in action and other personal property
The second and third sections refer alone to the methods of
procedure in cases authorized by the first. The fourth section,
in like manner, was restricted in its application to personalty,
and is to be construed as regulating proceedings on attachments
against absconding debtors. Persuasive evidence in favor of
such construction is found in the history of legislative enactments following the act of 1796. The act of 1800 (p. 94) authorized a resident joint tenant to sue for an adjustment of any
claim to land held in joint tenancy The act of 1802 was to
permit a suit in chancery to obtain a division of lands against
absent and unknown heirs. The act of 1815 (p. 97) enlarged
the application of the act of 1802, but not until 1827 (see act,
p. 98) was there any law of Kentucky by which the real estate
of absent defendants could be subjected to sale for their debts.
See H7are v Bryant, 7 J. J Marsh. 375.
IV The record is void because the facts essential to the ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ereise of the jurisdiction do not appear therein. Section 2, act
of 1796, I., i. & B. Stat. Ky 92, prescribes that the court
shall appoint some day in the next succeeding term for
the absent defendant, or defendants, to enter his or their
appearance and give security for performing the decree, a
copy of which is directed to be forthwith published in the
Kentucky Gazette or Herald, and continued for two months
successively, and further, shall also be published on some
Sunday, immediately after divine service, in such meetinghouse as the court shall direct, and another copy shall be
posted at the front-door of the court-house. The failure
to appear and give security, authorized the court to take
such proof as the complainant should offer, and if thereupon satisfied, to order the bill taken as confessed, and decree
further, etc. In terms the orders conform to the statutory
requirement aforesaid. The record produced contains no
evidence of the fact of publication, not so much as reciting
formally the existence of jurisdictional facts. The entire proceeding, it appears, was wholly ex parte. As in Galpv v. Page,
18 Wall. 350, presumption of service ordinarily arising from
the existence of a judgment cannot be raised in favor of this
record. Also see Hart v Grzgeby, 14 Bush, 54:2, G reen, v
B.eckenrzdge, 4 T. B. Mon. 541, Blight v Banks,. 6 T. B.
Mon. 192, Brownfteld v Dyer, 7 Bush, 505, Long v. -fMontgomery, 6 Bush, 394, G'gsiy v Barr,14 Bush, 333.
MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of th e court.

After stating the case as above reported, he continued.
We shall first consider the exclusion of the original deed
from Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan, and the original deed from John Bryan to Samuel Sackett. We are of
opinion that they should have been admitted in evidence.
They have been certified to and inspected by this court. Their
appearance affords strong evidence of their genuineness and
antiquity, and they are free from any badge that would excite
suspicion of fraud or forgery In support of their genuineness
it was shown that a short time before the trial in the Circuit
Court they were discovered by one of the plaintiffs' attorneys

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

261

Opnon of the Court.

in the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court of Greenup County,
Kentucky, among the original papers of a suit m that court
brought by one James Hughes v. The Hezrs of Thomas Shore, on
July 15, 1816, to quiet his title to sixteen thousand acres of land
in Greenup County, part of the lands conveyed by the deed of
William Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan. The deeds
and the original papers in that suit were produced by a clerk
of the Greenup Circuit Court in obedience to a subpcena dices
tecum. The record of this case was admissible against persons
not parties or privies, to prove the collateral fact of the antiquity of the original deeds offered in evidence and to account
for their custody Barr v. Gratz, 4 Wheat. 213, 220.
The bill of Hughes averred that lie derived title under
the patent to Chaxles Fleming, and by virtue of the devise
in his will to William Fleming and the Bernards, and the
deeds of William Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan,
and of John Bryan to Samuel Sackett. The complainant
Hughes offered by his bill "to produce said patent and deeds
showing the deduction of title in proper time, or whenever the
court should require it." The two deeds mentioned in the
bill of complaint filed by Hughes correspond with and appear
to be the two original deeds, namely the deed from William
Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan, and the deed from
John Bryan to Samuel Sackett, offered m evidence by the
plaintiffs in this case, which were found among the other papers
in the case of Hughes v. The Hezrs of Shore. These deeds
were necessary exhibits and evidence in the case to entitle
Hughes to the relief prayed for. They were produced from
the files of the highest court of the county where the lands
were situate, from the custody of an officer charged by law
with their care and safe-keeping, where they had been placed
for a necessary and proper use, and from which they could not
be withdrawn without the order and consent of the. court.
Their custody was, therefore, accounted for, and was shown to
be proper and beyond suspicion.
It further appeared that upon the trial of the case of Hughes
v. Shore's Hesrrs, on July 8, 1825, the patent to Charles Fleming from the Commonwealth of Virginia for 16,191 acres of

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

land, the will of Charles Fleming and the said deed of William
Fleming and the Bernards, trustees, to John Bryan, were
offered in evidence. The latter was rejected "because," as the
bill of exception states, "the certificate and seal of the mayor
of Philadelphia" was "not sufficient to authorize it to be read,
and because the same could not be read as a recorded deed, not
having been recorded within the time prescribed by law" And
"because by rejecting this deed complainants' claim of title was
broken and they could not further progress with their evidence,
the court rendered a decree dismissing their bill." It it, therefore, made clear by the evidence offered that at least as early
as the year 1825 the deed of William Fleming and the Bernards to John Bryan was on file in the Circuit Court of Greenup County, and it may be safely inferred that the other documents mentioned by Hughes as his muniments of title were also
on file in the same court at the same time, and that all the
deeds remained in the custody of the court down to the time
when they were produced by the clerk under the subpoena
duces tecum issued in this case, a period of fifty-five years.
Another circumstance relied on to show the genuineness of
the original deeds was that each bore indorsed thereon a certificate apparently ancient and genuine, one with the signature of
the recording officer and the other without signature, to the effect
that the deeds had been recorded in the year 1816. In the case
of Stehbzns v Duncan, 108 U. S. 32, 50, it was held that a certified copy of a memorandum made at the foot of the record of a
deed "recorded June 23d, 1818," and without signature, was
competent and conclusive evidence that the deed had been recorded at the date mentioned. In view, therefore, of the habit
of recorders of deeds, which is universal and matter of common
knowledge, to indorse upon the deeds themselves the fact and
date of their registration, the certificates appearing on the deeds
in question were competent and sufficient evidence of the fact
that the deeds had been put upon record during the year mentioned in the certificates.
We think this evidence, supported by an inspection of the
deeds, was sufficient to justify their admission as ancient deeds
without direct proof of their execution. The rule is that an

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

263

Opimon of the Court.
ancient deed may be admitted in evidence, without direct proof
of its execution, if it appears to be of the age of at least thirty
years, when it is found in proper custody, and either possession
under it is shown, or some other corroborative evidence of its
authenticity, freeing it from all just grounds of suspicion. Thus,
in Barrv. Gratz, 4 Wheat., above cited, a deed from Craig to
:Michael Gratz, dated July 16, 1184, was offered in evidence,
but was not proved by the subscribing witnesses, nor their absence accounted for. Its admission was alleged as error, but
tins court said that. as the deed was more than thirty years old,
and was proved to have been in the possession of the lessors of
the plaintiff, and actually asserted by them as the ground of
their title in a prior chancery suit, it was in the language of
the books sufficiently accounted for, and on this ground, as
well as because it was a part of the videuce in support of the
decree in that suit, it was admissible without the regular proof
of its execution.
So in Caruthersv. Eldredge, 12 Gratt. 670, it was contended
by the plaintiff in error that in no case could a paper be admitted in evidence as an ancient deed, without proof of its execution, until it was first shown that thirty years' quiet and continued possession of the land had been held under the deed. But
the court held, in substance, that an ancient deed may be introduced in evidence without proof of its execution, though possession may not have been held for thirty years in accordance
therewith, if such account be given of the deed as may be reasonably expected under all the circumstances of the case, and as
will afford the presumption that it is genmne.
In HarZan v Howard, 79 Ky 373, the Court of Appeals
states the rule in relation to the proof of ancient deeds thus.,
"The genuineness of such instruments may be shown by other
facts as well as that of possession. And when proof of possession cannot be had, it is within the very essence of the rule to
admit the instrument, where no evidence justifying suspicion
of its genuineness is shown, and it is found in the custody of
those legally entitled to it." See also Vin. Ab., Evidence A.
b. 5, Ancient Deeds, 7, Com. Dig. Evidence, B. 2, 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, ยง 144, and note 1, Starkie on Evidence, 524,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

Phillipps on Evidence, Cowen & Hill's Notes, Part II., note
197, page 368, et sez., 3d ed., note 430, page 400, 5th ed., -Doe
v Pass?.ngham,2 Oar. & P 44:0, Ranclife v Parkyns,6 Dow,
149, 202, Winn v Patterson,9 Pet. 663, Jackson v. Laroway,
3 Johns. Cas. 283, H7ewlett v. Cock, 7 Wend. 371.
In the case last cited, Judge Nelson, afterwards a justice of
this court, said, that there was some confusion in the cases in
England and New York as to the preliminary proof necessary
to authorize an ancient deed to be read in evidence, that possession accompanying the deed was always sufficient without
other proof, but it was not indispensable. He approved the decision in Jackson v. Laroway, ubz supra,which he said had been
recognized as law in Jackson v. Luquere, 5 Cowen, 221, and had
undoubtedly in its favor the weight of English authority
These authorities sustain the rule as we have stated it.
The deeds in question, when offered in evidence, purported
to be over eighty years old, and their appearance tended to
prove their antiquity and their genuineness. The testimony
offered in support of them proved their existence as far back
as the year 1816, and that in that year they had been placed
upon the public record of deeds, where, if properly acknowledged, they would have been entitled to registration. In the
same year in which they were recorded they were mentioned
and referred to in the bill filed by Hughes v Shore's Hezrs as
munments of his title, and he offered to produce them when
required. There is no reason to doubt that they remained in
the rightful custody of the clerk in whose office they had become file papers, until, after a lapse of at least fifty-five years,
they were found and produced upon the trial of the present
case by the officer to whose custody they belonged.
But the proof of the genuineness of both deeds was greatly
strengthened by evidence which applied directly to one only
of the two, namely, the original deed from John Bryan to
Samuel Sackett, dated January 28, 1797.
This consisted of the record of a partition made October 18,
1810, on the application of James Hughes, by commissioners
under authority of a general act of the Legislature of Kentucky, approved December 19, 1796. Hughes claimed the un-

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

265

Opnion of the Court.

divided half of the 18,000 acres conveyed to Charles Fleming
by the Governor of Virginia, by patent dated April 21, 1792,
and alleged as muniments of his title the said patent and the
deed of John Bryan to Samuel Sackett. On the strength of
the title shown by Hughes the commissioners divided the
18,000 acres and set off and conveyed to him the one-half
thereof in severalty, and m their deed of conveyance referred
to the patent to Charles F6nng, and the deed of Bryan to
Sackett, as links in the title of Hughes. The partition thus
made is shown to have been recognized by successive conveyances of parts of the land set off to Hughes and by possession held thereunder. The testimony, therefore, shows that
as early as the year 1810 the deed of Bryan to Sackett was in
existence, that it was recognized as a genuine deed by public
officers whose duty it was to scrutinize it, and was made by
them the basis of their official action, and that possession has
been held of a portion of the land described therein by persons
who trace title through it to the patent to Charles Fleming.
These two deeds under consideration are shown by the record
to have a common history, and to have been relied on as links
in the same chain of title. Testimony, therefore, which is
directly applicable to one only, tends to support the other.
The facts, therefore, which we have just stated in reference to
the deed from Bryan to Sackett, tend to show also the genuineness of the deed from Fleming and the Bernards to Bryan:
We are, therefore, of opinion that the genuineness of both
deeds was proven, and that the court erred in excluding them
from the jury
The offer in evidence of the original deed from Charles
Fleming to John and William Bryan, dated August 8, 1t94,
stands upon substantially the same ground as the two deeds
already considered. The bill of exceptions states that the
plaintiffs offered in support of the competency of this deed the
same evidence as was offered in support of the two last mentioned deeds, that it was found at the same time and place
and produced from the same custody In further support
thereof the plaintiffs produced the clerk of the Mason County
Court, having with him deed book B, containing deeds re.

OCTOBER TERI,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

corded in the clerk's office of that court, beglinnng February
22, 1794, and the two or three years next ensuing, and offered
to show that there was recorded in that book a deed identical
in terms with the aforesaid original deed. They also offered
and read in evidence a copy of the deed duly certified from
the clerk s office of the Mason County Circuit Court, with a
copy of the certificate thereto appended showing that the
original deed was recorded in the year 1794. It follows, from
what we have said in relation to the admissibility of the other
original deeds, that this one also should have been received m
evidence, and that the Circuit Court erred in excluding it.
It remains to consider the exclusion by the Circuit Court of
the transcript of the record in the case of Clark v. Conkling.
This was a suit brought by Clark in the District Court, held at
Washington in Mason County, Kentucky, on June 13,1798, as
the assignee of the mortgage from Conkling to Sackett, to foreclose the same, and the record was offered only to show the
orders and decrees of the court in respect to the mortgaged
premises situated within its jurisdiction, and not to prove any
personal decree against the defendants. It appears from the
record in this case that a subpcena having been issued and
returned with the indorsement that the defendants were not
inhabitants of the Commonwealth, the court made the following order, at its November Term, 1798
"The defendants, not having entered their appearance agreeably to an act of assembly and rules of this court, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the court that they are not inhabitants
of this Commonwealth, on the motion of the complainant, by
his attorney, it is ordered that the defendants appepr here on
the third day of our next term and answer the complainants'
bill,. and that a copy of this order be inserted in the Kentucky
Gazette or Herald for two months, successively, another posted
at the door of the court-house of Mason County, and that this
order be published some Sunday at the door of the Baptist
meeting-house in Washington."
In June, 1799, the bill was taken as confessed, and an interlocutory decree made requiring the defendants to pay the money
due on the mortgage. The money not having been paid a de-

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

267

Opinion of the Court.
cree of sale was made at the February term, 1800. The commissioners to make the sale reported on July 19, 1802, that after
public notice they had sold the lands at public sale to Carey L.
Clark, the complainant. Afterwards a final decree was made
foreclosing the defendants of their equity of -redemption in the
premises.
The defendants objected to the introduction of the record,
and the objection was sustained, and the defendants now insist
that the exclusion of the record was right, first, because the
court did not have authority of law to hear and determine the
subject-matter of the suit, nor of suits of the class to which it
belonged, and, sebond, because the record exhibits no proof of
the publication or posting of the notice to the defendants as
required by the laws of Kentucky
We think the first objection is answered by reference to the
statute laws of Kentucky, in force at the time. Section 8 of
the act of the General Assembly of Kentucky, approved December 19, 1795, "to establish District Courts in this Commonwealth," provided as follows "The jurisdiction of the said District Courts, respectively, shall be over all persons, and iia all
causes, matters, and things at common law or in chancery,
arising within their districts," excepting actions of assault and
battery or suits for slander and subjects of controversy of less
than fifty pounds in value. 1 Littell's Laws of Kentucky, 298.
Section 4 of the act approved December 19, 1796, directing
the method of proceeding in courts of equity against absent
debtors and other absent defendants, provides for constructive
service by publication, "in all cases, whatever, when a suit is or
shall be depending in any court of chancery, concerning any
matter or thing whatever, against any absent defendant or
defendants." 1 Stat. (Laws X. & B.), 93. These provisions of
the statute law are ample to confer jurisdiction on the court
where the property in controversy is within its territorial jurisdiction, and are so clear as to require no discussion of the question. For, as was said in G-rmgno's Lessee v. A sor,2 How 338,
"the power to hear and determine a cause is jurisdiction. 1f
the law confers the power to render a judgment or decree, then
the court has jurisdiction."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

But it is objected to the record that it does not show publication and posting of notice to the defendants, as required by
the order of the court and by law
The law is found in section 2 of the act of December 19,
1796, uln supra,and is as follows "The court shall also appoint
some day in the succeeding term for the absent defendant or
defendants to enter his, her, or their appearance to the suit, and
give security for performing the decree, a copy of which order
shall be forthwith published in the Kentucky Gazette or Herald,
and continued for two months successively, and shall also be
published on some Sunday, immediatelv after divine service,
in such church or meeting-house as the court shall direct, and
another copy shall be posted at the front door of the said courthouse."

The plaintiffs in the present case offered evidence outside the
record to prove the fact that the order was published in the
Kentucky Gazette, as required by the statute, by calling the
assistant librarian of the public library at Lexington, "having
with him," as the bill of exceptions states, " printed newspapers which appeared to be of great age, and which purported
to be the original files of the newspaper called the Kentucky
Gazette, published weekly; and plaintiffs showed, in nine successive issues of said newspaper, weekly publications, beginning
with December 12, 1798, and ending with February 7, 1799,
of" the order of the court above mentioned.
But no proof was offered to show the publication of the
order at the church or meeting-house, or the posting of it at
the front door of the court-house. After the lapse of more
than eighty years proof not of record of these facts was clearly
impossible. The fact, therefore, that after the lapse of so long
a time the plaintiffs were able to show that the order of the
court had been obeyed, by its publication in a newspaper, was
persuasive evidence that the other requirements of the order
had also been performed.
But the record contained no proof of the publication and
posting of the notice as required by the statute, and it is insisted by the defendants in this case, that the record itself must
show the publication and posting of the notice as required by

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c.,

IINING CO.

269

Opinion of the Court.

law, otherwise the jurisdiction of the court does not appear,
and its decree is absolutely void.
While it must be conceded that, in order to give the court
jurisdiction over the persons of the defendants, all the steps
pointed out by the statute to effect constructive service on nonresidents were necessary, yet it does not follow that the evidence that the steps were taken must appear in the record,
unless indeed the statute expressly or-by implication requires
it. The court which made the decree in the case of Clark v
Conkling was a court of general jurisdiction. Therefore every
presumption not inconsistent with the record is to be indulged
in, in favor of its jurisdiction. .ermpe's Lessee v -ennedy, 5
Cranch, 173, VFoorhees v Bank of the United States, 10 Pet.
449, Grtgnon v Astor, 2 How 319, HYarvey v Tyler, 2 Wall.
328. It is to be presumed that the court before making its
decree took care to see that its order for constructive service,
on which its right to make the decree depended, had been
obeyed. That this presumption is authorized will appear by
the following cases In Harvey v. Tyler, vubl supra, the court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, said "The jurisdiction which
is now exercised by the common law courts in this country is,
in a very large proportion, dependent upon special statutes
conferring it.
In all cases where the new powers,
thus conferred, are to be brought into action in the usual form
of common law or chancery proceedings, we apprehend there
can be little doubt that the same presumptions as to the jurisdiction of the court and the conclusiveness of its action will be
made, as in cases falling more strictly within the usual powers
of the court." p. 3412.
In H all v -Law, 102 U S. 461, the validity of a partition of
lands, made by a Circuit Court of the State of Indiana, was
attacked. This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Field, said.
"All that" the statute ",designates as necessary to authorize
the court to act is, that there should be an application for the
partition by one or more joint proprietors, after giving notice
of the intended application in a public newspaper for at least
four weeks. When application is, made, the court must consider whether it is by a proper party, whether it is sufficient m

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmnon of the Court.

form and substance, and whether the requisite notice has been
given, as prescribed. Its order made thereon is an adjudication in these matters." pp. 463-464.
The case of Foareees v Bank of the United States, 10 Pet.
449, was an action of ejectment, and the case turned on the
validity of a sale of the premises in controversy under a judgment of the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County, Ohio,
in a case of foreign attachment. The sale was attacked on the
following among other grounds (1.) Because the statute authorizing the proceeding by foreign attachment required that
an affidavit should be made and filed with the clerk before the
writ issued, and no such affidavit was found in the record.
(2.) Because the statute directed three months' notice to be
given, by publication in a newspaper, of the issuing of the
attachment, before judgment should be entered, and also required fifteen days' notice of sale to be given, neither of which
appeared by the record to have been done. (3.) Because the
statute required that the defendant should be put in default at
each of the three terms preceding the judgment, and the default
entered of record, but no entry was made of the default at the
last of the three terms.
But the court overruled the objections and sustained the
validity of the judgment and the sale. It said "But the provisions of the law do not prescribe what shall be deemed evidence that such acts have been done, or direct that their performance shall appear on the record. The thirteenth section
[of the attachment law], which gives to the conveyances of the
auditors the same effect as a deed from the defendant in the
attachment, contains no other limitation than that it shall be
'in virtue of the authority herein granted.' This leaves the
question open to the application of those general principles of
law by which the validity of sales made under judicial process
must be tested, in the ascertainment of which we do not think
it necessary to examine the record in the attachment, for evidence that the acts alleged to have been omitted appear therein
to have been done." p. 471.
The result of the authorities and what we decide is, that
where a court of general jurisdiction is authorized in a proceed-

BOARDMAN v. TOFFEY.
,Syllabus.

ing, either statutory or at law or in equity, to bring in. by publication or other substituted service, non-resident defendants
interested in or having a lien upon property lying withih its
territorial jurisdiction, but is not required' to place the proof of
service upon the record, and the court orders such substituted
service, it will be presumed in favor of the jurisdiction that service was made as ordered, although no evidence thereof appears of record, and the judgment of the court, so far as it
affects such property, will be valid. The case of Galpin v.
Page, 18 Wall. 350, cited by counsel for defendant, is not in
conflict with this proposition. The judgment set up on one side
and attacked on the other in that case was rendered on service
by publication. The law permitted service to be made by publication only where certain facts were made to appear to the
satisfaction of the court, and the court by a precedent order,
which must necessarily appear of record, authorized service to
be made by publication. But the record showed no such
order, and the publication, therefore, was the unauthorized act
of the party, and appeared affirmatively to be invalid and ineffectual. See also Pennoyer v. Tef, 95 U. S. 714, 727, 734.
It results from the views we have expressed, that
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Jentudky must be
reversed and the cause remanded, wzth direct-tns to grant
a new trzal.

BOARDMAN v. TOFFEY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 11, 1856.-Decided March 15, 186.

If the trial below is by the court without a jury, and the findings of facts are

general, only such rulings of the court in the progress of the trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions.

The case is stated in the opimon of the court.

