DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

621

Syllabus.

his debt in bankruptcy nor released his lien. Consequently his
security was preserved notwithstanding the bankruptcy of his
debtor. .Aeffenry v. Lc& Sooet4 .Franpamse,95 U. S. 58, Dudley
v. Easton, 104 U S. 99, 103, Porterv 1azear, 109 iT. S. 84,
.86. The dispute in the court below was as to the existence of
the lien at the time of the commencement of the proceedings
in bankruptcy That depended entirely on the State laws, as
to which the judgment of the State court is final and not subject to review here,
The setting apart of the homestead to the bankrupt under
ยง 5045 of the Revised Statutes did not relieve the property
from the operation of.liens created by contract before the bankruptcy It is not the decree in this case which constitutes the

lien on the property, but the conveyance of Long and wife
before the bankruptcy
The judgment is

Affirmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MoELLIGOTT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF cOLUMBIA.
Argued March 4, IMSS.-Decided March 09,186.

A supervisor of county roads in the District of Columbia was repairing them
with a force of laborers, one of whom was at work on a bank of gravet.
There was evidence tending to show that he discovered that the bank was
in an unsafe condition, and asked the supervisor for a man to watch it,
and received assurance that such assistance would be given, and that it
was not given. The laborer continued to work there for half a day, when
the bank fell upon, and seriously injured him. He brought suit against
the District to recover damages for the injury. On the trial it was not
alleged nor proved that the supervisor was -incompetent. The court, after
instructing the jury that the negligence of the supervisor was one of the
risks which the laborer took upon himself, and that the District was not
liable unless he was incompetent, and such incompetency was known or
ought to have been known to it, added further, that if the jury found that
the laborer notified the supervisor of the dangerous condition of the bank,
he would be relieved from the imputation of negligence during the time
necessary to provide a man to watch it. Held -

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
(1.) That the latter instruction was inconsistent with the former, and calculated to mislead the jury.
(2.) That it was the duty of the laborer, having knowledge of the dangerous condition of the bank, to exercise diligence and care in protecting
himself from harm, without regard to any assurances which he might
have received from the supervisor that the assistance he had asked
for would be given.
ough v. RaRlway Company, 100 U. S. 218, explained.
Whether the District of Columbia is, in every case, exempt from liability for
the negligence of its supervisor of roads, resulting in personal injury to
those who labor under his direction on public work, is not decided.
Whether a supervisor of public roads and a laborer employed under him
on the roads are fellow servants, within the meaning of the general rule
that the common employer is not responsible to one employe for injuries
caused by the negligence of a coemploye in the same branch of service, is
not decided.

The declaration in this case was as follows
"The plaintiff sues the defendant, a corporation duly organized in pursuance of law, for money due and payable to the
plaintiff by the defendant, for that the plaintiff was employed
as a laborer by the defendant to do certain work for the defendant, to wit, digging gravel from a gravel-bank and loading certain carts with the same, that the defendant well knew
that in doing said work it was necessary to provide a sufficient
number of men to enable those engaged as laborers on said
work to observe the bank from which they were digging to
prevent the untimely caving in thereof and the falling of
gravel on them, and the said defendant also well knew that it
was customary and necessary to have a person to watch said
bank, and to give timely warning to those laboring under the
same, to enable them to escape from the said bank when a
portion or the whole of the same was about to fall, yet the
said defendant neglected, and although requested by the
plaintiff on the 12th day of June, 1878, in the District of Columbia, did not provide a sufficient number of laborers to enable this plaintiff, who was then and there employed by the
defendant and laboring in its service in digging gravel from a
high gravel-bank and loading the said gravel into carts, to observe the said bank, and also, although the said custom and
necessity was well known to the defendant, through the negli-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

623

Argument for Defendant m Error.

gence and default of the defendant, no person at the said
time and place was provided to watch the said bank and to
give timely notice to the plaintiff in order that he might
escape when a portion of said bank was about to fall. By
reason: of the premises a large portion of said gravel-bank, at
the time and place aforesaid, fell upon this plaintiff, and
thereby the plaintiff was thrown to the ground, his leg broken,
his skull fractured, and he was, permanently injured and'crippled, and permanently rendered unfit for work, and was
greatly braised and injured, and incurred expense for medical attendance, to wit, the sum of $500, and was and is deprived of divers gains and profits, and was and is hindered
from attending to his necessary and lawful business, to the
great damage of the plaintiff in the sum of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000), and therefore he brings his suit." Plea. general issue. Judgment below for plaintiff, which was sustained
in the General Term. Defendant below sued out this writ of
error. The rulings of the court below and other facts which
make the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
.r
Henry E. Davw and Xr A. G Diddle for plaintiff in
error.
Afi Henry Wise Garnett and .7irr Enoch Totten for defendant in error.
This case is governed by the principls established in
Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213.
The rules which
govern the relations of master and servant on the subject
of negligence and personal injuries are the same, whether the
master be a municipal or private corporation, or a natural
person. Cowley v Sunderland, 6 H. & N. 565, Brower v.
.Yew York, 3 Barb. 254, Toledo v Cone, 41 Ohio St. 149, Foreman v Canterbury, L. R. 6 Q. B. 214, Grimes v. Keen, 52
N. H. 330, Brooks v Somerville, 106 Mass. 271, .Mersey Docks
v. Gibbs, L. R. 1 H. L. 93.
Municipal corporations, like individuals, are liable for the
negligent and unskilful acts of' their servants and agents,
whenever those acts occasion special injury to the person or
property of another. TWeightman v. City of W~ashington, 1

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Black, 39, 50, Barnes v Dimtrwt of Columna, 91 U. S. 540.
In the latter case, this court, in speaking of the decisions of
the New York courts on this subject, uses this language "The
struggle in the New York courts was between the dictates of
that evident justice and good sense which required that the
city should indemnify a sufferer for the loss arising from the
acts of those doing a work under its authority and for its
benefit, and the technical rule which exempted it from liability
for acts of officers not under its control or appointed by it."
That the defendant had legal authority to make and repair
roads, and to take and use this ground for that purpose, there
can be no doubt. The Commissioners of the District of Columbia succeeded to all the power and duties of the Board of
Public Works over streets and roads. 16 Stat. 419, 18 Stat.
116, Barnes v Dstrict of Columbia, above cited, 20 Stat.
102, _Dwtrct of Columb a v. Ol1ss, 103 U. S. 705.
It is equally clear that Smallwood was the supervisor of
roads and was acting under the authority and for the benefit
of the defendant.
JusTcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to reverse a judgment for the sum of
$300, which a jury found as damages for personal injuries sustained by McElligott, the defendant in error, who was plaintiff
below, through the alleged negligence of the District of Columbia in its conduct of certain public work on which, at the
time of such injuries, he was engaged as a laborer in its employment.
It appears that one Smallwood, the supervisor of county
roads, undertook the repair of a public highway by the use of
material obtained from a gravel bank. McElligott and one
Meacham constituted a part of the force of laborers employed
for that work. The special duty assigned to Meacham was to
"prepare gravel" to be hauled away, while McElligott was to
fill the carts in which the gravel was transported to the place
where it was to be used by the supervisor. They reached the
bank between eight and nine o'clock on the morning of June
12, 1878, observing, upon their arrival, that it had been underMr.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

625

Opinion of the Court.

mined at one side for two or three feet, and a chamber cut into
it-a condition which to some extent increased the chances of
the bank's falling.
The plaintiff insists that there was evidence tending to show
the following facts That while Meacham and McElligott were
at work, Smallwood was giving his attention to the repairing
of the public road with the material brought from the gravel
bank, that between nine and ten o'clock m the morning
McElligott sent word to him to provide two additional men
for the work at that place, one to watch the bank and the
other to aid in filling the carts, that within a very short time
an answer came to the effect that the request would be complied with, that plaintiff stopped work at noon for dinner, but
before doing so sent a second message, which Smallwood received, to send more men, one to watch the bank and one to
assist in loading the carts, that he resumed work about one
o'clock, and about a half hour after that time-no men having
been sent by Smallwood-the bank fell while he was at work
five or six feet from it, that the. falling bank caught him,
despite his efforts to escape, burying him for a time beneath
the gravel, and inflicting upon him injuries of a serious and
permanent character, that-to use the language of the witness
Meacham-" it is not safe to stand under a bank that has been
undermined," and that, although McElligott recognized from
the outset that it was dangerous for him to do his work, without some one being present whose special duty was to give
timely notice of the first indications of the bank's falling, he
continued to work in reliance upon Smallwood's promise to
send some one to watch the bank.
The District claims that there was evidence tending to show
that Smallwood did not receive a message from McElligott to
send men to watch the bank or to aid in loading the carts, that
the former was not in the habit of providing men to watch a
gravel bank, except when it was intended to have a "fall; " that
there was no such intention on the day McElligott was injured,
and that neither the latter nor IMeacham had any instructions
to make a "fall."
The point upon which the evidence was conflicting was as
voL. cxvn- 40

-

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Opinon bf the Court.

to whether Smallwood, in fact, received notice that a man was
needed to watch the bank while he and Mleacham were at work.
MlcElligott states that his first message was sent by Tracey,
one of the drivers of the carts, and his second by Anderson,
another driver. In his examination-in-chief by the plaintiff
Tracey testified that McElligott told him "to tell Smallwood
to send two men out there to help load the carts, and that the
other might have the opportunity to watch the bank in case of
danger," and that he "delivered the message to Smallwood, at
:Mlr. Brown's, between nine and ten o'clock, and he said that
he would send men, but he did -not do it until after McElligott
was hurt." He testified that he told McElligott what Smallwood said, also that "it is necessary to have a man to watch
the bank when people are digging under a gravel bank, the
bank was undermined that morning when we went there, it is
not safe to work at a bank like that without having it watched."
But upon cross-examination the same witness, being asked to
state what reason was given by McElligott for wanting men to
watch the bank, said "He wanted men to load the carts,
he did 'not say anythzng to me about watching the bank, he
simply sent a message to Smallwood to send two men to help
load these carts, and that was all, he did not at any time say
he wanted a man to watch the bank, I don't recollect his sending a message by any one to Smallwood that he wanted that he
should send a man to watch the bank, I don't recollect that I
heard anytng scazd about a man to watch the bank before tAzs
acczdent, I told Mr. Smallwood that Mr. McElligott said, send
a couple of men to help load the carts, I found Mr. Smallwood near Brown's, I delivered the message to Mr. Mahony,
Smallwood said that he would send a man or two." Upon reexamination the same witness said "I delivered the message to
Smallwood, what McElligott told me, I do not recollect whether
what McElligott told me to tell Smallwood was to send men to
watch the bank or load the carts, McElligott told me to tell
Smallwood to send a couple of men to help load the carts, to
help them out, I delivered whatever message McElligott told
me to tell Smallwood, no matter what it was."
Anderson, by whom the plaintiff claims to have sent the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

627

Opinion of the Court.

second message, testifies that he did inform Smallwood, in the
morning, of the former's wish, that men be sent "to help load
the carts and watch the bank," affd that Smallwood said "all
right." He did not, however, notify TvfcElligott of what Smallwood said, because he did not himself return to the gravel bank.
There was no proof that plaintiff was informed, prior to his
being injured, of what, it is claimed, passed between Smallwood and Anderson. The only evidence tending to show that
the plaintiff continued to work at the bank, in reliance upon
Smallwood's alleged promise or assurance that he would send
some one to watch it, was in the testimony of Tracey
At the instance of the District, the court gave numerous
-instructions to the jury They embodied. among others, these
propositions That it was implied in the contract between
the plaintiff and the District, that the former took the risk of
the dangers which ordinarily attend or are incident to the
business in which he voluntarily engaged for compensation,
among which was the carelessness of those in the same work
or employment, with whose habits, conduct and capacity he
had, in the course of his duties, an opportunity to become acquainted, and against whose neglect or incompetency he could
take such precautions as his inclination or judgment suggested,
that, although Smallwood was supervisor of the highways.of
the District, and as such employed and controlled the services
of the plaintiff, the latter could not recover on account of any
neglect or misconduct of the former in and about the work
in which they were both engaged, unless it was shown that
Smallwood was incompetent and unfit for the discharge of the
duties of his position, of which the District bad, or ought to
have had, knowledge, that in contemplation of law the plaintiff took upon himself the risk arising from the negligence of
his fellow-workmen, including Smallwood, and that, if the
plaintiff, believing that the gravel-bed was in such condition as
to make it dangerous for him to continue work there, without
some one being appointed to watch the bank while he was so
engaged, and deliberately exposed himself to the accident by
which he was injured, he was guilty of contributory negligence
and could not recover in this action.

OCTOBER TERMI, 188.
Opimon of the Court.

To the granting of these'instructions the plaintiff made no
objection. The parties went to the jury agreeing, in effect,
that the principles which those instructions announced should
control the determination of their respective rights. We have,
therefore, no occasion to consider the general question whether
the District of Columbia is, in every case, exempt from liability
for the negligence of its supervisor, resulting in personal injury
to those who labor under his direction on public work, nor the
narrower question whether Smallwood and M cElligott were fellow-servants within the meaning of the general rule that the
common employer is not responsible to one employe for injuries caused by the negligence of a coemploye in the same
branch of service. No such questions arise upon the present
hearing. We have only to deal with the assignments of error,
relating to material matters not covered by the instructions
which were given at the request of the defendant, without objection upon the part of the plaintiff. And those matters are
to be found in the charge of the court to the jury
After expressing its approval of the principles announced in
those instructions, and referring to the precaution taken by the
plaintiff to inform Smallwood of the necessity of providing some
one to watch the bank while he and Meacham were engaged in
the special work assigned to them, the court said to the jury
" Now, it is said that if Mr. Smallwood still neglected, after
such notice, it would still be a neglect of a fellow-servant for
which no servant could ever recover any damage. But I have,
for the purposes of this trial, instructed you that if the fact of
the dangerous condition of that bank was communicated to
Smallwood, and a request made of him to send a man there to
watch it, and he gave assurance, in reply, that a man would be
sent there for that purpose, the plaintiff here might labor without any imputation of any negligence on his part for such a
length of time as within which that promise might be fulfilled-not to continue there and labor any longer than that,
because it would be as much negligence after a reasonable period had expired after receiving this assurance, as if no assurance had been given. The law requires that he shall not needlessly expose himself to any danger, to any peril whatever.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

629

Opinon of the Court.

"And if he has taken this precaution the decision [Hough v
.Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213] is to the effect that it would not
be negligence for him to remain a sufficient length of time to
give opportunity to have a man sent there.
"Now, this is about all that is necessary to say upon this
point.
"The proposition, then, is, if the bank was in a dangerous
condition, and the plaintiff sent a notice to that effect to Smallwood, and Mr. Smallwood gave, in reply, this assurance that a
man would be sent there, then, until a sufficient length of time
had expired within which that promise might be fulfilled, the
plaintiff might remain there at his work, and if any injury
happened to him by the falling of the bank during that time,
the District might then be imputed with this negligence.. If
he remained a longer time than [that] within which the promise
might be fulfilled, or if he gave no such notice at all, or no such
notice was given to Smallwood, then the plaintiff is without
any remedy, however serious that injury may be.
"I do not think that it makes any difference here whether
Smallwood had any man he could send there or not.
"1Now,the main question, therefore, is, and the one difficulty probably which the jury will have in determining anything in this case, will be as to this matter of notice. On that
subject -Mr. Smallwood has been examined, as also Mr. Tracey
and 'Mr. Anderson.
"1Now,the plaintiff names Tracey and Anderson as the per
sons by whom he sent this message, first by Tracey and then
by Anderson.
"From Anderson he received no response, because Anderson
did not return. He had, therefore, no assurance in reply to
that message whatever, and I think, upon the whole, that he
had no reason to expect any relief, unless he received assurance
such as that given in the case in the Supreme Court. Beyond
that I do not think that I ought to go, and I repeat that, without he received this assurance of assistance, he took the risk of
the falling of the bank upon himself."
To so much of the charge as declared that, if plaintiff notified Smallwood of the dangerous condition of the bank, he

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

would be relieved from the imputation of negligence during
such time as was sufficient for Smallwood to provide a man to
watch the bank, and to so much of it as declared that the
alleged notice by the plaintiff to Smallwood, and the latter's
reply thereto, took the case out of the rule laid down in the
instructions previously given, the District excepted in proper
form.
We are of opinion that, upon the theory of the case declared
in the special instructions given, the charge was erroneous. As
the court, at the request of the District, instructed the jury that
the negligence of Smallwood was one of the risks which the
plaintiff took upon himself, and that it was not liable in this
action unless he was incompetent for his position, and such incompetency was known, or ought to have been known, to the
District, as it was neither alleged nor proved that he was incompetent, and as the only neglect complained of, or to which
the evidence was directed, was his failure to provide a man to
watch the bank after notice of the necessity therefor, it is
difficult to perceive how it became importantW for the jury to
inquire, whether McElligott continued at work longer than was
reasonably sufficient for Smallwood to appoint some one to the
duty of watching the bank while the plaintiff and his coemploy4, Mvfeacham, were at work. The time during which the
plaintiff continued at work after giving the alleged notice, and
after receiving an assurance that his request would be complied with, has no relation whatever to the only contingency
in which the District, according to the special instructions, was
liable, viz. its negligence in employing as supervisor of roads
one who was unfit for the place. If the principles embodied in
those instructions are sound-upon which point we are not now
required to express an opinion-the court would have been
justified in directing a verdict for the District. The charge
was inconsistent with the instructions previously given, and
was calculated to mislead the jury, for it submitted to them a
question which those instructions had, in effect, if not in terms,
declared to be immaterial in the case.
We are also of opinion that the charge was erroneous in
its statement of the grounds upon which the jury should de-

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

631

Opnion of the Court.
termine the particular point submitted to them. It involved a
misapprehension of the decision in rough v ]Railway Co., 100
U. S. 224, where the court had occasion to consider, among
other questions, that of contributory negligence by the party
who sues his employer for injuries resulting from the negligence of another employe in the same general service. That
was an action against a railroad company by the representatives
of a locomotive engineer. The negligence there complained
of, and to which, as was claimed, was to be solely attributed
the death of the intestate, was that of the company's officers
in assigning to the intestate, for his use, an engine which, by
proper diligence on the part of such officers might have been
ascertained to be defective and unsafe. One of the defects
there complained of was in the cow-catcher or pilot of the engine, the other was that the whistle was insecurely fastened
to the boiler. By reason of the defect in the cow-catcher, the
engine was thrown from the track, whereby the whistle fastened to the boiler was displaced, and, from the opening thus
made, hot water and steam issued, fatally scalding the deceased.
It was admitted that the engineer had knowledge of the defect
in the cow-catcher, but it was not claimed that hQ was aware
of the insufficient fastening of the whistle, or that the defect,
if any, in that respect, was of such a character that he should
have become advised of it while using the engine on the road.
It was proved that he had given notice to the proper officers
of the company of the defect in the cow-catcher, and they
promised that it should be remedied. But the court of original
jurisdiction, in effect, held that knowledge on the part of the
engineer of the defect in the cow-catcher was itself sufficient
to defeat the action, without reference to the assurances given
that the defect in.it should be remedied. In considering the
question whether his use of the engine with that knowledge.
was such negligence as prevented a recovery, so far as that de.
fect was the efficient cause of death, the court referred to the
general rule upon the subject of contributory negligence, that
where a master or his representative has expressly promised to
repair a defect, the servant can recover for an injury caused
thereby, within such a period of time after the promise as it

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

would be reasonable to allow for its performance, or for an
injury suffered within any period which would not preclude a
rational expectation that the promise might be kept. But to
avoid misapprehension arising from the broad terms in which
the general rule was frequently expressed, and that its application in that particular case might be clearly understood, the
court said. "We may add that it was for the jury to say
whether the defect in the cow-catcher or pilot was such that
none but a reckless engineer, utterly careless of his safety, could
have used the engine without it being removed. If, under all
the circumstances, and in view of the promises to remedy the
defect, the engineer was not wanting in due care in continuing
to use the engine, then the company will not be excused for the
omission to supply proper machinery upon the ground of contributory negligence. That the engineer knew of the alleged
defect was not, under the circumstances, and as matter of law,
absolutely conclusive of want of due care on his part." That
knowledge, it was held, was a [act to be considered by the
jury, in connection with other facts, in determining whether
the engineer exercised that caution which all the circumstances
required.
These principles were not applied in the trial of the case now
before us, for, in effect, the jury were instructed that, in deter
mining the question of contributory negligence, they need only
inquire whether plaintiff continued at his work longer than
was reasonably sufficient to enable Smallwood to provide some
one to watch the bank. If that question was solved in favor
of the plaintiff, then they were at liberty, under the charge, to
find that he was not guilty of contributory negligence, although
they may have believed from the evidence that no man of ordinary prudence would have entered upon and continued in the
work for any time, however brief, without some one being appointed to watch the bank, 4n other words, that if the plaintiff,
in fact, relied upon the alleged promise of Smallwood, he was
not chargeable with contributory negligence, although the jury
may have believed that, under all the circumstances, he so acted
as to show himself utterly careless of his safety But such is
not a sound exposition of the principles which regulate the

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

633

Opimon of the Court.
rights and obligations of employer and employe. Assuming
that the District might be responsible under some circumstances
for injuries resulting from the negligence of its supervisor, it
certainly would not be liable if the danger which the plaintiff
apprehended from the beginning was so imminent or manifest
as to prevent a reasonably prudent man from risking it upon a
promise or assurance by the proper authority that the cause
from which the peril arose would be removed. The plaintiff
had had experience in the kind of business in which he was engaged at the time of his injury He recognized, from the beginning, the peril to which he was exposed while working at
the gravel bank. There was no express undertaking, upon the
part of the District, by its supervisor, that it would save him
harmless as to any injury he might stffer prior to the designation of some one to watch the bank, and it was not implied in
the contract between him and the District that he might needlessly or rashly expose himself to danger. On the contrary, if
liability might come upon the District for the negligence of its
officers controlling his services, he was under an obligation to
exercise due care in protecting himself from personal harm
while discharging duties out of which such liability might arise.
If he failed to exercise such care, if he exposed himself to
dangers that were so threatening or obvious as likely to cause
injury at any moment, he would, notwithstanding any promises
or assurances of the District supervisor of the character alleged,
be guilty of such contributory negligence as would defeat his
claim for injuries so received.
Whether, therefore, we look at the case upon the theory embodied in the instructions given at the request of the District,
or as depending upon the issue as to contributory negligence
upon the part of the plaintiff, the judgment must be reversed
and a new trial awarded.
Reversed.

