OCTOBER TERM, 1886.
Syllabus.

WRIGHT, Assignee v. KENTUCKY & GREAT EASTERN

RAILWAY COMPANY & Another.
FARMERS' LOAN & TRUST COMPANY v. WRIGHT,
Assignee & Others.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued January 15, 18, 19, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Construction Company, wich had
a contract with the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company, made
May 22, 1873, to construct for it a railway in Kentucky, from Newport to
Catlettsgurg, and did work between Maysville and Catlettsburg, completing
about seven miles of road, and purchasing and putting down the iron rails
and other materials, acquired no lien on the road or on any part of its line,
completed or not completed.
The Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company having previously, under
a contract made by it January 15, 1873, with the owners of the Maysville
and Big Sandy railroad, for a conditional sale of that railroad, taken possession of it, and the Construction Company having notice of that contract,
when the construction contract was made, and the vendors having declared
that contract to be void, according to its terms, and resumed possession of
the railroad, with the consent of the vendee, the Construction Company
acquired no rights in regard to so much of the line, completed or not completed, between Maysville and Catlettsburg, as was part of the line of the
Maysville and Big Sandy railroad, which were not subject to the rights of
the vendors of that road.
A mortgage having been made by the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway
Company on February 15, 1872, to a trustee, to secure bonds, on the line
from Newport to Catlettsburg, the trustee acquired under it no greater
rights at any time than the Railway Company had, and, no bonds having
been issued bQfore the conditional sale of the Maysville and Big Sandy railroad was made, on January 15, 1873, the trustee had, as against the vendors
of that road, only such rights as the mortgagor had.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
X-2,' C. 1. Batson, Jr., for the assignee.
.Mr John A. Campbell for Farmers' Loan & Trust Company

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

2_r Aaron F Pery for the railroad companies.
BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 18th of December, 1850, the Legislature of Kentucky,
by special act, Laws of 1850, vol. ii., ch. 96, p. 73, created a
corporation known as the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad
Company (hereinafter called the Big Sandy Company), with
power to construct and maintain a railroad, commencing at or
near the city of MNfaysville, Kentucky, and running thence to
the Big Sandy River, by such route as might be found practicable. The act gave authority to the counties of Mason,
Lewis and Greenup, and to any town in any of those counties,
to subscribe to the stock of the company, when authorized by a
majority of the voters of the county or town, the proposition
to be submitted to -them by the directors of the company, and
the issue of bonds by the counties and towns in aid of the railroad was provided for. This indicated that the route of the
rpad was expected to run through the counties above named.
Maysville is in Mason County, on the south bank of the Ohio
River. Lewis County adjoins Mason on the east, and Greenup
adjoins Lewis on the east. All three of them lie along the
south bank of the Ohio River. The next county in Kentucky
east of Greenup is Boyd, and the Big Sandy River, after being
for some distance the boundary between Kentucky and West
Virginia, empties into the Ohio River in Boyd County, only a
short distance eastward of the line between Greenup and Boyd
Counties. For the railroad to reach the Big Sandy River it
was necessary it should pass for a short distance through Boyd
County
The company was organized and began the construction of
the road in 1853, and, after expending a considerable sum of
money, claimed to have been $300,000, it became financially
embarrassed and suspended the work permanently in 1854.
To secure certain of its creditors, it executed one or more mortgages to them on its road and all its franchises and chartered
privileges.
By an act of the Legislature of Kentucky, approved February 17, 1866, Laws of 1866, ch. 755, p. 664-, those mortgages
MR. JUSTICE

OCTOBER TERM, isms.
Opinion of the Court.

were declared to be legal, and authority was given to foreclose
them by proceedings' in the Mason Circuit Court, with power
to that court to sell the road, with all its property, rights of
property, franchises, and chartered privileges, at public sale,
and the act provided, that the purchasers at the sale, after it
had been approved by the court, should be invested with the
title to the road, and all its franchises and chartered privileges,
and should have power to reorganize the company under its
charter, and, for the purposes of its charter, to "make contracts
with individuals, corporations and other railroad companies
for the building, completion and operation of said road, or any
part thereof." The foreclosure proceedings were had in 1869,
resulting in a decree and a sale thereunder, at which M,.Ryan,
H. Taylor, Elizabeth Gray, W H. Wadsworth, John B. Poyntz,
and John G. Hickman, trustee of Charles B. Coons, deceased,
became the purchasers of what the act of 1866 authorized to be
sold, and a deed of it was made to them, but was not recorded
until 1875.
On the 21st of March, 1870, the Legislature of Kentucky, by
a special act, Laws of 1870, vol. 2, ch. 867, p. 545, created a
corporation known as the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company (hereinafter called the Great Eastern Company).
The 10th section of that act, gave power to the company to
construct a railway from such point or points in the cities of
Covington and Newport as it might select, thence through the
Counties of Campbell, Kenton, Pendleton, Bracken, Harrison,
Fleming, Nicholas, Robertson, Bourbon, Clark, Montgomery,
Menifee, Bath, Rowan, Powell, Wolfe, Morgan, Carter, Lawrence, Johnson, Magoffin, Breathitt, Floyd, Pike and Letcher,
or such of them as it might choose, to any point or points on
the boundary line between the States of Kentucky and Virginia that it might select. The route thus indicated for the
road, by naming those counties, carried it far to the southward
of the south line of Boyd County and of any road running
from Maysville through Mason, Lewis, Greenup and Boyd
Counties to the Big Sandy River. The 10th section of the act
also authorized the company "to construct such branch railroads to their main trunk road, in or through such counties,"

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

as it might deem proper. Provision was made, in section 16
and following sections, for subscriptions by counties, precincts,
cities and towns to the stock of the company, and for the issuing of bonds to pay therefor. Section 41 provided as follows
"That the president and directors of said company may, with
the assent of the holders of a majority in value of the stock in
said company, purchase and hold any other railroad in this or
any other State, and may subscribe stock in, or aid in the
building of. any other road, in or out of this State, whenever,
in their judgment, it may be to the interest of the said railway
company to do so. They may sell the said railway, or lease
the same, and may build branches from said road, and branches
from said branches. That said company may connect its said
road, or any of its branches, with the railroad of any other
company, in or out of this State, and may lease and operate
any railroad connecting with the road or branches of said railway, and it may consolidate with, and make running and operating arrangements with, any other railroad company, upon
such terms as may be agreed on by the contracting parties."
By sections 44 and 45, it was provided that the company might
issue its bonds for $1000 each, to an amount not exceeding
$15,000,000, to be secured by "a mortgage or deed of trust
conveying said railroad and its property franchises to a trustee
or trustees."
The Great Eastern Company was organized in June, 1871.
On the 15th of July, 1871, the owners of the Big Sandy road
made the following written proposition, signed by all of them,
to the Great Eastern Company "To the Kentucky and Great
Eastern Railroad'Co. The owners of the Maysville and Big
Sandy Railroad propose to accept fifty-seven thousand and
seven dollars for the road and all its rights and franchises held
by them under their purchase, payable in cash or bonds of the
county of Mason, or other good security Should the payments be made in the bonds of the county of Mason, they will
take the payments in such proportion as their debt bears to the
sum voted by the county of Mason and the issuance of those
bonds by the county to the Kentucky and Great Eastern Company But it is hereby stipulated, that, upon the acceptance

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

of this proposition by the Kentucky and Great Eastern road,
no unnecessary delay shall occur in taking the vote of the
county of Mason upon their subscription to the railroad company This proposition to remain open for acceptance for thirty
days from 15th day of July, 1871, the work on the road to
commence in good faith in six months from the 15th July, or
this article to be void."
It is manifest, that, in this proposition, the owners of the
Big Sandy property were providing for the completion of the
Big Sandy road, under the charter of the Big Sandy Company
and the act of 1866, for, the only authority for the issuing of
bonds of the county of Mason was that given by the charter
of the Big Sandy Company, and, by the proposition, the bonds
of that county, to be taken in payment, were bonds to be issued
for a subscription to stock by that county; and the work which
was to commence in six months was work on the Big Sandy
road.
The executive committee of the Great Eastern Company accepted this proposition and reported it to the board of directors of that company, at a meeting held by them, and it was,
on the 23d of August, 1871, approved by that board. On the
21th of August, 1871, the board adopted a resolution, "that
the question of submitting the proposition to the various counties between Newport and Catlettsburgh, for subscriptions to
the stock of the company, be referred to the executive committee, with full powers vested in them to proceed and carry
such propositions into effect." Newport is on the Ohio River,
in Campbell County, and Catlettsburgh is on the Big Sandy
River, in Boyd County, and the counties between Newport
and Catlettsburgh are Campbell, Pendleton, Bracken, Mason,
Lewis, Greenup and Boyd, all lying on the south bank of the
Ohio River. Maysville is in Mason County, about half-way
between the east and west lines of that county
In the fall of 1871 Mason County voted to subscribe $400,000, and Lewis County voted to subscribe $100,000, to the
stock of the Great Eastern Company, the subscriptions to be
paid in the bonds of those counties.
There is no satisfactory evidence that any work on the road

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

77

Opinion of the Court.

between Maysville and Catlettsburgh, or on the old line of the
Big Sandy Company, was commenced within six months from
the 15th of July, 1871, or that even surveying on that line
was done within that time.
On the 15th of February, 18M, the Great Eastern Company
executed a mortgage to the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company (hereinafter called the Trust Company), a corporation of
New York, as trustee. That mortgage recites as follows
"Whereas the said Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway
Company, the party of the first part, has been duly chartered
and organized, under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, with power to locate, construct,
equip and operate a line of railway within the said Commonwealth of Kentucky, from the city of Newport, in Campbell
County, State of Kentucky, upon, along and near the southern
bank of the Ohio River, in said State of Kentucky, to a point
on the State line between the State of Kentucky and West
Virginia, at or near Catlettsburgh, Boyd County, State of Kentucky, a distance- of one hundred and forty-six miles, be the
same more or less." It then states that the company, "for the
purpose of constructing, equipping, and completing its aforesaid line of railway," has determined to issue its bonds for an
amount "not exceeding $15,000 per mile for the whole length
of said railway in the State of Kentucky," being in all 82,190,000, and to secure the payment of said bonds "by a first
mortgage upon the aforesaid railroad, franchises, and all the
property, real and personal, rights and interests, now owned
and possessed" by it in the State of Kentucky, or which it
"may hereafter acquire therein." It then mortgages to the
Trust Company "all and singular the entire line of the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company's railroad, extending from the said city of Newport, in the State of Kentucky,
to said point in said State, on the State line between the
States of Kentucky and West Virgmia as herembefore described, as the same is now or may hereafter be located and
constructed by the said party of the first part, with the right
of way, and all the real and personal property, rights and
interests of the said party of the first part to the said line of

OCTOffER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

railway in the State of Kentucky, whether the same is now
owned or possessed or may hereafter be acquired by the said
party of the first part, and all the privileges and franchises of
the said party of the first part for the holding, operating, and
maintaining its said line of railway" The mortgage trust was
accepted by the trustee, in writing, March 5, 1872, and the
mortgage was recorded in October, 1872, in Campbell, Pendleton and Bracken Counties, in November, 1872, in Lewis and
Greenup Counties, and, in January, 1873, in Boyd County
By an act of the Legislature of Kentucky, passed March 27,
1872, it was provided, see. 1, that section 10 of the act of
March ,1, 1870, be amended so as to authorize the Great
Eastern Company "to construct said road through the counties
of Mason, Lewis, Greenup and Boyd, and the said Kentucky
and Great Eastern Railway Company are hereby invested
with all the rights, privileges and franchises necessary, as contained in their said charter, to construct their main stem line of
railway through said counties, except as hereinafter provided."
Section 2 provided that whenever the company should desire
to submit any vote to the qualified voters of either of the four
counties above named, "for any subscriptions to the capital
stock of said railway, or any branch thereof," it should be submitted under the provisions of section 16 of the act of March
21, 1870, and not otherwise. Section 2 concluded with this
proviso "Prowded,further, That said Kentucky and Great
Eastern Railroad Company shall, previous to constructing
their said road east of Maysville, through Mason County, and
on through the counties of Lewis, Greenup and Boyd, purchase
and pay for the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad, or make
such arrangements with the owners of said Maysville and Big
Sandy Railroad as shall be satisfactory to each of said owners."
Sections 5 and 6 were as follows "ยง 5. The president and
directors of said railroad company shall have no authority,
either under this charter or the charter of the Maysville
and Big Sandy Railroad Company, to submit to voters of any
county the question of a subscription by a county to the capital stock of said company, but said subscription may alone be
submitted by the county court. ยง 6. Nothing in this act shall

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.
Opimon of the Court.

be construed as making valid the votes in the counties of
Lewis and -ason upon the propositions voted on in said counties to subscribe to the capital stock in said counties."
Undoubtedly because of the concluding proviso of section 2
of the act of March 27, 1872, and of the fact that any agreement growing out of the proposition of July 15, 1871, was considered to be at an end, a resolution was adopted at a meeting
of the board of directors of the Great Eastern Company, on the
10th of February, 1873, authorizing the president of the company, then Nathaniel Sands, "to contract with the officers and
owners of the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company, for
the purchase and transfer of said road to the Kentucky and
Great Eastern Railway Company"
Frior to this, and on the 15th of January, 1873. all of the six
owners of the Big Sandy property, except Poyntz (the Bank of
Kentucky having succeeded to the interest of Ryan), had executed the following instrument.
"Whereas the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky passed an act entitled 'An Act to authorize the sale
of the Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad, and providing for
the organization of a new company under its charter to construct said road,' approved February 17th, 1866, and whereas
said road was duly sold by a decree of the Mason Circuit Court
in pursuance to the provisions of said Act, and was purchased
by , . Ryan, 1H. Taylor, Elizabeth Gray, W I. Wadsworth,
John B. Poyntz, and John G. Hickman, trustee of Charles B.
Coons, deceased, and the sale and purchase was duly confirmed
by said court, and whereas the said parties, as sole owners and
corporators, having reorganized the said railroad company
under their purchase and said act of the Legislature, did, on
the 15th day of July, 1871, propose to sell and transfer to the
Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company all the property, rights, and franchises of the said Mavsville and Big Sandy
Railroad Company held by them as the sole owners, stockholders, corporators, and officers of same, for the sum of (857,007)
fifty-seven thousand and seven dollars, payable in cash or bonds
of the county of Mason, or other good security, in the way
pointed out by the written proposition of that date, which was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

duly accepted by said Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway
Company, and whereas the said M. Ryan (and his assignee,
the Bahk of Kentucky), H. Taylor, Elizabeth Gray, W H.
Wadsworth, John G. Hickman, trustee of Charles B. Coons,
deceased, are desirous to faithfully carry out said contract, and
recognize its binding force, and for the purpose of securing the
construction of the Maysville and Big Sandy road under its
charter and that of the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway
Company, and with such modifications and explanations as
may the better secure the interests of said proposers, and of said
Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company, the Kentucky
and Great Eastern Railway Company thereto consenting" Now
it is agreed by M. Ryan and the Bank of Kentucky, his assignee, H. Taylor, Elizabeth Gray, W H. Wadsworth, and
John G. Hickman, trustee of Charles B. Coons, deceased, being all the owners, stockholders, and corporators of said Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company, except John B. Poyntz
(who does not unite in or subscribe to this instrument), they
being, however, all the officers of said railroad company, and
the owners of nearly all of its stock, property, rights and franchises, that they will sell, and do hereby offer to sell, on the terms
and conditions hereinafter named, all their rights, title, and interests in and to the stock held by them in the said Maysville
and Big Sandy Railroad Company, and in and to its road-bed,
bridges, material, rights of way, and property of all kinds whatsoever, and in and to the franchises and charter of said company, so far as they have any power or authority, in law or
equity, so to do, as owners, stockholders, corporators. and
officers of said company, owning the large majority of the
stock, for the sum of fifty-seven thousand and sixty-five dollars,
with interest at the rate of six per cent. per annum, until paid,
from this date, and that they will, on full payment, transfer,
and convey the property, stock, rights, and franchises aforesaid, so far as they lawfully can, by any and all instruments
necessary or proper in the premises, the stock, ownership, and
rights of the said John B. Poyntz in said company not being
included herein, but left to stand upon the original proposition
signed by him as aforesaid. And the said Kentucky and Great

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

.81

Opimon of the Court.
Eastern Railway Company, wishing to assert and maintain the
said contract of July 15th, 1871, but willing to furnish any additional guaranty in its power to the aforesaid parties for compliance therewith, now hereby binds and obliges itself to accept the foregoing offer, and to pay to said parties making the
same the sum of fifty-seven thousand and sixty-five dollars
aforesaid, with interest from the 15th day of January, 1873,
until paid, in instalments of the bonds of Mason County, subscribed, or which may be subscribed, to its capital stock, to be
delivered to said parties as received by said railway company,
in amounts bearing the same ratio to the sum herein agreed to
be paid as the instalments of bonds from time to time delivered by said county to said railway company bear to the whole
number of bonds subscribed by said county as aforesaid, until
the whole of said sum of fifty-seven thousand and sixty-five
dollars and interest shall be fully paid. And it is agreed by
said Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company, that if,
from any cause, said bonds, or any instalments thereof, shall
not be delivered to said railway company by said county
and by reason thereof said bonds, or any instalment thereof,
cannot be paid to said parties as herein agreed, then, in that
case, and to the extent of such failure, said railroad company
shall make payment to said parties in cash, within one hundred
and twenty days from the time such bonds should have been
delivered by said county to the railway company, and, upon
failure to deliver either bonds or cash, as aforesaid, to said parties, then this contract to be null and void. And it is further
agreed, as this contract is made to secure the construction of
the line of said Big Sandy road to Portsmouth by the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company, that said company shall, within one hundred and twenty days from this date,
commence the construction of said road in good faith, and shall
continue to prosecute said construction in a reasonably diligent
and effectual manner, and the failure to commence the construction, as aforesaid, or, after commencing, the failure to prosecute the same, as aforesaid, for the space of two hundred and
forty days, shall, in either event, render this contract void, and,
whenever this contract, by its terms, shall become void, then,
VOL. CXVII-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of thBe Court.

upon the happening of such event, said parties representing the
Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company and their own
interests may enter and take possession of the road, property
rights, and franchises herein described and conditionally sold.
It is finally expressly agreed, that this offer to sell and transfer
on fall payment shall not admit, under any circumstances, of
the intervention of any prior lien on the rights, franchises, and
property aforesaid in favor of other parties,-a lien being now
and always retained thereon in favor of the parties aforesaid
until payment in full shall be made. In testimony whereof,
all of the parties have hereunto signed, this 15th day of January, 1873."
On the 11th of June, 1873, the proposition so made was accepted by the Great Eastern Company, by the signature of
Sands, as its president, to this memorandum at its foot
"The foregoing proposition is accepted by the Kentucky
and Great Eastern Railway Company, which hereby agrees to
purchase said property on the terms and conditions expressed
above."
On the 22d of May, 1873, at a meeting of the board of directors of the Great Eastern Company, a contract which had
before been made by it for the construction of the road was
cancelled, with the consent of the contractors, and a resolution
was adopted authorizing the president to execute a new contract, similar in terms with the prior one, "with Frank Byrne,
doing business under the name of Kentucky and Great Eastern
Railroad Construction Company"
On the same day, the contract was executed by the Great
Eastern Company and Byrne, as follows
"This agreement, made and entered into by and between
the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company, by its
president, under the authority of the board of directors, party
of the first part, and Frank P Byrne, of Ohio, doing business
as railroad builder, under the name and style of the ' Kentucky
and Great Eastern Railroad Construction Company,' or their
assigns, parties of the second part, witnesseth
"That the said parties of the second part, for and in consideration of the payment in hand of one dollar, received and hereby

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

83

Opimon of the Court.

acknowledged, and for the further stipulations, covenants, and
agreements of the said party of the first part, hereinafter mentioned, hereby agree and bind themselves to construct, finish,
and equip, or cause to be constructed, finished, and equipped,
the line of railway designated by the charter of said party of
the first part, to be known as the Kentucky and Great Eastern
Railway, located along the banks of the Ohio River, in the
State of Kentucky, commencing at the city of Newport and
extending to Catlettsburgh, on the Big Sandy River, being
about one hundred and forty-six (146) miles, by such route as
may be necessary to fulfil the conditions of any donations to
said party of the first part, or any subscriptions to the capital
stock of said party of the first part, by municipal, county, or
other corporations, or by individuals, as authorized by law,
the construction of said road to commence as soon as the right
of way therefor shall be procured by the said party of the first
part, and the necessary subscriptions voted by the counties
along the line, and the work shall be prosecuted so as to have
the same completed ready for the running of trains by the 15th
day of February 1878, or as much sooner as it can be done by
said parties of the second part. Said construction shall be carried on and made in good and workmanlike manner, with
timber structures for crossings or trestling, and the track laid
-withiron rails not less than fifty-six pounds to the yard, lineal,
for main tracks, and fifty-four pounds to the yard, lineal, for
side tracks. The equipment shall be such as may be necessary
to accommodate the business that may be offered said road on
its completion.
"In consideration of the covenants and agreements aforesaid
of said parties of the second part, the said party of the first
hereby agrees and binds itself as follows, to wit
part
"First.
That it will procure and furnish to said parties of the
second part, free of cost, and in time to complete said road by
the period hereinbefore fixed, the right of way of said road,
and also such other property as it is authorized by the laws of
Kentucky to procure by purchase or condemnation, for any
purpose connected with the construction of bridges, embankments, excavations, spoil banks or borrow pits, turnouts, depots,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

engine-houses, shops, turntables, water stations, or other things
necessary to the completion and maintenance of said road.
"Second. That it will transfer and deliver to said parties of
the second part, or cause to be transferred and delivered to
them, all the money, bonds of municipal corporations and
counties, or other property or evidences of obligation which
have been given or issued, or which may be hereafter given or
issued, in payment of any subscription to the capital stock of
said party of the first part, or which may have been, or may
hereafter be, given by way of donation, including lands, to the
said party of the first part, the said transfer and delivery to be
made when and as the conditions upon which such subscriptions or donations may be or may have been made are complied
with.
"Third. That it will, in part payment of the work of construction agreed to be performed as aforesaid by said parties
of the second part, issue or transfer and deliver, or cause to be
delivered and transferred, to said parties of the second part, or
their assigns, all of the capital stock of the said party of the
first part, issued, or to be issued, except so much as may be
necessary to maintain, according to the law of the State of
lKentucky, the corporate character and powers of the said
party of the first part, and such stock as shall have to be issued
in payment for the subscriptions to the capital stock of said
party of the first part, by the counties and municipal corporations along the line of said road, equalling in no case the
amount held by said party of the second part, without their
consent. Said issue or transfer of stock to the said parties of
the second part to be made in proportionate installments as
each or any mile of the track of said road is laid with iron
rails, as aforesaid, the said installments, respectively, to be in
the proportion to the whole amount as one mile is to the entire
length of the road, and each issue or transfer shall be regularlv made on the books of said company, and the certificates
for said stock delivered to said parties of the second part or
their assigns.
"Fourth. That it will, for the consideration aforesaid, further
pay to said parties of the second part, or their assigns, the sum

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

85

Opinion of the Court.

of two million one hundred and ninety thousand ($2,190,000)
dollars, in the coupon seven per cent. gold bonds of said party
of the first part, secured by mortgage or deed of trust, a first
lien upon its corporate property and franchises, which said
bonds shall be issued in one series, which shall be for two million one hundred and ninety thousand (2,190,000) dollars, in the
aggregate, and shall be in such form and on such terms and
conditions as may be authorized by law and as may be approved by said parties of the second part. The payment of
said mortgage bonds shall be made as follows, to wit The.
said parties of the second part shall be entitled to receive, if.
they so desire, two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) dollars of the first mortgage bonds aforesaid in advance of regular payments, as hereinafter stated, giving accountable receipts
therefor, which receipts shall be cancelled on the completion
of the road and final settlement of the bond payments. Regular payments of said bonds shall be made absolutely to said
parties of the second part, or their assigns, in pro Pata instalments, respectively, to be in proportion to the whole amount
as one mile is to the whole length of the road, except in the
purchase of iron rails, when said party of the second part will
be entitled to the use of such an amount of bonds (first mort-.
gage) as will be necessary to make such purchase, to use either
for absolute payment or as security on time purchase.
"Fifth. That it will pay, in further consideration aforesaid, to
the parties of the second part, or their assigns, for construction
of said road, the bonds of the -counties along the line of road,
issued in payment of the gubscription made to the capital stock
of the party of the first part, to be not less in amount than one
million two hundred thousand (1,200,000) dollars, the deficit,
if any, to be paid in cash, or its equivalent.
"Sixth. That it will pay, in further consideration aforesaid, to
the parties of the second part, in cash, or, in lieu thereof, in an
equipment bond, secured by mortgage on the equipment of the
road, its earnings, and the road itself, if the legal consent of the
stockholders can be obtained thereto, for the sum of one million two hundred thousand (1,200,000) dollars.
"Seventh. That it will give and use its corporate credit to aid

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

said parties of the second part in purchasing material, or supplying means, to carry on the said work, and to that end will
issue its notes in the name of said party of the first part, in its
corporate capacity, from time to time, as the same may be

necessary, and will deliver the same to said parties of the
second part, to be used for the purposes aforesaid, and such
obligations, if met by said party of the first part, shall be made
good by said parties of the second part, and all such notes so
issued and delivered to said party of the second part shall be
regularly and satisfactorily accounted for.
"Eighth. That it further agrees that such parties of the second
part have all the earnings of said road during construction,
until accepted by said party of the first part.
"1Ninth. That it will maintain its corporate organization, and,
through its proper officers and agents, do and perform every
act or thing necessary or proper to be performed by it, or in its
name, in order to protect the rights and interests of said parties
of the second part, their heirs and assigns, as stockholders in
said railway company, to the extent as hereinbefore provided,
and as may be necessary to conform to the requirements of the
laws of the State of Kentucky"
The Construction Company represented by Byrne proceeded
to do work in constructing the road, and continued till December, 1873, when it ceased work, through pecuniary embarrassment, and never resumed it, being a creditor of the Great
Eastern Company, to a large amount, for work done and materials furnished under the contract of May 22, 1873.
On the 19th of April, 1878, Frank P Byrne and John Byrne
were, on their own petition, adjudged bankrupts by the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio,
Frank P Byrne being described in the petition as "doing
business as the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Construction Company," and John Byrne as "interested in profits."
A. J Hodder was appointed assignee of the bankrupts, and
the proper assignment was executed to him by the register in
bankruptcy, on the 22d of May, 1878.
On the 17th of April, 1880, Hodder, as such assignee, filed
a petition in equity, in the Circuit Court of Mason County,

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

87

Opimon of the Court.
Kentucky, against the Great Eastern Company, the Trust
Company, the Big Sandy Company, sundry former stockholders of that company, the owners of the interests purchased
under the foreclosure sale of 1869, and sundry judgment creditors of the Great Eastern Company The gravamen of the
petition is, that the Construction Company had, under its contract, expended large sums of money, and incurred much debt,
in work on part of the line from Maysvile to Catlettsburgh,
completing about seven miles of it, and purchasing and putting
down the iron rails and other materials, that the road and
improvements, as far as completed, and all the improvements
put upon it by the Construction Company, are the exclusive
property of the plaintiff, and no part of the line and improvements, finished or unfinished, was surrendered or delivered by
the Construction Company to the Railway Company, that the
value of the improvements so put into the road-bed and road is
$350,000, and they are of a permanent and fixed nature, that
the plaintiff has a first and prior lien on the entire line of railway and said improvements for the $350,000, that the labor
performed, and materials furnished, and improvements made,
in the construction of the line of railway, by the Construction
Company, under its contract, were on the part of the line which
the Great Eastern Company acquired from the Big Sandy
Company;- that, at the time the contract of the Construction
Company was made, the Great Eastern Company had possession and exclusive control of the line of railway purchased
from the Big Sandy Company, with the consent of that company and of the defendants who were former stockholders in it,
and they knew of the construction contract and of the m-provements which were being made under it, and made no
objection, but gave express consent, and are estopped from
claiming ownership of the line formerly owned by them, and
especially as to the improvements made by the Construction
Company, that the mortgage to the Trust Company was made
after the Great Eastern Company had purchased and taken
possession of the Big Sandy road, and, as between the Trust
Company and the former stockholders of the Big Sandy road,
the Trust Company has priority but its mortgage lien, if any,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

is inferior to that of the plaintiff, and that the Great Eastern
Company has abandoned work on the road, and it is being destroyed. The petition asserts that the plaintiff has a first and
prior lien on the entire property of the Great Eastern Company, including road, franchises, rights, privileges, improvements, and everything appertaining to the defendant's property,
for the $350,000 and interest, and especially a first and prior
lien on that part of the line on which the labor was performed,
and the materials were furnished, and the improvements were
made, by the Construction Company, under its contract, to the
value of the same, in case of a sale, that he has no adequate
remedy at law, and that the Great Eastern Company is
insolvent. The petition prays judgment against the Great
Eastern Company for $350,000 and interest, that the plaintiff's claim may be declared a first lien on the road, franchises,
and improvements, or a first lien on that part of the line known
as the Old Maysville and Big Sandy iRailroad, and on the
funds derived from its sale, that a receiver be appointed of all
the property, and that the road, franchises and improvements,
and all property involved in the controversy, be sold by the
court and the proceeeds distributed as prayed.
On October 28, 1880, the Trust Company appeared and filed
its answer and cross-petition. It sets up that the construction
contract was void, because several of the directors of the Great
Eastern Company who voted to authorize its execution, and to
ratify it after it was executed, and whose votes were requisite
for the purpose, were partners in the Construction Company
It avers that, under the contract, as soon as the materials and
improvements were placed on the line of the railway, they became the property of the Great Eastern Company, and the lien
of the mortgage to the Trust Company attached to them and
became the first lien on them. It denies the alleged ownership
and lien of the plaintiff, and avers that the improvements made
were surrendered and delivered to the Great Eastern Company
It asserts a first lien, on behalf of the Trust Company, and the
holders of bonds secured by the mortgage, as against the plaintiff, and as against the former owners of the Big Sandy franchises and property, and as against the other defendants, on

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

89

Opimnon of the Court.

the property and franchises of the Great Eastern Company and
the Big Sandy Company, and on the improvements made by
the Construction Company It sets up the agreements of July
15, 1871, and January 15, 1873, and avers that, after the first
one was made, the Great Eastern Company began work in good
faith on the road from Newport to Catlettsburgh, including all
the line of the Big Sandy road,, and executed the mortgage to
the Trust Company, and that, under the mortgage which authorized $2,190,000 of bonds, $443,000 were issued to persons
for materials furnished and work done in and about the building of the railway, and for money procured .and expended for
that purpose. It alleges that a default in the payment of interest
on the bonds has occurred, under the terms of the mortgage,
and its conditions have become operative, and the Trust Company is entitled to have possession of the mortgaged property
and to have it sold, to pay the whole amount of the principal
and interest due on the bonds issued. It prays that the plaintiff be decreed to have no lien or one inferior to that of the
Trust Company, that the property, rights and franchises of the
Great Eastern Company, including those of the Big Sandy
Company, be gold, and the bondholders be first paid in full,
and that a receiver, be appointed of all the property
On the same day, the Trut Company filed in the State
Court a petition and bond for the removal of the- cause into
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Kentucky, on the ground of diversity of citizenship, hut no transcript of the record from the State Court appears to have been
certified until December 4, 1880, nor filed in the Federal Court
until two days later, and meantime proceedings went on in the
State Court.
On the 19th of November, 1880, Wadsworth and others filed
in the State Court an answer to the petition of Hodder. It
alleges that the Construction Company did not perform the
construction contract, that the road and improvements are not
the property of the plaintiff, that it is not true they were to
remain the property of the Construction Company till they
were surrendered or delivered to the Great Eastern Company
or paid for by it, that the plaintiff does not own and has no

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

lien on any part of the property, or franchises, or line, or road
of the Big Sandy Company, or of any improvements thereon,
or on any part of the line of the Great Eastern Company, that,
by the agreement of July 15, 1871, the Great Eastern Company, then having no right to construct a line of railway in the
counties of Mason, Lewis, Greenup and Boyd, and having no
line in those counties, arranged with the stockholders of the
Big Sandy Company to buy their stock and property rights in
that company, and to construpt the Big Sandy line from Maysville to Catlettsburgh, that neither that agreement, nor the
one of January 15, 1873, was performed by the Great Eastern
Company, that the Construction Company had knowledge of
the terms of those agreements at the date of the construction
contract, that, after the construction company stopped work,
the Big Sandy Company took possession of that part of the line
on which the work had been done, and had always been in possession of the rest of the line, and that the Great Eastern Company, after the agreement of January 15,1873, came to an end,
surrendered to the Big Sandy Company the property on the
line of that company It denies that the Great Eastern Company is indebted to the Construction Company
After the transcript of the record was filed in the Federal
Court, Wadsworth and others made a motion to remand the
cause, which was denied. The plaintiff then filed a demurrer
to the cross-bill of the Trust Company, and Wadsworth and
'others, and Poyntz, filed separate demurrers to the answer and
cross-bill of the Trust Company In June, 1881, the Court sustained the demurrers and gave the Trust Company leave to
amend the cross-bill.

In the decision on the demurrers, 7 Fed. Rep. 793, these
points were ruled (1.) It was not necessary that the stockholders of the Great Eastern Company should authorize the
execution of the mortgage to the Trust Company

(2.) The

president could legally acknowledge in Ohio the execution of
the mortgage. (3.) The cross-bill sufficiently averred that the
bonds were held by bonazfide holders. (4.) The application to
foreclose was not premature. (5.) At the date of the mortgage,
the Great Eastern Company had no right to build the mort-

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

91

Opinion of the Court.

gaged road from INewport to Catlettsburgh, unless as a branch
of its main stem. (6.) There is nothing in the mortgage or the
cross-bill indicating that any part of the line mortgaged is a
branch of the main road authorized to be built, but the mortgage describes the mortgaged line as the "main line." (7.) The
Great Eastern Company had no right to acquire the Big Sandy
property without the assent of the holders of a majority in value
of its stock, and the cross-bill does not allege such assent. (8.)
Under the terms of the mortgage, and the allegations of the
cross-bill, the Big Sandy property was not intended to be mortgaged as future-acquired property
On the 12th of July, 1881, the Trust Company filed an
amended cross-bill, in which it alleged that the purchase made
by the agreement of July 15, 1871, was made with the consent
and approval'of the several stockholders of the Great Eastern
Company, or a majority in number and interest of them, and
was authorized and accepted by them, and that the line of the
Great Eastern Railway, as it existed when the mortgage was
executed, acknowledged, and delivered, was located and ran
through the seven counties in which the mortgage was recorded.
The prayer of the amended cross-bill asks that out of the proceeds of sale the unpaid purchase money of the Big Sandy
property be paid before the bondholders are paid.
On the 30th of July, 1881, the plaintiff filed an amended bill,
conforming to the equity rules of the Federal Court, and asking
for a reformation of the contract of May 22, 1873, if necessary,
so as to make it provide that the Construction Company be
and remain the soie owner of the improvements put on the
line of the railroad, until paid for. The amended bill also
claims a substitution of the plaintiff in the claims of the Great
Eastern Company against the Big Sandy Company and Wadsworth and his associates, to the amount of his claim.
On the same day the plaintiff demurred to the cross-bill and
amended cross-bill of the Trust Company On the 5th of September, 1881, the Great Eastern Company demurred to the
same. On the same day the Trust Company answered the k
amended bill. On the 29th of September; 1881, Wadsworth
and others and the Big Sandy Company answered the amended

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

bill, and also the amended cross-bill. There were then exceptions by the plaintiff to the answer of the Trust Company to
the amended bill, and to the answer of the Big Sandy Company
to that bill. All of these exceptions and demurrers were, on
hearing, overruled, in December, 1881. On the 6th of February, 1882, the plaintiff answered the amended cross-bill of the
Trust Company Issues being joined on all the answers, proofs
were taken, and the plaintiff's amended bill was taken as confessed by the defendants who had not answered it, including
the Great Eastern Company The cause was heard on pleadings and proofs, and a decision rendered, on which a decree
was made August 8, 1882, the material parts of which are as
follows
"The case having been fully argued by counsel and submitted to the court, and the court being fully advised in the
premises, finds and decrees, that no just claim for relief is
shown against the Alaysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company,
or against the Bank of Kentucky, William H. Wadsworth,
John G. Hickman, assignee of Charles B. Coons, John B.
Poyntz, Elizabeth Gray, executrix of Hamilton Gray, deceased,
C. B. Childs, as shareholder in said 2M'aysville and Big Sandy
Railroad Company, HI. L. Wilson, administrator of Harrison
Taylor, deceased, as shareholders or part owners 'of said Maysville and Big Sandy Railroad Company, or otherwise, or against
any of the other defendants, and that said amended bill is dismissed, with costs to be taxed, that no just claim for relief is
shown against any of the before-mentioned defendants, or any
of the defendants, under the amended cross-bill of the Farmers'
Loan and Trust Company, except or other than the mortgage
asserted in said amended cross-bill may be shown to cover the
line of railroad of the Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway
Company lying west of the west line of Mfason County, Kentucky, and the franchises of said railroad company as organized, as to which excepted property the complainant in said
amended cross-bill is allowed time until the next term of this
court to make a further showing and prepare for the approval
of the court such decrees as he may be advised, but, as to all
other claims of relief under said amended cross-bill it is dis-

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

93

Opimon of the Court.

missed, with costs to be taxed; without prejudice, however, to the
right of said Farmers' Loan and Trust Company to bring such
other suit, if any as it shall be advised, to recover any rights
of way which may have been acquired by or for the Kentucky
and Great Eastern Railway Company, for its line of railroad
east of the west line of Mason County, other than such rights
of way as were acquired by or for the Maysville and Big Sandy
Railroad Company, under its charter or by the exercise of its
franchises, and which rights of way, if any such there are, may
be found to be covered and included in -the mortgage by said
Kentucky and Great Eastern Railway Company to the said
Farmers' Loan and Trust Company"
From that decree the plaintiff and the Trust Company took
separate appeals to this court. Since the cases came into
this court Rogers Wright has been appointed assignee in bankruptcy, in place of Hodder, and been substituted in the appeals.
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, on final hearing, reached
the following conclusions Even if the construction contract is
valid, the plaintiff has no lien on the road-bed, or what was put
upon it, either by that contract, or by possession, or under any
statute of Kentucky The work on the road was not commenced
in good faith, within six months from July 15, 1871, under
the contract of that date. Neither Poyntz, nor the other par
ties, can take advantage of his refusal to unite in the contract
of January 15, 1873. Mr. Sands was authorized to make that
contract, and the Great Eastern Company took possession of
the Big Sandy property under it. The Construction Company
had actual notice of the terms and conditions of that contract,
when it entered into the construction contract. The parties
making the conditional sale provided for by the contract of
January 15, 18'13, declared the contract to be void, according
to its terms, and re-entered into possession of their property
and their right to do so was recognized by a resolution of the
board of directors of the Great Eastern Company, and, as the
Construction Company made its contract with actual notice of
the terms and conditions of the conditional purchase from the
Big Sandy owners, the construction contract was subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

those terms and conditions, and the Construction Company and
the Great Eastern Company are bound by them. The grading,
iron, ties, culverts, etc., and all that had become a part of the
road-bed of the Big Sandy road, went with it when it was retaken. The plaintiff shows no reason for not enforcing this
forfeiture. If the Construction Company is to be regarded as
a distinct company from the Great Eastern Company, having
interests adverse to it, then, in view of the evidence, and of the
principles laid down in JFardellv. Railroad Co., 103 U. S. 651,
the construction contract should not be enforced. The plaintiff cannot have relief in this suit, even m respect to rights of
way which the Big Sandy Company did not own, or in respect
to that part of the track which was re-located. Tie bill must
be dismissed. In respect to the cross-bill, the agreement of
July 15, 1871, is shown to have been made with the assent of
the holders of a majority of the stock of the Great Eastern
Company If the language of the mortgage embraces the
property rights which the Great Eastern Company had at the
date of the mortgage, and those subsequently obtained under
the contract of January 15, 1873, still only such rights as the
Great Eastern Company had were conveyed, and the mortgagee
took subject to the same conditions as the Great Eastern Company When the mortgage was made, the contract of July 15,
1871, had become voidable at the option of the Big Sandy
owners, the contract of January 15, 1873. was made before any
of the mortgage bonds were issued, and the mortgagee took,
only those rights which the mortgagor had, as against the persons who made a conditional sale of the Big Sandy road. The
mortgagee cannot separate the contract of July 15, 1871, from
that of January 15, 1873, but must take them as the mortgagor
took them. The title was never in the mortgagor, and, when
the Big Sandy Company resumed the possession of its property,
under the contracts, the mortgagee was bound thereby If the
mortgagee had, within a reasonable time, sought to set aside
the forfeiture, and to be allowed the benefit of any enhancement in the value of the property by reason of improvements,
this might have been allowed, but, as the work stopped in 1873,
and the mortgagee could have sought a remedy under the

WRIGHT v. KENTUCKY, &c., RAILWAY CO.

95

Opinon of the Court.

mortgage at any time after that year, the delay has been unreasonable. The delay would not have been so material if the
provisions in the contract of January 15, 1873, for re-entry,
had been made solely to secure the purchase money, but the
speedy construction of the road was a reason. if not the chief
one, why the original owners retained the right to declare the
contract void anil to re-enter into possession. As to any rights
of way which the Great Eastern Company obtained along the
line of the Big Sandy road, other than those purchased from
the Big Sandy Company, although Wadsworth and his associates are not entitled to them, the cross-bill is not so drawn, nor
the evidence such, that those rights can be subjected to the
mortgage in this proceeding.
This comprehensive statement of the conclusions reached by
the Circuit Court, as indicating the views it took of the facts
and the law in this case, may be taken as an announcement of
the results at which this court has arrived, in affirmance of
the decree of the Circuit Court in all particulars. It is necessary to add only a few observations.
By the terms of the contract of January 15, 1973, the purchase money of the Big Sandy property was to be paid in
bonds of the county of Mason, or in cash, within specified
times, and, on failure to do so, the contract was to become null
and void. Mason County never delivered any bonds to the
Great Eastern Company, and no payment of bonds or cash was
made to the Big Sandy owners. The sale was conditional.
No ownership or title passed, and it was expressly provided
that, until full payment should be made, no prior lien should
intervene on the Big Sandy property, as against the lien of the
vendors.
The terms of the construction contract are inconsistent with
the idea of any ownership of the constructed road by the Construction Company, or any lien on it by that company That
company was to have all the money, municipal bonds, and
property given or issued in payment of subscriptions to stock,
and all stock not necessary to maintain the charter or not
issued to municipal corporations for subscriptions to stock, and
also the $2,190,000 of mortgage bonds, secured by the mort-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

gage as "a first lien," and $1,200,000 in an equipment bond,
secured by an equipment mortgage. In other words, it was
to have everything except the road, and the Grept Eastern
Company was necessarily to have and own that, so as to be
able to give a mortgage on it, as a "first lien." Nor is there
anything in the construction contract suggesting a direct lien
in favor of the Construction Company The provision for
giving to that company all the earnings of the road "during
construction" and "until accepted" by the Great Eastern
Company, is vague and indefinite, but it cannot be construed
as giving a lien, for that would be inconsistent with the whole
tenor of the instrument.
Many questions were discussed by counsel at the bar, and in
their briefs, and we have given attention to all the views and
arguments on the part of the respective appellants, but the considerations above stated, on which the case was disposed of by
the Circuit Court, seem to us to be controlling, and to make it
unnecessary to say aiything further.
Decree affirmed.
MR.JusTimc MATrHEWS did not sit in these cases or take any
part in their decision.

LEATHER MAI-TUFACTURERS' BANK v. .MORGAN
& Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued November 6, 1885.-Decided March 1, 1886.

A depositor in a bank, who sends his pass-book to be written up and receives it back with entries of credits and debits and ls paid checks as
vouchers for the latter, is bound personally or by an authorized agent, and
with due diligence, to examine the pass-book and vouchers, and to report to
the bank, without unreasonable delay, any errors which may be discovered
in them, and if he fails to do so, and if the bank is thereby misled to its pre-

