ALABAMA v. MONTAGUE.
Syllabus.

road and property of the several companies so receiving them,"
and this was held to cover the lands owned by said companies.
It is obvious here the two words "i'oad andproperty" of those
companies were used as representing all the property they
owned. Nothing further in the way of description was needed
or was desirable. But this form of words differs widely from
the elaborate description of what is conveyed m the deed of the
mortgaging company here, and the meaning also is as different.
In the latter case the road, its bed, its rolling-stock, and much
other property probably was not conveyed, and no expression is
found implying that all its lands were conveyed. And if we
limit the words "all other roperty " to what we have supposed
to be their meaning, there is nothing else to imply that the company intended to mortgage all its property, of every kind and
description, whether real or personal.
We do not believe this was intended or can be fairly implied
from the language used, the minute descriptive character
of which is found three times in this contract, namely, in the
statute authorizing the transaction, in the preliminary recital of
the mortgage deed, and in its granting clause, all of which is
useless if the phrase " all other property," as there used, was
intended to include all lands and all interest in lands in the
four States through which the road passed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

ALABAMA & Others v. MONTAGUE & Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted 'March 31, 18S6 -Decided

April 12, 188.

This case involves the same questions as the case just decided, Alabama v.
.Montague,ante 602, and on the authority of that case the judgment below
is affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 185.
Statement of Facts.

Ejectment. Judgment below for defendants. Plaintiffs below sued out this writ of error.
JIr Samuel F .Rwe for plaintiffs in error.
Xr Xenophon TFheeker for defendants in error.
MiR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment tried by a jury in the same
court which decided the preceding case, in which the plaintiffs
in error based their right to recover on the same mortgage
which they sought to foreclose in that suit. The court instructed the jury against them on the ground that they had
no legal title.
As the foregoing opinion decides that they had no title
at all, legal or equitable, the judgment of the court below
must be
-Afflrmed.

STEWART v. VIRGINIA.
ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

ITITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERNi DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Submitted April 5, ISS6.-Decided April 12, 1886.

A proceeding under the acts of the Legislature of Virginia for the identification and verification of coupons tendered n payment of taxes, debts, or demands due the State is not a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, within the meaning of the act of March
3, 1875, regulating removals of causes.

The plaintiff in error owed the State of Virginia $3807 for
taxes for the year 1885. He tendered the State's tax-receivable
coupons in payment thereof for identification and verification
under the provisions of the act of January 14, 1882, and at the
same time he paid his tax in money
He thereupon filed his

