OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

When many persons have a common interest in a trust property or fund, and one of them, for the benefit of all and at his
own cost and expense, brings a suit for its preservation or administration, the court of equity in which the suit is brought
will order that the plaintiff be reimbursed his outlay from the
property of the trust, or by proportional contribution from
those who accept the benefits of his efforts. See Trustees v
Greenough, 105 'L. S. 527, where the subject is discussed by
Mr. Justice Bradley, and the cases cited, and Central Railroad Co. v .Pettus, 113 U. S. 116. But where one brigs adversary proceedings to take the possession of trust property
from those entitled to it, in order that he may distribute it to
those who claim adversely, and fails in his purpose, it has
never been held, in any case brought to our notice, that such
person had any right to demand reimbursement of his expenses out of the trust fund, or contribution from those whose
property he sought to misappropriate.
The Circuit Court was right in not compelling the plaintiffs
to pay for services rendered and expenses incurred in a proceeding adversary to their interest, and carried on for the benefit of others.
There is no error in the record.
Decree afflrmed.

B10-RNES v. SCOTT & Another, Executors.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued March 23, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1896.

In a suit at law, by the payee of a promissory note or his representatives,
against the maker, evidence is inadmissible to show that the note was not
intended to be a promissory note, but was given as a memorandum not to
be enforced against the maker.
A defence in an action at law by the payee of a promissory note, or his repre-

sentatives, that there was a failure of consideration in that the note was
based upon certain partnership transactions between the parties wnch are

BURNES v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.
still unsettled, and the amount due from the one to the other therefore unknown, is an equitable defence which cannot be set up in that action.
The making of a champertous, and therefore under the law of the State void
and illegal, contract for the prosecution of a suit to collect a promissory
note, cannot be set up m bar of a recovery on the note.

This was an action at law upon a promissory note.
is stated in the opinion of the court.

The case

.Mr B. F Strzgfnellow for plaintiff in error.
.Mr Geo ge

" DeCamp for defendant in error.

MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

This was. an action at law brought by Milton Courtright
against James N. Burnes, the plaintiff in error, upon the note
of the latter made at Chicago, and dated October 10, 1872,
whereby he promised to pay, thirty days after date, to the order
of F H. Winston, $7333, at the Cook County National Bank, in
Chicago. Courtright by indorsement and transfer became the
owner and holder of the note.
The defendant pleaded four pleas. The first of these was a
general denial of the averments of the petition.
The second plea was in substance as follows That when the
note was made, the plaintiff Courtright, the defendant Burnes,
the said Winston, and one Campbell had been, and were, partners in a contract for building a certain railroad therein named,
that prior to the date of the note Winston had received and was
in possession, as part of the assets of the partnership, of forty
bonds for $1000 each, of the city of Atchison, subject to the
payment of the partnership debts, and, after such payment, for
distribution among the partners, that a short time before the
date of the note the partners had appointed the defendant a
trustee to settle the partnership affairs, that when the note was
given the partnership affairs had not been settled, and were not
settled at the time of filing the plea, that at the time of the
making of the note, Winston turned over to defendant the
bonds above mentioned, and estimated that there would be
due him, as a partner in the firm, from its assets, the sum men-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tioned in said note, and thereupon requested the defendant, as
trustee of the partners, to make the note "with the understanding that the same was not to be sued on, but was to be deemed
a mere memorandum of the amount that should be estimated
as the share of said Winston, on account of said bonds, in a
settlement among said partners," that the defendant executed
the note accordingly, as trustee of the partnership and not as
his individual note, and the plaintiff acquired title to the note
with knowledge of these facts.
By the third plea it was averred as follows That the note
sued on "was and is wholly without consideration, and is null
and void, and that said note is based upon and grew out of
transactions relating to the business of said partners, that said
partners are interested in the same, and are necessary parties
to a suit relating to said note, and the amount due on said note,
if any, cannot be ascertained until a final settlement of said
partnership can be had."
The last plea was that the suit was prosecuted under
an agreement between the plaintiff and George W DeCamp,
his attorney, whereby the latter undertook to prosecute the
suit and to pay all the expenses incident to its prosecution, in
considerataon that he should receive four tenths of the amount
recovered.
The parties waived a trial by jury and submitted the
issues of fact as well as of law to the court, which made a
general finding for the plaintiff and entered judgment thereon
in his favor against the defendant Burnes for $11,401.60, who
thereupon sued out this writ of error. After the record was
filed in this court Courtright died, and the executors of his last
will were made defendants in error in his stead.
The bill of exceptions shows that upon the trial of the case
the defendant, to sustain the issue on his part, offered evidence
tending to show that "Winston, the payee and assignor of the
note sued on," Courtright, "the plaintiff," Burnes, "the defendant, and one Campbell, were the contractors for the construction of the Chicago and Southwestern Railroad, as partners,
and that Winston was entitled to an interest of two fifteenths
in such contract, that Winston had charge of the execution of

BURNES v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

the contract and possession and control of the assets arising
from the contract, that after the completion of the road, in
October, 1872, Winston delivered to defendant forty bonds of
the city of Atchison for one thousand dollars each, which had
been received and were then held by him as part of the assets
under such contract, that the bonds were delivered by Winston to and received by defendant as the trustee for the parties
in interest in the contract, and that at the time the bonds were
so delivered defendant gave to Winston the note sued on."
The defendant also offered evidence to show "that the note
sued on when given was not intended by him, the maker, nor
by Winston, the payee, as a promissory note, but was only mtended, and so given by him and received by Winston, as a
memorandum of the then estimate of the value of the estimated
interest of Winston in the Atchison bonds then delivered as
part of the profits of the aforesaid contract for the construction of the Atchison Branch, to be accounted for on a settlement between the partners to such contract;" "that the only
consideration of the note sued on was the transfer by Winston
to defendant of the interest of Winston in the Atchison bonds,
as part of the profits of the contract for the construction of the
Atchison Branch, " and "that upon a settlement of the partnership accounts, between said Winston and his partners in the
contract for the construction of said Atchison Branch, the said
Winston would have had no interest in the profits of said contract, having received more than his share thereof prior to the
giving of said note."
To all of which evidence so offered plaintiff objected as incompetent and irrelevant, and the objections were sustained by
the court, and the evidence excluded. The exclusion of the testimony so offered is now assigned for error by the defendant.
So far as the evidence excluded was offered in support of the
second plea, it is plain that it was inadmissible. Its purpose
was to vary and contradict by an alleged contemporaneous verbal agreement the contract which the parties had reduced to
writing. It was offered to show that a promissory note in the
usual form was not intended by the parties to be a promissory
note, but was a mere memorandum by which the maker prom-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

ised nothing, which gave no rights to the payee, and was to
all intents and purposes vain, futile, and of no force or effect
whatever. It is not necessary to cite authority to show that
the evidence was inadmissible for such a purpose.
The counsel for defendant not strenuously insisting that the
evidence was admissible to support the second plea, insist that
it was competent to prove the third. They argue that as want
of consideration may be shown in defence of an action on a
promissory note, the evidence should ha e been received.
As a general rule want of consideration is a defence to a
promissory note, but it is not always a defence which can be
made at law

It frequently requires the aid of a court of

equity to give it effect. The plea, to support which the defendant contends the evidence of want of consideration was admissible, clearly sets up an equitable defence. It alleges that the
note sued on is based on the "transactions relating to the business of said partners." Referring, therefore, to the preceding
plea, which states the business of the partners, as we are authorized to do, we learn that the partnership business had not at
the time of filing the pleas been settled, or the interest of Winston therein or in the bonds been ascertained. The plea under
consideration further avers that the members of the partnership
were interested in the said business and were necessary parties
to a suit relating to the note, and that the amount due thereon,
if anything, could not be ascertained until the final settlement
of the partnership. It is plain, therefore, that the defence set
up by the plea is not the legal defence of want of consideration, for the plea admits, by implication, that there may be
something due on the note, but the equitable defence that the
amount due on the note, if anything, is dependent on the
amount coming to Winston from the assets of the partnership,
which cannot be ascertained without a settlement of the partnership affairs in a suit to which all the partners are necessary
parties. And yet having so pleaded, the defendant insists, in
argument, that in a trial upon the promissory note in a court
of law, and without the presence of two of the four partners,
evidence is admissible to settle the partnership, and to prove,
without making Winston a party to the suit, that there is noth-

BURNES v. SCOTT.
Opimon of the Court.

ing due hn out of the partnership assets. The pleading and
the contention of the defendant appear, therefore, to be contradictory and inconsistent.
Plainly the relief, if any, to which the facts set up in this
plea entitles the defendant is an injunction to 'tay the suit at
law upon the note until a settlement of the partnership and an
ascertainment of the amount, if anything, conng to Winston
out of the assets of the partnership. This is a remedy which a
court of equity only can grant. But the defendant insists on a
verdict and judgment in his favor, without settlement of the
partnership on which, as he asserts, the validity of the note depends.
Under the jurisprudence of the courts of the United States a
court of law can no more take cognizance of an equitable defence than a court of equity can entertain a suit upon a purely
legal title. "The Constitution of the United States," says Mr.
Chief Justice Taney, in delivering judgment in the case of Bennett.v. Butterworth, 11 How 668, 675, "in creating and defining the judicial power of the general government establishes
this distinction between law and equity, and a party who clains
a legal title must proceed at law
But if the claim is an
equitable one he must proceed according to the rules which
this court has prescribed regulating proceedings in equity in the
courts of the United States."
So in T/tompson v Railroad Con pantes, 6 Wall. 134, the
court referred to Bennett v Butterworth, and cited with approval and adopted the following extract from the opinion in
that case "Although the forms of proceedings and practice in
the State courts shall have been adopted in the Circuit Courts,
yet the adoption of the State practice must not be understood
as confounding the principles of law and equity, nor as authorizing legal and equitable claims to be blended in one suit."
So in the case of Jones v. oMXclasters, 20 How 8, 22, which
was an action at law for the recovery of the possession of land,
it was held that when the grant from the government on which
the plaintiffs relied was regular in form, it was not proper, by
way of defence, to- go behind the survey and location, that,
"if they were voidable for irregularity or other cause, the ques-

OCTOBER TERMNI, 1885.
Opnnon of the Court.

tion was not one for a court of law in an action to recover
possession, but for a court of equity to reform any error or
mistake."
So in Foster v 1fora, 98 U. S. 425, 428. it was said that, "in
actions of ejectment in the United States courts, the strict legal
title prevails. If there are equities which would show the right
to be in another, these can only be considered on the equity
side of the Federal courts." To the same effect see CGreer v
.fezes, 24 How 268, Watkzns v Holman, 16 Pet. 25, Bagnell
v Broderwck, 13 Pet. 436, Bank qf Hamilton v Dudley, 2 Pet.
492. See also Peeler's Law and Equity in U. S. Courts, ch. 1,
and note 26, pp. 28, 29.
If the defence set up in the plea under consideration could
be made effectual in an action at law, it would render obsolete
in the equity courts of the United States that great head of
equity jurisdiction under which injunctions are granted to stay
proceedings at law "The occasion," says MAJr. Justice Story,
"on which an injunction may be used to stay proceedings at
law are almost infinite in their nature and circumstances."
"Thus, an injunction is sometimes granted to stay trial, sometimes after verdict to stay judgment, sometimes after judgment
to stay execution, and sometimes after execution to stay the
money in the hands of the sheriff," &c. Story Eq. Jur. §§ 885,
886, and see §§ 881, 882, Eden on Injunctions, ch. 2, p. 3,
TWaterlow v. Bacon, L. R., 2 Eq. 514, Hibbard v Eastman,47
N. H. 507, Hopkins v. Fletcher, 47 Missouri, 331, Yommey v
Ellis, 41 Geo. 260.
It is clear, therefore, that the matters set up in the third plea
were proper for the consideration of a court of equity, and that
they could not be set up as a defence in a court of law All
the evidence offered to prove them was, therefore, properly ex
eluded.
It further appears from tfie bill of exceptions that in support
of the plea that the plaintiff had made a champertous agreement with his counsel for the prosecution of this suit, the defendant offered evidence which tended to prove a contract made
by the plaintiff with his counsel, George W DeCamp, by which
the latter agreed to prosecute the suit and defray all the ex-

BURNES v. SCOTT.
Opinion of the Court.

penses thereof, in consideration of which he was to receive a
certain proportion of the sum recovered. The court, however,
did not give effect to this plea. and overruled a motion made
by the defendant to dismiss the action on the ground that the
plaintiff had made such champertous contract. This action of
the court-the defendant assigns for error.
At common law and by statute, both in England and in
many of the United States, champerty was a criminal offence.
But at the present time, in most of the States, to aid the lawful suit of another with money or services in consideration of a
share in the recovery, is not considered or punished as a crime.
But in many of the States champertous contracts are considered void. This is the case in Missouri where the present case
was tried, the Supreme Court so holding, on the ground that
the common law had been adopted by statute in that State.
See Duke v Hfarper, 66 MI[issouri, 51. The defendant now
asks us to go a long step beyond this ruling.
The question raised by the present assignment of error is not
whether a champertous contract between counsel and client is
void, but whether the making of such a contract can be set up
in bar of a recovery on the cause of action to which the chainpertous contract relates.
We must answer this question in the negative. It was
wisely said by the Supreme Court of lNew York, in the case of
Tkalksmer v. Brznkerhqf, 3 Cowen, 623, that "the right of
litigation may be abused, and proper remedies for groundless
and vexatious litigation must exist, but the remedies for the
abuse of this right should be such as not to impair the free use
of the right itself. As the justice or injustice of the claim cannot be known before the termination of the cause, the checks
upon unjust litigation must in general consist, not in excluding
the suit or the suitor from the courts, but in redress following
the decision of justice upon the merits of the case."
This is in accord with the views of this court. The precise
question under consideration was decided in the case of Boone
v. Okles, 10 Pet. 1'7. That was a bill in equity to establish
the title to a tract of seven hundred acres of land in Bourbon
County, in the State of Kentucky Among other defences it

OCTOBER TERM, 1sm8.
Opinion of the Court.

was alleged that an agreement m writing had been made between Boone, the plaintiff, and one Engles, by which Engles
undertook at his own expense to prosecute a suit for the seven
hundred acres in dispute, and. as a consideration for his trouble, was to have one-half of the land, and that the suit was
prosecuted under that agreement, that it was, therefore, a case
of champerty and maintenance forbidden by law, in which the
court could give no relief. But the court held that, although
the English statutes which had been adopted in Kentucky punished the offence and declared the contract for maintenance
void between the parties, the rioght of the plaintiff was not forfeited by such an agreement, and it might be asserted against
the defendants whether the contract with Engles was valid or
void. The same rule has been declared in other American
cases. TWhitney v. K-irtland, 27 N. J Eq. (12 C. E. Green),
333, 1?obnson v Beall, 26 Georgia, 1T, Allison v CAkwago &
Northwestern Railroad Co., 42 Iowa, 274.
So in Hilton v Woods, L. R. 4 Eq. 432, it was strenuously
urged that the bargain between the plaintiff and Mr. Wright,
under which the suit was instituted, amounted to champerty
and maintenance, and consequently disqualified the plaintiff to
sue, and that the court was bound to dismiss the bill. But the
Vice Chancellor said "I have carefully examined all the authorities which were referred to in support of this argument,
and they clearly establish that whenever the right of the plaintiff in respect of which he sues is derived under a title founded
on champerty or maintenance, his suit will on that account
necessarily fail. But no authority was cited, nor have I met
any, which goes the length of deciding that where a plaintiff
has an original and good title to property he becomes disqualified to sue for it by having ventured into an improper bargain
with his solicitor as to the mode of remunerating him for his
professional services in the suit or otherwise." There was,
therefore, a decree for the plaintiff, though without costs.
In Elborough v Ayres, L. R. 10 Eq. 367, it was conceded
that the fact that the plaintiff, in an action for malicious prosecution, had been maintained, would be no bar to the action, and
the Vice-Chancellor held that such maintenance would be no

N. Y. MUT. LIFE INS. CO. v. ARMSTRONG.
Syllabus.

ground for the interference of a court of equity to prevent the
action from going on, citing Vice-Chancellor Wigram m Evans
v Prothero[not reported on that point].
The only cases to which we have been referred m which the
rule insisted on by the defendant has been maintained were
two cases decided in the Supreme Court of Wisconsin. -arker
v. Barker, 14 Wise. 131, and Allard v. Tamzrande, 29 Wise.
502.
We think, therefore, that, both upon reason and weight of
authority, the court did not err in refusing to give effect to the
fourth plea of the defendant, or in refusing to dismiss the suit
because it was prosecuted under a champertous agreement between the plaintiff and his counsel.
Judgment affirmed.

NEW YORK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
v. ARMSTRONG, Administratrix.
ERROR ''O THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 16, i, 1886.-Decided April 5, 18S6.

A policy of life insurance payable to the assured or his assigns at a future day
named, or if he should die before that day to his legal representatives
within sixty days after notice and proof of his death, is assignable if the
assignmenL is.not made to cover a speculative risk, and an assignment of
it passes to the assignee the right to receive the sum insured in case of the
death of the assured before the day named.
Proof that the assignee of a policy of life insurance caused the death of the
assured by felonious means is sufficient to defeat a recovery on the policy.
In a suit brought by an assignee of a policy of life insurance, obtained of the
application of the assured at the instigation of the assignee, to recover of
the insurers after the death of the assured, the defendants set up that it
was plaintiff's purpose, in procuring the insurance to be obtained, to cheat
and defraud defendants, and offered to show that he effected insurances
upon the life of the assured in other compames at or about the same time
for the like fraudulent purpose HYeld, That the evidence was admissible.

