PHILLIPS v. NEGLEY.
Syllabus.

of a fact which he has no authority to determine is of no legal
effect. Dzxon County v FieZd, 111 U. S. 83.
Nor can the payment of interest on all the bonds have the
effect of ratifying bonds issued beyond the lawful limit, for a
ratification can have no greater force than a previous authority, and the county cannot ratify what it could not have
authorized. M3zrsk v. Fulton County, 10 Wall. 676.
The necessary consequence is that the court below erred in
instructing the jury that the plaintiff was entitled to recover
on all the bonds and coupons sued on, if he purchased them
before their maturity and for value, and without notice that
more than $250,000 of bonds had been issued by the defendant. iferc/onts' Bank v Bergen County, 115 U. S. 384-.
The judgment must therefore be reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to set aside the verdict and order a
new trial. What part of his bonds and coupons the plaintiff
may enforce against the county may depend upon further
evidence of the exact dates of the delivery and the purchase of
the several bonds, that may be introduced upon another trial
of this case, or perhaps in some other suit to which all the
bondholders may be made parties, and therefore no opinion is
expressed upon that question.
Judgment reversed.

PHILLIPS & Another, Executors, v. NEGLEY
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIT OF CIOLUMBIA.
Argued March 25, 26, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

Final judgments at law cannot, by proceedings taken after the close of the
term at which they were entered, be reversed or annulled for errors of fact
or law by the court which rendered them; except that clerical mistakes, and
such mistakes of fact not put in issue or passed upon as may be corrected
by writ of error coram vobes (or on motion in place of that writ where
such practice prevails), and a mistake in the dismissal of a cause, maybecor.
rected after that time the same rule applies in equity, excepting, further,
the right to take jurisdiction of bills for review.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
The appropriate remedy to set aside or enjom the execution of judgments at
law, wrongfully obtained, is by bill in equity.
So far as the rule prevails in Maryland that judgments may, at a term subsequent to that at which they were entered, be amended in essential matters,
reversed, or annulled by the court which rendered them, that rule, whether
founded on a construction of the larviand stetute of 1787 by the highest
court of the State, or on an interpretation of the common law, is not
binding on the courts of the United States in the District of Columbia.

Error to review an order vacating a judgment. After the
cause was docketed here plaintiff in error died, and his executors were admitted to prosecute tbe writ of error.
The facts material to a determination of the questions arising in the cause were as follows:
Philip Phillips sued the defendant Negley, in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, on August 29, 1874, to recover $4368, alleged to be due upon a certain order in writing,
signed by Simon Witkowski and bythe defendant, as attorney
for Mrs. Witkowski, addressed to Charles F Peck and Charles
E. Hovey, and by them accepted, payable out of money received by them from the United States, arising from a judgment in the Court of Claims in favor of Witkowski. A copy
of the order was attached to the declaration.
Process was served personally on the defendant on the same
day
On October 26, 1874, Negley filed an affidavit of defence,
denying his liability, on the ground that the order was signed
by him only as the agent and on behalf of Mrs. Witkowski,
alleging that the plaintiff was not in fact holder of the same for
value, and denying notice of nonpayment, and any indebtedness
whatever.
On May 3, 1877, the plaintiff joined issue on these pleas,
and on April 3, 1879, the defendant not appearing, a jury was
called, who found a verdict for the plaintiff for the sum demanded, with interest, and judgment was rendered thereon.
On September 4, 1882, the defendant filed his motion "to
vacate the judgment and set aside the verdict entered herein
ex.parte on the 3d day of April, 1879, because of irregularity,
surprise, fraud and deceit in the procurement of said verdict
and judgment, and the negligence of defendant's attorney, the

PHILLIPS v. XEGLEY.
Statement of Facts.

particulars of which appear in the affidavit of the defendant
filed herewith and in the record and papers on file in this case."
In support of this motion the affidavits of the defendant
Negley and of Richard Ilarrington were fied. In that of the
defendant he denied his personal liability on the order, and
said that when served with process in the cause he was temporarily in Washington, being at the time and always since a resident of Pittsburgh, that he employed Harrington as his attorney and filed his affidavit of defence, and received no further
notice or information in reference to the suit from the fall of
1874 until about July 26, 1882, when he was served with
process in a suit brought on the judgment in Allegheny
County, Pennsylvania, that after he filed his affidavit of defence in the original suit, that is, from October 26, 1874, the
plaintiff "seemed to have abandoned the case, and thereby to
mislead affiant's attorney," that the plaintiff took no notice
of the plea until May 3, 1877, when he joined issue, but gave
no notice of trial, that in the meantime, without defendant's
knowledge, Harrington had removed from the city of Washington, as was well known to the plaintiff and his counsel, leaving the defendant without an attorney, that on April 3, 1879,
without any notice to the defendant, the case was called for
trial, and in his absence the plaintiff, with knowledge that the
defendant was ignorant of the proceedings, called for a jury,
and without other proof than the production of the order sued
on, procured the verdict and obtained the judgment thereon,
and that by reason of the premises the said proceedings and
judgment are a fraud upon him.
Harrington stated in his affidavit that he understood that
the plaintiff had abandoned his suit, and that he believed he so
informed his client, the defendant, and that he, Harrington, removed from the District of Columbia in March, 1875, and had
not since resided or practised law therein, and that on such removal he undertook to notify all his clients, but having considered this cause at an end by reason of the plaintiff's failure
to join issue or take action on the plea therein, as required by
the rules of the court, he did not notify the defendant, and that
the plaintiff and his attorney well knew,, when said cause was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

set down for trial, that the affiant had removed to Dover, Dela-

ware.
Notice of this motion was served upon the plaintiff in the
judgment, who appeared and filed counter affidavits of himself
and of his attorney, William F Mattingly The latter stated
that he mailed notices of the trial of the issues in the action
for the M ay Term, 1877, in due time, to what he understood
to be the post-office address both of Harrington and of the defendant, and that the cause stood for trial from thence until
the January Term, 1879. The plaintiff, in his affidavit, denied
all charges of fraud, and said that on the trial of the action the
verdict was taken upon testimony showing that, after the delivery to the plaintiff of the order sued on, the defendant obtamed possession of the fund out of which the same was to
have been paid, and failed to make the proper application of

the same.
On December 2, 1882, the Supreme Court of the District,
holding a special term and Circuit Court, entered the follow-

ing order
"Philip Phillips, Pl'ff,
IV.I
At Law No. 12,890.
James S. Negley, Def't.
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the defendant's
motion to vacate the judgment and set aside the verdict entered herein ex paorte on the 3d day of April, 1879, because of
irregularity, surprise, fraud, and deceit, and the same having
been argued by counsel on both sides, and duly considered, it
is considered by the court that said verdict and judgment be,
and the same are hereby, vacated, set aside, and for nothing
held, and a new trial granted."
From this order an appeal was taken to the court in general
term, December 9, 1882, and on February 15, 1883, the defendant moved the court to dismiss the appeal, on the ground that
an appeal would not lie from such an order made at the Circuit Court or special term.
The proceedings in general term resulted in the following
order entered February 19, 1883

PHILLIPS v. NEGLEY.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

"Now come here as well the plaintiff as the defendant, by
their respective attorneys, whereupon, because it appears to
the court here that there is no error in the record and proceedings of the special term, therefore, the court remands the case
to the special term, there to be proceeded with as if no appeal
had been taken from its order of December 2, 1882, which
appeal is hereby dismissed with costs, to be taxed by the clerk.
The plaintiff gives notice that he will prosecute a writ of error,
and the penalty of his supersedeas bond is fixed at $500."
To reverse these proceedings and orders this writ of error
was prosecuted.
.3f John Seden and Xr TV Hallett .PAillips for plaintiff
in error.
.-Yr Job Barnardfor defendant m error. Yr1 James S.
.Edwardswas with him on the brief.
A writ of error will not lie to review an order granting a new
trial. Ins. Co. v Barton, 13 Wall. 603, N'Iewcomb v. Wood, 97
U. S. 581, Railway Co. v Heck, 102 U. S. 120. If the order is
subject for review it was one within the jurisdiction of the court
and proper to be made. JHarms v. Hardeman, 14 How 334,
HNerbert v Rowles, 30 Maryland, 271, 278, Stacker v Cooper
County, 25 Missouri, 401, 3fillpaugh v. 3fcBrde, 7 Paige,
509. It was entirely irregular under the rules of the Supreme
Court of the District to file a joinder of issue and note of issue,
in the absence of defendant and his attorney, and knowing
of such absence, with no permission from the court, and in.
the absence of a notice of trial. We desire to call the attention of the court to these rules.*
* 31. .Replication,&c.-" After the plea filed and served, the plaintiff shall
reply, and after replication filed, the defendant shall rejoin, and so on till
issue is joined, within ten days after the last pleading filed, excluding the day
of such filing, otherwise, on motion and notice thereof the suit may be dismissed, or judgment taken by default, according as the failure- is by the plaintiff or defendant."
42. .Noticeof t nal.-"At any time after issue joined, and at least ten days
before the sitting of the court at which the cause stands for judgment or trial,
either party may give notice of trial."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

The action of the court below was in accordance with what
we understand to be the settled law and practice of this court.
Bronson v Schulten, 104 U. S. 410, when taken in connection
with the facts in that case, is no authority against it and the
whole current of previous authority sustains the jurisdiction.
Wfralden v. Crazg, 9 Wheat. 576, Boyle v Zachkare, 6 Pet.
64:8, Pwokett v. Legerwood, 7 Pet. 144, 147, Harrzs v Harieman, above cited. The rulings in the Circuit Courts are the
same. Sheepshanks v Boyer, Baldw 469, Den v. XcAllister,
4 Wash. C. C. 393, Albree v fohnsonj, 1 Flippin, 341, Dawson v Dantel, 2 Flippin, 301.

In any event the courts of the

District of Columbia possess such power. The laws of Maryland previous to the cession are in force in the District, and
among those laws was the act of 1787, ch. 9, ยง 6, which, as
construed by the courts of Maryland, undoubtedly conferred
upon the courts of Maryland the jurisdiction exercised in this
case. See 'Tiernan v Hammond, 41 Maryland, 548. The
courts of the District so understood, and practised upon it.
Sherburne v Zing, 2 Cranch, C. C. 205, .fcCormuck v. 3fagruder, 2 Cranch, C. 0. 227, Unton Bank v Crittenden, 9
Cranch, C. C. 238, Ault v Elliott, 2 Cranch, C. C. 372, Rng52. "' If the defendant fail to appear when the cause is called for trial, the
plaintiff may have him called, and take a judgment by default."
60. Notions for a new trial.-"Iotions for a new trial, which are designed
to set aside a verdict and procure a new trial of a case, are of two kinds, to

wit
"' 1. Those which are grounded upon alleged error of law by the justice presiding, &c.
"2. Those which are grounded upon the following, and similar allegations
1. "' That the party moving for the new trial had no notice, and did not
appear at the trial
2. "Misbehavior of the successful party,
6. "That the verdict was obtained by surprise, &c."
"These motions are addressed to the discretion of the Justice presiding at
the trial, and are not appealable."
90. Motion to vacate ?udgment.-" This motion will not be entertained, if
made after the defendant has taken any fresh step after the knowledge of the
irregularity or surprise, or fraud, or deceit complained of, nor can it be made
after the execution executed, unless defendant had no notice of the judgment," &c.

-PHILLIPS v. 1NEGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

gold v -Elliott, 2 Craich, 0. 0. 462, 1eiling v Bblier', 3
Cranch, 0. 0. 212.
MR. JusTIcE MATTHEWS, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
There appears to be an ambiguity, if not an inconsistency,
in the terms of the order or judgment of the general term. It
affirms that there is no error in the record and proceedings of
-the special term, but does not affirm its order, which was appealed from, but in fact dismisses the appeal, as though it had
no jurisdiction either to affirm or reverse the order brought up
by the appeal. Interpreting the judgment of the general term
by the opmion of the learned judge, who spoke for the court,
Phillips v. _egley, 2 M,ackey, 2$6, we must infer that it was
intended to dismiss the appeal for want of jurisdiction to entertain it, on the ground that the order of the special term,
vacating its own judgment, rendered at a previous term, was
not only within the power of that court, but was so purely
discretionary that it was not reviewable in an appellate court.
The same consideration is urged upon us as a ground for dismissing the present writ of error for want of jurisdiction in
this court, it being alleged that the order of the Supreme Court
of the District at special term is one not only within the discretion of that court, but that, as it merely vacates a judgment
for the purpose of a new trial upon the merits of the original action, it is not a final judgment, and, therefore, not reviewable on writ of error. If, properly considered, the order
m question was an order in the cause, which the court had
power to make at the term when it was made, the consequence
may be admitted, that no appellate tribunal has jurisdiction to
question its propriety, for, if it had power to make it, and it
was a power limited only by the discretion of the court making it, as in other cases of orders setting aside judgments at
the same term at which they were rendered, and granting new
trials, there would be nothing left for the jurisdiction of an
appellate court to act upon. The vacating of a judgment and
granting a new trial, in the exercise of an acknowledged jurisdiction, leaves no judgment in force to be reviewed. If, on

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmu of the Court.

the other hand, the order made was made without jurisdiction
on the part of the court making it, then it is a proceeding
which must be the subject of review by an appellate court.
The question of the jurisdiction of this court to entertain the
present writ of error, therefore, necessarily involves the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the District, both at special
and general term, and the nature and effect of the order
brought into review, so that the question of our jurisdiction is
necessarily included in the question of the validity of the proceeding itself.
The legal proposition involved in the judgment complained
of, and necessary to maintain it, is, that the Supreme Court of
this District'at special term has the same discretionary power
over its judgments, rendered at a previous term of the court,
without any motion or other proceeding to that end made or
taken at that term, to set them aside and grant new trials of
the actions in which they were rendered, which it has over
judgments, when such proceedings are taken during the term
at which they were rendered, and that this being true, the
proceeding and order of the court, in the exercise of this jurisdiction and discretion, cannot be reviewed on appeal or writ of
error.
This proposition, it is argued, may be deduced from the inherent and implied powers of all courts of record, according to
the course of the common law, and, if that fails, is supplied
by the law of Maryland, as to the Supreme Court in the District of Columbia, adopted by the act of Congress of 27th
February, 1801. 2 Stat. 103.
The first branch of this proposition is conclusively negatived
for this court, in regard to the powers of the courts of the
United States, by the decision in Brmon v. Schulten, 104:
U. S.410, 415, which is an authority directly upon the point.
It was there said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court
"In this country all courts have terms and vacations. The
time of the commencement of every term, if there be half a
dozen a year, is fixed by statute, and the end of it by the final
adjournment of the court for that term. This is the case with
regard to all the courts of the United States, and if there be

PHILLIPS '. NEGLEY.
Opinon of the Court.

exceptions in the State courts they are unimportant. It is a
general rule of the law that all the judgments, decrees; or
other orders of the courts, however conclusive in their character, are under the control of the court which pronounces them,
during the term at which they are rendered or entered of record, and they may then be set aside, vacated, modified or
annulled by that court. But it is a rule equally well established that, after the term has ended, all final judgments and
decrees of the court pass beyond its control, unless steps be
taken during that term, by motion or otherwise, to set aside,
modify or correct them, and if errors exist, they can only be
corrected by such proceeding, by a writ of error or appeal, as
may be allowed in a court which, by law, can review the decision. So strongly has this principle been upheld by this court
that, while realizing that there is no court which can reviev
its decisions, it has invariably refused all applications for rehearing made after the adjournment of the court for the term
at which the judgment was rendered. And this is placed upon
the ground that the case has passed beyond the control of the
court."
The opinion then notices an exception to this rule founded
upon the common law writ of error corm vobzs, by winch
errors of fact might be corrected, limited generally to the facts
that one of the parties to the judgment had died before it was
rendered, or was an infant and no guardian had appeared or
been appointed, or was a fe-ne covert, and the like, or error in
the process through the fault of the clerk, for which writ,.as
was said in Ptckett's llezrs v Legerwood, 7 Pet. 141, in practice, a motion s now substituted, heard in a summary manner
upon affidavits. And it is then added, that this remedy by
motion has been extended in some States so as to embrace
some of the cases where equitable relief had been administered
by courts of chancery "This practice," it was said, "has
been founded in the courts of many of the States on statutes
which conferred a prescribed and limited control over the
judgment of a court after the expiration of the term at which
it was rendered. In other cases the summary remedy by motion has been granted as founded in the inherent power of the
VOL. oxvi--48

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

court over its own judgments, and to avoid the expense and
delay of a formal suit in chancery" But it is added "The
question relates to the _power of the courts, and not to the
mode of procedure. It is whether there exists in the court the
authority to set aside, vacate, and modify its final judgments
after the term at which they were rendered, and this authority can neither be conferred upon nor withheld from the courts
of the United States by the statutes of a State or the practice
of its courts." 104: U. S. 417. Although the opinion also
shows that, upon the facts of that case, the action of the Circuit Court in vacating its judgment after the term could not
be justified upon any rule authorizing such relief, whether by
motion or by bill in equity, nevertheless the decision of the
case rests upon the emphatic denial of the power of the court
to set aside a judgment upon motion made after the term and
grant a new trial, except in the limited class of cases enumerated as reached by the previous practice under writs of error
co'ram vobms, or for the purpose of correcting the record according to the fact, where mistakes have occurred from the
misprision of the clerk. We content ourselves with repeating
the doctrine of this recent -decision, without recapitulating
previous cases in this court, in which the point has been noticed, for the purpose of showing their harmony It has been
the uniform doctrine of this court. 'KNo principle is better
settled," it was said in Sibbald v. The United States, 12 Pet.
488, 492, "or of more universal application, than that no court
can reverse or annul its own final decrees or judgments, for
errors of fact or law, after the term in which they have been
rendered, unless for clerical mistakes, Cameron v. MAtcRoberts,
3 Wheat. 591, Bank qf Eentucky v. lVistar, 3 Pet. 431, or
to reinstate a cause dismissed by mistake, The Palmyra, 12
Wheat. 1, from which it follows that no change or modification can be made which may substantially vary or affect it in
any material thing. Bills of review, in cases in equity, and
writs of error coram vobs at law, are exceptions which cannot
affect the present motion." And see Bank of the United States
v foss, 6 IHow 31, 38, Schell v Dodge, 107 U. S. 629.
It is equally well established by the decisions of this court

PHILLIPS v. NEGLEY.
Opimon of the Court.

that the appropriate remedy for relief against judgments at
law, wrongfully obtained, is by a bill in equity, and the cases n
which that remedy is applicable have been clearly defined.
That rule was formulated by Chief Justice Marshall in a case
arising in this District, of .armne Insurance Company of Alexandrza v. Hodgson, 7 Craneh, 832, and more tersely stated
by Mr. Justice Curtis in Hendrwekson v Hfinckley, 17 How 443,
445, as follows "A court of equity does not interfere with
judgments at law, unless the complainant has an equitable defence of which he could not avail himself at law, because it did
not amount to a legal defence, or had a good defence at law,
which he was prevented from availing himself of by fraud or
accident, unmixed with negligence of himself or his agents."
This rule was supported by Creath v. Sims, 5 How 192, and
TFalker v Robbzns, 14 How 584, and was followed in Crhm v.
Handley, 94 U S. 652, in Brown v County of Buena 7ista,
95 U S.157, and in Embry v. Palmer, 107 U S. 3, where it
was considered and applied in a case in which the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut, having enjoined proceedings in
that State upon a judgment of the Supreme Court of this District for causes not sufficient in- law to have authorized the
latter to set it aside, the judgment of the Connecticut Court
was reversed, although no question was made of the right of
that court to entertain the jurisdiction to enjoin proceedings
upon the judgment in question, equally with that of the court
by which it was rendered. This independent jurisdiction in
equity over judgments at law, by implication, negatives the
remedy at law in the. same courts where they are rendered, for
the same causes, because that equitable jurisdiction is resorted
to only because there was no adequate remedy at law, the
jurisdiction of the courts of law over the dause and the
parties having been exhausted when the judgment became
final.
But it is argued that the power exercised in the present instance is vested in the Supreme Court of this District by virtue
of the laws of Maryland in force February 27, 1801, adopted
by the act of Congress of that date.
The statute of Maryland supposed to confer this power is an

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

act of 1787, ch. 9, 2 Kilty Laws, Thomp. Dig. 173, relating to
continuances, the sixth section of which is as follows
"In any case where a judgment shall be set aside for fraud,
deceit, surprise, or irregularity in obtaining the same, the said
courts respectively may direct the continuances to be entered
from the court when such judgment was. obtained, until the
court such judgment shall be set aside, and may also continue
such cause for so long a time as they shall judge necessary for
the trial of the merits between the parties, not exceeding two
courts after such cause has been reinstated, unless, &c."
This statutory provision, it will be observed, is entirely silent
as to the mode according to which a judgment may be set aside
at a subsequent term, whether by a writ of error coramros
or coram nobzs, bill in equity, or other procedure, and does not,
either in express terms or by any necessary implication, provide
that it may be done by a motion and summary proceedings
thereon, and also, that it seems to proceed upon the idea that
continuances should regularly be entered to show that the proceeding, if at law, to set a judgment aside, in theory at least,
ought to originate at the same term at which the judgment was
rendered.
The remedy by writ of error coram nolzs continued in force
and in use in Maryland. Hawkzns v Bowze, 9 G. & J 428,437;
B'dendolph v. Zeller's Executors, 3 Maryland, 325. And in
the first of these cases it was held that a reversal of a judgment
upon such a writ was a final judgment from which an appeal
would lie. The court said " Now, if reversing the original
judgment and awarding costs to the plaintiff in error in this
proceeding in error coram nobws, was not so far final as to fall
within that class of judicial acts from which an appeal will lie
to this court, we cannot see the reason, nor can we well conceive of any remedy the parties would have if the county courts
were to undertake to vacate and annul all the judgments in their
records." This remark equally applies whether the result is
reached by this writ or by the more summary mode of a motion. It was so decided in Graf v _Xerehants' & lliners
Transponrtation Co., 18 .Maryland, 364, and Craig v TFroth, 47
,Maryland, 281. In the last-named case, it was said by the

PHILLIPS v. NEGLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

court "The power to set aside judgments upon motion for
fraud, deceit, surprise, or irregularity in obtaining them, is a
common law power
mncident to courts of record in this State,
and was not conferred upon them by the act of 1787, ch. 9, sec.
6, which is partially but not fully embodied in section 38, art.
'75of the Code. This legislation assumes that the power resides in the courts, and provides for the entering of continuances
when it is put in force. In deciding such motions made after
the term is past, the court acts in the exercise of its quasz equitable powers, and will, therefore, properly consider all the facts
and circumstances of the case, and require that the party
making the application shall appear to have acted m good faith
and with ordinary diligence, relief will not be granted when
he has knowingly acquiesced in the judgment complained of,
or has been guilty of laices and unreasonable delay in seekmg his remedy" This seems to be the settled doctrine of the
Maryland courts, as shown by a series of decisions, all of which,
however, have been made since the cession of the present territory within the District of Columbia. .Kem-p v. Cook, 18
Maryland, 130, Mllontgomery v 7furphy, 19 :Maryland, 576. In
]iemp v. ook, the court said "The power of setting aside
judgments upon motion is a common law power incident to
courts of record, and exercised usually under restraints imposed
by their own rules and rarely after the term in which the judgment was rendered." "The judgment records 8f the State are
the highest evidences of debt known to the law, they are presumed to have been made up after the most careful deliberation,
upon trial or hearing of both parties. To permit them to be
altered or amended without the most solemn forms of proceeding would be contrary to law and good policy"
It appears also from the case of Kearney v Sascer et al., 37
XMaryland, 261, that the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery,
upon a bill in equity, to grant relied against a judgment on
equitable grounds, constitutes part of the remedial system in
that State, notwithstanding the practice to set aside judgments
on motion made after the term, and in that case the court
quoted and adopted the rule regulating the measure of relief,
and the circumstances justifying the court m granting it, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

declared by Chief Justice Marshall in .farne Ins. Co. v Hodgson, 7 Cranch, 332, 336.
It thus appears that in Jvaaryland, prior to 1801, the only
statute in existence referring to the subject, while it assumes
the existence of a power in the courts to set aside their judgments, after the term in which they were rendered, for certain
causes, does not specify the modes in which that relief may be
administered, and does not enumerate a summary proceeding
by motion as one of them, that the cases in which that relief
has been administered in that way have all arisen and been decided since the date of the cession to the United States of the
territory constituting the District of Columbia that these decisions are based, not upon the statute as creating or conferring such power, but upon an interpretation of the common law
by which all courts of record are assumed to be possessed of
it, as adherent in and incident to their constitution as courts of
justice, that, in whatever form, the proceedings are regarded,
not as interlocutory steps in the original cause, but as independent applications to a legal discretion governed by fixed
rules, and, therefore, terminating in final judgments, subject as
in other cases to review or error in a court of appeal, and that
the jurisdiction of chancery by a plenary suit in equity is not
excluded, but is maintained and exercised in conformity with
the general principles of equity jurisprudence.
It follows firbm this statement that these decisions of the
Maryland courts, being founded upon general principles, and
made since the organization of the District of Columbia, are
not binding upon the courts of the District as authorities, though
entitled to all the respect due to the opinions of the highest
court of the State, a rule acted upon in this court in Ould v.
W'F4'tngton Hospital, 95 U. S. 303, and approvea in Bussell
v Allen, 107 U. S. 163, 171. We feel at liberty, therefore, to
follow our own convictions as to the power of the courts of
the District over their judgments, and are of opinion, and so
decide, that, after the term at which they were rendered, the
power of the court over the parties and over its record remains
only in the excepted cases already noticed, when, on motion, it
may be purged of clerical errors, or the judgment reversed by

JACKSON v. LAWRENCE.
Syllabus.

proceedings for errors in fact, in analogy to the practice in
cases of writs of error coram vobi, unless it is invoked by a
formal bill in equity upon grounds recognized as furnishing a
title to relief. We are, therefore, of opinion that the Supreme
Court of the District, both at special and general term, in entertaining and granting the motion to set aside the judgment
in the present case, committed error, and the proceedings and
judgment thereon are
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to dimrss
the motion of the defendant, but without _preiudice to h
rght to file a bill sn equity.

JACKSON & Another v. LAWRENCE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE C RCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted April 1, 186.-Decided April 12, 1886.

L made and delivered to W his promissory note for $1300 payable in mnety
days, and a deed of a trae t of land absolute on its face. It was orally
agreed between them that the deed was executed as security for the paynent of the note, and that, if the note was not paid at maturity, W was
authorized to sell the land. The note not being paid at maturity W with

the knowledge and assent of L, sold and conveyed the land to T and applied
the proceeds to the payment of the debt. After the completion of the contract and execution of the deed, but before its delivery to T, a creditor of
L who had recovered judgment against him, levied on this tract of land, to
satisfy the judgment, and caused it to be sold. The purchaser at the sheriff's sale after receiving his deed, filed a bill in equity against the heirs and
devisees of T, praying to be admitted to redeem the land on payment of
the note. Held (1) That the transaction was in equity a mortgage (2)
That parol evidence was admissible to show when the power of sale in the
mortgage became absolute (3) That W had an absolute power of sale when
the conveyance was made to T, the execution of which carried the land
free from the mortgage.

Bill in equity to redeem from a mortgage.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

