ZEIGLER v. HOPKINS.
Syllabus.

the vendee had notice of the condition would be immaterial.
But the proof in the record that Tallman had no knowledge
or notice of the condition, and that when he bought he supposed the deed was what it purported to be, an absolute conveyance, is clear and. positive.
The case, therefore, in all its elements, falls within the rule
laid down by the Supreme Court of Missouri in lYilsa v
.Dmnrite,21 Missouri, 325. In that case a deed absolute on its
face was executed by Wilson to Drumrite, but was in fact
given as a security for a debt. There was a verbal agreement
between Wilson and Drumrite that the latter should reconvey
if the debt was paid when due, in case of default Drumrite
was authorized to sell the land to enforce payment of his debt.
Wilson failed to pay the debt when due, and Drumrite sold
part of the land to a purchaser without notice. The court,
laying stress upon the fact that the vendee had no notice of
the condition, held that the sale was valid, but that Drumrite
must account to Wilson for the land sold, and must reconvey
Jhe residue.
In the present case, even under the rule laid down by the
Supreme Court of M issouri, there is no right of redemption.
Upon the whole record, therefore, the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill was right.
.Decreeaflc med.

ZEIGLER v. HOPKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided April 12,1886.

A statute of California authorized the opemng of a street m San Francisco, to
be known as Montgomery Avenue, the cost and expenses to be assessed on
certain specified lots in proportion to the benefits accruing therefrom; and
provided that when a majority in frontage of the owners of these benefited
lots should petition certain officials for the opening, those officials should-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.
organize into a board and proceed to open it and to apportion the cost in
the manner pointed out by the statute. A petition being presented to the
designated officials, they organized, and certified that the petition had been
subscribed by the owners of the requisite amount of frontage, and proceeded to lay out the street and apportion the costs and expenses among
those benefited m the manner provided by the statute. They reported
their action to the county court as required by the statute, and the report
was confirmed by the court. A tax was thereupon levied in the ordinary
way m 1878-9 to meet the portion of the costs and expenses payable that
year by the terms of the statute. H, an owner of a lot thus assessed and
levied on, declining to pay, the land was seized and sold for the default to
Z, who thereupon brought ejectment to recover possession. Held That
on the trial of this action H was not estopped by the acceptance of the
petition by the officials and their certificate upon it, or by the judgment of
the county court confirming their report, from showing that the petition
for the opening was not signed by the owners of the requisite amount of
frontage.
.fulligan v. Smith, 59 Cal. 206, approved and applied.
The court below having found that the property in dispute is worth $5000,
this court, on motion to dismiss, disregards affidavits that it is worth less,
although, taken by themselves, the affidavits show that it may be worth
less than that sum.

Ejectment.

Motion to dismiss. The case is stated in the

opinion of the court.
Xr Samuel Shellabarger, -b Jeemwzh X Wilson, 2fr
-DantelRogers, 1f-r . -F Preston and .fr Phii'
Ga pzn,
for plaintiff in error.
2rr D

Delmas and .Jr

A. H. Garlandfor iRosenbaum.

MR. CHErF JusTIcF WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment brought by Henry Zeigler
for a lot in the city and county of San Francisco, and his right
to recover depends on the validity of a sale of the property for
nonpayment of a tax levied and assessed under "an act to
open and establish a public street in the city and county of
San Francisco, to be called ' Montgomery Avenue,' and to take
private lands therefor," approved April 1, 1872. Stat. Cal.
1871-2, 911. By that act a strip of land, particularly described,
was taken for Montgomery Avenue, and the cost and expenses
"incidental to the taking and opening of said avenue" were

ZEIGLER v. HOPKINS.
Opimon of the Court.

to be assessed on certain "lots, pieces and subdivisions of land,"
particularly described, "in proportion to the benefits accruing
therefrom to said several lots, subdivisions and pieces of land
respectively, which said lands" were "declared to be benefited by the opening of said avenue." By, ยง 5, it was provided
that "whenever the owners of a majority in frontage" of the
property declared to be benefited, "as said owners are or shall
be named on the last preceding annual assessment-roll for the
state, city and county taxes," should "petition the mayor of
said city and county in writing for the opening of Montgomery
Avenue," a "board of public works," to be composed "of the
mayor, the tax collector, and the city and county surveyor of
the city and county of San Francisco." should "proceed to organize by the election of a president." This board was .toascertain and "set down in a written report
the description and actual cash value of the several lots and subdivisions
of land included in the land taken for said Montgomery
Avenue, and the amount of damage that will be occasioned
to the property along the' line and within the course of said
avenue." The same board was also to ascertain and "set down
in a written report a description of the several subdivisions and
lots of land included" in those which by the law were to be
assessed, and the amount which, in the judgment of the board,
"the said lot or subdivision has been or will be benefited by
reason of the taking and opening of said avenue relatively to
the benefits therefrom accruing to the other lots or subdivisions respectively" This report when completed was to be
kept at the office of the board for thirty days open for inspection by all parties interested, and notice thereof given by publication. Any person interested who felt himself aggrieved
"by the action or determination of said board, as shown in
said report," was permitted to apply to the county court of the
city and county of San Francisco within a limited time for a
review, and from the action of the county court on such a petition an appeal could be had to the Supreme Court. If no application for review was filed in the court within the time fixed,
it was made the duty of the board to submit the report to the
county court with a petition that it be approved and confirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

The court was authorized to make or cause to be made altera.
tions or modifications, if in its opinion necessary, and, when
completed to its satisfaction, "to approve and confirm said
report." When the report was approved and the action thereon
had become final, the board was required to prepare and issue
coupon bonds, to be known and designated as "Montgomery
Avenue bonds," payable in thirty years from their date, with
interest at six per cent. per annum, to the amount necessary to
pay and discharge the damages, costs, and expenses incident to
the taking and opening of the avenue. These bonds could be
taken by the parties interested in payment of the amounts due
to them respectively, or the bonds could be sold by the board
and the proceeds used for that purpose. By an express provision of the act, the city and county of San Francisco was not,
in any event whatever, to be liable for the payment of these
bonds, and any person purchasing them, or otherwise becoming
the owner thereof, was to take them "upon that express stipulation and understandinr." It was, however, provided that
"there shall be levied, assessed and collected, annually, at the
same time and in the same manner as other taxes are levied,
assessed, and collected in said city and county, a tax upon the
lands," which had been declared to be benefited by the
opening of the avenue, "sufficient to pay the interest upon said
bonds" as it matured, and also "a tax of one per cent. upon
each hundred dollars' valuation, which shall constitute a sinking fund for the redemption of said bonds." The money arising
from these taxes was to be paid to the treasurer of the city and
county, and by him used for the purposes intended. These
taxes were to be assessed upon the "values of the respective
report of said
parcels of land as fixed in the said
board."
The case was tried in the court below without a jury, and
comes here on a finding of facts, which shows that a petition,
regular in form, for the opening of the avenue, was presented
to the mayor of the city and county in the month of April
1872, but which was not in fact subscribed by the owners of a
majority in frontage of the land declared to be benefited "as
said owners" were " named m the last preceding annual as-

ZEIGLVER v. HOPKINS.
Opinion of the Court.

sessment-roll for the state, city, and county taxes," although it
purported on its face to have been so signed. After the filing
of this petition, the persons at that time filling the offices respectively of mayor of the city and county, tax collector, and
surveyor, annexed thereto their several certificates that the
petition had been subscribed by the owners of the requisite
amount of -frontage. This being done, the board of public
works, consisting of the mayor, tax-collector, and surveyor, organized, opened the avenue, and assessed the benefits conferred
on the property declared to be benefited, for the purposes of
taxation. Their report, after being left at their office for thirty
days, and the requisite notice thereof given, was filed with and
confirmed by the county court. The lot now in question was
among those declared by the law to be benefited, and was assessed by the board for the purposes of taxation. A tax levied
for the year 1878-9 upon this assessed value, to meet the annual obligations under the law, was not paid by the owner, and
for this default the sale was made under which Zeigler now
claims title. Upon these facts the court below gave judgment
against him, and to reverse -that judgment this writ of error
was brought.
There is in reality but a single question presented for our
consideration in this case, and that is whether, in an action of
ejectment brought to recover the possession of lands sold for
the nonpayment oi taxes levied to defray the expenses of opening Montgomery Avenue generally, and not in obedience to an
order of a court of competent jurisdiction to meet some particular liability which bad been judicially established, the landowner is estopped from showing, by way of defence, that the
petition for the opening presented to the mayor was not signed
by the owners of the requisite amount of frontage, and this depends on whether the owner isconcluded, (1), by the acceptance
of the petition by the mayor and his certificate as to its sufficiency and the action of the board of public works thereunder,
or, (2), by the judgment of the county court confirming the report of the board of public works.
This precise question was most elaborately considered by the
Supreme Court of California in -Mulliganv Smith,59 Cal. 206,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

and decided in the negative, after full argument. With this
conclusion we are entirely satisfied. It is supported by both
reason and authority The opinions of Justices M'Kee, Sharpstein, and Ross, which are found in the report of the case,
leave nothing further to be said on the subject. "A petition
from the owners of a majority in frontage of the property to
be charged with the cost of the improvement was necessary to
set the machinery of the statute in motion," and "no step
could be taken under the provisions of the statute until the
requisite petition had been presented." Neither the mayor nor
the county court was "authorized to enter into any investigation of the frontage as represented by the petition, or to adjudicate its sufficiency, or to make any record in reference to it."
"The only powers which the county court, as a court of limited jurisdiction, was authorized to exercise," were such as related to the matters contained in the report of the board of
public works, and this did not include the petition.
The case has been argued here as though it was between the
taxpayers and bona fde holders of negotiable securities issued
by them or for their account, but -nothing of that kind is presented by the record. It does not appear affirmatively that a
bond was ever issued. But if we are to presume from the finding that after the presentation of the petition the "mayor, tax
collector, and surveyor proceeded to perform the duties imposed
upon the board of public works," bonds of some kind were put
out, it does not appear either that they were in such a form as
to make them valid in the hands of bona #ideholders if they
were in fact issued without authority, or that there are any
such holders. No other questions are now to be considered
than such as would arise if it appeared affirmatively on the face
of the record that the tax was levied simply to raise the means
to pay the members of the board their own salaries as specially
provided for in the act. All we are now called on to decide is
whether the presentation to the mayor of a petition, signed by
the owners of less than a majority in frontage of the property
to be assessed, as they were named in the last preceding annual assessment-roll, was sufficient to authorize the levy of the
tax for which the lots in controversy were sold, and we have no

CANTRELL v. WALLICK.
Syllabus.

hesitation in saying it was not. It will be time enough to conSider the rights of bonajide holders of " Montgomery Avenue
bonds," if there be any, when a case arises which involves
such questions.
It remains only to dispose of a motion which has been made
by or on behalf of Albert S. IRosenbaum, who claims to be a
holder of Montgomery Avenue bonds, to dismiss the case, (1),
because the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed
$5000 ,. and (2), because the suit is colorable only, and got up by
collusion so as to preclude a decision favorable to the holders
of Montgomery Avenue bonds. Without deciding how far it
isallowable for persons not parties to a suit to intervene with
a motion of this kind, it is sufficient to say that we see no ewdence of any improper collusion in this case. We are entirely
satisfied that the suit was instituted in good faith, by real parties, for the determination of a substantial right, and that it
fairly presents the questions involved. The court below found
as a fact that the value of the premises in dispute exceeds $6000,
and this appears on the face of the record. While the affidavits as to value presented by Rosenbaum, taken by themselves,
show that possibly the property'may be worth less than $5000,
they are not enough to overcome the finding of the court below
that it was actually worth more than that sum.

CANTRELL & Another v. WALLICK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUTf

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVA.NIA.
Argued March 30, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

Two patents may be valid when the second invention is an improvement on the
first, and if the second includes the first, neither patentee can lawfully use the
invention of the other without his consent; but a stranger, sued for infringing the second patent, cannot defend by setting up the existence of the first
patent.
voL. cxwi--U4

