DIMOCK

v,REVERE COPPER COMPANY.

559

Statement of Facts.

validity to the Rosner patent, for two reasons First, because
the shape and size of the key-hole is not mentioned in the
claim of the iRosner patent, as one of the elements of the combination. The scope of letters-patent muft be limited to the
invention covered by the claim, and while the claim may be illustrated it Cannot be enlarged by language used in other parts
of the specification.
-eystone Bridge Co. v Phomm Iron Co.,.
95 U. S. 274, Railroad Co. v. Xellon, 104 U. S. 112. Secondly,
if it were found to be necessary to hold the rims of the
wheels rigidly immovable while the combination of the lock
was being changed, the idea of changing the irregular aperture in the wheels through which the key in the Rickards device was thrust to one of the shape and size of the key would:
occur to the rudest and most unskilled mechanic. The suggestion of such a change could not be called invention, and ought
not to be dignified by letters-patent. Atlantic TWorks v Brady,
107 U. S.192, Slawson v Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U
S. 649, Phillips v -Detroit,111 U. S. 604.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the first claim of the
plaintiff's patent was anticipated by the application and specification of Rickards and- by the locks manufactured by Evans
&. Watson, and that it is, therefore, void. It follows that
The decree of the Circuit Court must he reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismss the bill.

DIMOCK v. REVERE COPPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 22, 1886.-Decided April 5,1886.

A discharge in bankruptcy is no bar to an action on a judgment recovered
against the bankrupt after his discharge m a suit, commenced before the
bankruptcy, pending when the discharge was granted, and founded upon
a debt provable against hin in bankruptcy.

This case came here by a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of lNew York, having been decided in the Court of Appeals,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

and the record remitted to the Supreme Court that judgment
might be finally entered there.
The action was brought in that court on a judgment in favor
of the Revere Copper Company, plaintiff, against Anthony W
Dimock, rendered in the Superior Court of the Commonwealth
of Massachusetts, for the county of Suffolk, on the 1st day of
April, 1875.
The defendant, Dimock, pleaded, m bar of this action, a discharge in bankruptcy, by the District Court of the United States
for the District of Massachusetts, rendered on the 26th day of
March, 1875, five days before judgment in the State court.
The case being submitted to the New York Supreme Court
in special term, without a jury, that court found the following
facts and conclusions of law thereon
"As Findings of Faot.
"First. That the plaintiff is, and at the times hereinafter
mentioned was, a corporation, duly organized and emsting
under and by virtue of the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
"Second. That on or about the 13th day of January, 1814,
the Revere Copper Company of Boston, Massachusetts, the
plaintiff herein, commenced an action in the Superior Court of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, within and for the county
of Suffolk, a court of general jurisdiction, against Anthony W..
Dmock, the defendant herein, by the issue of a writ of attachment against the goods, estate, and body of the said defendant,
and which said writ was duly served on said defendant, and the
summons to appear in said action was duly served upon him
personally, and that the said defendant thereafter duly appeared
in said action by attorney, that the cause of action was an
endorsement of said Dimock of two promissory notes made in
the city of New York to the order of plaintiff by the Atlantic
Mail Steamship Company, and dated December 19, 1872.
"Third. That on or about June 23, 1874, the said defendant,
Anthony W Dimock, filed a petition in bankruptcy, and was
duly adjudicated a bankrupt, in the District Coutt of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and that such pro-

DIMOCK v. REVERE COPPER COMPANY.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

ceedings were thereafter had that, on or about March 26, 1875,
the said Dimock was discharged from all debts and claims
provable against his estate, and which existed on the 23d day
of June, 187-.
"Fourth. That such proceedings were had in the aforesaid
action in the Supeiior Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts that on or about April 1st, 1875, the plaintiff duly recovered judgment in said action against the defendant for the
sum .of three thousand five hundred and ninety-five --, dollars
($3595.15), and that said judgment was upon that day duly
entered.
"Fifth. That no part of said judgment has been paid, and
the whole thereof is now due and payable to the plaintiff."
"As Conebunons of aw.
"I. That the said proceedings in bankruptcy are no bar to
the present action, and constitute no defence herem.
"II. That the plaintiff should have judgment against the defendant for the sum of three thousand five hundred and ninetyfive -N dollars ($3595.15), with interest from April 1st, 1875,
amounting to one thousand one hundred and forty-two
dollars ($1142.96), making in all four thousand seven hundred and
thirty-eight yd. dollars ($4:738.11), together with the costs of
this action, to be taxed, and an allowance, in addition to costs,
amounting to the sum of seventy-five dollars."
The judgment rendered on these findings was reversed by the
Supreme Court in general term, and that judgment was in turn
reversed by the Court of Appeals, which restored the judgment
of the.special term. 90 N. Y 33.
.Xr George Putnam Smith for plaintiff in error.
I. It is immaterial that the form of the debt was changed
after the institution of the proceedings in bankruptcy The debt
remained the same, When the essential rights of the parties
are influenced by the nature of the original contract, the court
will look into the judgment to ascertain what that original
cause was. Betts v. Bagley, 12 Pick. 572, Clark v. Bowling,
3 N. Y (3 Comst.) 216. In New York a judgment is not a new
debt, but merely a form of an old debt. Wyman v .Mitchell,
VOL.

cxv-86

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

1 Cowen, 316, Oark v Bowling, above cited. If during pendency of proceedings in bankruptcy, a provable claim is transformed into a judgment, it is nevertheless extinguished by a
subsequent discharge in bankruptcy Zonroe v. Upton, 50 1N.
Y 593, Ocean Bank v Olcott, 46 N. Y 12, 22, Dewey v .Jfoyer,
72 N. Y 70, 75. Th6 same doctrine prevails in many of the
States, while in Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Missouri and other States, a judgment is regarded as a new debt,
and therefore, if recovered after a petition in bankruptcy, it
would not be affected by a subsequent discharge. But as it is
the established law of New York that a judgment on a provable claim is barred by a subsequent discharge in bankruptcy,
Mr. Dimock, when sued in that State upon the Massachusetts judgment, was entitled to the benefit thereof. If, therefore. the judgment had been entered before, instead of five days
after the plaintiff in error obtained his discharge in bankruptcy,
no action could have been brought in New York upon that
judgment to which the discharge would not have been a complete defence.
Ii The fact that this claim was transformed into a judgment after the discharge was granted does not take it out of
the operation of the rule stated in Point I. It is true that the
judgment was obtained after the discharge, but it was on a
default taken some time prior to it, and at the time it was
taken the defaulted defendant was in no position to interpose
the plea of discharge in bankruptcy There were no laches on
the part of the bankrupt, as only five days had elapsed after
the discharge, when the judgment was entered. The adjudication took place when the default was entered. The default
was a confession by DTmock of all the material and travergable allegations in the declaration, the denial of which would
have called for proof. HYuntress v Effingham, 17 N. H. 584,
Bates v Loomms, 5 Wend. 134. The question of the effect of
the discharge in bankruptcy was not then one of those questions. farms v Blanchard,6 Mass. 4, THuntress v Efflngliam,
above cited. All the decisions holding that a discharge in
bankruptcy to be effectual must be pleaded in the suit pending
on the original claim will be found to be either, 1. Rendered

DIMOCK v. REVERE COPPER COMPANY.

563

Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

in States wherein the law is that a judgment is a new debt and
not merely a new form of an old debt, or, 2. Rendered in suits
which arose under the Bankruptcy Acts. of 1811 or 1841.
Now there is a vitally important difference between the effect
of a discharge in bankruptcy under the acts of 1811 and 1841
and that of one obtained under the act of 1867. Under the
act of 1867, "the certificate of discharge shall be conclusive evidence in favor of the bankrupt of the fact and regularity of such discharge." A discharge granted under this act
cannot be impeached in a State court. Ocean Bank v Olcott,
46 N. Y. 12. Under the acts of 1811 and 1841 the discharge
could be impeached in a State court and this was the reason
why it was held that its merit must be determined in the action brought on the original claim and that it could not be
used in bar of a suit on a judgment. Alcott v. Avery, 1 Barb.
Oh. 347, Cable v. Coopver, 15 Johns. 152, 155.
III. By Rev. Stat. ยง 5119 (Bankruptcy Act of 1867) a discharge is made a bar to all suits upon a provable claim. Under
this act therefore two courses were open to a bankrupt against
whom a suit was brought upon such a claim during the pendency of the bankruptcy proceedings. 1. He might under section 5106 enjoin the prosecution of the suit until he obtained
his discharge and then plead this discharge in bar of the pending suit. 2.. He might defend the action on the merits or allow
it to go by default. In the latter event the "provable claim"
would ripen into a judgment which conclusively settled against
the bankrupt all the issues involved therein, and which would
be collectable by execution or any other method that did not
require a suit. But if suit was brought to collect the judgment then under section 5119 the bankrupt could plead his
discharge in bar of that suit. This is precisely what the plaintiff in error did. The discharge was a complete bar to the suit
on the judgment. Anderson v Anderson, 65 Georgia, 518,
Branan v S&tder, 21 Fed. Rep. 871, C'lark v. Rowling, above
cited.

-fr D1avtd Milleox for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE MILLErt, after stating the facts as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The only question considered at all these trials was whether
the discharge of the defendant in the bankruptcy proceeding
is, under the facts found by the court, a bar to the present action, and, as the decision by the New York court against the
plaintiff in error as to the effect of that order of discharge is
to refuse to him a right claimed under the laws of the United
States, this court has jurisdiction to review the decision.
The Superior Court of Massachusetts had jurisdiction of the
suit of the Copper Company against Dimock, both as regards
the subject-matter and the parties. This jurisdiction was rendered complete by service of process and by the appearance of
the defendant. All this was before the beginning of the bankruptcy proceeding. Nothing was done to oust this jurisdiction,
and the case accordingly proceeded in due order to the rendition
of the judgment which is the foundation of this action. It is
not argued that this judgment was void, or that the court was
ousted of its jurisdiction by anything done in the bankruptcy
court. No such argument could be sustained if it were made.
In the case of Fyster v Oaf, 91 U S. 521, which was very
similar to this on the point now before the court, it was said.
"The court in that case had acquired jurisdiction of the parties
and of the subject-matter of the suit. It was competent to administer full justice, and was proceeding according to the law
which governed such a suit to do so. It could not take judicial
notice of the proceedings in bankruptcy in another court, however seriously they might affect the rights of parties to the suit
already pending. It was the duty of that court to proceed to
a decree between the parties before it, until by some proper
pleadings in the case it was informed of the changed relations
of any of the parties to the subject-matter of the suit. Having
such jurisdiction, and performing its duty as the case stood in
that court, we are at a loss to see how its decree can be treated
as void." The court then goes on to show, that, if the assignee
had brought his right, acquired }endenk lite, to the notice of
the court, it would have been protected. Hill v iardng,107
U. S.631.

DIMOCK v. REVERE COPPER COMPANY.
Opinion of the Court.

So here, if Dimock had brought his discharge to the attention of the Superior Court at any time before judgment, it
would have been received as a bar to the action, and, under
proper circumstances, even after judgment, it might be made
the foundation for setting it aside and admitting the defence.
Bay v. Vight, 119 Mass. 426, Page v. Cole, 123 Mass. 93,
Goldem v. Blaskopf, 126 Mass. 523. Nothing of the kind was
attempted. The question before the Massachusetts court for
decision, at the moment it rendered its judgment, was, whether
Dimock was them indebted to the Copper Company Of Dimock and of this question it had complete jurisdiction, and it
was bound to decide it on the evidence before it. Its decision
was, therefore, conclusive, as much so as any judgment where
the jurisdiction is complete. It concluded Mr. Dimock from
ever denying that h@ was so indebted on that day, wherever
that judgment was produced as evidence of the debt. If he
had the means at that time to prove that the debt had been
paid, released, or otherwise satisfied, and did not show it to the
court, he cannot be permitted to do it in this suit, and the fact
that the evidence that he did not then owe the debt was the
discharge in bankruptcy, made five days before, does not differ
from a payment and receipt in full or a release for a valuable
consideration. Cromwell v Sac County, 94: U. S. 351, also,
kWiftin v. Houseman, 93 U. S. 130, 134. A still stronger case
of the validity of judgments of a State court, in their relation
to bankruptcy proceedings, hadpendente lite, is that of Damns
v. rlander,104 U. S. 570.
In the case of Thatcler v. Rockwel, 105 U. S. 467, 469, the
Chief Justice, after alluding to these and other cases; says They
"establish the doctrine that, under the late bankrupt law, the
validity of a pending suit, or of the judgment or decree thereon,
was not affected by the intervening bankruptcy of one of the
parties, that the assignee might or might not be made a party,
and whether he was so or not he was equally bound with any
other party acquiring an interestjendentelite."
It is said, however, that, though the defendant had his discharge before the judgment in the State court was rendered,
and might have successfully pleaded it in bar of that action and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

did not do so, the judgment now sued on is the same debt,
and was one of the debts from which, by the terms of the
bankrupt law, he was discharged under the order of the bankruptcy court, and to any attempt to enforce that judgment the
discharge may be shown as a valid defence. That is to say,
that the failure of the defendant to plead it when it was properly pleadable, when, if he ever intended to rely on it as a defence, he was bound to set it up. works him no prejudice, because, though he has a dozen judgments rendered against him
for this debt after he has received his discharge, he may at any
time set it up as a defence when these judgments are sought to
be enforced. Upon the same principle, if he had appeared in
the State court and pleaded his discharge in bar, and it had been
overruled as a sufficient bar, he could, nevertheless, in this action on that judgment, renew the defense.
But, in such case, his remedy would not lie in renewing the
struggle in a new suit on such judgment, but in bringing the
first judgment for review before this court where his right under
the discharge would have been enforced then, as he seeks to do
it now, after submitting to that judgment without resistance
and without complaint.
We are of opinion that, having in his hands a good defence
at the time judgment was rendered against him, namely, the
order of discharge, and having failed to present it to a court
which had jurisdiction of his case, and of all the defences which
he might have made, including this, the judgment is a valid
judgment, and that the defence cannot be set up here in an action on that judgment. The case of Steward v. Green, 11 Paige,
535, seems directly in point. So, also, are Hollister v. Abbott,
11 Foster, 31 N. H. 442, and Bradfordv. .Rice,102 Mass. 472.
It is clear that until the judgment of the M assachusetts court
is set aside or annulled by some direct proceeding in that court,
its effect cannot be defeated as a cause of action, when sued in
another State, by pleading the discharge as a bar which might
have been pleaded in the original action.
Affrned.
The judgment of the New York court is

