OCTOBER TERM, 185.
Statement of Facts.

Ejectment. Judgment below for defendants. Plaintiffs below sued out this writ of error.
JIr Samuel F .Rwe for plaintiffs in error.
Xr Xenophon TFheeker for defendants in error.
MiR. JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of ejectment tried by a jury in the same
court which decided the preceding case, in which the plaintiffs
in error based their right to recover on the same mortgage
which they sought to foreclose in that suit. The court instructed the jury against them on the ground that they had
no legal title.
As the foregoing opinion decides that they had no title
at all, legal or equitable, the judgment of the court below
must be
-Afflrmed.

STEWART v. VIRGINIA.
ERROR

TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE

ITITED STATES FOR THE

EASTERNi DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Submitted April 5, ISS6.-Decided April 12, 1886.

A proceeding under the acts of the Legislature of Virginia for the identification and verification of coupons tendered n payment of taxes, debts, or demands due the State is not a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, within the meaning of the act of March
3, 1875, regulating removals of causes.

The plaintiff in error owed the State of Virginia $3807 for
taxes for the year 1885. He tendered the State's tax-receivable
coupons in payment thereof for identification and verification
under the provisions of the act of January 14, 1882, and at the
same time he paid his tax in money
He thereupon filed his

STEWART v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of Facts.

petition in the County Court of Henrico County, praying that
a jury might be empaneled to try whether his coupons were
genuine coupons, legally receivable for taxes. The Commonwealth having been summoned to answer this petition, at the
first term at which the cause could be tried, he filed his petition
praying for a removal of the case to the Circuit Court of the
United States, as a case arising under the Constitution of the
United States. The ground of removal set out in the petition
was as follows
"And your petitioner states that the said suit is one arising
under the Constitution of the United States in this, to wit, that
it is a proceeding under the act of Assembly of the State of
Virginia, approved January 14th, 1882, entitled ' An Act to
prevent frauds upon the Commonwealth and the holders of her
securities m the collection and disbursement of Revenues,' as
amended by an act of Assembly of the said State approved
March 12th, 1884, entitled 'An Act to amend and re-enact
section 1 of an act approved January 14th, 1882,' &c., the said
acts providing for the identification and verification of certain
coupons issued by the State of Virginia which she contracted
to receive in payment of all taxes, debts, and demands due
her.
"That by an act of the General Assembly of the State of
Virgiia approved March 15th, 1884, entitled 'An Act to provide for tho assessment of taxes on persons, property, and
income,' &c., the collectors of taxes due to said State are
forbidden to receive said coupons in payment of a certain
proportion of said taxes, that this last-mentioned act is repugnant to section 10, afticle 1, of the Constitution of the
United States, and is therefore null and void, that it is necessary in the trial of the before-mentioned suit for the court trying the same to pass upon the validity and constitutionality of
the said last-mentioned act, for the reason that your petitioner,
previous to the commencement of said suit, had tendered said
coupons in payment of all their taxes, including that part
thereof which said act forbids to be paid in said coupons, and
the purpose of said suit is to recover that part of said taxes as
well as the other part thereof, that this cause could not have

O-CTOER TERM1, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

been tried before the present term of this court, and ,that the
same has not yet been tried."
The case was removed to the Circuit Court, and thence remanded by the Circuit Court to the State Court. This writ
of error was sued out to review that judgment.
AfXr William L. Boyall and .Xr A. B. Gautgon for plaintiff
in error.
.Hr R. A. Ayers, Attorney General of Virginia, for defendant
in error.
MI[Z. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

The order remanding this case is affirmed. A proceeding
under the act of Assembly of Virginia, approved January 14,
1882, Anton? v Green/ww, 107 U S. 771, as amended by the act
of March 12, 1884, for the "identification and verification" of
coupons tendered in payment of taxes, debts, or demands
due the State, is not a suit of a civil nature arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States within the
meaning of the act of March 3, 1875,18 Stat. 470, ch. 137. The
only purpose of such a proceeding is to determine whether the
coupons tendered "are genuine, legal coupons, which are legaly receivable for taxes, dues and demands." The court has
nothing to do in that proceeding with the obligation of the
State to receive the coupons in payment of the particular tax
or demand for which they were tendered. The tender being
made, it becomes the duty of the collector, under the law, to
receive and receipt for the coupons "for the purpose of identification and verification," and to deliver them to the judge of the
proper court to that end. The tax-payer then files his petition
praying "that a jury be impaneled to try the question as to
whether they are genuine, legal coupons, which are legally receivable for taxes, debts and demands." This is the only issue
that can be tried, and if finally decided in favor of the taxpayer, the coupons are to be received by the collector for such
of the taxes, dues and demands for which they were tendered
as can, under the contract of the State, be paid in that way

CAMPBELL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Statement of Facts.

The court has no authority under the law to determine in: that
proceeding what taxes may be so paid. It thus appears that
the issue to be tried cannot involve any question arising under
the Constitution or laws of the United States.
Afirnwd.

CAMPBELL v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUBIA.
Argued April 1, 2, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

0 & H, partners, contracted with the District of Columbia to put down a
water main. They notified the agent of the District that they authorized
C to perform the work and receive the money, and the agent accepted the

arrangement.

C.performed the work, and receipted from time to time for

payments on the contract. On a suit in his own name for extra work.
Held, That he was bound by the terms of the contract m that respect, and
by receipts given in accordance therewith.

Assumpsit to recover for work and labor done and materials
furnished on the construction of a water main in Georgetown
in the District of Columbia. The record showed that in Julv,
1870, the District contracted with O'Hare, limber & Co. for
the construction of the main, by a written contract which provided, among other things, that "No claims for extra work
shall be made unless the same shall be done in pursuance of
a written order from the engineer." Soon after commencement of the work, a member of the firm of O'Hare, Himber
& Co., by their authority, addressed the following letter to the
superintendent in charge of the construction on the part of
the District
D 0., April 15, 1872.
"General 0. E. Babcock, Sup't Washington Aqueduct.
"Sip. I hereby authorize R. G. Campbell to lay the 36 inch
water main from the west side of Rock Creek bridge to the
public alley east of the market-house on Bridge Street and all
"WASHINGTON,

