OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

separate liability of each company, and prayed in substance,
for decrees against them severally for the proportion assumed
by each in the contract. Each company answered separately,
all setting up the same defences.
Under these circumstances it was right for the Circuit Court
to refuse the allowance of an appeal, and
The 2petz'tn for a mandamus u corsequently d ed.

VAN IISWICK v. SPALDING and Others.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMfBIA.
Arguccd March 10, 1886.-Decided March 22, i8S6.

A creditor, who, by the terms of a trust deed executed in good faith by the
debtor to secure payment of the debt, has the power to order the land to
be sold either by public auction or private sale, and to direct the trustee to
convey to the purchaser, and the amount of whose debt is thrice the value
of the land, may accept the land in satisfaction of the debt, and cause it to
be conveyed by the trustee to the debtor's children, as a gift to them from
the creditor, without affording to other creditors of the debtor any 3ust
cause of complaint.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Mr T A. Lambert for appellant.
.r

Zegh Rob?.nson for appellee.

Mr. JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity by a judgment creditor of William E.
Spalding against Spalding, his children, William W IRapley,
William H. Thomas, trustee, and George W Bonnell, to set
aside conveyances of land in Washington, and to have it sold
and applied to the payment of Spalding's judgment debts.
The material facts of the case, as appearing by the pleadings
and proofs upon which it was heard in the court below, are as
follows

VAN RISWICK v. SPALDING.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff's judgment was recovered on February 6, 1868.
On December 20, 1867, Spalding being indebted to iRapley in
the sum of $10,000, for which he had given him a promissory
note, payable in ninety days, and Rapley having endorsed other
notes of Spalding to the amount of $20,000, Spalding, by a deed
in which his wife joined, conveyed all his real estate in Washing
ton to Thomas, in trust to secure the payment of the note for
$10,000, and to secure Rapley from loss by reason of his endorsements. The trusts declared in that deed were, that in case of
Spalding's failure to pay any of the notes at maturity, or interest thereon, the trustee should, upon the written order of Rapley, sell the land by- public auction, that Rapley might at any
time during the continuance of the trust direct the trustee to
sell the land, or any part thereof, at private sale to such persons,
and upon such terms and conditions, as iRapley should deem
most advantageous to all parties concerned, and make conveyances accordingly, that the proceeds of all sales under the trust
should be applied, first, to pay the expenses of executing the
trust, then, to pay all the notes, and lastly, to pay any balance
remaining to Spalding and wife, their executors and administrators, and that the trustee should stand seized of any land
remaining unsold, after satisfying the liens aforesaid, to the
sole use and benefit of Spalding's wife and children, and sell or
mortgage it as she should in writing appoint, and pay over the
proceeds to her, or invest them as she should direct.
IMrs. Spalding died without having attempted to exercise this
power; and all the land, except two lots, was sold by the trustee,
according to the deed of trust, for the sum of $22,046, and applied to the payment of the notes endorsed by Rapley, and
interest accrued thereon.
On March 27, 1876, Spalding and IRapley made a final settlement of all business between them, including the affairs of
a partnership which had existed between them in other lands
from before any of the transactions above stated, and Spalding, at Rapley's request, signedt the following agreement
"It is agreed this 27th day of IMarch, A.D. 1876, between
William W IRapley and William E. Spalding, of the city of
Washington in the District of Columbia, in full and final settle-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

ment of all their partnership affairs and of all business heretofore
existing between them, that the said Rapley does release and
convey to George W Bonnell (for such purposes as the said
Spalding may direct) all the right, title, and interest of him,
the said IRapley, in and to" [six lots of land, designated by
squares and numbers, being the two lots aforesaid, and four
others owned by lRapley,] "in the city of Washington in the
District of Columbia, and in consideration of such release and
conveyance the said Spalding does hereby release and acquit the
said IRapley from any and all demand and claim whatever on
account of their business aforesaid."
On the same day, Spalding, Rapley, and Thomas as trustee,
executed a deed of the two lots to Bonnell, expressed to be in
consideration of the payment of the sum of $2500. The value
of these lots was admitted to be $3297. The record before us
contains no copy of the deed, nor any further statement of its
contents.
But the oral testimony proves, beyond controversy, that no
money was actually paid for this conveyance, that at that
time Spalding had no claim against Rapley, that no part of
Spalding's note to Rapley for $10,000 had then or has since
been paid, that Rapley decided to take the two lots in satisfaction of that debt to himself, and authorized and directed
this conveyance to be made, without a sale by auction, in order
to save expense, and with the sole object of having the land
held by Bonnell in trust for Spalding's children as a gift to
them from IRapley; and that Thomas and Spalding joined
with Rapley in the deed to Bonnell, in order to perfect the
legal title.
The facts of the case being understood, the law applicable to
them is clear. There is no proof whatever that the trust deed
from Spalding to Thomas was made with any intent to defraud:
Spalding's creditors. Under that deed, Rapley had the whole
equitable title in the two lots, and the right to direct Thomas
to sell them by private sale, for an adequate consideration, to
pay the debt due him from Spalding. He in effect paid a
greater consideration by accepting the lots in satisfaction of a
debt for thrice their value. He might cause them to be con-

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. SARGENT.
Opinion of the Court.

veyed to himself, to Spalding's children, or to any other person, without exceeding the powers conferred upon him by the
trust deed, or affording to Spalding's creditors any just ground
of complaint.
.Decree afirmed.
YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
SARGENT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
.Argued :March 15, 16, 188.-Decided March 29, 1886.

The feature of varying eccentricity in the rollers is an essential part of the
invention protected by letters patent No. 98,622 granted to James Sargent,
January 4, 1870, for an improvement in permutation locks.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
2fA Frederzc H. Bets for appellant.
.Ar James Sargent in person and Xr. Edward WVetmore for
appellee. .A1f George Ticknor Curtis was with them on the
brief.
iMLTTHEwS delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill in this case was filed by the appellee for an injunction to restrain, the defendant below, the appellant, from 'an
alleged infringement of letters patent No. 98,622, dated January 4, 1870, granted to James Sargent for an improvement in
permutation locks, and for an account, &c. On final hearing
on bill, answer, replication, and proofs, there was a final decree
for the complainant for an injunction and for $400.75 damages
and costs. The defendant has appealed.
The question involved is the fact of infringement, and that
in its turn depends upon the proper construction of the complainant's patent.
MR. JUSTICE

