OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinmon of the Court.

defendants, for what they said on Tuly 15th amounted merely
to a refusal to comply with the particular demand then made
for an, immediate delivery
The judgment s accordinglyreversed upon the writ of er.or
sued out by the defendants below, and the cause remanded,
with instructionsto takefurtherproceedings therezn accord'tng to law, and upon the writ of error of platntifs below
judgment will be gmven that they take nothng by thezr writ
of error

TURPIN & Another v. BURGESS, Collector.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued March 18, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1886.

The exportation stamp required to be affixed to every package of tobacco intended for exportation, before its removal from the factory, again declared
constitutional, and the decision in, Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372, reaffirmed.
An excise laid on tobacco, before its removal from the factory, is not a duty
on "exports," or "on articles exported," within the prohibition of the
Constitution, even though the tobacco be intended for exportation. The
case of Gee v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, cited and applied.

The case is Stated in the opimon of the court.
.M" Charles S. Strzngfellow for plaintiffs in error.
7fr Solicitor General for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to recover from the Internal Revenue
collector of the third district of Virginia the amount paid by
the plaintiffs from 1869 to 1872, inclusive, for stamps affixed
to certain cases of tobacco manufactured by them and intended
for exportation. The sum paid for the stamps was twenty-live
liR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

TURPIN v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

cents each. The ground of action relied on by. the plaintiffs is,
that the tax was unconstitutional, being, as contended, repugnant to that clause of the Constitution which declares that "no
tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State."
The stamps were required to be affixed by the act of July 20,
1868, 15 Stat. 157. By this act an excise tax of 32 cents per
pound was imposed on all manufactured tobacco, except smoking tobacco, on which the tax was 16 cents per pound. This
tax -was required to be paid by purchasing stamps to be affixed
to the packages before the tobacco was allowed to be Temoved
from the manufactory; but tobacco intended for exportation
was relieved from the payment of this tax by affixing to each
package or box, of whatever size, before removal from the factory, a twenty-five cent stamp, engraved to indicate the intent
to export the same. After being thus stamped, and giving
bond according to the regulations of the Treasury Department,
such tobacco might be removed to any export bonded warehouse at some port of entry, and there kept in bond until actually exported. In 1872 the price of the stamp was reduced
to 10 cents, and the act was incorporated in this form in section 3385 of the Revised Statutes.
We had occasion to examine the very question raised in this
case in Pace v Burgess, reported in 92 U. S. 372, and were
unanimously of opinion that the act requiring the exportation
stamp'complained of, was a valid and constitutional act. The
reasons for that decision were given at length in the report of
that case, and we see no occasion to modify the views then
expressed. The finding of facts (so called), made by the court
in the present case by consent of the parties (who waived a
jury), does not change the character of the question. Ever'y
fact now found was assumed, or virtually involved, in the
former case. But since that decision Congress has abolished
all charge for the exportation stamp, by an act passed August
8, 1882, entitled "An Act to repeal so much of section 3385 of
the Revised Statutes as imposes an export tax on tobacco."
It is argued that the language of this title is a concession by
Congress that the charge for the stamp was an export tax. This
argument admits of several answers. The act was obtained in

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the interest of the tobacco manufacturers, and was probably
proposed by them, or by their counsel, and the expression
referred to may have escaped the attention of the members.
But, if it was intentionally used, it would only be the opinion
of one Congress opposed to that of another, for, of course, it
cannot be supposed that the Congress which passed the law
regarded it as imposing a tax on exports. ]Besides, an expression of opinion on the part of Congress, however much to be
respected, is not binding on us. The counsel for the plaintiff
in this case asks us to declare the law unconstitutional, and
thereby to declare that the Congress which passed it was mistaken in its opinion.
With the action of Congress in abolishing the charge for the
stamp we have nothing to do. That is a matter of pure legislative discretion, and has no bearing on the question.
We are referred to certain expressions in the opinion of the
Court of Appeals of Virginia in the case of Burwell v. Burgess,
32 Gratt. 4772, indicating that if it were an original question
that court would find it difficult to hold that the money paid
for the stamps was not a tax. Whilst entertaining a high
respect for the opinions of that eminent court, we cannot surrender our own views on a question which it is our peculiar
duty to decide.
There is another view of this subject, however, independent
of the considerations which governed our former decision, which
is equally decisive of this case. We have lately decided, in Coo
v Errol, 116 U. S. 517, that goods intended for exportation to
another State are liable to taxation as part of the general mass
of property of the State of their origin until actually started in
course of transportation to the State of their destination, or
delivered to a common carrier for that purpose, provided they
are taxed in the usual way in which such property is taxed,
and not taxed by reason or because of such exportation, or
intended exportation, and that the carrying of them to and depositing them at a depot for the purpose of transportation is
no part of that transportation. Now the constitutional prohibition against taxing extorts is substantially the same when
directed to the United States as when directed to a State. In

TURPIN v. BURGESS.
Opimon of the Court.

the one case the words are, "No tax or duty shall be laid on
articles exported from any State." Art. 1, sec. 9, par. 5. In
the other they are, "Ko State shall, without the consent of
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports."
Art. 1, sec. 10, par. 2. The prohibition in both cases has reference to the imposition of duties on goods by reason or because of their exportation or intended exportation, or whilst
they are being exported. That would be laying a tax or duty
on exports, or on articles exported, within the meaning of the
Constitution. But a general tax, laid on all property alike,
and not levied on goods in course of exportation, nor because
of their intended exportation, is not within the constitutional
prohibition. Hlow can the officers of the United States, or of
the State, know that goods apparently part of the general
mass, and not in course of exportation, will ever be exported2
Will the mere word of the owner that they are intended for
exportation make them exports 2 This cannot for a moment
be contended. It would not be true, and would lead to the
greatest frauds.
It is true, as was conceded in C'oe v Errol,that the prohibition to the States against laying duties on imports or exports
related to imports from and exports to foreign countries, yet
the decision in that case was based on the postulate that when
such imposts or duties are laid on imports or exports from one
State to another it amounts to a regulation of commerce among
the States, and, therefore, is an invasion of the exclusive power
of Congress. So that the analogy between the two cases holds
good, and what would be constitutional or unconstitutional in
the one case would be constitutional or unconstitutional in the
other.
In the present case, the tax (if it was a tax) was laid upon
the goods before they had left the factory They were not in
course of exportation., they might never be exported, whether
they would be or not would depend altogether on the will of
the manufacturer. Had the same excise which was laid upon
all other tobacco manufactured by the plaintiffs been laid on
the tobacco in question, they could not have complained. But
it was not. A special indulgence was granted to them (in com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

mon with others), in reference to the particular tobacco which
they declared it to be their intention to export. With regard
to that, in order to identify it, and to protect the government
from fraudulent practices, all that was required of the plaintiffs was to affix a 25 cent stamp of a peculiar design to each
package, no matter how much it might contain, and enter into
bond either to export it according to the declared intention, or
to pay the regular tax, if it should not be exported. In this
view of the case, the plaintiffs not only had no ground of complaint, but they were really the objects of favorable treatment
on the part of the government, which, on the slight and easy
conditions referred to, accepted their declared intention to
export the tobacco in question, before it was commenced to be
exported, or put in the way of exportation.
On both grounds we are satisfied that the plaintiffs are
without any cause of action, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court is
Afirmed,

IMA.HOMET v. QUACKENBUSH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
SOUTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF ILLIN6OIS.

Submitted March 8, 1896.-Decided April 5, 1886.

The requirement of the Constitution of Illinois that "no private or local law
which may be passed by the geueral assembly shall embrace more than one
subject, and that shall be expressed in the title," is satisfied if the law has
but one general object, and that object is expressed m the title and the body
of the act isgermane to the title.
A statute of Illinois which was entitled "An Act to amend the articles of association of the Danville et cet. Railroad Company, and to extend the powers
of and confer a charter upon the same," and which, in the body of the act,
authorized incorporated townships along the route to subscribe to its capital
stock on an assenting vote of a majority of the legal voters, and further legalized assents of voters of certain townships given at meetings held previous
to the passage of the act, complied with the reqnirement of the Constitution
of that State that "no private or local law which may be passed by the
general assembly shall embrace more than one subject, and that shall be
expressed in the title."

