'EX PARTE ROYALL.
Syllabus.

And this need not arrest or interfere
with the jurisdiction of the court, already established by the
plaintiffs against the tenant in possession. For such proceedings should be treated as incidental to the jurisdiction thus acquired, and auxiliary to it, as in like cases, in equity, one interested in the subject-matter, though a stranger to the litigation,
may be allowed to intervene pro tteresse suo. Xrzppendorfv.
Hyde, 110 U. S. 276.
In this view, the Circuit Court was right m admitting the
Zeidlers as codefendants, but there was error m remanding the
cause to the State court. For this error,
.The judgment complaned of w reversed, and the cause s
remanded to the Circuit Court with directons to proceed
-n the aotiom accordingto law.
interests might dictate.

EX PARTE ROYALL, No. 1.
EX PARTE ROYALL, No. 2.
APPEALS FROM AND ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued January 7, 8, 1S.-Decided March 1, IMsS.

Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction on habeas corpus to discharge'from custody a person who is restrained of his liberty in violation of
the Constitution of the United States, but who, at the time, is held under
State process for trial on an indictment charging him with an offence against,
the laws of the State.
When a person is in custody, under process from a State court of original jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of such State, andit is claimed
that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, the Circuit Court of the United States has a discretion
whether it will discharge him in advance of his trial in the court in which
he is indicted; but this discretion should be subordinated to any special
circumstances requiring immediate action. After conviction of the accused in the State court, the Circuit Court has still a discretion whether he
shall be put to his writ of error to the highest court of the State, orwhether
it will proceed by writ of habeas corpus summarily to determine whether
he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
VOL. cxvIT-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

On the 29th day of May, 1885, William L. lRoyall filed two
petitions in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, each verified by oath, and addressed to
the judges of that court.
In one of them he represented, in substance, that he was a
citizen of the United States that, in June, 1884, as a representative of a citizen of New York-who was the owner of certain
bonds issued by Virginia under the act approved March 30,
1871, entitled "An actto provide for the funding and payment
of the public debt "-he sold in the city of Richmond, to Richard
W Maury, for the sum of $10.50 in current money, a genuine
past-due coupon, cut from one of said bonds in petitioner's presence, and which he received from the owner, with instructions
to sell it in that city for the best market price, that said coupon bore upon its face the contract of Virginia that it should
be received in payment of all taxes, debts, and demands due
that Commonwealth, that he acted in said matter without
compensation, and, consequently, the transadtion was a sale of
the coupon by its owner. The petition proceeded
"That on the second day of June, 1884, the grand jury of
the city of Richmond, Virgima, found an indictment against
your petitioner for selling said coupon without a license. That
the before mentioned coupon is the only one that your petitioner has sold. That your petitioner was thereupon arrested
and committed to the custody of N. M. Lee, sergeant of the
city of Richmond, to be tried on said indictment, and-that he
will be prosecuted and tried on said indictment for selling said
coupon without a license, under the provisions of section 65 of
the act of March 15th, 1884, relating to licenses generally, and
the general provisions of the State law in respect to doing business without a license. That your petitioner had no license
under the laws of Virginia to sell coupons. That the act of
the General Assembly under which your petitioner was arrested, and is being prosecuted, requires any person who sells
one or more of the said tax-receivable coupons issued by said
State of Virginia to pay to said State, before said sale, a
special license tax of $1000, and, in addition thereto, a tax of
twenty per cent. on the face value of each coupon sold.

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Statement of Facts.

"That said act doeg not require the seller of any other coupon, or the seller of anything else, to pay said tax, but it is
directed exclusively against the sellers of such coupons. That
your petitioner is being prosecuted under said act because he
sold said coupon without having first paid to said State said
special license tax, and without paying to her said special tax
of twenty per cent. on the face value thereof. That said act
of the General Assembly of Virginia is repugnant to section
ten of article one of the Constitution of the United States, and
is, therefore, null and void. That if the said State can refuse
to pay the said coupons at maturity, and then tax the sale of
them to- tax-payers, she may thus indirectly repudiate them
absolutely, and thus effectually destoy their value.
"That your petitioner has been on bail from the time he
was arrested until now, but that his bail has now surrendered
him, and he is at this time in the custody of the said N. M. Lee,
sergeant of the city of Richmond, to be prosecuted and tried
on said indictment. That he is held in violation of the Constitution of the United States, as he is advised."
In the other petition he represented, in substance, that,
under the provisions of the beforementioned act of 1871, Virginia issued her bonds, with interest coupons attached, and
bearing upon their face a contract to receive them in payment
of all taxes, debts, and demands due to that commonwealth,
that another act, approved January 14, 1882, provided that
said coupons should not be received in payment of taxes until
after judgment rendered in a suit thereon according to its provisions, that the validity of the latter act was sustained in Antonz v Greenlow, 107 U. S.769, upon the ground that it furnished tax-payers with a sufficient remedy to enforce said contract, that by the provisions of sections 90 and 91 of chapter
450 of the laws of Virgina for the year 1883-84. it was provided
that attorneys-at-law who had been licensed to practice law less
than five years should pay a license tax of fifteen dollars, and
those licensed more than five years twenty-five dollars, and that
such license should entitle the attorney paying it to practice
law in all the courts of the State, that it was further provided
by said 91st section that no attorney should bring any suit on

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

said coupons under said act of January 14,1882, unless he paid,
in addition to the above-mentioned license tax, a further special
license tax of $250, that petitioner had been licensed to practice law more than five years, and that in the month of April,
1884, he paid twenty-five dollars, receiving a revenue license to
practice law in all the courts of the State but that he had not
paid the additional special license tax provided for in said 91st
section, that, under employment of a client who had tendered
coupons, issued by Virginia under the act of March 30, 1871,
to the treasurer of Richmond city in payment of his taxes, and
thereafter had paid his tax in money-the coupons having been
received by that officer for identification and verification, and
certified to the Hustings Court of the City of Richmond-he
brought suit under the act of January 14, 1882, to recover the
money back after proving the genuineness of the coupons,
that the grand jury of the city of Richmond thereupon found
an indictment against him for bringing the suit without having
paid the special license tax, that he brought it after he had
paid his license tax above mentioned, and while he had a license
to practice law until April 1885, that he was thereupon arrested by order of the Hustings Court of Richmond, committed
to the custody of IN.M. Lee, sergeant of that city, and was about
to be tried and punished under said indictment, that the act
requiring him to pay a special license tax in addition to his general license tax was repugnant to section 10 of article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States, and was, therefore, null and
void, and that the act providing for punishing him for not
paying the special license tax was likewise repugnant to the
Constitution.
After stating, at some length, the grounds upon which
he contended that the before mentioned acts were repugnant
to the Constitution, the petitioner averred that he "is now in
the custody of the said IN. M. Lee, sergeant of the city of
Richmond, under said indictment, and he is, therefore, restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitition of the
United States."
Each petition concluded with a prayer that the Circuit
Court award a writ of habeas corpus directed to that officer,

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opimon of the Court.

commanding him to produce the body of the petitioner before
that court, together with the cause of his detention, and that
he have judgment discharging hun from custody
In each case the petition was dismissed upon the ground
that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction to discharge
the prisoner from prosecution.
This case was argued with Barry v. Edmunds, Ciaff v.
Taylor, 1Royall v Virgmnia and Sands v Edmunds, all reported in 116 U.S. and with Exoparte Royall,post, 254.
Nb' William 1. 1oyall in person, and IM' .Danzel f.
"Chamberlaznfor the petition.
-2' R. A. Ayres and AL
MR. JusTicE

HARLAN

Walter f. Stavpes opposing.
T

delivered tC%,opinion of the court.

After stating the case as above repor-od, he continued
These cases come here under the act of March 3, 1885, ch.
353, 23 Stat. 437, which so amends . 764 of the Revised
Statutes as to give this court jurisdiction, upon appeal, to
review the final decision of the Circuit Courts of the United
States in certain specified cases, including that of a writ of
habeas corpus sued out in behalf of a person alleged to be
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution.
The first question to be considered is whether the Circuit
Courts have jurisdiction on habeas corpus to discharge from
custody one who is restrained of his liberty in violation of the
National Constitution, but who, at the time, is held under State
process for trial on an indictment charging him with an
offence against the laws of the State.
The statutory provisions which control the determination of
this question are found in the following sections of the Revised
Statutes
"SE c. 751. The Supreme Court and the Circuit and District
Courts shall-have power to issue writs of habeas corpus.
"SE . 752. The several justices and judges of the said courts,
within their respective jurisdictions, shall have power to grant
writs of habeas corpus for the purpose of an inquiry into the
cause of restraint of liberty

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

"SEc. 753. The writ of habeas corpus shall in no case extend
to a prisoner in jail, unless where he is in custody under or by
color of the authority of the United States, or is committed for
trial before some court thereof, or is in custody for an act
done or omitted in pursuance of a law or treaty of the United
States. or of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge
thereof, or is in custody in violation of the Constitution, or of
a law or treaty of the United States, or being a subject or
citizen of a foreign state, and domiciled therein, is in custody
for an act done or omitted under any alleged right, title,
authority, privilege, protection, or exemption claimed under
the commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign state, or
under color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend
upon the law of nations, or unless it is necessary to bring the
prisoner into court to testify
"SEc. 754. Application for the writ of habeas corpus shall
be made to the court, or justice, or judge authorized to issue
the same, by complaint in writing, signed by the person for
whose relief it is intended, setting forth the facts concerning
the detention of the party restrained, in whose custody he is
detained, and by virtue of what claim or authority, if known.
The facts set forth in the complaint shall be verified by the
oath of the person making the application.
"SEC. 755. The court, or justice, or judge to whom the application is made, shall forthwith award a writ of habeas corpus,
unless it appears from the petition itself that the party is not
entitled thereto. The writ shall be directed to the person
in whose custody the party is detained."
"SEC. 761. The court, or justice, or judge shall proceed in a
summary way to determine the facts of the case, by hearing
the testimony and arguments, and thereupon to dispose of the
party as law and justice require."
It is further provided, that, pending the proceedings on
habeas corpus in cases mentioned in §§ 163 and 76--which include an application for the writ by a person alleged to be
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States-and, "until final judgment therein, and after
final judgment of discharge, any proceeding against the person

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opinion of the Court.

so imprisoned, or confined, or restrained of his liberty, in any
State court, or by or under the authority of any State, for any
matter so heard or determined, or in process of being heard
and determined, under such writ of habeas corpus, shall be
deemed null and void." § 766.
The grant to the Circuit Courts in § 751 of jurisdiction to
issue writs of habeas corpus, is in language as broad as could
well be employed. While it is attended by the general condition, necessarily implied, that the authority conferred must be
exercised agreeably to the principles and usages of law, the
only express limitation imposed is, that the privilege of the
writ shall not be enjoyed by-or, rather, that the courts and
the judicial officers named, shall not have power to award the
writ to-any prisoner in jail, except in specified cases, one of
them being where he is alleged to be held in custody in violation of the Constitution. The latter class of cases was first
distinctly provided for by the act of February 5, 1867, ch. 28,
14 Stat. 385, which declares that the several courts of the
United States, and the several justices and judges thereof
within their respective jurisdictions, in addition to the authority
then conferred by law, "shall have power to grant writs of
habeas corpus in all cases where any person may be restrained
of his or her liberty m violation of the Constitution, or of any
treaty or law of the United States." Whether, therefore, the
appellant is a prisoner in jail, within the meaning of § 753, or
is restrained of his liberty by an officer of the law executing
the process of a court of Virginia, in either case, it being
alleged under oath that he is held in custody in violation of
the Constitution, the Circuit Court has, by the express words
of the statute, jurisdiction on habeas corpus to inquire into the
cause for -hich he is restrained of his liberty, and to dispose
of him "as law and justice require."
It may be suggested that the State court is competent to
decide whether the petitioner is or ig not illegally restrained of
his liberty, that the appropriate time for the determination of
that question is at the trial of the indictment, and that his
detention for the purpose simply of securing his attendance at
the trial ought not to be deemed an improper exercise by that

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnmon of the Court.

court of its power to hear and decide the case. The first of
these propositions is undoubtedly sound, for in Robb v Connolly, 111 U. S. 624, 637, it was held, upon full consideration,
that "a State court of original jurisdiction, having the parties
before it, may, consistently with existing Federal legislation,
determine cases at law or in equity, arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States, or involving rights dependent upon such Constitution or laws," and that "upon the
State courts, equally with the courts of the Union, rests the
obligation to guard, enforce, and protect every right granted
or secured by the Constitution of the United States, and the
laws made in pursuance thereof, whenever those rights are involved in any suit or proceeding before them." But with
respect to the other propositions, it "is clear that, if the local
statute under which Royall was indicted be repugnant to the
Constitution, the prosecution against him has nothing upon
which to rest, and the entire proceeding against him is a nullity As was said in Ex yarte Sielold, 100 U. S. 371, 376,
"An unconstitutional law is void, and is as no law An offence
created by it is not a crime. A conviction under it is not
merely erroneous, but is illegal and void, and cannot be a legal
cause of imprisonment."
So in Ex parte Yarbrough, 110
U. S. 651, 654, it was said that if the statute prescribing the
offence for which Yarbrough and his associates were convicted was void, the court which tried them was without jurisdiction, and they were entitled to be discharged. It would
seem-whether reference be had to the act of 1867 or to existing statutory provisions-that it was the purpose of Congress to invest the courts of the Union, and the justices and
judges thereof, with power upon writ of habeas corpus, to
restore to liberty any person, within their respective jurisdictions, who is held in custody, by whatever authority, in violation of the Constitution or any law or treaty of the United
States. The statute evidently contemplated that cases might
arise when the power thus conferred should be exercised, during the progress of proceedings instituted against the petitioner
in a State court, or by or under authority of a State, on account of the very matter presented for determination by the

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opimon of the Court.

writ of habeas corpus, for care is taken to provide that any
such proceedings, pending the hearing of the case upon the
writ and until final judgment and after the prisoner is discharged, shall be null and void. If such were not the clear
implication of the statute, still, as it does not except from its
operation cases in which the applicant for the writ is held m
custody by the authority of a State, acting through its judiciary or by its officers, the court could not, against the positive
language of Congress, declare any such exception, unless requred to do so by the terms of the Constitution itself. But
as the judicial power of the nation extends to all cases axising
under the Constitution, the laws and treaties of the United
States as the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus cannot be
suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the
public safety may require it, and as Congress has power to pass
all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution the powers vested by the Constitution in the Government of the United
States or in any department or officer thereof, no doubt can
exist as to the power of Congress thus to enlarge the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union and of their justices and judges.
That the petitioner is held under the authority of a State cannot
affect the question of the power or jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court to inquire into the cause of his. commitment, and to discharge him if he be restrained of his liberty in violation of the
Constitution. The grand jurors who -found the indictment,
the court into which it was returned and by whose order he
was arrested, and the officer who holds him in custody, are all,
equally with individual citizens, under a duty, from the- discharge of which the State could not release them, to respect
and obey the supreme law of the land, "anything in the Constitution and laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding." And that equal power does not belong to the courts
and judges of the several States, that they cannot, under any
authority conferred by the States, discharge from custody persons held by authority of the courts of the United States, or of
commissioners of such courts, or by officers of the General
Government acting under its laws. results from the supremacy
of the Constitution and laws of the United States. Ableman

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Booth, 21 How 506, Tarble's Case, 13 Wall. 397, Robb v.
Connolly, 111 U S. 624.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Circuit Court has jurisdiction upon writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause
of appellant's commitment, and to discharge him, if he be held
in custody in violation of the Constitution.
It remains, however, to be considered, whether the refusal
of that court to issue the writ and to take the accused from the
custody of the State officer can be sustained upon any other
ground than the one upon which it proceeded. If it can be,
the judgment will not be reversed because an insufficient reason
may have been assigned for the dismissal of the petitions.
Undoubtedly the writ should be forthwith awarded, "unless
it appears from the petition itself that the party is not entitled
thereto," and the case summarily heard and determined "as
law and justice require." Such are the express requirements
of the statute. If, however, it is apparent upon the petition,
that the writ if issued ought not, on principles of law and justice, to result in the immediate discharge of the accused from
custody, the court is not bound to award it as soon as the application is made. .Exparte Tratkbns, 3 Pet. 193, 201, E'eparte
Milliga,, 4 Wall. 2, 111. What law and justice may require,
in a particular case, is often an embarrassing question to the
court or to the judicial officer before whom the petitioner is
brought. It is alleged in the petitions-neither one of which,
however, is accompanied by a copy of the indictment in the
State court, nor by any statement giving a reason why such a
*copywas not obtained-that the appellant is held in custody
under process of a State court, in which he stands indicted for an
alleged offence against the laws of Virginia. It is-stated in one
case that he gave bail, but was subsequently surrendered by his
sureties. But it is not alleged and it does not appear, in either
case, that he is unable to give security for his appearance in the
State court, or that reasonable bail is denied him, or that his trial
will be unnecessarily delayed. The question as to the constitutionality of the law under which he is indicted must necessarily
arise at his trial under the indictment, and it is one upon which,
as we have seen, it s competent for the State court to pass.

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opinion of the Court.

Under such circumstances, does the statute imperatively require
the Circuit Court, by writ of habeas corpus, to wrest the petitioner from the custody of the State officers in advance of his
trial in the State court 9 We are of opinion that while the Circuit Court has the power to do so, and may discharge the accused in advance of his trial if he is restrained of his liberty m
violation of the national Constitution, it is not bound in every
case to exercise such a power immediately upon application
being made for the writ. We cannot suppose that Congress
intended to compel those courts, by such means, to draw to
themselves, in the first instance, the control of all criminal prosecutions commenced in State courts exercising authority within
the same territorial limits, where the accused claims that he is
held in custody in violation of the Cbnstitution of the United
States. The injunction to hear the i case summarily and thereupon "to dispose of the party as law and justice require" does
not deprive the court of discretion as to the time and mode in

which it will exert the powers conferred upon it. That discretion should be exercised in the light of the relations existing,
under our system of government, between the judicial tribunals
of the Union and of the States, and in recognition of the fact
that the public good requires that those relations be not disturbed by unnecessary conflict between courts equally bound
to guard and protect rights secured by the Constitution. When
the petitioner is in custody by State authority for an act done
or omitted to be done in pursuance of a law of the United
States, or of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge
thereof.; or where, being a subject or citizen of a foreign State,
and domiciled therein, he is in custody, under like authority,
for an act- done or omitted under any alleged right, title,
authority privilege, protection, or exemption claimed under the
commission, or order, or sanction of any foreign State, or under
color thereof, the validity and effect whereof depend upon the
law of nations, in such and like cases of urgency, involving
the authority and operations of the General Government, or
the obligations of this country to, or its relations with, foreign
nations, the courts of the United States have frequently interposed by -writs of habeas corpus and discharged -prisoners who

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

were held in custody under State authority So, also, when
they are in the custody of a State officer, it may be necessary
by use of the writ, to bring them into a court of the United
States to testify as witnesses. The present cases involve no
such considerations. Nor do their circumstances, as detailed
in the petitions, suggest any reason why the State court of
original jurisdiction may not, without interference upon the
part of the courts of the United States, pass upon the question
which is raised as to the constitutionality of the statutes under
which the appellant is indicted. The Circuit Court was not at
liberty, under the circumstances disclosed, to presume that the
decision of the State court would be otherwise than is required
by the fundamental law of the land, or that it would disregard
the settled principles of constitutional law announced by this
court, upon which is clearly conferred the power to decide ultimately and finally all cases arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. In Taylor v Carryl,20 How
583, 595, it was said to be a recognized portion of the duty of
this court-and, we will add, of all other courts, National and
State-" to give preference to such principles and methods 6f
procedure as shall serve to conciliate the distinct and independent tribunals of the States and of the Union, so that they may
co6perate as harmonious members of a judicial system coextensive with the United States, and submitting to the paramount authority of the same Constitution, laws, and Federal
obligations." And in Covell v. ffeyman, 111 U S. 176, 182, it
was declared "that the.forbearance which courts of co-ordinate
jurisdiction, administered under a single system, exercise
towards each other, whereby conflicts are avoided, by avoiding
interference with the process of each other, is a principle of
comity, with perhaps no higher sanction than the utility which
comes from concord, but between State courts and those of
the United States it is something more. It is a principle of
right and of law, and, therefore, of necessity"
That these salutary principles may have full operation, and
in harmony with what we suppose was the intention of Congress in the enactments in question, this court holds that where
a person is in custody, under process from a State court of

EX PARTE ROYALL.
Opinion of the Court.

original jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of
such State, and it is claimed that he is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution of the United States, the Circuit Court has a discretion, whether it will discharge him, upon
habeas corpus, in advance of his trial in the court in which he
is indicted, that discretion, however, to be subordinated to any
special circumstances requiring immediate action. When the
State court shall have finally acted upon the case, the Circuit
Court has still a discretion whether, under all the circumstances then existing, the accused, if convicted, shall be put
to his writ of error from the highest court of the State, or
whether it will proceed, by writ of habeas, corpus, summarily
to determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution of the United States. The latter was substantially the course adopted in Ex yarte Bridge,
2 Woods, 428. The prisoner was indicted and convicted in
one of the courts of Georgia for perjury committed in an exammation before a United States commissioner under what is
known as the Enforcement Act of Congress. He was discharged upon habeas corpus, sued out before Mr. Justice Bradley, upon the ground that the. State court had no jurisdiction
of the case, the offence charged being one which, under the
laws of the United States, was exclusively cognizable in the
Federal courts. Adverting to the argument that where a defendant has been regularly indicted, tried, and convicted in a
State court, his only remedy was to carry the judgment to the
State 'court of last resort, and thence by writ of error to this
court, he said "This might be so if the proceeding in the State
court was merely erroneous; but where it is void for want of
jurisdiction, habeas corpus will lie, and may be issued by any
court or judge invested with supervisory jurisdiction in such
case. Eax yparte lange, 18 Wall. 163.,' It was ,further observed, in the same case, that while it might appear unseemly
that a prisoner, after conviction in a State court, should be set
at liberty by a single judge on habeas corpus, there was no
escape from the act of 1867, which invested such judge with
power to discharge when the .prisoner was restraine.d of his
liberty in violation of a law of the United States.

OCTOBER TERM, ]885.
Statement of Facts.

As it does not appear that the Circuit Court might not, in
its discretion and consistently with law and justice, have denied
the applications for the writ at-the time they were made, we
are of opinion that the judgment in each case must be affirmed,
but without prejudice to the right of the petitioner to renew
his applications to that court at some future time should the
circumstances render it proper to do so.
Affirmed.

EX PARTE ROYALL.
OI IGMA!L.

Argued December 1, 1884.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The petitioner prayed for a writ of habeas corpus on the ground that the State
statute under which he was arrested and held in custody was repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States Held, That, without deciding
whether the court has power under existing legislation, and on habeas
corpus, to discharge a prisoner held in custody under process of a State
court of onginal jurisdiction for trial on an indictment charging him with
an offence against the laws of that State, such power ought not, for reasons
given in Ex arte Royal, ante 241, to be exercised in advance of his trial.

This was an original petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
The proceedings were founded upon some of the legislation of
the State of Virginia respecting the receipt of coupons by the
State in payment of taxes which is considered in Antont, v
Greenrww, 107 IT. S. 769, the Virgnta Coupon Cases, 114
U S. 269, Barry v. Ednunds, 116 U. S. 550, Royall v. Vlirgznza, 116 I. S. 572, Sands v Edmunds, 116 _U S. 585, and
Ex.parte Royall, ante, 24,1. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
Xr Wiliam 1. 1Royall in person and _Vr Danel . Chamberla-n for the petitioner. Hr William B. IHornblower was
with them on the brief.

