OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

CALDERON, WARDEN v. COLEMAN
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED
STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 98-437. Decided December 14, 1998
Respondent Coleman was convicted in a California court of, inter alia,
murder. At the trial's penalty phase, the judge gave a so-called Briggs
instruction, then required by state law, which informed the jury of the
Governor's power to commute a life sentence without the possibility of
parole to a lesser sentence that might include the possibility of parole.
The State Supreme Court affirmed on direct appeal. The Federal District Court granted Coleman's subsequent habeas petition, finding that
the Briggs instruction violated the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments
because it did not mention a limitation on the Governor's power to commute Coleman's sentence. In affirming, the Ninth Circuit rejected the
State's argument that the instruction, even if unconstitutional, did not
have a substantial and injurious effect or influence on the jury's verdict,
as required by Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637. It applied
instead the rule of Boyde v. California,494 U. S. 370, 380, finding that
there was a reasonable likelihood that the jury applied the instruction
in a way that prevented it from considering constitutionally relevant
evidence.
Held. The Ninth Circuit erred by failing to apply Brecht's harmless-error
analysis. Brecht's standard reflects the presumption of finality and legality that attaches to a conviction at the conclusion of direct review.
It protects the State's sovereign interest in punishing offenders and its
good-faith attempts to honor constitutional rights, while ensuring that
the extraordinary remedy of habeas corpus is available to those whom
society has grievously wronged. This balance is upset when a federal
court sets aside a state-court conviction or sentence without first determining that the error had a substantial and injurious effect on the jury's
verdict. The Boyde test is not a harmless-error test at all. It merely
asks whether a constitutional error has occurred and does not inquire
into the error's actual effect on the jury's verdict.
Certiorari granted; 150 F. 3d 1105, reversed and remanded.
PER CURIAM.

After a jury trial in a state court in California, respondent
Russell Coleman was convicted of the September 5, 1979,

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
Per Curiam

rape, sodomy, and murder of Shirley Hill. The jury's two
special circumstances findings of rape and sodomy made
Coleman death-penalty eligible under California law. See
People v. Coleman, 46 Cal. 3d 749, 756-757, 759 P. 2d 1260,
1264 (1988).
At the penalty phase of Coleman's trial, the trial judge
gave the jury a so-called Briggs instruction, then required
by California law, which informed the jury of the Governor's
power to commute a sentence of life without possibility of
parole to some lesser sentence that might include the possibility of parole. After giving the standard Briggs instruction, the state trial court instructed the jury that it was not
to consider the Governor's commutation power in reaching
its verdict. Thus, the full jury instruction on commutation
was as follows:
"You are instructed that under the State Constitution, a
Governor is empowered to grant a reprieve, pardon or
commutation of a sentence following conviction of the
crime.
"Under this power, a Governor may in the future commute or modify a sentence of life imprisonment without
the possibility of parole to a lesser sentence that would
include the possibility of parole.
"So that you will have no misunderstandings relating
to a sentence of life without possibility of parole, you
have been informed generally as to the Governor's commutation modification power. You are now instructed,
however, that the matter of a Governor's commutation
power is not to be considered by you in determining the
punishment for this defendant.
"You may not speculate as to if or when a Governor
would commute the sentence to a lesser one which includes the possibility of parole.
"I instruct you again that you are to consider only those
aggravating and mitigating factors which I have already

Cite as: 525 U. S. 141 (1998)
Per Curiam

read to you in determining which punishment shall be
imposed on this defendant." Respondent's Opposition
to Motion to Amend Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus
in No. C89-1906 (ND Cal.), p. 7, Record, Doc. No. 267,
quoting Tr. 1059-1060.
In an unrelated case, we had upheld the Briggs instruction against a federal constitutional challenge. California
v. Ramos, 463 U. S. 992 (1983). On direct appeal, however,
Coleman argued that giving the Briggs instruction in his
case was reversible error under the California Supreme
Court's decision in Californiav. Ramos, 37 Cal. 3d 136, 689
P. 2d 430 (1984). There the California Supreme Court held,
on remand from this Court, that the Briggs instruction violates the California Constitution because, in the California
Supreme Court's view, it is misleading, invites the jury to
consider irrelevant and speculative matters, and diverts the
jury from its proper function.
The California Supreme Court rejected Coleman's argument and upheld his death sentence. People v. Coleman,
supra. While the court found that the giving of the Briggs
instruction was error under California law, it held the error
was not prejudicial because the additional instruction told
the jury it should not consider the possibility of commutation
in determining Coleman's sentence. Id., at 780-781, 759
P. 2d, at 1281-1282.
Coleman then sought a federal writ of habeas corpus.
Although the District Court acknowledged this Court's holding that giving the Briggs instruction does not violate the
Federal Constitution and does not mislead or inappropriately divert the jury, the court nonetheless granted the writ
as to Coleman's death sentence. No. C89-1906 (ND Cal.,
Mar. 28, 1997), App. to Pet. for Cert. A-146, A-151. Relying on recent Ninth Circuit precedent, the District Court
found the Briggs instruction was inaccurate as applied to
Coleman because it did not mention a limitation on the Governor's power to commute Coleman's sentence. Id., at A-

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
Per Curiam

147. Under the California Constitution, the Governor may
not commute the sentence of a prisoner who, like Coleman,
is a twice-convicted felon without the approval of four judges
of the California Supreme Court. Art. 5, ยง 8.
The District Court found that, because the Briggs instruction did not mention this limitation on the Governor's
commutation power, it violated the Eighth and Fourteenth
Amendments by "g[iving] the jury inaccurate information
and potentially divert[ing] its attention from the mitigation
evidence presented." No. C89-1906, supra, at A-151. The
court also found that, in the context of the case-particularly,
the prosecutor's arguments of future dangerousness, "the
commutation instruction would likely have prevented the
jury from giving due effect to Coleman's mitigating evidence." Id., at A-149. The court did not in express terms
consider the effect of the additional instruction, which instructed the jury not to consider commutation, but it noted
that the Ninth Circuit had held in a similar case, Hamilton
v. Vasquez, 17 F. 3d 1149 (1994), "that the trial court did
not cure the error by instructing the jury not to consider
commutation." No. C89-1906, supra, at A-148.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the
District Court's grant of the writ as to Coleman's sentence.
150 F. 3d 1105 (1998). The Court of Appeals agreed with
the District Court's finding that the instruction, as applied to Coleman, gave the jury inaccurate information about
the Governor's commutation power. Id., at 1118. And, in
a sweeping pronouncement, the court declared, "[a] commutation instruction is unconstitutional when it is inaccurate."
Ibid. The instruction at issue was fatally flawed, the court
held, because it "dramatically overstate[d] the possibility of
commuting the life sentence of a person such as Coleman"
(by creating "the false impression that the Governor, acting alone," could commute the sentence) and thus prevented
the jurors from "understand[ing] the choice they [we]re
asked to make" and "'invited [them] to speculate' that Cole-

Cite as: 525 U. S. 141 (1998)
Per Curiam

man could be effectively isolated from the community only
through a sentence of death." Id., at 1119.
Having concluded that the giving of the instruction was
constitutional error, the Court of Appeals then took up the
State's argument that, even if the instruction was unconstitutional, it "did not have a 'substantial and injurious effect
or influence' on the jury's sentence of death," ibid., as required by Brecht v. Abraharnson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993).
The court explained:
"To decide this question, we look to Boyde v. California,
494 U. S. 370 (1990). When the inaccuracy undermines
the jury's understanding of sentencing options, 'there is
a reasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the
challenged instruction in a way that prevents the consideration of constitutionally relevant evidence.' Boyde,
494 U. S. at 380.
"We conclude the district court did not err in holding
that Coleman was denied due process by the state trial
court's inaccurate commutation instruction." 150 F. 3d,
at 1119 (citations omitted).
Though the Court of Appeals' constitutional analysis of
the jury instruction, and the Circuit precedent on which it
relied, have not been approved by this Court, we do not consider the validity of that analysis here because the State
has not asked us to do so. We will simply assume at this
stage that the instruction did not meet constitutional standards. The State does contend, however, that the Court of
Appeals erred by failing to apply the harmless-error analysis
of Brecht. We agree.
We held in Brecht that a federal court may grant habeas
relief based on trial error only when that error "'had substantial and injurious effect or influence in determining the
jury's verdict."' 507 U. S., at 637 (quoting Kotteakos v.
United States, 328 U. S. 750, 776 (1946)). This standard reflects the "presumption of finality and legality" that attaches

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
Per Curiam

to a conviction at the conclusion of direct review. 507 U. S.,
at 633. It protects the State's sovereign interest in punishing offenders and its "good-faith attempts to honor constitutional rights," id., at 635, while ensuring that the extraordinary remedy of habeas corpus is available to those "'whom
society has grievously wronged,"' id., at 634 (quoting Fay v.
Noia, 372 U. S. 391, 440-441 (1963)).
A federal court upsets this careful balance when it sets
aside a state-court conviction or sentence without first determining that the error had a substantial and injurious effect
on the jury's verdict. The social costs of retrial or resentencing are significant, and the attendant difficulties are
acute in cases such as this one, where the original sentencing
hearing took place in November 1981, some 17 years ago.
No. C89-1906, App. to Pet. for Cert. A-101, n. 45. The State
is not to be put to this arduous task based on mere speculation that the defendant was prejudiced by trial error; the
court must find that the defendant was actually prejudiced
by the error. Brecht, supra, at 637. As a consequence,
once the Court of Appeals determined that the giving of the
Briggs instruction was constitutional error, it was bound to
apply the harmless-error analysis mandated by Brecht.
The Boyde test that the Court of Appeals applied instead
is not a harmless-error test at all. It is, rather, the test
for determining, in the first instance, whether constitutional error occurred when the jury was given an ambiguous
instruction that it might have interpreted to prevent consideration of constitutionally relevant evidence. Boyde v. California,494 U. S. 370, 377, 380 (1990). In such cases, constitutional error exists only if "there is a reasonable likelihood"
that the jury so interpreted the instruction.
Although the Boyde test for constitutional error, like
the Brecht harmless-error test, furthers the "strong policy
against retrials years after the first trial where the claimed
error amounts to no more than speculation," 494 U. S., at
380, it is not a substitute for the Brecht harmless-error test.

Cite as: 525 U. S. 141 (1998)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

The Boyde analysis does not inquire into the actual effect
of the error on the jury's verdict; it merely asks whether
constitutional error has occurred. If the Court of Appeals
had viewed the jury instruction as ambiguous on the issue
whether the Governor had the power alone to commute defendant's sentence, it might have inquired-as in Boydewhether there was a reasonable likelihood that the jury understood the instruction as stating the Governor had that
power. If the court found that possibility to be a reasonable one, it would determine then whether the instruction,
so understood, was unconstitutional as applied to the defendant. Even if the court found a constitutional violation,
however, it could not grant the writ without further inquiry.
As the Court has recognized on numerous occasions, some
constitutional errors do not entitle the defendant to relief,
particularly habeas relief. See, e. g., Brecht, supra, at 637638; O'Neal v. McAninch, 513 U. S. 432, 435-436 (1995)
(applying harmless-error review to an instruction that "violated the Federal Constitution by misleading the jury").
The court must find that the error, in the whole context of
the particular case, had a substantial and injurious effect or
influence on the jury's verdict.
The motion of respondent for leave to proceed in forma
pauperis and the petition for a writ of certiorari are granted,
the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER, JUSTICE

and JUSTICE BREYER join, dissenting.
Busy appellate judges sometimes write imperfect opinions.
The failure adequately to explain the resolution of one issue
in an opinion that answers several questions is not a matter
of serious consequence if the decision is correct. In this
case, there might have been a slight flaw in the Court of
GINSBURG,

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

Appeals' brief explanation of why the invalid instruction
given to the jury was not harmless, but, as I shall explain,
the court's ruling was unquestionably correct.
The State does not challenge the conclusion that the
jury was given an unconstitutional instruction. It merely
argues that this trial error should not "command automatic
reversal ... without application of the harmless error test
of Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619 (1993)." 1 And respondent Coleman does not contend that Brecht is inapplicable. He merely argues that the Court of Appeals actually
performed the Brecht inquiry, albeit in an expedited fashion.
Thus, the only controversy before this Court is whether the
Court of Appeals was faithful to Brecht, and sufficiently explicit in its adherence.
Three aspects of the Brecht test for harmless error are
significant here: (1) The test requires the reviewing judge
to evaluate the error in the context of the entire record;
(2) it asks whether the constitutional trial error at issue had
a "'substantial and injurious effect or influence in determining the jury's verdict," Brecht, 507 U. S., at 637 (quoting
Kotteakos v. United States, 328 U. S.750, 776 (1946)); and
(3) if the judge has grave doubt about whether the error was
harmless, the uncertain judge should conclude that the error
affected the jury's deliberations and grant relief, see O'Neal
v. McAninch, 513 U. S.432 (1995).
In this case, it is undisputed that both the District Court
and the Court of Appeals made a thorough examination of
the entire record. The District Court's 117-page opinion
carefully analyzed each of the respondent's nonfrivolous
attacks on his conviction and concluded that the judgment
of guilt should stand. With respect to the death penalty,
however, the District Judge decided that the inaccurate
and misleading instruction describing the Governor's com1Pet. for Cert. i.

Cite as: 525 U. S. 141 (1998)
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

mutation power was unconstitutional and "would likely
have prevented the jury from giving due effect to Coleman's mitigating evidence."' 2 Although the judge did not
"App. to Pet. for Cert. 149. The District Court concluded more fully:
"Coleman was entitled, under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments,
to a sentencing jury that could fairly review the evidence he presented to
show that he should not be sentenced to death. See e. g., Boyde [v. Californ ia, 494 U. S. 370, 377-378 (1990)]; Lockett [v. Ohio, 438 U. S. 586, 605
(1978)]. Considered in light of the prosecution argument, the aggravating
evidence and the record as a whole, the commutation instruction would
likely have prevented the jury from giving due effect to Coleman's mitigating evidence. See Hamilton [v. Vasquez, 17 F. 3d 1149, 1163 (CA9), cert.
denied, 512 U. S. 1220 (1994)]; ef Boyde, 494 U. S. at 370.
"Believing that the governor could, single-handedly, render Coleman
eligible for parole, for example, the jury would have found it difficult to
give 'a reasoned moral response' to testimony about Coleman's temper and
his history of incarceration that was introduced to explain his behavior.
See Hamilton, 17 F. 3d at 1160. During its deliberation, the jury requested a copy of Coleman's prior felony convictions, which [suggests] that
it gave them considerable weight. RT 1068-72. Yet the instruction prevented the jury from learning that Coleman's prior convictions not only
weighed against him in aggravation but also made parole considerably less
likely. See [California v. Ramos, 463 U.S. 992, 1008 (1983)] (penaltyphase jury may consider many factors in determining whether death is
the appropriate punishment); see also Penry [v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302,
324 (1989)] (penalty-phase instruction unconstitutionally allowed jury to
give aggravating, but not mitigating, effect to evidence of petitioner's
mental retardation).
"The need for accurate parole-related instructions is heightened when
the prosecution argues the issue of a defendant's future dangerousness.
See Simmons [v. South Carolina, 512 U. S. 154, 164 (1994)] (due process
violated when trial court refused to give accurate parole-eligibility instruction to rebut prosecution's argument about future dangerousness).
Here, the prosecutor built his penalty-phase case around Coleman's prior
felonies and his propensity for violence, both in and out of prison. His
closing argument, in particular, told the jury that Coleman 'has already
demonstrated what he is capable of doing on numerous occasions to each
and every one of us.... He is manipulative, he is dangerous to all of us.'
RT 1011-12, 1029-30; see Simmons, [512 U. S., at 157] (prosecutor alluded
to future dangerousness by arguing that death sentence would be 'a re-

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

use the exact words that this Court used in its opinions in
Kotteakos, Brecht, and O'Neal, it is perfectly clear that he
was convinced that the instruction had a "substantial and
injurious effect" on the jury's deliberations. This conclusion is reinforced by the statement of a juror explaining
how the invalid instruction had, in fact, affected the jury's
deliberations.3
Because there is no reason to believe that the District
Court's evaluation of the impact of the invalid instruction
was incorrect, it is not surprising that the Court of Appeals
affirmed without writing extensively about the harmlesserror issue. It reasoned, in brief, that if there was a reasonable likelihood that the jury had applied an invalid
instruction in a way that prevented the consideration of
constitutionally relevant evidence, the error necessarily
satisfied the Brecht test. Instead of spelling out its reasponse of society to someone who is a threat[']); Hamilton, 17 F. 3d at
1162 (prosecutor argued that [Hamilton] would be 'conniving and devising
ways to manipulate the system and get out[']). This argument may have
caused the jury to speculate about the possibility that Coleman would be
released if he were not sentenced to death.
"Because the instruction, in the context of Coleman's penalty-phase
proceeding, gave the jury inaccurate information and potentially diverted
its attention from the mitigation evidence presented, his death sentence
violates the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments: 'The jury in this case
deliberating under these instructions could not have made the constitutionally mandated reasoned and informed choice between a sentence of
life imprisonment without possibility of parole and a sentence of death.'
See Hamilton, 17 F. 3d at 1164." Id., at 149-151 (footnote omitted).
3
"[A]ccording to juror Verda New, the possibility of parole was a much
discussed topic in deciding whether respondent should live or die:
'[The jurors] openly discussed that Russell Coleman would be released
from prison unless we sentenced him to death. Several jurors stated that
he could be paroled if we sentenced him to life in prison.... Many of the
jurors expressed their fear that if we failed to sentence Mr. Coleman to
death, the courts or the Governor could allow him to be released from
prison. This was the most significant part of our discussions regarding
the appropriate penalty."' Brief in Opposition 7.

Cite as: 525 U. S. 141 (1998)
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

soning at length, it merely cited an earlier en banc decision of the Ninth Circuit that came to a similar conclusion.
See McDowell v. Calderon, 130 F. 3d 833, 838 (1997), cert.
4
denied, 523 U. S. 1103 (1998).
Perhaps there may be cases in which a more detailed and
written analysis of the harmless-error issue should precede
an appellate court's decision to affirm a trial court's conclusion that an unconstitutional jury instruction in a capital
sentencing proceeding was not harmless. But even if that
be true, there are three good reasons for not requiring the
Court of Appeals to take a second look at the issue in this
case.
4

Although this Court's per curiam opinion quotes the relevant paragraph from the opinion below, see ante, at 145, the Court inadvertently
omits the citation to McDowell that explained the Court of Appeals' reasoning. In McDowell, the en bane court stated:
"The question, then, is whether this fundamental error had any 'substantial and injurious effect or influence' on the jury's sentence of death,
Brecht v. Abrahamson, 507 U. S. 619, 637 (1993) (quoting Kotteakos v.
United States, 328 U. S. 750, 776 (1946)). To answer this question, we
look for specific guidance to Boyde v. California,494 U. S. 370 (1990). In
Boyde, the Supreme Court confronted a claim that an arguably ambiguous
jury instruction 'restrict[ed] impermissibly a jury's consideration of relevant [penalty phase] evidence .... ' To evaluate such a claim, the Court
fashioned a reviewing yardstick which we find appropriate here: 'The
proper inquiry in such a case is whether there is a reasonable likelihood
that the jury has applied the challenged instruction in a way that prevents
consideration of constitutionally relevant evidence.' Id. at 380. If the
answer is 'yes,' the error necessarily satisfies the Brecht test for substantial and injurious error.... We conclude on these facts, in these circumstances, and in the light of controlling authority that the error did
substantially injure and influence the jury's verdict." McDowell v. Calderon, 130 F. 3d, at 838 (footnote omitted).
Four judges dissented from McDowell's conclusion that it was reasonably likely that the jury erred in their application of an instruction used
in that case, see id., at 841, but no judge took issue with the logic of the
harmless-error analysis quoted above, see id., at 842-843 (Thompson, J.,
dissenting); see also id., at 843-845 (Kozinski, J., dissenting).

CALDERON v. COLEMAN
STEVENS, J.,

dissenting

First, in the context of the entire record as analyzed by
the District Court, the result here is correct. Second, a fair
reading of THE CHIEF JUSTICE'S opinion for the Court in
Boyde v. California,494 U. S. 370 (1990), indicates that the
heightened "reasonable likelihood" standard endorsed in that
case was intended to determine whether an instructional
error "require[s] reversal." Id., at 379, 380. There is little
reason to question the soundness-at least in most applications-of the reasoning of the en banc opinion in McDowell
on which the Court of Appeals relied in this case. Third,
there is a strong interest in bringing all litigation, and especially capital cases, to a prompt conclusion. This Court's illconceived summary disposition will needlessly prolong this
proceeding.
Whatever the shortcomings of the Court of Appeals' review, they surely are not so great as to warrant an expenditure of this Court's time and resources. This is especially
so because our decision today is unlikely to change the result below. Ordinarily, we demand far more indication that
a lower court has departed from settled law, or has reached
an issue of some national significance, before we grant review. The purported error in this case does not satisfy
that standard.
Accordingly, I would deny the petition for writ of certiorari and, therefore, respectfully dissent.

