U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
Syllabus.

496

There was ample opportunity for respondents to assert
their claims through an orderly proceeding in courts of
the state empowered authoritatively to interpret her laws
with final review here in respect of federal questions.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting:

I am of opinion that the challenged ordinance is not
void on its face; that in principle it does not differ from
the Boston ordinance, as applied and upheld by this
Court, speaking through Mr. Justice White, in Davis v.
Massachusetts,167 U. S. 43, affirming the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, speaking through Mr. Justice
Holmes, in Commonwealth v. Davis, 162 Mass. 510; 39
N. E. 113, and that the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed.

UNITED STATES v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OPER-.
ATIVE, INC. ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 771.

Argued April 24, 25, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

Under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, the Secretary of Agriculture, after notice and hearings, made an order
for fixing and equalizing minimum prices to be paid producers
for milk sold to dealers ("handlers") and disposed of by the
latter either in liquid form or as milk products within a "marketing area" comprising the City of New York and adjacent counties.
*Together with No. 826, Noyes, Commissioner of Agriculture and
Markets of the State of New York, v. Rock Royal Co-operative,
Inc. et al.; No. 827, Dairymen's League Cooperative Assn., Inc. v.
Rock Royal Co-operative, Inc. et al.; and No. 828, Metropolitan Cooperative Milk Producers Bargaining Agency, Inc. v. Rock Royal
.Co-operative, Inc. et al., also on appeals from the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York.

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

Efforts to secure the consent of dealers to a marketing agreement
having failed, the order, before its promulgation, was submitted
by referendum to producers, the vote resulting, as determined by
the Secretary with the approval of the President, in acceptance of
the order by at least two-thirds of those producers who during a
representative period had been engaged in production of milk for
the marketing area. The Secretary had found that two-thirds of
the milk comes to this area from other States where it is produced, or from the State of New York through other States, and
that the other one-third, produced in New York, becomes "physically and inextricably intermingled" with this "interstate" milk;
and that all is handled either in the current of interstate commerce or so as to affect, burden and obstruct interstate commerce
in milk and its products. The Secretary had determined also that
prices calculated to give milk a purchasing power for producers
equivalent to that enjoyed in the base periods selected by §§ 2
and Se of the Act would not be reasonable, in view of prices for
feed and "other economic conditions," and resorted to the authority granted by § 8c (18), to fix prices so as to "reflect" those
factors and "insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome
milk and be in the public interest." The order provides a method
for computing "minimum prices" or values for the milk received
by "handlers" during the computation period, varying according
to the class of use to which the milk is put, the butter-fat content,
distance of transportation, etc. It then provides for fixing the
"uniform price" which producers are actually paid by the proprietary (non-codperative) "handlers," and which in substance
is determined by multiplying the amount of milk of each class
received by all "handlers" during the period, less certain deductions, by the respective "minimum price," making certain deductions, and dividing the total of the remainders by the total amount
of the milk received. For the purpose of equalization, the order
requires "handlers" to pay into a "Producer Settlement Fund"
the amount by which their purchases at the "minimum prices"
exceeds the amount of their purchased milk multiplied by the
"uniform price." When the value of a "handler's" purchased milk
at the "minimum prices" is less than if bought at the "uniform
price," the Fund pays him the difference for distribution to his
producers. By the terms of the order, codperative associations
of producers which are also "handlers" need not pay the "uniform
price," but may settle with their patrons according to their
contracts. The order by these and other means sought to bring

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

535

Syllabus.

about a fair division among producers of the fluid milk market
and utilization of the rest of the supply in other dairy staples and
thus to correct evils arising from over-production of the fluid milk,
price-cutting, etc. Cf., Nebbia v. N. Y., 291 U. S. 502. In a suit
by the Government to enforce the order against a proprietary
producer of milk and co6perative associations of producers, in
which other co6perative producers intervened on the side of the
plaintiff, the District Court adjudged the order invalid and dismissed the bill. Held:
1. Suspension of the order by the Secretary, under § 8c (16) (A)
of the Act, because of the effect of the decree on its administration and enforcement, did not render the proceedings moot, since
rights accrued under the order were preserved and reports, accountings and payments under it were sought from the defendants. P. 555.
2. Contentions that the adoption of the order was influenced by
false representations and coercive tactics practiced by certain cooperative associations, which intervened in this case, are immaterial, as there is no authority in the courts to go behind the conclusion of the Secretary to inquire into the influences which caused
the producers to favor the resolution. P. 556.
3. The provision of the Act, § 8 (12), authorizing cobperatives
to express their approval or disapproval of such orders for all
their members or patrons, is not unreasonable. P. 559.
4. If the order and Act are otherwise valid, the fact that their
effect would be to give co6peratives a monopoly of the market,
would not violate the Sherman Act or justify a refusal of an injunction enforcing the order. P. 560.
5. The objection that the Act does not authorize the provision
of the order exempting co6peratives from payment of "uniform
prices" required to be paid by proprietary "handlers" can not be
taken by defendants who are themselves co6peratives, but can be
taken by a defendant proprietary. P. 560.
6. This exemption of co6peratives is authorized by § 8c (F) of
the Act, which provides that "Nothing . . . shall . . . prevent a
co6perative . . . from . . . making distribution [of net proceeds]
. . . in accordance with the contract between the association and
its producers." P. 561.
7. The objection that, in authorizing payments to co6peratives
and certain other "handlers" from the Producer Settlement Fund,
the order is without statutory basis can not be raised by "ban-

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U.S.

diers," whether proprietary or co~perative, since "handlers" have
no financial interest in that fund. P. 561.
8.Section 8c (5) of the Act, in sanctioning exemptions of producer codperative associations from the duty imposed by the
order on other "handlers," of paying a uniform price to producers,
is not unconstitutionally discriminative. P. 562.
This results from the nature of cobperatives, the policy of Congress in their regard, their relations to their members and to
price-cutting, as compared with ordinary business corporations.
9. No unconstitutional discrimination is produced by provisions
of the order, sanctioned by the Act, which limit minimum prices
to milk sold in the marketing area or which passes through a plant
in the marketing area, thereby permitting "handlers" to purchase
other milk from the same production area at any price they may
please. P. 565.
If such "unpriced" milk be sold by the "handler" outside of the
market area designated by the order for a price greater than
can be obtained within the area, thus enabling the "handler" to
replace losses on sales within the area and still be in a position to
pay the "uniform price" for milk supplied to the area,-this is a
competitive situation which the order did not create and with
which it does not deal.
10. Special differentials on milk coming from certain counties
located most favorably to the marketing area, allowed by the
order under § 8c (5) (A) of the Act, are not shown to discriminate unduly between producers. The Secretary's determination
of their propriety, made on substantial evidence, is supported by
a strong presumption. P. 567.
11. Where milk sold by the dairy farmer locally and milk from
other States are drawn into a general plan for protecting the
interstate commerce in the commodity from the interferences,
burdens and obstructions arising from excessive surplus and the
social and sanitary evils created by low prices, the power of Congress extends also to the local sales. P. 568.
12. The federal commerce power, where it exists, is complete
and perfect. P. 569.
13. Congress has power over the prices of milk in interstate
commerce of the same nature and extent as the power retained
by the States over their internal commerce in milk. Nebbia v.
New York, 291 U. S.502. P. 569.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Syllabus.

14. The provisions of the Act and the order which require a
"handler" whose purchases at the "minimum price" exceed their
value at the "uniform price" to pay the surplus into the Producer
Settlement Fund, instead of paying it to his patrons, do not deprive him of liberty and property without due process. P. 571.
This pooling device is ancillary to the price regulation; both
are designed to foster and protect interstate commerce by smoothing out the difficulties of milk surplus and cut-throat competition
which burdened the marketing. P. 572.
As Congress would have the right to limit the quantities of
milk in interstate commerce, it may permit its movement on these
terms of pool settlement.
15. The Act declares a definite policy to restore parity prices
for farmers; directs the Secretary to issue orders to that end whenever he has reason to believe they will tend to effectuate that
policy; limits the terms of such orders specifically, while allowing
flexible auxiliary administrative discretion; confines its application
to specified farm products and the orders to such areas as are
"practicable"; and requires preliminary hearings and findings,
with right to object to the Secretary and appeal to the courts.
In these respects it sets up sufficient standards and does not delegate legislative power in violation of the Constitution. P. 574.
Even though procedural safeguards in the Act can not validate
an unconstitutional delegation, they do protect against arbitrary
abuse of properly delegated authority. P. 576.
16. Section 8c (18) of the Act, which provides that whenever
he finds upon hearing and evidence that prices giving milk and
milk products purchasing power equivalent to that of the "base
period," defined in §§ 2 and Se, are not reasonable, in view of the
price and available supplies of feeds, and other economic conditions which affect market supply and demand for milk and its
products in the marketing area, the Secretary shall fix such prices
as he finds "will reflect such factors and insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome milk and be in the public interest,"-sets up a standard sufficient to avoid improper delegation of power.
P. 576.
17. The provisions of the Act for submission of proposed orders
for approval of producers of milk, through a referendum, § 8c
(9) (B), and the provision authorizing codperatives to cast the
votes of their producer patrons, are not invalid delegation. P. 577.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

18. Sections Sc (5) (A), 8c (5) (C) and 8c (5) (F), construed
together, and with § 8c (1), show that there was no intention to
except codperatives of the agency type (distinguished from the
"sale" type) from the duty imposed on handlers generally to pay
into the Producer Settlement Fund and share the expenses of administration. The term "purchased" in § Sc (5) (A) means "acquired for marketing"; the section can not be construed as freeing
agents, codperative or proprietary, from the requirement to account at the minimum prices for milk handled. P. 578.
This conclusion accords with the legislative reports and debates
and administrative construction.
19. The provisions of the Act, § 8c (5) (F), permitting a cooperative to distribute the "net proceeds" of all its sales to its
members in accordance with its contract with them, refers to the
results of the cobperative's sales in the marketing area after
complying with the equalization requirements. P. 579.
20. A provision of the order authorizing any "handler," in
determining its net pool obligation, to subtract "the quantity of
milk received from the "handler's own farm," does not apply to
a codperative "handler" which has no farm. P. 581.
26 F. Supp. 534, reversed.
APPEALS under § 2 of the jurisdictional Act of August
24, 1937, from a decree of the District Court dismissing
two suits brought by the Government to enforce an order
of the Secretary of Agriculture, issued under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of June 3, 1937, regulating the handling of milk in an area comprising the City
of New York and neighboring counties. One of the suits
was against three incorporated "cobperatives," representing milk producers, in the handling of milk in this
area. The defendant corporation in the other suit was a
"proprietary" handler. One of the appellants is Noyes,
Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets of the City of
New York, who intervened and petitioned, among other
things, for enforcement of a regulation under the state
law, in so far as the traffic in question might be adjudged

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

to be intrastate .commerce. Inasmuch as the operations
of all of the defendants are found to be of interstate
character, the Court rules that his petition be dismissed.
The other three appeals are by the United States and by
two incorporated "co6peratives," which intervened to
combat charges made against them by the defendants,
concerning their activities in aid of the adoption and enforcement of the federal order.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. John S. L. Yost, Charles
J. McCarthy, Robert K. McConnaughey, and Mastin G.
White were on the brief of the United States in No. 771,
for appellants.
Messrs. Milo R. Kniffen and Louis S. Wallach were on
a brief for appellant in No. 826; Messrs. Seward A. Miller
and Edward Schoeneck were on a brief for appellant in
No. 827; and Messrs. Edmund F. Cooke and John E. Larson were on a brief for appellant in No. 828.
Mr. Leonard Acker for the Central New York Co-operative Assn., and Mr. Willard R. Pratt for the Rock Royal
Co-operative, Inc., et al., appellees.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed in
No. 771 by Messrs. Claude T. Reno, Attorney General of
Pennsylvania, and Harry Polikof, Deputy Attorney General, on behalf of that State, urging the validity of Order
No. 27; and by Mr. Henry S. Manley on behalf of the
New York State Guernsey Breeders Co-operative, Inc.
et al.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
These appeals involve the validity of Order No. 27 of
the Secretary of Agriculture, issued under the Agricul-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

tural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937,1 regulating the
handling of milk in the New York metropolitan area.
On October 27, 1938, the United States of America
filed a complaint against the Rock Royal Co-operative,
Inc., the Central New York Co6perative Association, Inc.,
and Schuyler Junction New York Milk Shed Co6perative,
Inc., seeking a mandatory injunction requiring the defendants and their representatives to comply with the
provisions of the Order. On November 26, 1938, a similar action was filed in the same court against the Jetter
Dairy Company, Inc. On December 2 these causes were
consolidated. The original proceedings had sought relief
not only for violations of the Order of the Secretary of
Agriculture but also, if the court should find that the
defendants or any of them were not subject to that
Order, for violation of Official Order No. 126 issued by
the Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets of the
State of New York. The two orders are in pari materia,
one covering milk moving in or directly burdening, obstructing or affecting interstate commerce and the other 2
covering milk in intrastate commerce. Each defendant
is a dealer handling milk moving in interstate commerce.
On December 15, Holton V. Noyes, as Commissioner of
Agriculture and Markets of the State of New York, was
permitLed to intervene as a party plaintiff in the consolidated action. He sought an injunction commanding the
defendants and their representatives to comply with
Order No. 126 or, should it be determined that their milk
was not subject to this Order, to comply with the Order
of the Secretary of Agriculture.
In their answers, the defendants pleaded certain affirmative defenses, setting up the invalidity of Order No. 27
because of improper efforts to secure its adoption.
of June 3, 1937, 50 Stat. 246.
authorized by N. Y. Laws 1937, c. 383. See Noyes v. Erie &

1 Act
2As

Wyoming Farmers Co-op., 170 Misc. 42; 10 N. Y. S. 2d 114.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

Broadly speaking, these defenses were based upon erroneous representations alleged to have been made by officials
and by certain private organizations to bring about the
approval of the Order and upon an alleged conspiracy
of the same private organizations to create a monopoly by
means of the Order. The motion to strike these defenses
having been overruled, the Dairymen's League Co6perative Association, hereinafter called the League, and the
Metropolitan Cobperative Milk Producers Bargaining
Agency, Inc., hereinafter called the Agency, were permitted to intervene to combat them.
The answers also challenged the two orders and the
Act as contrary to the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments
to the Constitution and the Act as involving improper delegation of legislative power. The Central New York Cooperative Association denied the power of the Congress
to enact the legislation under the Commerce Clause and
set up as a further defense that it was not subject to
either order.
After a hearing upon the merits, the District Court dismissed the complaints. The state order was eliminated
from consideration on the understanding, not questioned
here, that the milk of all four defendants is covered by
the Federal Order, if valid. It was further held that
§§ 8c (5) (B) (ii) and Sc (5) (F) of the Act violate the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, that the
Order is discriminatory and takes property without compensation, that approval of the producers was secured
by unlawful misrepresentation and coercion and that important provisions of the Order, authorizing payments to
codperative and proprietary handlers, have no basis in
the Act. United States v. Rock Royal Co-operative, 26
F. Supp. 534, 548, 550, 544, 545, 553. As the unconstitutionality of certain sections of an Act of Congress was
one ground of the decision an appeal was allowed directly
to this Court?
' § 2. Act of Aug. 24, 1937, 50 Stat. 752; 28 U. S. C. § 349a.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The Statute.' The controversy revolves almost entirely
around Order No. 27.

Back of the Order is the statute

under which it was issued, the Agricultural Marketing
Agreement Act of 1937, which reenacted and amended
certain provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act.'
'Pertinent portions of the Act are as follows:
Act, § 8c (1). "The Secretary of Agriculture shall, subject to the
provisions of this section, issue, and from time to time amend, orders
applicable to processors, associations of producers, and others engaged
in the handling of any agricultural commodity or product thereof
specified in subsection (2) of this section. .. ."
(2) "Orders issued pursuant to this section shall be applicable
only to the following agricultural commodities and the products
thereof (except products of naval stores), or to any regional, or
market classification of any such commodity or product: Milk, fruits
(including pecans and walnuts but not including apples and not
including fruits, other than olives, for canning), tobacco, vegetables
(not including vegetables, other than asparagus, for canning), soybeans and naval stores as included in the Naval Stores Act and standards established thereunder (including refined or partially refined
oleoresin)."
(3) "Whenever the Secretary of Agriculture has reason to believe
that the issuance of an order will tend to effectuate the declared
policy of this title with respect to any commodity or product thereof
specified in subsection (2) of this section, he shall give due notice of
and an opportunity for a hearing upon a proposed order."
(4) "After such notice and opportunity for hearing, the Secretary
of Agriculture shall issue an order if he finds, and sets forth in such
order, upon the evidence introduced at such hearing (in addition to
such other findings as may be specifically required by this section)
that the issuance of such order and all of the terms and conditions
thereof will tend to effectuate the declared policy of this title with
respect to such commodity."
(5) "In the case of milk and its products, orders issued pursuant
to this section shall contain one or more of the following terms and
conditions, and (except as provided in subsection (7)) no others:
"(A) Classifying milk in accordance with the form in which or
the purpose for which it is used, and fixing, or providing a method
(Footnote 4 continues on next page.)
'Act of May 12, 1933, 48 Stat. 31, as amended Aug. 24, 1935,
49 Stat. 750.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

As its name implies, it was aimed at assisting in the marketing of agricultural commodities.
By § 1 it is declared that "the disruption of the orderly
exchange of commodities in interstate commerce impairs
for fixing, minimum prices for-each such use classification which all
handlers shall pay, and the time when payments shall be made, for
milk purchased from producers or associations of producers. Such
prices shall be uniform as to all handlers, subject only to adjustments
for (1) volume, market, and production differentials customarily
applied by the handlers subject to such order, (2) the grade or
quality of the milk purchased, and (3) the locations at which delivery
of such milk, or any use classification thereof, is made to such
handlers.
"(B) Providing:
"(ii) for the payment to all producers and associations of producers delivering milk to all handlers of uniform prices for all
milk so delivered, irrespective of the uses made of such milk by
the individual handler to whom it is delivered;
subject, in either case, only to adjustments for (a) volume, market,
and production differentials customarily applied by the handlers
subject to such order, (b) the grade or quality of the milk delivered,
(c) the locations at which delivery of such milk is made, and (d) a
further adjustment, equitably to apportion the total value of the
milk purchased by any handler, or by all handlers, among producers
and associations of producers, on the basis of their marketings of
milk during a representative period of time.
"(C) In order to accomplish the purposes set forth in paragraphs
(A) and (B) of this subsection (5), providing a method for making
adjustments in payments, as among ha*ndlers (including producers
who are also handlers), to the end that the total sums paid by each
handler shall equal the value of the milk purchased by him at the
prices fixed in accordance with paragraph (A) hereof.
"(F) Nothing contained in this subsection (5) is intended or shall
be construed to prevent a cooperative marketing association qualified under the provisions of the Act of Congress of February 18,
1922, as amended, known as the 'Capper-Volstead Act', engaged in
making collective sales or marketing of milk or its products for the
producers thereof, from blending the net proceeds of all its sales in

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

the purchasing power of farmers" thus destroying the
value of agricultural assets to the detriment of the national public interest. This interference is declared to
"burden and obstruct the normal channels of interstate
commerce."
all markets in all use classifications, and making distribution thereof
to its producers in accordance with the contract between the association and its producers: Provided, That it shall not sell milk or
its products to any handler for use or consumption in any market
at prices less than the prices fixed pursuant to paragraph (A) of
this subsection (5) for such milk.
"(G) No marketing agreement or order applicable to milk and
its products in any marketing area shall prohibit or in any manner
limit, in the case of the products of milk, the marketing in that area
of any milk or product thereof produced in any production area in
the United States."
[N. B. (6) relates to products other than milk.]
(7) "In the case of the agricultural commodities and the products
thereof specified in subsection (2) orders shall contain one or more
of the following terms and conditions:
"(A) Prohibiting unfair methods of competition and unfair trade
practices in the handling thereof.
"(B) Providing that (except for milk and cream to be sold for
consumption in fluid form) such commodity or product thereof, or
any grade, size, or quality thereof shall be sold by the handlers
thereof only at prices filed by such handlers in the manner provided
insuch order.
"(C) Providing for the selection by the Secretary of Agriculture,
or a method for the selection, of an agency or agencies and defining
their powers and duties, which shall include only the powers:
"(i) To administer such order in accordance with its terms and
provisions;
"(ii) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and
provisions of such order;
"(iii) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary of Agriculture complaints of violations of such order; and
"(iv) To recommend to the Secretary of Agriculture amendments
to such order.
No person acting as a member of an agency established pursuant
to this paragraph (C) shall be deemed to be acting in an official

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.

545

Opinion of the Court.

533

By § 2 it is declared to be the policy of Congress,
through the exercise of the powers conferred upon the
Secretary of Agriculture, "to establish and maintain such
orderly marketing conditions for agricultural commodities in interstate commerce as will establish prices to
farmers at a level that will give agricultural commodities
capacity, within the meaning of section 10 (g) of this title, unless
such person receives compensation for his personal services from
funds of the United States.
"(D) Incidental to, and not inconsistent with, the terms and conditions specified in subsections (5), (6), and (7) and necessary to
effectuate the other provisions of such order."
(18) "The Secretary of Agriculture, prior to prescribing any term
in any marketing agreement or order, or amendment thereto, relating
to milk or its products, if such term is to fix minimum prices to be
paid to producers or associations of producers, or prior to modifying
the price fixed in any such term, shall ascertain, in accordance with
section 2 and section Se, the prices that will give such commodities
a purchasing power equivalent to their purchasing power during the
base period. The level of prices which it is declared to be the policy
of Congress to establish in section 2 and section 8e shall, for the
purposes of such agreement, order, or amendment, be such level
as will reflect the price of feeds, the available supplies of feeds, and
other economic conditions which affect market supply and demand,
for milk or its products in the marketing area to which the contemplated marketing agreement, order, or amendment relates. Whenever the Secretary finds, upon the basis of the evidence adduced at
the hearing required by section 8b or 8c, as the case may be, that
the prices that will give such commodities a purchasing power equivalent to their purchasing power during the base period as determined
pursuant to section 2 and section Se are not reasonable in view of
the price of feeds, the available supplies of feeds, and other economic
conditions which affect market supply and demand for milk and its
products in the marketing area to which the contemplated agreement, order, or amendment relates, he shall fix such prices as he
finds will reflect such factors, insure a sufficient quantity of pure
and wholesome milk, and be in the public interest. Thereafter, as
the Secretary finds necessary on account of changed circumstances,
he shall, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, make adjustments in such prices."
161290°-39-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

a purchasing power with respect to articles that farmers
buy, equivalent to the purchasing power of agricultural
commodities in the base period. ..."
Under § 2 of the Act, the base period for agricultural
commodities, except tobacco and potatoes, is fixed at the
pre-war period of August, 1909, to July, 1914. Where the
purchasing power during the base period cannot be satisfactorily determined from available statistics within the
Department of Agriculture, the Secretary is authorized
to take as the base period from August, 1919, to July,
1929, or a portion thereof. § 8e. In prescribing minimum prices for milk the statute authorizes the Secretary
to fix minimum prices without restriction to the purchasing power during the base period so as to reflect the prices
of available supplies of feed and other economic conditions, if he finds after a hearing that minimum prices
with a base period purchasing power are unreasonable.

§ 8c (18).
Section 8a (6) gives jurisdiction to the district courts
of the United States to enforce and to prevent and restrain any person from violating any of the orders, regulations or agreements under its provisions.
Section 8b authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to
enter into marketing agreements with the producers and
others engaged in the handling of agricultural commodities in or affecting interstate commerce. These agreements may be for all agricultural commodities and their

products, are entirely voluntary and may cover the
handling of the commodity by any person engaged in the
various operations of processing or distribution. Agreements are involved only incidentally in this proceeding.
Section 8c provides for a use of orders, instead of agreements, in certain situations. These orders apply only to
specified commodities, including milk.' They are to be
entered only when the Secretary of Agriculture has rea°§ 8c (2).

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

son to believe that the issuance of an order will tend to
effectuate the declared policy of the .Act with respect
to any commodity or product thereof, and after notice
and an opportunity for hearing. It is necessary also for
the Secretary of Agriculture to set forth in such order
a finding upon the evidence introduced at the hearing
that the issuance of the Order and the terms and con-7
ditions thereof will tend to effectuate the declared policy.
When, as here, the commodity is milk, the Act requires 8
that the Order contain one or more of terms specified in
§ 8c (5) and no others, except certain terms common to
all orders and set out in § 8c (7). These terms, as used
in the Order under examination, will be referred to later.
Orders may only be issued I after hearing upon a marketing agreement which regulates the handling of the commodity in the same manner as the order. Without special
determination of the Secretary of Agriculture and approval of the President, orders are not to become effective
unless approved by handlers as required by the Act.1"
Notwithstanding the refusal or failure of handlers to
sign a marketing agreement relating to such commodity,
the Secretary of Agriculture, with the approval of the
President, may issue an order without the adoption of
an agreement if he determines that the refusal or failure
of the handlers to sign a marketing agreement tends to
prevent the effectuation of the declared policy with respect to the commodity and that the issuance of the
order is the only practical means of advancing the interest of the producers. In such a case the order must be
approved or favored by two-thirds of the producers in
number or volume who have been engaged, during a
representative period, in the production for market of the
§ 8c (4).
§ 8c (5).
'§ 8c (10).

§ 8c (8).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

commodity within the production area or two-thirds of
those engaged in. the production of the commodity for
sale in the marketing area specified in the marketing
agreement or order. § 8c (9). Section 8c (19) authorizes a referendum to determine whether the issuance of
the order is approved by the producers. Section 8c (12)
provides that the Secretary shall consider the approval or
disapproval by any co6perative association as the approval or disapproval of the producers who are members,
stockholders or patrons of the co6perative association.
Section 8c (15) provides for administrative review by
the Secretary on petition of a handler objecting to any
provision as not in accordance with law and seeking a
modification or exemption therefrom. By (15) (B) the
district courts have jurisdiction to review such ruling.
The Problem.-In accordance with the provisions of
the Act the Secretary of Agriculture, before promulgating Order No. 27, conducted public hearings attended by
handlers, producers and consumers of milk and their
representatives throughout the milkshed. No defendant,
however, was represented. These hearings followed the
presentation by the Agency to the Secretary and to the
Commissioner of a proposed marketing agreement and
order regulating the handling of milk in the New York
marketing area with a request for action under the federal and New York statutes. The hearings were jointly
held by the federal and state governments. The coSperation of the two governments was the culmination of a
course of investigation and legislation which had continued over many years. The problem from the standpoint of New York was fully considered and the results
set out in the Report of 1933 of the Joint Legislative
Committee to Investigate the Milk Industry. This investigation was followed by the creation of the Milk Control Board with broad powers to regulate the dairy business of the state. This board had power to fix prices to

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

be paid to producers and to be charged to consumers."
A later New York act, the Rogers-Allen Act,1" authorized
the state commissioner to co6perate with the federal
authorities acting under the present Marketing Agreement Act, and to issue orders supplementary to those of
the Federal Government to be carried out under joint
administration.
The problems concerned with the maintenance and distribution of an adequate supply of milk in metropolitan
centers are well understood by producers and handlers.
In the milkshed and marketing area of metropolitan
New York these problems are peculiarly acute." It is
generally recognized that the chief cause of fluctuating
prices and supplies is the existence of a normal surplus
which is necessary to furnish an adequate amount for
peak periods of consumption. This results in an excess
of production during the troughs of demand. As milk
is highly perishable, a fertile field for the growth of
bacteria, and yet an essential item of diet, it is most
desirable to have an adequate production under close
sanitary supervision to meet the constantly varying
needs. The sale of milk in metropolitan New York is
ringed around with requirements of the health departments to assure the purity of the supply. Only farms
with equipment approved by the health .authorities of
the marketing area and operated in accordance with
their requirements are permitted to market their milk.
More than sixty thousand dairies located in the states of
New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maryland,
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Vermont hold certificates
" Certain of these powers were upheld in Nebbia v. New York,
291 U. S. 502.
"N. Y. Laws 1937, c. 383.
" Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S.
511; Hegeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 163.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

of inspection and approval from the Department of
Health of the City of New York. More than five hundred receiving plants similarly scattered have been approved for the receiving and shipping of grades A and
B milk. Since all milk produced cannot find a ready
market as fluid milk in flush periods, the surplus must
move into cream, butter, cheese, milk powder and other
more or less nonperishable products. Since these manufactures are in competition with all similar dairy products, the prices for the milk absorbed into manufacturing processes must necessarily meet the competition of
low-cost production areas far removed from the metropolitan centers. The market for fluid milk for use as a
food beverage is the most profitable to the producer.
Consequently, all producers strive for the fluid milk market. It is obvious that the marketing of fluid milk in
New York has contacts at least with the entire national
dairy industry. The approval of dairies by the Department of Health of New York City, as a condition for
the sale of their fluid milk in the metropolitan area, isolates from this general competition a well recognized
segment of the entire industry. Since these producers
are numerous enough to keep up a volume of fluid milk
for New York distribution beyond ordinary requirements,
cut-throat competition even among them would threaten
the quality and in the end the quantity of fluid milk
deemed suitable for New York consumption. Students
of the problem generally have apparently recognized a
fair division among producers of the fluid milk market
and utilization of the rest of the available supply in other
dairy staples as an appropriate method of attack for its
solution. Order No. 27 was an attempt to make effective
such an arrangement under the authority of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

Order No. 27."4 The Secretary of Agriculture found
that two-thirds of the milk produced for the New York
marketing area actually moves in interstate commerce
and that the remaining one-third produced within the
"Pertinent portions are as follows:
Order, Article VI, § 1. "Net Pool Obligation of Eandlers.-The
net pool obligation of any handler for milk received from producers
during each month shall be a sum of money computed for such month
as follows:
"1. Determine the total quantity of milk in each class at each
plant;
"2. Subtract from the quantity of milk in each class the quantity of
such milk received from other plants or from other handlers;
"3. Subtract pro rata out of each class the quantity of milk received from the handler's own farm;
"4. Subtract from the remaining quantity of milk in each class,
the quantity of each to which the prices in section 1 of Article IV
do not apply, which result shall be known as the 'net pooled milk'
in each. class.
"5. Multiply the total quantity of net pooled milk in each class,
at all plants of the handler combined, by the respective class prices
set forth in section 1 of article IV and add together the resulting
sums;
"8. Deduct 20 cents per hundredweight for all net pooled milk
received from producers at plants in the counties or portions of
counties listed below in this section. The result thus obtained shall
be known as the 'handler's net pool obligation.'"
Counties-New Jersey: Hunterdon, Somerset, Essex, Union, Morris,
Warren, Sussex, Passaic. New York: Columbia, Dutchess, Nassau,
Orange, Putnam, Suffolk, Westchester. Connecticut: Litchfield. Massachusetts: Berkshire. Towns in Ulster County, New York: Marbletown, Hurley, Kingstown, Ulster, Rosendale, Esopus, New Paltz,
Lloyd, Gardiner, Plattekill, Marlborough, Shawangunk.
"SEc. 2. Computation of the Uniform Price.-The market administrator shall on or before the 14th day of each month, audit for
mathematical correctness and obvious errors the final report submitted for the preceding month by each handler and, on the 14th
day of such month, compute from all of such corrected reports the
uniform price in the following manner:
"1. Combine into one total the net pool obligations of all handlers;

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

State of New York was "physically and inextricably intermingled" with the interstate milk; that all was handled
either in the current of interstate commerce or so as to
affect, burden and obstruct such interstate commerce in
"2. Subtract the total of payments required to be made for such
month by section 5 of article VII and the total of payments claimed
pursuant to section 6 of article VII;
"3. Add the amount of cash in the producer settlement fund;
"4. Divide the result by the total quantity of milk represented in
the sum obtained pursuant to paragraph 1 of this section; and
"5. Subtract not less than 4 cents nor more than 5 cents to provide against the contingency of errors in reports and payments or of
delinquencies in payments by handlers. This result shall be known
as the uniform price for such month for milk containing 3.5 percent
butterfat received from producers at plants in the 201-210 mile
zone."
Article VII, § 1. "Time of Payment.-On or before the 25th day
of each month each handler which is not a cooperative association
of producers shall make payment to each producer for all milk
delivered by such producer at any plant during the preceding month
at not less than the uniform price, subject to differentials set forth
in sections 2 and 3 of this article."
Article VII, § 2. "Transportation and Location Differentials.The uniform price shall be plus or minus the differential shown in
column B of the schedule contained in section 3 of article IV for the
zone of the plant as established for the purposes of section 3 of
article IV, plus 25 cents in the case of plants located in the counties
listed in paragraph 8 of section 1 of article VI."
Article VII, § 5. "Payments to Cooperative Associations.--Any
cooperative association of producers may apply to the Secretary
for a determination of its qualifications to receive payments pursuant
to this section by reason of its having and exercising full authority
in the sale of the milk of its members, using its best efforts to
supply, in times of short supply, Class I milk to the marketing
area and to secure utilization of milk, in times of long supply, in a
manner to assure the greatest possible returns to all producers, and
having its entire activities under the control of its members. . ..
Such payments shall be made to each cooperative association of
producers under the following conditions and at the following rates:
"1. One cent per hundredweight of net pooled milk at any
handler's plant which was caused to be delivered from its members

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

553

Opinion of the Court.

milk and its products. An exception was made as to milk
regulated by the order of the Commissioner of Agriculture and Markets of the State of New York. The Secretary further found that prices calculated in accordance
with the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937
by such association and on which such handler has made the reports
and payments required by this order.
"2. Except as set forth in paragraph 3 of this section, 21/2 cents
per hundredweight of net pooled milk at plants of other handlers
which was reported and collected for by such association.
"3. Five cents per hundredweight of net pooled milk at plants
operated by such association and, if, in addition to the other qualifications, such association has been determined by the Secretary
to have sufficient plant capacity to receive all the milk of producers
who are members and to be willing and able to receive milk from
producers not members, 5 cents per hundredweight of any net pooled
milk which was caused by it to be delivered to any other handler
and which is reported and collected for by such association.
"SEc. 6. Market Service Payment.-Th market administrator
shall pay out of the producer settlement fund to any handler immediately after audit of claim for such payment made on forms
supplied by the market administrator:
"1. With respect to milk received from producers at a plant
operated by such handler equipped only for the receiving and shipping of milk to the marketing area, which was, during any month
except November or December, moved to a plant where it was
utilized in Classes II-A, II-B, III-A, III-B, III-C, III-D, or, during
the month of October, IV-A, and from which, if operated by such
handler, no Class I milk was shipped to the marketing area during
such month, 23 cents per hundredweight of milk so moved, plus 4
cents per hundredweight for the first five miles or fraction thereof,
plus 1/4 cent per hundredweight per mile for the next 20 miles,
and plus To of 1 cent per hundredweight per additional mile, of the
shortest highway distance between the two plants; and
"2. Thirty cents per hundredweight of Class I milk sold during
the months of November and December in the marketing area
which was received from producers at a plant which is equipped
for condensing or drying milk and from which, during the months
of May and June preceding, in terms of equivalent of milk received
at such plant, no milk in excess of 10 percent and no cream in
excess of 50 percent was shipped to the marketing area."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

to give this milk a purchasing power equivalent to the
parties mentioned in § § 2 and 8e of that Act were not
reasonable in view of the supplies and prices of feeds and
other economic conditions which affect the supply and
demand for milk. He then fixed a minimum price for
milk to be determined from time to time by formula.
By the Order the marketing area is defined as the City
of New York and the counties of Nassau, Suffolk and
Westchester. A producer is any person producing milk
delivered to a handler at a plant approved by a health
authority for the receiving of milk for sale in the marketing area. A handler is a person engaged in the handling
of milk or cream received at an approved plant for similar sale. "Handler" includes coiperative associations.
The administrative sections of the Order setting up a milk
administrator and defining his duties are not attacked.
Nor are those which classify milk.
Article IV is important since it establishes minimum
prices for milk. There are various differentials based
upon use, butter fat content, and distances between the
points of production and consumption which it is unnecessary to analyze. For the purposes of this opinion it is
sufficient to say, as an example, that the minimum price
each handler slhould pay for milk is fixed by a formula
which varies with the butter-price range for 92-score
butter at wholesale in the New York market during the
60 days preceding the 25th day of the preceding month.
The handlers are required to file reports as to their receipts and utilization of milk of the various classes. It
should be understood, however, that this minimum price
is not the amount which the producer receives but the
price level or so-called "value" from which is calculated
the actual amount in dollars and cents which he is to
receive.
By Article VI a uniform price is computed and it is
this uniform price which the producer is actually paid by

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

.

Opinion of the Court.

the proprietary (nonco6perative) handlers. The uniform price is determined by a computation which in
substance multiplies the amount of milk (classified according to its use) received by all handlers, less certain
quantities of milk permitted to be deducted, by the minimum prices fixed by Article IV for the different classes
of milk. From the result various payments and reservations are deducted and the remainder is divided by the
total quantity of milk received. To equalize, handlers
pay into the producer settlement fund. While much
over-simplified the operation will be made clear by summarizing the provisions of Article VII to require that
handlers shall pay to the producer settlement fund the
amount by which their purchased milk multiplied by the
minimum prices for the various classes is greater than
their purchased milk multiplied by the uniform price.
When the handlers' purchased milk multiplied by the
minimum price is less than when it is multiplied by the
uniform price, the producer settlement fund pays them
the difference for distribution to their producers. These
provisions give uniform prices to all producers, with exceptions to be herein stated, in accordance with the general use of milk for the preceding period.
Other provisions of the Order upon which an attack is
made will be pointed out in the discussion of the particular objections.
Suspension of Order.-It developed at the argument
of the causes in this Court that the Secretary of Agriculture on March 18, 1939,15 had suspended Order No. 27
on account of the effect of the decree below on its admin(A). Since
istration and enforcement. § Sc (16)
this suspension is authorized by the statute and the
Order preserves accrued rights, we are of the opinion
this step does not make these proceedings moot. Reports
" 4 Fed. Reg. 1259.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

of their receipts and classified sales of milk, accounting
of their pool obligations in the determination of the uniform price and settlement with their producers on the
basis of the Order, as well as the payment of money, are
sought from the defendants. The controversy over the
validity of the Order and the power to enforce its provisions remains.
Adoption of the Order.-Before considering the validity
of the Marketing Act and the provisions of the Order
under attack, we shall examine the contention of the defendants that the Order was adopted under circumstances which require a court of equity to refuse to enforce it. After dealers had refused or failed to sign the
proposed marketing agreement, the Secretary conducted
a referendum under § 8c (19) to ascertain whether the
issuance of Order No. 27 was approved by two-thirds of
the producers, as required by § 8c (9). Vigorous campaigns were waged by both proponents and opponents of
the Order. Among the proponents were the League and
the Agency. After the vote, the Secretary on August 24,
1938, with the approval of the President, determined that
the issuance of the Order was favored by at least twothirds of the producers, and declared it effective as of
September 1, 1938.1"
The defendants base their appeal to the conscience of
the chancellor upon matters connected with the referendum which they claim amount to fraud in its adoption.
The alleged fraud is said to consist of widespread public
misrepresentations to the effect that all producers would
receive the same price for their milk and a conspiracy
between the League and others to convert the state and
national acts into instruments for the creation of a
monopoly in large handlers in the sale of fluid milk in the
marketing area.
" 3 Fed. Reg. 2100.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

The findings supporting the charges of misrepresentation and conspiracy may be summarized as determining
that the intervening plaintiffs, the League and the
Agency, participated actively in proposing, adopting and
inducing both producers and handlers to accept the Order.
In greater detail, the findings show that the League was
instrumental in the organization of the Agency; that it
has representatives upon the Agency's Board of Directors; that the Agency has acted as an organization for
promoting action under both federal and state acts; that
both League and Agency published papers which gave
vigorous support to the campaign for approval of the
Order. At the time of the hearings the Agency issued
an explanatory booklet stating that an equal purchasing
price would be paid by all dealers for milk of the same
use and that each producer would share equally the benefits of the fluid milk market. Both Agency and League
announced repeatedly that handlers would be required to
pay a uniform price and that no handler would receive
a competitive advantage over the others. The Agency
expended over $63,000 between December 1, 1937, and
June 1, 1938, and over $45,000 between the latter date
and September 1, 1938, the date the order went into
effect, as it actively supported the federal-state order
program. Voting on the Order took place August 18, 19
and 20. Of 38,627 votes counted as valid in the referendum, 33,663 or 87.1 percent were in favor of the issuance
of the Order, and 4,964 or 12.9 percent were opposed. Of
the favorable votes, the League cast 22,287.
Supporting evidence beyond the co6rdinated activities
of the Agency, the League and other co6peratives for the
charge of conspiracy to monopolize by securing the adoption of the Order was found by the District Court in the
provisions of the Order. Competitive advantages to cooperatives in the Order were thought by it to indicate an
imprQper influence by them in its drafting. These will

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

be discussed later from the point of view of their legality
under permissible classification. The court found that
the conspiracy to obtain a monopoly was carried out by
coercive tactics on the part of producers, under the leadership of the League and the Agency. These tactics consisted of threats to handlers that if they did not comply
with the Order, the producers would withhold delivery
of milk. These schemes, the lower court determined, were
so successful in securing the drafting, adoption and acceptance of the Order that a conspiracy to monopolize
interstate commerce contrary to the Sherman Act was
established. It held that the occurrence of the incidents
just detailed compelled refusal of the injunction. We do
not agree.
While considering the manner of the adoption of the
Order, the validity of the Act and the provisions of the
Order must be assumed. The Order was submitted to
the producers for approval after the hearings specified
in the statute. The full text of the Order with explanatory pamphlets was mailed each prospective voter. In
the face of this fact, erroneous statements cannot be permitted to render the submission futile. There is no evidence that any producer misunderstood. A casual sentence in one of the pamphlets of the Department of
Agriculture and a number of other statements in publications of the League and Agency were to the effect that
dealers would pay all producers the uniform price for
milk. Such assertions need the qualifications given in the
Order that they are not applicable to milk sold outside
the marketing area or to milk handled by co6peratives.
The variation from the facts is not immaterial in view
of the value or volume of milk involved. But the Order,
Article VII, plainly stated that co6peratives were not
covered by the payment requirements and it appeared,
also, that milk sold outside the marketing area was not

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

within its terms. A study of the official form of the Order
would have cleared up any misconception created by the
language. The Secretary of Agriculture declared that
three-fourths of the producers affected by the Order approved its terms. The litigants do not deny that threefourths of the voters voted for the institution of the
Order. There is no authority in the courts to go behind
this conclusion of the Secretary to inquire into the influences which caused the producers to favor the
resolution.
The coercion by the League and the Agency, exercised
upon the handlers after the adoption of the Order to force
or induce them to acquiesce in its operation, is of the
same indirect character as the alleged misrepresentation.
It is the partisan coercion of the producer seeking to
compel dealer support of the plan by the threat of the
use of his economic power over his own milk. The coercion was ineffective upon these defendants. Producers'
organizations urged in their papers and meetings diversion of milk from handlers to influence them to agree to
the Order. Such efforts could not have had an effect on
the prior vote of the producers. It is quite true that the
League which itself cast two-thirds of the favorable votes
was in a position to cast more than one-third of the total
qualified vote against the Order. This arises from the
provision of the Act, authorizing co6peratives to express
the approval or disapproval for all of their members or
patrons. 7 This is not an unreasonable provision, as the
codperative is the marketing agency of those for whom it
votes. If the power is in the Congress to put the order
in effect, the manner of the demonstration of further
approval is likewise under its control. These associations
of producers of milk have a vital interest in the establishment of an efficient marketing system. This ade" § 8c (12).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

quately explains their interest in securing the adoption
of an order believed by them to be favorable for this
purpose. If ulterior motives of corporate aggrandizement
stimulated their activities, their efforts were not thereby
rendered unlawful.1 8 If the Act and Order are otherwise
valid, the fact that their effect would be to give co6peratives a monopoly of the market would not violate the
Sherman Act or justify the refusal of the injunction.
Correlationof Order and Act. There is another phase
of the argument against the Order which is not affected
by the validity of the Act or its application in the Order
and therefore is ready for disposition before the constitutional questions need be reached. Defendants contend
there is no statutory basis for the sections of the Order
exempting co6peratives from the payment of the uniform
price " and authorizing payments to them and certain
handlers from the producer settlement fund.2 9
The Government makes the point that none of the
defendants, all handlers, can object to these terms of the
Order because only producers delivering milk to coperatives are affected by the exemption of cobperative
handlers from the requirement to pay at not less than
the uniform price and only producers are affected by the
use of the pooled money for § § 5 and 6 payments to
co6perative and other handlers. Although three of the
defendants cannot complain of the benefits conferred upon
codperatives, for they are co6peratives, the defendant
Jetter Dairy Company has standing to raise the issue of
want of statutory authority to except co.6perative handlers
from the payment of the uniform price. It is a proprietary corporation, a handler of milk, required by the Order
" Cf. Isbrandtsen-Moller Co. v. United States, 300 U. S. 139, 145;
California Water Service Co. v. Redding, 304 U. S. 252, 254,
"Article VII, § 1.
20 Article VII, §§ 5 and 6,

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

to pay uniform prices for the milk it purchases. 21 This
requirement to pay uniform prices arises from the provisions of Article IV that it shall pay minimum prices.
The two are the same except for the deduction of certain
service payments. The. co6peratives are excepted from
the payment. The burden of payment is laid directly
upon Jetter while others are excepted. None of the defendants, on the other hand, is in a position to raise the
issue of lack of statutory authority for the payments
authorized by Article VII, §§ 5 and 6. Whether co~perative or not, the defendant corporations have no financial interest in the producer settlement fund. All defendants pay into, or draw out of, that fund in accordance with their utilization of the milk delivered to them
by their patrons. The defendants' profit or loss depends
upon the spread each receives between the class price and
sale price. If the deductions from the fund are small or
nothing, the patron receives a higher uniform price but
the handler is not affected.2"
We now consider whether the Act authorizes the exception of the co6peratives from the uniform payment provisions of Article VII, § 1. This authority, if it exists,
is in § 8e (5) (F) of the Act. The earlier paragraphs
provide for minimum prices to be paid by handlers to
producers and associations of producers, subject to usual
quality and location differentials not important here.
These would require minimum prices to be paid by cobperatives when, as here, they were handlers under the
definition of the Order, 3 were it not for the exception of
21Article

VII, § 1.

Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, 18; Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 42; Oliver Iron Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172,

181; Gorieb v. Fox, 274 U. S. 603, 606; cf. Carmichael v. Southern
Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 513; Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301
U. S. 548, 598.
22 Article I, § 1, subsec. 6.
161299°-9-

36

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

these same co6peratives under subsection (F): "Nothing . . . shall . . . prevent a cobperative . . . from . . .
making distribution thereof [net proceeds] . . . in accordance with the contract between the association and
its producers." This language specifically permits, indeed
requires, the Order to except co6peratives from the requirement of paying minimum prices to producers. As
the minimum price is paid to the producer through the
payment of the uniform price, after equalization in the
pool, there is authority in the Act to except the co6perative from the payment of the uniform price.
I. Terms of the Order.
Certain provisions of the Order were found by the District Court to show unconstitutional discrimination
against one or more of the defendants. The discriminations of which complaint is made arise from the application to the New York problem of § 8c (5) of the Act
relating to milk.
A. Uniform Price.-The Jetter Dairy Company, a proprietary handler, urges that as milk co6peratives need not
pay producers a uniform price, it is unreasonably discriminatory and violative of the due process clause of the
Fifth Amendment to require it to pay this uniform price.
In § 8c (5) (F) there is a definition of the type of co6perative permitted to settle with its members in accordance
with the membership contract. The general characteristics of co6peratives are well understood. The CapperVolstead Act defines such cobperatives as associations of
producers, corporate or otherwise, with or without capital
stock, marketing their product for the mutual benefit of
the members as producers with equal voting privileges,
restricted dividends on capital employed and dealings
limited to 50 percent non-member products.2 4 Different
'42 Stat. 388.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

treatment has been accorded marketing co6peratives by
state and federal legislation alike."6 Indeed the Secretary
is charged by this Act to "accord such recognition and
encouragement to producer-owned and producer-controlled co6perative associations as will be in harmony
with the policy toward cobperative associations set forth
in existing Acts of Congress, and as will tend to promote
efficient methods of marketing and distribution." 2" These
agricultural co6peratives are the means by which farmers
and stockmen enter into the processing and distribution
of their crops and livestock. The distinctions between
such co6peratives and business organizations have repeatedly been held to justify different treatment. 7 Frost
United States-The Clayton Act, § 6, 38 Stat. 731; RobinsonPatman Act, § 4, 49 Stat. 1528; Capper-Volstead Act, 42 Stat. 388;
War Finance Corporation Act, 40 Stat. 506, as amended 42 Stat. 181,
182; The Grain Futures Act, 42 Stat. 1000; The Agricultural Marketing Act, 46 Stat. 91.
States--See Hanna, The Law of Co6perative Marketing Associations (1931), c. 3.
" 6Agricultural Adjustment Act, § 10 (b), 48 Stat. 37, as amended
by § 16 (b) (1) of the Act of August 24, 1935, 49 Stait. 767, as
adopted by § 1 (h) of the Act of June 3, 1937, 50 Stat. 246.
7
Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 173; Brushaberv. Union
Pacific Railroad Co., 240 U. S. 1, 21; Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1, 40; Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Burley Tobacco
Growers Cooperative Assn., 276 U. S. 71, 89. The Government furnishes us with a collection of state cases approving the special advantages given co-operatives: Tobacco Growers Coop. Assn. v. Jones,
185 N. C. 265; 117 S. E. 174; Kansas Wheat Growers v. Schulte, 113
Kan. 672; 216 P. 311; Brown v. Staple Cotton Growers Co-op. Assn.,
132 Miss. 859; 96 So. 849; Northern Wisconsin Co-op. T. P. v.
Bekkedal, 182 Wis. 571; 197 N. W. 936; Dark Tobacco Gr. Co-op.
Assn. v. Dunn, 150 Tenn. 614; 266 S. W. 308; Minnesota Wheat
Growers v. Huggins, 162 Minn. 471; 203 N. W. 420; List v. Burley
Tobacco Growers Co-op. Assn., 114 Ohio St. 361; 151 N. E. 471;
Dark Tobacco Growers Co-op. Assn. v. Robertson, 84 Ind. App. 51;
150 N. E. 106; Potter v. Dark Tobacco Growers Co-op., 201 Ky.
441; 257 S. W. 33; Harrell v. Cane Growers Co-op., 160 Ga. 30; 126

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

v. Corporation Commission 8 in fact recognized the validity of such classification. The Commission was enjoined from issuing a license for the operation of a cobperative cotton gin, under a proviso directing it to do so on
petition of 100 citizens and taxpayers without the showing of public necessity required for other ginners. The
applicant was organized for profit, though dividends were
limited, and its membership was not confined to producers. The court thought the distinctions had no reasonable relation to the subject of the legislation, special
opportunities for co6peratives. It was said the Court
had "no reason to doubt" that the classification was valid
as applied to true co6peratives."9
The producer co6perative seeks to return to its members the largest possible portion of the dollar necessarily
spent by the consumer for the product with deductions
only for modest distribution costs, without profit to the
membership co6perative and with limited profit to the
stock co6perative. It is organized by producers for their
mutual benefit."
For that reason, it may be assumed
that it will seek to distribute the largest amounts to its
patrons.
S. E. 531; Nebraska Wheat Growers v. Norquest, 113 Neb. 731;
204 N. W. 798; Warren v. Alabama Farm B. Cotton Assn., 213 Ala.
61; 104 So. 264; Manchester Dairy System v. Hayward, 82 N. H.
193; 132 At. 12, 19; Clear Lake Co-operative Live Stock Assn. v.
Weir, 200 Iowa 1293; 206 N. W. 297; Hollingsworth v. Texas Hay
Assn., 246 S. W. 1068; Washington Cranberry Assn. v. Moore, 117
Wash. 430; 201 P. 773; Poultry Producers v. Barlow, 189 Cal. 278;
208 P. 93; Oregon. Growers Co-op. Assn. v. Lentz, 107 Ore. 561;
212 P. 811; South Carolina Cotton Growers v. English, 135 S. C. 19;
133 S. E. 542; Milk Producers Co. v. Bell, 234 Il. App. 222 and
Barns v. Dairymen's Co-operative Assn., Inc., 220 App. Div. (N. Y.)
624; .222 N. Y. S. 294.
28278 U. S. 515.
Id., 523.
Cf. N. Y. Coiperative Corporations Law.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

The commodity handled by a co~perative corresponds
for some purposes to the capital of a business corporation. Either may cut sale prices below cost, one as long
as its members will deliver, the other as long as its assets
permit. When proprietary corporations lower sales prices,
they naturally seek to lower purchase prices. Their profit
depends on spread. On the other hand, the cobperative
cannot pass the reduction. All the selling price less expense is available for distribution to its patrons. As its
own members bear the burden of price cutting, it was
reasonable to exempt it from the payment of the fixed
price. The co6perative member measures his return by
the market or uniform price the business handler pays.
In commodities with the wide market of staple dairy
products, quotations are readily available. If distributions do not equal open prices, the cobperators' reactions
would parallel those of stockholders of losing businesses.
Neither the Act nor the order protects anyone from lawful competition, nor is it essential that they should do
so." We do not find an unreasonable discrimination in
excepting producers' co6peratives from the requirement
to pay a uniform price.
B. Unpriced Milk. Another discrimination is said to
reside in that part of the Order which limits minimum
prices to milk "sold in the marketing area or which passes
through a plant in the marketing area." Other milk,
though from the same production area, is "unpriced milk"
and does not figure in the computation of the uniform
price. Where both priced and unpriced milk are dealt
in by a handler, he must furnish a statement to the producer showing the percentage of his milk paid for at the
uniform price. 2 The defendants handle only milk which
is sold in the marketing area. They assert that an un" Railroad Co. v. Ellerman, 105 U. S. 166; Alabama Power Co. v.
Ickes, 302 U. S. 464, 480.
Order, Article VII, § 1.

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

reasonable discrimination results in favor of handlers, such
as the League, which market milk both in and outside the
marketing area.
The basis of the complaint is that large dealers and
co6perative handlers with extensive gathering and distributing facilities are permitted to purchase milk
throughout the milk shed at any price they please, if the
milk does not pass through a plant in the marketing
,area, and sell it at any price they please, provided the sale
is outside the limited New York marketing area. By
reason of the fact that milk sells for more in New Jersey
than in New York, a greater profit is made by the handler.
If he so desires, the handler can use this profit to replace
losses on New York area sales and still be in a position
to pay the uniform price to producers on pool milk. This
is said to create a discrimination against the defendants.
It is possible for the handlers with unpriced milk to
use their profits from the profitable extra area trade in
the way suggested. It was equally possible for them to
do so before the Order. It is a competitive situation
which the Order did not create and with which it does not
deal. We are of the view that there is no discrimination
by reason of this situation.
The District Court found that handlers of unpriced
milk "are permitted to blend prices paid or purported
to have been paid for such milk sold in other markets,
with the uniform price ,announced by the Administrator
for milk sold in the area, thereby reducing the actual
price paid by such handlers, for milk sold in the Metropolitan Area, in competition with milk sold by the defendants." "If the price figured by the handler for
unpriced milk, is lower than its actual market value, the
handler, by blending, is thereby permitted to pay producers for all milk at less than the Order price, and less
than the actual value thereof." It is erroneous to suppose
that by buying some milk at less than the minimum, the

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

"actual price" paid for milk sold in the marketing area
is reduced. The price paid for all milk sold by proprietary handlers in that area is the uniform price. Unpriced
milk from the same producer may be bought for less.
The average paid the producer may be below the minimum but for the part sold in the marketing area or passing through plants there located the minimum is paid.
This is all that justifies the language of the finding that
"the handler, by blending, is thereby permitted to pay
producers for all milk at less than the Order price. ..."
C. Nearby Differentials. Provision is made by the
Order for special differentials of 20 cents on milk from
certain counties located most favorably to the marketing
area.8" This is to enable handlers to pay the producers
at these plants. 4 The five cent difference is absorbed
by the handlers. The Act authorizes such an arrangement. § 8c (5) (A). This was found discriminatory
as between producers by the District Court but there was "
no finding or conclusion of law as to any discrimination
against defendants. The District Court was of the
opinion this was unfair to these defendants who have no
patrons in these counties. Here the defendants urge
further advantages from this arrangement to their competitors who have patrons in these counties because near
locations, freight differentials considered, have lower
transportation costs. The differential increases milk
prices to the producers. This payment tends to stimulate
production. Larger production means more benefit from
the freight advantage to competitors. The discrimination
seems fanciful and remote. It would not justify a court
in overturning the Secretary's determination of the propriety of the differentials on evidence found by the lower
court to be substantial. Such an administrative determination carries a presumption of the existence of a state
Article VI, § 1.
"Order, Article VII, § 2.
'Order,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

of facts justifying the action far too strong to be overturned by such suggestions as are made here."
II. Constitutionality of the Act.
A. Minimum, Prices. The Act authorizes and the
Order undertakes the fixing of minimum prices for the
purchase of milk "in the current of interstate or foreign
commerce, or which directly burdens, obstructs, or affects,
interstate or foreign commerce" in milk." There is no
challenge to the fact that the milk of all four defendants
reaches the marketing area through the channels of interstate commerce. Nor is any question raised as to the
power of the Congress to regulate the distribution in the
area of the wholly intrastate milk. It is recognized that
the federal authority covers the sales of this milk, as its
marketing is inextricably intermingled with and directly
affects the marketing in the area of the milk which moves
across state lines. 7
The challenge is to the regulation "of the price to be
paid upon the sale by a dairy farmer who delivers his
milk to some countr plant." It is urged that the sale,
a local transaction, is fully completed before any interstate commerce begins and that the attempt to fix the
price or other elements of that incident violates the Tenth
Amendment. But where commodities are bought for use
beyond state lines, the sale is a part of interstate com"Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 209;
Pacific States Co. v. White, 296 U. S. 176, 185.
"§ sc (1).
"Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v.
Olsen, 262 U. S. 1; Houston & Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234
U. S. 342, 351-2; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399; Labor
Board Cases, 301 U. S. 1; Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; Mulford v.
Smith, ante, p. 38; National Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt,
306 U. S. 601.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

merce3 8 We have likewise held that where sales for
interstate transportation were commingled with intrastate transactions, the existence of the local activity did
not interfere with the federal power to regulate inspection
of the whole.8" Activities conducted within state lines
do not by this fact alone escape the sweep of the Commerce Clause. Interstate commerce may be dependent
upon them."' Power to establish quotas for interstate
marketing gives power to name quotas for that which is
to be left within the state of production."' Where local
and foreign milk alike are drawn into a general plan for
protecting the interstate commerce in the commodity
from the interferences, burdens and obstructions, arising
from excessive surplus and the social and sanitary evils
of low values, the power of the Congress extends also to
the local sales.
This power over commerce when it exists is complete
and perfect." It has been exercised to fix a wage scale for
a limited period,48 railroad tariffs " and fees and charges
for live-stock exchanges.4"
The authority of the Federal Government over interstate commerce does not differ in extent or character
from that retained by the states over intrastate comDahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 290,
291; Lemke v. Farmers' Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, 54; cf. Foster-Fountain Packing Co. v. Haydel, 278 U. S. 1, 10.
" Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1.
" Consolidated Edison Co. v. National Labor Relations Board, 305
U. S. 197, 220.
" Mulford v. Smith, supra, note 37.
' Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 398.
"Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 346.
"434 Stat. 589, 49 U. S. C. § 15 (1).
Tagg Bros. & Moorhead v. United States, 280 U. S. 420; Stafford
v. Wallace, 258 U. S. 495.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

merce. Since Munn v. Illinois, this Court has had occasion repeatedly to give consideration to the action of
states in regulating prices." Recently, upon a reexamination of the grounds of state power over prices, that
power was phrased by this Court to mean that "upon
proper occasion and by appropriate measures the state
may regulate a business in any of its aspects, including
the prices to be charged for the products or commodities
it sells." "
The power of a state to fix the price of milk has been
adjudicated by this Court. 8 The people of great cities
depend largely upon an adequate supply of pure fresh
milk. So essential is it for health that the consumer has
been willing to forego unrestricted competition from low
cost territory to be assured of the producer's compliance
with sanitary requirements, as enforced by the municipal
health authorities. It belongs to that category of commodities that for many years has been subjected to the
regulatory power of the state. A thorough exposition of
the milk situation in the New York shed was made in the
Nebbia case. There is nothing to add to, what was there
said, save to point out that since that decision, we have
held that a state cannot prohibit the sale of imported milk
where the extra-state purchase price was below the prescribed minimum 4 and that a Pennsylvania regulatory
"'Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143 U. S.
517; Brass v. North Dakota, 153 U. S. 391; German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389; O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford
Insurance Co., 282 U. S. 251; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502;
West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, 300 U. S. 379; Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441.
Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U. S. 522; Tyson &
Bro. v. Banton, 273 U. S. 418; Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota,
274 U. S. 1; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U. S. 350; Williams v. Standard
Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235.
" Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502, 537.
4
8Id.
" Baldwin v. Seelig, 294 U. S. 511.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

law, including minimum prices, applied in the absence of
federal legislation to milk purchased in Pennsylvania for
shipment into the New York marketing area? ° In Hegeman Farms Corp. v. Baldwin,5 this Court sustained again
the New York Milk Control Statute against the complaint that the price limits were arbitrary. A variation
in prices to be charged the consumer between dealers
who had and dealers who had not well advertised trade
names was upheld. 2 The power enjoyed by the states to
regulate the prices for handling and selling commodities
within their internal commerce " rests with the Congress
in the commerce between the states.
B. Equalization Pool.-In order to equalize the prices
received by producers, handlers are required to clear their
purchases through the producer settlement fund. Payments into and withdrawals from this fund depend upon
the "value" of the milk received which is fixed by the
Order at different prices governed by the use made by
the handler of the purchased milk and upon whether his
obligations to producers are greater or less than the uniform price due the producers under the scheme. The
result of the use of the device of an equalization pool is
that each producer, dealing with a proprietary handler,
gets a uniform or weighted average price for his milk,
with differentials for quality, location or other usual
market variations, irrespective of the manner of its use.
The Act, § 8c (5) (B) (ii) and (C) and the Order, Articles IV, VI and VII, authorize such an adjustment.
The defendants' objection to the equalization pool,
here considered, is not to the disbursements from the
fund for expenses of standby or marketing services
" Milk Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products,306 U. S. 346.
" 293 U. S. 163.
" Borden's Co. v. Ten Eyck, 297 U. S. 251.
" Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S. 502; Townsend v. Yeomans,
301 U. S. 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

authorized by Article VII, § § 5 and 6, concerning which
we hold the handler has no standing to complain. It is
to the alleged deprivation of liberty and property accomplished by the pooling requirement in taking away from
the defendants their right to acquire milk from their
patrons at the minimum class price, according to its use,
and forcing the handlers to pay their surplus, over the
uniform price, to the equalization pool instead of to their
patrons. This argument assumes the validity of price
regulation, as such, but denies the constitutionality of
the pooling arrangement because handlers are not at
liberty to pay the producer in accordance with the use of
the producer's milk but must distribute the surplus to
others whose milk was resold less advantageously. It is
urged that to carry this principle of contribution to its
logical conclusion would mean that the wages of the employed should be shared with the unemployed; the highly
paid, with the underpaid; and the receipts of the able,
the fortunate and the diligent, with the incompetent, the
unlucky and the drone.
No such exaggerated equalization of wealth and opportunity is proposed. The pool is only a device reasonably adapted to allow regulation of the interstate market
upon terms which minimize the results of the restrictions.
It is ancillary to the price regulation designed, as is the
price provision, to foster, protect and encourage interstate commerce by smoothing out the difficulties of the
surplus and cut-throat competition which burdened this
marketing. In Mulford v. Smith,5" we made it clear that
volume of commodity movement might be controlled or
discouraged. As the Congress would have, clearly, the
right to permit only limited amounts of milk to move in
interstate commerce, we are of the opinion it might permit the movement on terms of pool settlement here
provided.
'

Supra, note 37.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

Common funds for equalizing risks are not unknown
and have not been considered violative of due process.
The pooling principle was upheld in workmen's compensation, bank deposit insurance, "' and distribution of
benefits in the Transportation Act. 7
The defendants rely particularly upon Thompson v.
Consolidated Gas Utilities Corp.,"8 and Railroad Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co. 9 In the Thompson case,
the Texas Railroad Commission ordered proration of gas
production in the Panhandle. It was assumed that proration to prevent waste and protect -correlative rights in
a pool was valid but it was held that the proration order
in issue was for none of these purposes. It was for the
"sole purpose . . . to compel those [with market outlets] . . .to purchase gas from potential producers" who
have no market. This was not deemed to be reasonably
related to the conservation of gas or the protection of
correlative rights. In the Retirement Board case, the
pooling principle was involved but was found to be invalid because the burdens on the roads were not equalized with the benefits. Entry on service was made at
different age levels for different roads. Employees
seventy or older were required to retire. Some roads
had none. Solvent and insolvent roads were liable alike.
All carriers were treated as a single employer. It was
these provisions, deemed unequal, which led to the conclusion that the manner of pooling of funds denied due
process. In this case, the pooling has differentials to
cover the variations of quality and location.
"Mountain Timber Co: v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; New York
Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188.
"Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104; Abie State Bank v.
Bryan, 282 U. S. 765.
"New England Divisionis Case, 261 U. S. 184; Dayton Goose Creek
Ry. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456.
300 U. S. 55, 77, 78.
"295 U. S. 330, 355 et seq.

574

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

C. Delegation.-There are three issues of delegation
presented: (1) the delegation of authority to the Secretary of Agriculture to establish marketing areas; (2) the
delegation of authority to producers to approve a marketing order without an agreement of handlers; and (3) the
delegation of authority to co6peratives to cast the votes
of producer patrons.
From the earliest days the Congress has been compelled to leave to the administrative officers of the government authority to determine facts which were to put
legislation into effect and the details of regulations which
would implement the more general enactments. It is well
settled, therefore, that it is no argument against the
constitutionality of an act to say that it delegates broad
powers to executives to determine the details of any legislative scheme. This necessary authority has never been
denied." In dealing with legislation involving questions
of economic adjustment, each enactment must be considered to determine whether it states the purpose which
the Congress seeks to accomplish and the standards by
which that purpose is to be worked out with sufficient
exactness to enable those affected to understand these
limits. Within these tests the Congress needs specify
only so far as is reasonably practicable."' The present
Act, we believe, satisfies these tests.
1. Delegation to the Secretary of Agriculture.-The
purpose of the Act is "to establish and maintain such
orderly marketing conditions for agricultural commodities in interstate commerce as will establish prices to
®PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293 U. S. 388, 421; Schechter
Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. 495, 529; Currin v. Wallace, 306

U.S. 1.
' Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, 496; United States v.
Chemical Foundation, 272 U. S. 1, 12; Monongahela Bridge Co. v.
United States, 216 U. S. 177, 193; United States v. Grimaud, 220
U. S. 506, 516; Avent v. United States, 266 U. S.127, 130.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

575

Opinion of the Court.

farmers at a level that will give agricultural commodities a purchasing power with respect to articles that
farmers buy, equivalent to the purchasing power of agricultural commodities in the base period." To accomplish this, the Secretary of Agriculture is directed to issue
orders, whenever he has reason to believe the issuance of
an order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the
act. Unlike the language of the National Industrial Recovery Act condemned in the Schechter case, page 538,
the tests here to determine the purpose and the powers
dependent upon that conclusion are defined. In the Recovery Act the Declaration of Policy was couched in most
general terms.6" In this Act it is to restore parity prices,
§ 2. Under the Recovery Act, general welfare might be
sought through codes of any industry, formulated to
express standards of fair competition for the businesses
covered.

Here the terms of orders are limited to the spe-

cific provisions, minutely set out in § 8c (5)

and (7).

While considerable flexibility is provided by § Sc (7) (D),
"Section 1. A national emergency productive of widespread unemployment and disorganization of industry, which burdens interstate and foreign commerce, affects the public welfare, and undermines the standards of living of the American people, is hereby declared to exist. It is hereby declared to be the policy of Congress to
remove obstructions to the free flow of interstate and foreign commerce which tend to diminish the amount thereof; and to provide for
the general welfare by promoting the organization of industry for the
purpose of cooperative action among trade groups, to induce and
maintain united action of labor and management under adequate
governmental sanctions and supervision, to eliminate unfair competitive practices, to promote the fullest possible utilization of the present productive capacity of industries, to avoid undue restriction of
production (except as may be temporarily required), to increase the
consumption of industrial and agricultural products by increasing
purchasing power, to reduce and relieve unemployment, to improve
standards of labor, and otherwise to rehabilitate industry and to
conserve natural resources." 48 Stat. 195.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

it gives opportunity only to include provisions auxiliary
to those definitely specified.
The Secretary is not permitted freedom of choice as to
the commodities which he may attempt to aid by an
order. The Act, § 8c (2), limits him to milk, fresh fruits
except apples, tobacco, fresh vegetables, soybeans and
naval stores. The Act authorizes a marketing agreement
and order to be issued for such production or marketing
regions or areas as are practicable. A city milkshed seems
homogeneous. This standard of practicality is a limit on
the power to issue orders. It determines when an order
may be promulgated.
It is further to be observed that the Order could not
be and was not issued until after the hearing and findings
as required by § 8c (4). Public hearings were held at
Albany, Malone, Syracuse, Elmira, and New York from
May 16 to June 7, 1938, with four days' recess. Nearly
three thousand pages of testimony were introduced,
eighty-eight documentary exhibits and some twenty briefs
by interested parties were filed. On July 23, 1938, the
Secretary, in the Federal Register, notified the public of
his findings and the terms of the Order and again invited
comment. Numerous parties again filed briefs. A right
by statute is given handlers to object to the Secretary to
any provision of an order as not "in acordance with law,"
with the privilege of appeal to the courts. § 8c (15) (A)
and (B). Even though procedural safeguards cannot
validate an unconstitutional delegation, they do furnish
protection against an arbitrary use of properly delegated
authority."
A further provision of the Act is to be noted as it was
employed as a standard to determine the minimum price.
This is § Sc (18). Acting under this section, the Secretary fixed a fluctuating minimum price based upon wholesale butter prices in New York. While it is true that the
"Cf. Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295 U. S. at 533.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
Opinion of the Court.

533

determination of price under this section has a less definite standard than the parity tests of §§ 2 and 8e, we
cannot say that it is beyond the power of the Congress
to leave this determination to a designated administrator, with the standards named. The Secretary must have
first determined the prices in accordance with § 2 and
§ 8e, that is, the prices that will give the commodity a
purchasing power equivalent to that of the base period,
considering the price and supply of feed and other pertinent economic conditions affecting the milk market in
the area. If he finds the price so determined unreasonable, it is to be fixed at a level which will reflect such
factors, provide adequate quantities of wholesome milk
and be in the public interest. This price cannot be
determined by mathematical formula but the standards
give ample indications of the various factors to be considered by the Secretary.
2. Delegation to Producers.-Under § 8c (9) (B) of
the Act it is provided that any order shall become effective notwithstanding the failure of 50 percent of the
handlers to approve a similar agreement, if the Secretary
of Agriculture with the approval of the President determines, among other things, that the issuance of the order
is approved by two-thirds of the producers interested or
by interested producers of two-thirds of the volume produced for the market of the specified production area.
By subsection 19 it is provided that fori the purpose of
ascertaining whether the issuance of such order is approved "the Secretary may conduct a referendum among
producers." The objection is made that this is an unlawful delegation to producers of the legislative power to
put an order into effect in a market. In considering this
question, we must assume .that the Congress had the
power to put this Order into effect without the approval
of anyone. Whether producer approval by election is
161299o-39-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

necessary or not, a question we reserve, a requirement of
such approval would not be an invalid delegation."
3. Authorization of Co6peratives to Cast the Votes of
Producer Patrons.-This objection, too, falls before the
answering argument that inasmuch as Congress could
place the Order in effect without any vote, it is permissible for it to provide for approval or disapproval in such
way or manner as it may choose.
Co6peratives in the EqualizationFund.-The defendant, Central New York Cobperative Association, denies
liability under Articles VI, VII and VIII of the Order
on the ground that it is not liable to pay its net pool obligation into the administrative fund or to meet the expenses of administration. The asserted reason for its
freedom from liability is that it is a co6perative composed of milk producers and distributes the milk of its
members and others as agent.
The co6perative owns no farms. Its members are dairy
farmers. By their contract they agree "to deliver . . .
all

. . .

milk produced

. . .

which said milk is to be

marketed and distributed by the [co6perative]..
The latter "agrees to pay . . for the milk.

a

price . . . based upon the amount received . . . less the

expenses . .. " Nonmembers' milk is marketed under
the same contract. The co6perative leases receiving and
distributing facilities from a business corporation. The
milk is received by the co6perative at receiving plants
and shipped to the city depot. It distributes through
other business corporations which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the co6perative. These distributing subsidiaries use the leased physical facilities under verbal
contracts with the co6perative. The co6perative receives
the net amount from the sales and distributes to its patrons under license from the Director of the Division of
4 Currin v.

Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, 15.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

Opinion of the Court.

Milk Control of New York permitting the marketing in
the manner described.
Section 8c (5) (A) authorizes an order to classify milk
and fix minimum prices which all handlers shall pay for
milk purchased from producers. Section 8c (5) (C) authorizes the equalization pool and the handlers' payment
to this settlement fund. It is urged that coiperatives
which merely act as agents for their members are not included in handlers purchasing from producers. This is
said to be definitely shown by the provisions of § 8c (5)
(F) providing that nothing contained in the subsection
shall be construed to prevent a Capper-Volstead coperative from making distribution to its "producers in accordance with the contract." The Order defines a handler
as including a co6perative association "with respect to
any milk received from producers at any plant operated
by such association or with respect to any milk which it
causes to be delivered" to other handlers. Under the
provisions of the Order, Article VII, § § 8 and 9, co6pera,tive handlers as other handlers equalize their purchases
by payment into the producer settlement fund, even
though they are not required to pay the uniform price to
their producers by reason of the exception of Article VII,
§ 1, and the provisions of § 8c (5) (F), as explained at
page 561.
Co6perative contracts are of two general types, sale and
agency. 5 The Central New York Codperative operates
under the agency type.
It is obvious that the use of the word "purchased" in
the Act, § 8c (5) (A) and (C), would not exclude the
"sale" type of co6perative. When § Sc (5) (F) was
drawn, however, it was made to apply to both the "sale"
and "agency" type without distinction. This would indicate there had been no intention to distinguish between
the two types by (A) and (C). The section which auHanna, Law of Co6perative Marketing Associations, pp. 210, 256.

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

thorizes all orders, § 8c (1), makes no distinction. The
orders are to be applicable to "processors, associations of
producers, and others engaged in the handling" of commodities. The reports on the bill show no effort to differentiate." Neither do the debates in Congress. The
statutory provisions for equalization of the burdens of
surplus would be rendered nugatory by the exception of
"agency" co6peratives. The administrative construction
has been to include such organizations as handlers. 7
With this we agree. As here used the word "purchased"
means "acquired for marketing." Subsection (A) cannot be construed as freeing agents, co~perative or proprietary, from the requirement to account at the
minimum prices for milk handled.
As a corollary the contention is made also by Central
Co~perative that no cobperative may be required to pay
its surplus receipts over uniform prices into the equalization fund. This, too, is based upon a construction of
§ 8c (5 ) (F) as permitting a coperative to make settlement with its members in accordance with the terms
of its own contract with them. If the co~perative members were freed of the burden of carrying their proportion of milk going to manufacturing use, the discrimination in their favor would be most strongly marked. Such
a construction is not required. Co6peratives are covered
by § 8c (1) and (5) (A) and (B), and by the provisions
of the Order, except as to the payment of the uniform
price. Any payments below the uniform price fall on
their members. We are of the view that the administrative construction is correct and that the "net proceeds" of (F) refer to the result of the co~perative sales
in the marketing area after complying with the equalization requirements.
" House Report No. 1241, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; Senate Report No.
1011, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
" Costanzo v. Tillinghast, 287 U. S. 341, 345; United States v.
Chicago North Shore R. Co., 288 U. S. 1, 13-14.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
Opinion of the Court.

533

The defendant, Central New York Co6perative Association, raises for itself a final point. In determining the
net pool obligation of any handler for milk received from
producers, 8 the handler is authorized to subtract pro rata
out of each class from the milk involved in the pool "the
quantity of milk received from the handler's own farm."
We have determined that this co6perative, though marketing milk under an agency contract with its members,
is a handler subject to the Act and Order. The co6perative argues that as its members, farmers, would not need
to account to the pool for their personal sales to consumers, the codperative, being utilized as an agent to
market the farmers' milk, is under no obligation to contribute to equalization. As the co6perative does not have
its own farm but is itself a handler under the Act, it
must pay into the producer settlement fund.
Inasmuch as all the defendants in these appeals are
handling milk in interstate commerce, the petition for
the enforcement of Official Order No. 126, issued under
c. 383 of the Laws of 1937 of the State of New York,
concerning milk not covered by Order No. 27 of the Secretary of Agriculture, should be dismissed.
The order of the District Court in Nos. 771, 827 and
828 is reversed and the causes are remanded to that Court
with instructions to enter an order specifically enforcing
up to the time of suspension the provisions of Order No.
27, issued by the Secretary of Agriculture August 15, 1938,
regulating the handling of milk in the New York marketing area, as to all the defendants and enjoining defendants, their officers, agents and servants, from further violation of the Order.
The order of the District Court in dismissing the petition of Holton V. Noyes, as Commissioner of Agriculture
and Markets of the State of New York, is affirmed.
'Article

VI, § 1.

[Over.]

582

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
McREYNOLDS and BUTLER,

JJ., dissenting.

307 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur
in the judgment and opinion of the Court except insofar
as the opinion appears to imply that power of Congress to
enact the marketing law depends upon the use and nature
of milk. They do not believe that we are called upon in
this case to indicate, as they think we do, that there is
such a constitutional limitation on the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.
We are of opinion that the decree below should be
affirmed.
In our view the challenged order of the Secretary must
succumb to two manifest objections. It is unnecessary
for us to dissect the record in search of other impediments.
First. Congress possesses the powers delegated by the
Constitution-no others. The opinion of this Court in
Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States (1935), 295
U. S. 495-noteworthy because of modernity and reaffirmation of ancient doctrine-sufficiently demonstrates
the absence of Congressional authority to manage private
business affairs under the transparent guise of regulating
interstate commerce. True, production and distribution
of milk are most important enterprises, not easy of wise
execution; but so is breeding the cows, authors of the
commodity; also, sowing and reaping the fodder which
inspires them.
Second. If perchance Congress possesses power to manage the milk business within the various states, authority
so to do cannot be committed to another. A cursory
examination of the statute shows clearly enough the design to allow a secretary to prescribe according to his own
errant will and then to execute. This is not government
by law but by caprice. Whimseys may displace deliber-

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

ate action by chosen representatives and become rules of
conduct. To us the outcome seems wholly incompatible
with the system under which we are supposed to live.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,

dissenting.

In Nos. 772, 809 and 865* I have expressed my views as
to the unconstitutionality of the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 here involved,
in view of their attempted delegation of legislative
powers. That matter is not pressed in the present cases
and I need not here advert to the subject. I am of
opinion, nevertheless, that Order No. 27 is not, in the
respects to be discussed, authorized by the Act, but if it is
authorized, deprives the appellees of their property without due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment.
This conclusion is based upon findings of fact of the
District Court. While the findings in question are the
subject of assignments of error, the appellants failed,
either in brief or in oral argument, to point out that they
lack substantial support in the evidence. Examination
of the record discloses that these findings axe based on
uncontradicted testimony, authentic documentary evidence, and a stipulation of the parties. They should,
therefore, be accepted here. They may briefly be recapitulated.
Under the terms of the Act and the order, all of the
appellees are handlers and the Dairymen's League Cooperative Association, the appellant in No. 827, is likewise
a handler. By Art. VII, § 1, of the order, on or before
the 25th day of each month, each handler which is not a
cobperative association of producers is required to pay to
each producer the uniform price fixed by the order for all
milk delivered by the producer during the preceding
month which was sold in the marketing area. The cobperative associations which are handlers are not required
*H. P. Hood & Sons, Inc. v. United States, post, 588, 603.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

to make payment for similar milk at the uniform price
or at any stated price. Art. VII, § 8, requires all handlers,
on or before the 18th day of each month, to pay to the
market administrator for the Producer Settlement Fund
"the amount by which his net pool obligation for the
preceding month is greater than the amount obtained by
multiplying the net pooled milk of such handler by the
uniform price." Thus each handler is required to pay into
the fund for all milk used in the marketing area the difference between $2.45 per cwt. and the uniform price for all
Class I milk. Handlers selling milk received from producers in the production area, but marketed outside the
marketing area, (denominated "unpriced milk") are not
required to pay a uniform price for such milk or to pay
into the fund the difference between the uniform price
and the actual market value of such milk, or any fixed
amount in respect thereof. They are permitted to blend
prices paid or purported to have been paid for unpriced
milk with the uniform price announced by the Administrator for milk sold in the marketing area, thereby reducing the actual price paid by them for milk sold in the
marketing area in competition with other handlers who
sell milk only in that area. In a pamphlet issued by the
Secretary, the provisions of the order are so construed and
the method of accounting is described as follows:
"Thus, the handler may multiply the total pounds of
milk sold by it in the area by the uniform price; multiply
the total pounds of milk sold in other markets and which
is called 'unpriced milk' by 'such prices as it sees fit;' add
the totals, and divide by the total pounds of milk, to
obtain the average of 'blended' price paid producers for
all milk. If the price figured by the handler for unpriced
milk, is lower than its actual market value, the handler,
by blending, is thereby permitted to pay producers for all
milk at less than the Order price, and less than the actual
value thereof."

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

RoBERs, J., dissenting.

The appellees' receiving stations in the production area
supply the marketing area defined by the order. The
appellee, Jetter Dairy Company, sells milk in competition
with dealers operating milk receiving stations in the production area in New York, who ship milk received at their
stations to the marketing area. Other appellees buy milk
which is sold to independent dealers in competition with
milk received at the other stations in the producing area.
Several of the appellees' largest competitors, including the
Dairymen's League Co6perative, sell large proportions
of their milk outside the marketing area in northern New
Jersey. The Milk Control Board of New Jersey fixed a
base price of $2.76 per cwt. to producers for 3.5 milk
f. o. b. country milk plants, which price was in effect
during the period covered by the order. The same Board
fixed wholesale prices from dealers to stores at eleven
cents per quart, bottled in glass, in two rural districts,
and twelve cents per quart, in glass, in three heavily
populated districts, and fixed a minimum price to consumers out of stores in the two rural districts of twelve
cents per quart and, in the more heavily populated districts, of thirteen cents per quart. No resale prices are
fixed in the marketing area either from dealers to stores
or from stores to consumers. The fair market value of
"unpriced" Class I milk produced in the production area,
and sold by handlers in New Jersey, during the period the
order was in force, was $2.76 per cwt.
Whereas the uniform price for 3.5 milk fixed by the
Administrator was, for September, $1.87, October, $1.91,
and November, $2.10 per cwt., the Dairymen's League
paid its producers a base price for the same milk, in the
same zone, for September, $1.75, for October, $1.81, and,
for November, $2.01 per cwt. Thus the difference between the value of Class I milk sold by the Dairymen's
League in New Jersey, and the prices paid for the same
to producers per cwt. was, in September, $1.01, in Oc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

tober, $.95, and, in November, $.75. $1.01 per cwt. on
10,208,500 pounds of milk sold in New Jersey by the
Dairymen's League amounts to $103,105.85.
Sheffield Farms Company, a competitor of the appellees, utilized, in September, 1938, 40,083,075 pounds of
Class I milk in New York State and 6,426,443 pounds of
milk in New Jersey, as well as milk in other markets. For
out of market or unpriced milk the company negotiated
with its producers to pay the uniform order price for such
out of market milk. The base price paid was, therefore,
$1.87, or eighty-nine cents per cwt. less than the price

fixed by the New Jersey Control Board. The difference
amounted to $57,194.96, or 14.27 cents per cwt. on such
milk and the price paid for Class I milk was reduced by
that amount. Similar spreads are shown in the company's
purchases for October, 1938.

Based upon these facts, the court further finds that
prices paid to producers delivering to handlers, whether
cobperative or proprietary, which sell fluid milk in the
marketing area, and also in the State of New Jersey and
other markets, are less than the actual value of the milk
delivered, due to the process of blending prices for milk
sold outside of the marketing area, which bear no true
relation to the actual value thereof, with prices charged
for milk sold in the area.
It is evident from the terms of the order, and the Secretary's construction of it, that handlers who use "unpriced" milk may fix any price they choose to fix for it.
Thus, contrary to the requirement of § 8c (5) (A), of
the statute, all producers do not receive a uniform price
for milk. This is a necessary effect of the provision permitting the blending of the price paid producers for milk
sold in the marketing area and an arbitrary price fixed
for "unpriced" milk. The effect upon a handler whose
trade is solely in the marketing area is disastrous. The
lower price paid by those who are permitted to blend
makes it possible for them to resell the milk in the mar-

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
533

ROBERTS, J.,

dissenting.

keting area, in which no resale price is fixed, at a cut rate
which is destructive of their competitors' business. And
there is evidence that handlers, co6perative and proprietary, have taken advantage of the terms of the order to
cut the price of milk to consumers in the marketing area
to the disadvantage of their competitors.
The appellants make no answer to the appellees' attack
on this feature of the order. The opinion of this court
states that the detriment to the smaller handlers who sell
milk for use only in the marketing area is the result of
competitive conditions which the order does not affect.
But it is evident that the order freezes the minimum
price which is to be paid by many handlers and leaves the
price of other handlers who compete with them open to
reduction by the device of blending.
There is nothing in the Act which authorizes the discrimination worked by the order permitting handlers,
whether proprietary or co6perative, to blend the prices
of unpriced milk with that of milk, sold in the marketing
area. Section 8c (5) (F), as I read it, prohibits such a
practice by co5peratives. If the order had provided that
milk sold in New Jersey should be accounted for to the
pool at its actual value and had the milk so sold been
accounted into the pool, competitors could not have obtained the advantage which so seriously injures the business of appellees. As the order is drawn and administered
it inevitably tends to destroy the business of smaller
handlers by placing them at the mercy of their larger
competitors. I think no such arrangement was contemplated by the Act, but that, if it was, it operates to deny
the appellees due process of law.
I think that the decree should be affirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE joins in this opinion so far as it
relates to the invalidity of the order on the ground
stated; MR. JUSTICE McREYNoLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER also join in this opinion.

