OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

AMERICAN TOLL BRIDGE CO. v. RAILROAD

COMMISSION OF CALIFORNIA

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 704.

Argued April 21, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

1. Provisions of the California Political Code requiring county supervisors when granting a toll bridge franchise to fix tolls which must
not raise annually an income exceeding 15 per cent. of a specified
base, and providing that tolls shall not be increased or diminished
unless it be shown that the receipts from them in any one year
are "disproportionate" to the base, can not be construed to mean
that tolls shall not be reduced unless they yield in excess of the
15 per cent. P. 488.
2. A toll bridge company was notified that an investigation of
the operation of its bridge would extend to the tolls. It was
accorded and accepted opportunity to introduce evidence, and submitted its case for decision without request for findings or argument. The state commission, in reducing tolls, filed a decision
sufficiently indicating the facts on which it made the order. In its
petitions for rehearing and for judicial review the company,
though setting forth other objections specifically, did not claim
that procedural due process had been denied by the commission.
Held, that there is no basis for asserting the claim in this Court.
Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1, is not in point. P. 492.
3. A company owning two bridges objected to regulation of the
tolls on one without including the other, claiming that they were
parts of the same system but competing, and that reduction of
tolls on the one would force reduction on the other. Held:
(1) That determination of the proper unit was in the first instance for the rate-fixing commission. P. 494.
(2) As the other bridge is not used or useful in rendering any
of the service covered by the tolls under investigation, and the
duty to operate the one is independent of the duty to operate the
other, the claim that the commission in confining its regulation to
the one bridge abused its discretion and denied procedural due
process, is without foundation. P. 494.
4. Where an order reducing bridge tolls extended only to automobiles and passengers, leaving intact the tolls for other classes of
traffic, a claim that the reduction was confiscatory was not established by proof that the revenues as a whole from all of the traffic

AMERICAN BRIDGE CO. v. COMM'N.
486

487

Opinion of the Court.

were inadequate; there must be allocation or apportionment, to
the traffic covered by the reduced tolls, of operating expenses, cost
of depreciation, taxes, sinking fund contributions, property values,
etc., fairly attributable to the service covered by the order. P. 494.
12 Cal. 2d 184; 83 P. 2d 1, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Supreme Court of California upholding an order of the State Railroad Commission which reduced in part the tolls charged for use of one
of the appellant's bridges.
Mr. Max Thelen for appellant.
Mr. Ira H. Rowell for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This appeal is from a judgment of the highest court
of the State upholding an order of the state railroad commission that reduces tolls for use of appellant's bridge
across the Carquinez Straits between the counties of
Contra Costa and Solano. Appellant contends that the
order violates Art. I. § 10, of the Constitution; that the
commission's procedure was repugnant to the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and that the order,
in violation of that clause, prescribes rates that are
confiscatory.
February 5, 1923, the board of supervisors of Contra
Costa County, exerting power conferred by state legislation,1 passed ordinance No. 171 granting to the RodeoVallejo Ferry Company a franchise to construct and for
25 years to operate the Carquinez bridge. June 4, 1923,
the same board granted to the Delta Bridge Corporation
a like franchise for the construction and operation of a
bridge across the San Joaquin River near Antioch, between the counties of Contra Costa and Sacramento.
'Political Code, §§ 2843, 2845, 2846, and 2872 (as amended May 8,
1923, Cal. Stats. 1923, p. 272).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Each ordinance provides that, on the expiration of the
franchise, the property rights, including title to the bridge,
revert to the adjacent counties. Appellant became the
owner of both franchises. The Antioch bridge was opened
in January, 1926, and the Carquinez in May, 1927.
When the Carquinez bridge opened, the board of supervisors fixed tolls at 60 cents for automobiles and at 10
cents for each person in a vehicle or on foot.' That scale
was in operation when the commission made the order
in question which reduced these charges to 45 and 5 cents,
respectively. Jurisdiction over toll bridges having been
conferred upon it by a statute of 1937,' the commission in
August of that year on its own motion commenced an
investigation of all toll bridges. But, in October following,
it commenced a separate proceeding solely to investigate
reasonableness of Carquinez tolls. February 8, 1938, it
announced its opinion and promulgated the order in
question. Appellant obtained judicial review; the court
upheld the order. 12 Cal. 2d 184.
The statutory provisions authorizing the county board
to grant the franchises, ordinance No. 171, and the
grantees' acceptance constitute a contract between the
parties. Contra Costa Co. v. American Toll Bridge Co.,
(1937) 10 Cal. 2d 359; 74 P. 2d 749. As to that, there
is no controversy. But appellant contends that under
the franchise it has a contract right that the bridge tolls
shall not be reduced by the public authorities unless it
shall first appear that they are yielding a rate in excess
of 15 per cent upon the rate base specified by §§ 2845
and 2846, Political Code.
These sections provide:
§ 2845. "The board of supervisors granting authority
to construct a toll-bridge . . . must at the same
time: . . .
'The franchise ordinance fixed these tolls at 75 cents and 15 cents.
'Act of August 27, 1937, Cal. Stats. 1937, p. 2473.

AMERICAN BRIDGE CO. v. COMM'N.
486

489

Opinion of the Court.

"2. Fix the amount of license tax to be paid by the
person or corporation for taking tolls thereon, not less
than three dollars nor over one hundred dollars per
month, payable annually.
"3. Fix the rate of tolls which may be collected for
crossing the bridge . . . which must not raise annually
an income exceeding fifteen per cent on the actual cost
of the construction or erection and maintenance of the
bridge . . . for the first year, nor on the fair cash value
together with the repairs and maintenance thereof for

any succeeding year;

.

.

.

"4

§ 2846. "The license tax and rate of toll fixed as provided in the preceding section must not be increased or
diminished during the term of twenty years, at any time,
unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the board of supervisors that the receipts from tolls in any one year is
disproportionate to the cost of construction or erection, or
the fair cash value thereof, together with the cost of all
necessary repairs and maintenance of the bridge ...
The license tax fixed by the board of supervisors must not
exceed ten per cent of the tolls annually collected."
The state court held that § 2846 contemplates increases
as well as reductions, limited by the 15 per cent maximum,
at any time the disproportion is shown to exist. It construed the language of that section to be inconsistent
with the intent to contract that appellant shall have a
15 per cent return, if yielded by the tolls specified in the
franchise. The opinion explains that: "Rather is it to be
assumed that the legislature intended, not only to afford
an adequate and proportionate return to the grantee, but
'By Act of May 9, 1923, par. 3 was amended to read as follows:
"Fix the rate of tolls which may be collected for crossing the bridge
. ..which may raise annually an income not exceeding fifteen per
cent on the actual cost of the construction or erection of the bridge
. ..and such additional income as will provide for the annual cost
of operation, maintenance, amortization and taxes of the bridge.. .
Cal. Stats. 1923, p. 288.

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

that it also intended some measure Of protection to the
public's right to be charged not more than a reasonable
toll for the use of the bridge. . . . In 1872, when section
2846 was enacted by the legislature, sufficient scope was
allowed between both interests, public and private, to
permit adequate elasticity in the exercise of. the legislative rate-making function in the light of prevailing economic conditions. Such a statute does not savor of a
contract obligation to the grantee. Its object was to
delegate to and vest in the designated body the power to
regulate tolls as circumscribed by the stated limitation."
12 Cal. 2d 195; 83 P. 2d 6.
Upon the issue whether the order is repugnant to the
contract clause, "No State shall . . . pass any . . . Law
impairing the Obligation of Contracts," this Court, while
inclining to the state court's construction, will decide for
itself whether, as claimed by appellant, the franchise by
contract limits exertion of sovereign powers to regulate
tolls. Georgia Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432, 438.
New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. New York, 303 U. S.
573, 593. And, if it plainly appears that it does, this
Court will not hesitate so to adjudge. Detroit United
Ry. v. Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, 251-253. Cleveland v.
Cleveland City Ry. Co., 194 U. S.517, 524, 536. Detroit
v. Detroit Citizens Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S.368, 382, 389.
St. Cloud Public Service Co. v. St. Cloud, 265 U. S.352.
Compare Georgiav. Chattanooga,264 U. S.472, 480.
Upon an elaborate review of the California legislation
relating to bridge tolls, appellant says that in the first
period, 1850 to 1857, bridge franchises allowed owners
to take only such tolls as the courts of sessions and, later,
the county boards should fix annually; that in the second
period, 1857 to 1864, tolls were limited to those fixed by
county boards annually, subject to change by the legislature; that in the third period, 1862 to 1872, general
statutes and special acts authorized such rates as the

AMERICAN BRIDGE CO. v. COMM'N.
486

491

Opinion of the Court.

county boards should annually prescribe, declaring, however, that they should not be so low as to make income
less than a specified percentage of a defined base. On
that foundation, it maintains that there was an evolution
of policy to grant to builders and operators of bridges
contract rights as to tolls. In that light it examines the
language of §§ 2845 and 2846 and concludes that the
proper construction of the franchise in question is that
unless the yield becomes in excess of 15 per cent the
license tax must not be increased and the rate of toll
must not be diminished.
We assume, without detailed examination, that the
legislation so portrayed indicates that in the period next
preceding 1872, when the provisions of § 2846 were enacted, the State had adopted the policy of safeguarding
operators of toll bridges against rate reduction by county
boards below specified levels. But that fact may not be
employed to arrive at a construction not indicated by
the language used. So far as concerns the point under
consideration, the meaning of the statutory provision is
plain. Section 2845 requires the county board, when
granting the franchise, to fix the license tax within specified limits and a rate of toll, which must not raise annually an income exceeding 15 per cent of base. Section
2846 declares that the license tax and the rate of toll so
fixed must not be diminished unless receipts are disproportionate to base. Thus plainly the commands are that
at first the tolls must be fixed, but not to produce income
above the 15 per cent specified, and that the tolls so fixed
shall not be diminished unless yield is disproportionate to
the defined base. Neither in text nor in reason is the
"fifteen per cent" prescribed as maximum yield tied to,
or made the test by which to ascertain whether receipts
from tolls are, "disproportionate." We construe these
statutory provisions to negative appellant's claim that by
the franchise in question the State bargained away power
to reduce tolls for use of the Carquinez bridge unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

annual return becomes more than 15 per cent. See e. g.
Paducahv. PaducahRy. Co., 261 U. S.267, 275; Banton
v. Belt Line Ry. Corp., 268 U. S.413, 417-419; Railroad
Commission v. Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145, 152,
155. The order is not repugnant to the contract clause.
Appellant claims that, in violation of the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the commission
denied it a full and fair hearing and failed adequately to
find the facts. The commission initiated the proceeding,
entitled "In the matter of the investigation upon the
commission's own motion, into the rates, charges, contracts, classifications, rules and regulations of American
Toll Bridge Company covering its operation of the toll
bridge over the Carquinez Straits between the counties of
Contra Costa and Solano"; gave appellant notice that the
investigation would extend to tolls for use of that bridge;
accorded it opportunity to introduce evidence and present
its contentions; and received the evidence offered by it,
233 pages of the printed record and numerous exhibits.
Appellant submitted the case for decision without making
any request for findings and without argument, oral or
written. The commission, without formal findings, filed
its decision which, sufficiently to meet requirements of
due process, indicates the facts on which it made the
order.
Then appellant filed petition for rehearing. That document, including eight captions and 12 sub-captions and an
exhibit, occupies 39 printed pages of the record.' It
5I. Introduction.
II. Exclusion of Antioch Bridge.
1. The Facts.
2. Inevitable Effect of Decision on Tolls of Carquinez
Bridge, Antioch Bridge and Martinez-Benicio Ferry.
3. The Decision is Contrary to the Commission's Own Traditions and Policy.
4. The Commission's Action Deprives American Toll
Bridge Company of Its Property Without Due

AMERICAN BRIDGE CO. v. COMM'N.
486

493

Opinion of the Court.

specifically sets forth the grounds on which appellant
claimed the decision to be unlawful. These include the
commission's determination of the various classes of facts
usually considered in cases in which prescribed rates are
challenged as confiscatory. The petition contains no hint
of claim that the commission denied appellant procedural
due process. Nor was that specified in the petition for
judicial review. Morgan v. United States, 304 U. S. 1,
on which appellant relies, was decided after filing of that
petition and before argument in the California court.
That court rightly held it not in point.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.
VII.
VIII.

Process of Law in Violation of Guarantees of the
Federal and the State Constitutions.
Failure to Give Fair Return on Fair Value of Carquinez Bridge.
1. Calculations of Commission in Computing Its Rate.
2. Errors in Commission's Computations.
(1) Rate Base.
(2) Money Available for Return on Rate Base
(under 500 toll).
3. Return Under Rate Fixed by Commission.
4. In View of the Cost of Money to American Toll Bridge
Company, a Return of Only 6.6% or 6.9% on the
Fair Value of the Carquinez Bridge Would be Confiscatory.
5. Summary as to Fair Return, Carquinez Bridge.
Failure to Give Fair Return on Fair Value of Carquinez and
Antioch Bridges.
1. Rate Base.
2. Return Under Rate Fixed by Commission.
3. Effect of Commission's Decision Would be to Confiscate
Property of American Toll Bridge Company in Both
Carquinez and Antioch Bridges.
Under Commission's Tolls American Toll Bridge Company
Would be Unable to Meet Its Requirements to Its Bondholders and Stockholders.
Impairment of Contract Obligations.
False Analogy With Publicly Owned and Operated San Francisco Bay Bridges.
Violation of Constitutional and Statutory Rights.

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Appellant also claims that the commission denied it
procedural due process by excluding the Antioch bridge
rates from the proceeding. It moved to include with this
proceeding an investigation of the Antioch bridge tolls.
In support of the motion, it suggested that the bridges
are part of a single system but compete with each other;
that operations of the Antioch are less satisfactory financially than those of the Carquinez; and that reduction of
Carquinez tolls would force reduction of Antioch tolls.
In the first instance, at least, determination of the
proper unit for rate making was for the commission. The
Antioch bridge is not used or useful to render any service
covered by the Carquinez tolls; appellant's duty to operate either bridge is independent of its obligation to operate the other. The record discloses no basis on which it
reasonably may be held that by limiting the investigation
to the Carquinez tolls the commission abused its discretion, and clearly there is no foundation for the claim that
in excluding the Antioch the commission denied appellant
procedural due process. See Gilchrist v. Interborough
Co., 279 U. S. 159, 206, 209. Wabash Valley Electric Co.
v. Young, 287 U. S. 488, 495-8. Florida Power & Light
Co. v. Miami, 98 F. 2d 180. International Ry. Co. v.
Prendergast, 1 F. Supp. 623. Cf. Coney v. Broad River
Power Co., 171 S. C. 377; 172 S. E. 437.
There is no foundation for the claim that the commission's procedure violated the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
There remains for consideration the contention that the
prescribed rates are confiscatory. The burden is on appellant to show that enforcement of the order will compel
it to furnish the service covered by the reduced rates
for less than a reasonable rate of return on the value of
the property used, at the time it is being used, for that
service. And, in the absence of clear and convincing proof
that the reduced tolls are too low to yield that return, it

AMERICAN BRIDGE CO. v. COMM'N.
486

495

Opinion of the Court.

may not be adjudged that the State by enforcement of
the measure complained of will deprive appellant of its
property without due process of law. Chicago & G. T.
Ry. Co. v. Wellman, 143 U. S. 339, 344-345. San Diego
Land & Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 441, 446.
Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 8, 16.
The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 433, 452.
Brush Electric Co. v. Galveston, 262 U. S. 443, 446.
Aetna Insurance Co. v. Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, 448.
The terms of the order must first be given attention.
It directs appellant to change the items of its schedule of
charges, reading as follows: "Passengers (7 years of age
and older) on foot or in vehicles . . . $.10. Auto only
. . . .60" so as to read: "Passengers (7 years of age and
older) on foot or in vehicles . . . .05. Auto only . . .
.45." Thus, the order extends only to automobiles and
passengers. The Carquinez franchise specifies, until
otherwise ordered by the commission, tolls applicable to
other classes of traffic crossing the bridge, namely,
bicycles, carts and wagons, commercial or delivery automobiles and motor trucks, ditchers, harvesters, etc., cattle
and stock, motor stages to which commutation rates are
applied when operated as specified, freight, hearses,
horses, motorcycles, and trailers.
Appellant fails to establish, by allocation or apportionment to the traffic covered by the tolls so reduced, the
operating expenses, cost of depreciation, taxes, and contributions to the sinking fund for amortization of investment that are fairly attributable to the service covered
by the order; it also fails to establish the amount of
property value that is justly assignable to that traffic.
Obviously, the return to be yielded by the reduced tolls
cannot be found without comparison of the revenues to
be derived from the service with the amounts of operating expenses and other charges rightly to be made
against them. Inadequacy of revenues from all traffic

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

does not tend to show that the rates on automobiles and
persons prescribed by the commission's order are too low.
The Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 452-453. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 372, 378,
381. It follows that appellant is not entitled to a decree
that the order is confiscatory.
More need not be written to dispose of the issues presented in this case. But in view of appellant's earnest
contentions, it is not inappropriate to say that the record,
considered in the light of its argument, fails to show that
the rate reduction will so lessen revenues from the Carquinez bridge that there will remain less than sufficient,
under the due process clause, to constitute just compensation for its use-a reasonable rate of return on the value
of the bridge property.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur in the result.

HAGUE, MAYOR, ET AL. V. COMMITTEE FOR
INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 651.

Argued February 27, 28, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

In a suit to enjoin municipal officers from enforcing ordinances forbidding the distribution of printed matter, and the holding without permits of public meetings,, in streets and other public places,
Held:
1. The case is within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Pp. 512-513, 525.
2. The ordinances and their enforcement violate the rights under
the Constitution of the individual plaintiffs, citizens of the United
States; but a complaining corporation can not claim such rights.
P. 514.
3. The ordinances are void. Pp. 516, 518.

