BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
Syllabus.

66

terms, should not benefit by the suspension, in the event
the law is later held constitutional. Otherwise, a judicially granted period of immunity will reward litigants
who unsuccessfully assail the constitutionality of legislation. Seemingly, the time has arrived when despite
our constitutional system of government no state law
can become effective until a federal court hears evidence
on its constitutionality. The courts-responsible for this
fundamental change--should at least protect citizens of
an enacting State from disobedience to a state law permitted by an erroneous or improvident interlocutory injunction.
The interlocutory injunction, should be vacated.

BUCK ET AL. V. GALLAGHER, STATE TREASURER,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 329.

Argued January 10, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. In a suit to restrain the enforcement of a statute prohibiting or
regulating a business, the matter in controversy is the right to carry
on the business free from the prohibition or regulation. P. 100.
2. The burden of showing jurisdictional value in controversy is on
the plaintiff. P. 102.
The value of the right to be free in one's business from a statutory regulation may be shown by proving the additional cost of
complying with the regulation. P. 103.
3. Owners of the copyrights of musical compositions, with a view to
protection against unlicensed public performances for profit for
which they received no compensation, granted to an unincorporated
association, of which they were the members, the exclusive right of
public performance for a term of years. It was the function of
the society to protect itself and its members from piracies and to
license public performances by others, for royalties which, after
certain deductions, it distributed among its members, pursuant to its

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

307 U. S.

articles of association. In a suit by the society and some of its
members representing all, seeking to enjoin on constitutional
grounds the enforcement of a statute of Washington which purports to regulate licensing by combinations of copyright owners,
the bill alleged, generally, that the value of the matter in controversy exceeded $3,000, and also that the cost of complying with a
provision of the statute requiring copyright owners to file yearly a
list of their copyrighted works would involve costs to the society,
or to each of the members individually if they acted in the matter
without the society, of specified amounts each in excess of the
jurisdictional value. Held:
(1) The allegations show that the members have a common and
undivided interest in the right to license in association through the
society free of the provisions of the state statute. P. 103.
(2) Upon a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdictional amount,
which denied the allegations of the bill and challenged their sufficiency in that regard, the District Court erred in dismissing the
bill without allowing plaintiffs the opportunity to produce evidence
of the cost of complying with the statute and of the value of
property rights affected by it. P. 103.
24 F. Supp. 541, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which dismissed, for want of jurisdiction, a bill to
enjoin the enforcement of a statute of the State of
Washington affecting the right of the owners of copyrights to combine in licensing performances of their
musical compositions.

Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Louis D.
Frohlich and Herman Finkelstein were on the brief, for
appellants.
Alfred J. Schweppe, with whom Messrs. G. W.
Hamilton, Attorney General of Washington, John E.
Belcher, Assistant Attorney General, Edwin C. Ewing,
Ralph E. Foley, and Sam M.. Driver were on the brief,
for appellees.
Mr.

BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
95

Opinion of the, Court.

MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an, appeal, under § 266 of the Judicial Code,
from a decree dismissing appellants' bill to enjoin the
enforcement by the appellees of a statute of the State of
Washington.. The purpose of the statute is to render
illegal certain activities carried on by pools of copyright
owners in authorizing by blanket licenses the performance of their musical compositions.
The statute declares it unlawful for two or more persons holding separate copyrighted works to pool their
interests in order to fix prices for their use, to collect fees
or to issue blanket licenses for their commercial production. Joint undertakings for this purpose are permitted
if the licenses are issued at rates assessed on a per piece
system of usage. All combinations of owners of separate
copyrighted musical works are required to file a complete
list of these works once each year with the secretary of
state of the State of Washington, together with detailed
information as to prices and ownership. There are
numerous other provisions unnecessary to detail.
The appellants are the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers; Gene Buck, suing in his own
name and as the president of the Society; and a number
of other members, corporate publishers and authors, composers or their next of kin. This suit was brought by
complainants on behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, members of the Society too numerous to
make it practicable to join them as plaintiffs in a matter
of common and general interest. The bill alleges the organization of the Society as a voluntary, unincorporated,
1 Buck v. Case, 24 F. Supp. 541. Washington Laws 1937, c. 218,
p. 1070.
161299°-39-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

non-profit association under the laws of New York, and
sets out that its purpose is to protect the owners of copyrighted musical works against piracies, to grant licenses
and to collect royalties for the public performance for
profit of the compositions of its members. These are
composers, authors and publishers of musical compositions or their successors. The royalties and license fees
collected by the Society are distributed from time to
time, as ordered by the Board of Directors, among the
members of the Society, after the payment of expenses
of operation and sums due to foreign affiliated societies
and after the deduction of a limited reserve fund.
In addition to the general allegation that the value of
the matter in dispute is in excess of $3,000, the bill alleges that the value'of each publisher's copyrights exceeds
$1,000,000. The bill further shows that each individual
complainant has rights to royalties and renewals worth in
excess of $100,000. It is shown by the bill that in the
State of Washington there were five hundred twentyeight contracts outstanding in 1936, all entered into in
the name of the Society, from which it received more than
$60,000 and that similar sums annually will be collected.
Other allegations are discussed later.
On the filing of the bill, a motion was made for an interlocutory injunction and affidavits were, filed in support
of the request. At the time the motion for a temporary
injunction came on for hearing, the defendant state officers and certain intervenors filed motions to dismiss which
challenged the bill on various grounds. The district court
considered only one ground: whether the value of the
subject matter in dispute is more than $3,000, exclusive
of interest and costs. Upon the hearing, the district court
found that neither the bill nor the records shows the necessary jurisdictional value and dismissed the bill. The
basis for this ruling is treated here.

BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
95

99

Opinion of the Court.

Although this statute of Washington, as that of Florida,2 is aimed at the power exercised by combinations of
copyright owners over the use of musical compositions
for profit, the differences between the enactments and
the procedural situations require additional consideration. The Florida statute does not permit any combination of copyright owners for the purpose of licensing the
use of their compositions. The prohibition is complete.
In the Washington statute, on the other hand, such a
combination, federation or pool is not prohibited if it
issues licenses "on rates assessed on a per piece system
of usage." Even upon these permitted transactions
there are limitations of price and use, unnecessary to
consider here.2 The statute is directed particularly at
'Considered in Gibbs v. Buck, ante, p. 66.
'Washington Laws, 1937, § 3, c. 218, p. 1071, reads as follows: "It
shall be unlawful for two or more persons holding or claiming separate copyrighted works under the copyright laws of the United
States, either within or without the state, to band together, or to
pool their interest for the purpose of fixing the prices on the use
of said copyrighted works, or to pool their separate interests or to
conspire, federate, or join together, for the purpose of collecting
fees in this state, or to issue blanket licenses in this state, for the
right to commercially use or perform publicly their separate copyrighted works: Provided, however, Such persons may join together
if they issue licenses on rates assessed on a per piece system of usage;
Provided, further, This act shall not apply to any one individual
author or composer or copyright holder or owner who may demand
any price or fee he or she may choose for the right to use or
publicly perform his or her individual copyrighted work or works:
Provided, further, Such per piece system of licensing must not be in
excess of any per piece system in operation in other states where
any group or persons affected by this act does business, and all
groups and persons affected by this act, are prohibited from discriminating against the citizens of this state by charging higher and more
inequitable rates per piece for music licenses in this state than in
other states: Provided, further, Where the owner, holder, or person
having control of any copyrighted work has sold the right to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

the practice of issuing blanket licenses which authorize
the performance of all copyrighted material belonging to
the licensor. Whether a state statute is regulatory or
prohibitory, when a bill is filed against its enforcement
under § 266 of the Judicial Code, the matter in controversy is the right to carry on business free of the
regulation or prohibition of the statute." Where the
statute is regulatory the value of the right to carry on the
business, as was said in McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., may be shown by evidence of the loss
that would follow the enforcement of the statute. And
this loss may be something other than the difference between the net profit free of regulation and the net profit
subject to regulation. The difficulties of determining
the value of rights by calculating past profits as compared
with possible future profits, influenced by the single factor of statutory regulation, are obvious. This difference is not the only test of the value of the right in
question. The value of the matter in controversy may
be at least as accurately shown by proving the additional
cost of complying with the regulation. This factor was
not offered in evidence in the McNutt case.
In Packard v. Banton' the existence of the jurisdictional amount was partly determined by consideration of
the cost of providing liability insurance required by a
regulatory statute. Where a state railroad commission
required the construction and service of an industrial spur
single use of said copyrighted work, where its sole value is in its use
for public performance for profit, and has received any consideration
therefor, either within or without the state, then said person or
persons shall be deemed to have sold and parted with the right to
further restrict the use of said copyrighted work or works."
4 Prohibitory statutes-Gibbs v. Buck, supra; regulatory statutesMcNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 181;
Kroger Grocery Co. v. Lutz, 299 U. S. 300, 301.
5264 U. S. 140.

BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
95

Opinion of the Court.

which did not increase earning capacity, the cost was held
to measure the jurisdictional amount.' The expense of
producing the information required by a challenged order
in a utility investigation was considered sufficient to establish the value of the matter in controversy.7 The cost
of complying with the challenged statute as a test of the
value of the amount in controversy has been applied in
effect in suits to enjoin the collection of taxes as unconstitutional interferences with the right to do business. In
such cases "the sum due or demanded is the matter in
controversy and the amount of the tax, not its capitalized
value, is the measure of the jurisdictional amount." ' 8
By § 4 of the Washington statute every combination of
two or more copyright owners must file, once a year, with
the secretary of state, a complete list of their copyrighted
works, under oath.' By § 3, individuals are forbidden
from joining together "for the purpose of collecting fees
in this state" unless their licenses are on a per piece system of rates. In addition to the general allegation that
the value of the matter in controversy exceeds $3,000, the
bill alleges the cost of compliance by the Society, the comWestern & Atlantic R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 261 U. S. 264, 267.
'Petroleum Exploration, Inc. v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S.
209, 215.
'Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, 271, and cases there cited; Grosjean v. Am. Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 241; Henneford v. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co., 303 U. S. 17, 19.
The list must state that it "is a complete catalogue of the titles
of their claimed compositions, whether musical or dramatic or of
any other classification, and in addition to stating the name and title
of the copyrighted work it shall recite therein the date each separate work was copyrighted, and the name of the author, the date
of its assignment, if any, or the date of the assignment of any
interest therein, if any, and the name of the publisher, the name
of the present owner, together with the addresses and residences of
all parties who have at any time had any interest in such copyrighted
work."
6

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

bination of members, with § 4 would. exceed $300,000.0
For the individual members who now have the benefits of
the services performed by the Society, additional allegations set out the cost imposed upon them by the statutory regulation as being "in excess of $10,000" to each for
carrying on for themselves the functions now performed
for them by the Society. The motions to dismiss deny
the general allegation of value, deny that there would be
any cost to the Society by compliance with § 4 as
the required list is already compiled and the expense,
since the Society is non-profit, would be borne by members, and deny that the individual complainants would be
put to a cost of $10,000 each. There was no allegation
of the loss or cost to the Society or members occasioned
by the requirement that the licenses from pooled copyrights should be issued at per piece rates.
On submission of the motion to dismiss for want of
the jurisdictional value, the burden of proof was upon
complainants." Although the trial court called specific
attention to the jurisdictional matters three months before it filed its opinion denying jurisdiction, by request
for additional briefs, no evidence was offered. After the
filing of the opinion and before the entry of the decree,
10

Specifically the allegation is that "The cost to the Society of

attempting to compile the lists and information required to be
furnished under the State Statute would be far in excess of $300,000,

which sum would have to be expended for research work with
reference to the past history of each and every copyright owner,
by every one of the 44,000 members of the Society and its affiliated
societies, lawyers fees for opinions as to the rights of parties in-

volved with respect to the ownership, grants, licenses and other
interests in the respective copyrights, clerical help and other incidental expenses; even with such an expenditure, it would be utterly
impossible to furnish an accurate or complete list of all the respective copyrights of the members of the Society and of its affiliated
societies with all of the data required by the State Statute."
11

McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 189.

BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
95

Opinion of the Court.

on compiainants' motion an order was entered to show
cause why witnesses should not be heard on the value of
the matter in controversy. The complainants furnished
an uncontroverted affidavit stating that their failure to
offer evidence was due to the fact that there was no denial of the facts pleaded. The offer of proof showed that
it was desired "to offer the testimony of expert witnesses
concerning the cost of complying with the requirements
of Section 4 of the Act, and concerning the value of the
property rights in question which will be affected by this
Statute." The court did not reject the evidence as a
matter of discretion because tardily presented. On the
hearing on the rule the court made it quite clear that
the proffered evidence was deemed immaterial because
it showed only cost of compliance, not the value of the
right to do business free of the compulsion of the statute. 2 The application to take further testimony was
denied and the motion to dismiss granted "in that this
cause is not within the jurisdiction of this court as a
federal court." We conclude that the refusal to permit
additional evidence in these circumstances was error.
The complainants in this case are the same as those in
Gibbs v. Buck, supra. In the Gibbs case we pointed out
that the members share directly in the earnings of the
Society and have a common and undivided interest in
2 E.

g., this statement was made by the court: "Perhaps we are

somewhat in the fog with respect to the matter you are trying to
present but from our viewpoint it seems to us that you are urging
that the value of the thing in controversy is to be measured by the
cost of doing business or complying with the statute. From our
standpoint we think the cost of doing business has nothing to do
with the method of doing business. It is true the statute may
necessitate a large expenditure but that would not mean anything
because by a large expenditure you might make a much larger profit.
Perhaps we don't understand each other but I think that is the basis
of measuring the value of the matter in controversy."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

the right to license in association through the Society
free of the provisions of the state statute. The allegations as to relationship between the Society and its members show the same status in this case. The fact that
"neither practice nor rule of the committee concerning
the apportioning among the Society's members of the
pooled license fees realized is shown," " does not affect
the rights members have in the apportionment of the
royalties from license fees. These rights are granted by
the articles of association which are a part of the bill.
KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press,4 relied upon below, is
distinguished in the Gibbs case.
The cause will be remanded to the District Court with
directions to permit the introduction of evidence and for
further proceedings not inconsistent herewith.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

dissents.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

DRISCOLL ET AL., CONSTITUTING PENNSYLVANIA
PUBLIC UTILITY COMM'N, ET AL. v. EDISON
LIGHT & POWER CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 509.

Argued February 7, 8, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The provision of the Act of May 14, 1934, withholding from the
District Courts jurisdiction over suits to enjoin on the ground of
unconstitutionality the enforcement of state orders fixing public
utility rates, "where a plain, speedy, and efficient remedy at law
or in equity may be had in the courts of such State,"--held inapplicable by its terms to a suit attacking temporary rates ordered
by the Public Utilities Commission in Pennsylvania, where the
"Buck v. Case, 24 F. Supp. 541, 549.
"299 U. S. 269.

