UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.

219

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. ONE 1936 MODEL FORD V-8
DE LUXE COACH, COMMERCIAL CREDIT COMPANY, CLAIMANT.*
CERTIORARI TO THE' CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 10.

Reargued May 1, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

1. Upon the facts, held that claimants for remission of forfeitures
of automobiles seized for unlawful transportation of tax unpaid
liquors, had complied with the conditions imposed by § 204 (b) of
the Liquor Law Repeal and Enforcement Act of August 27, 1935,
and that the courts below properly remitted the forfeitures.
Pp. 224 et seq.
2. A claimant (automobile finance company) who in good faith purchased from a dealer a conditional sale contract covering the sale
of an automobile; who believed that the vendee named therein
was the real purchaser and owner of the automobile; and who
had no knowledge, information or suspicion of facts to the contrary until the car was later seized for violation of the revenue
laws,-had an "interest in such vehicle . . . acquired in good
faith," within § 204 (b) (1) of the Liquor Law Repeal and Enforcement Act. P. 224.
3. Where such claimant, before acquiring such sale contract, investigated the person named therein as purchaser and found that he had
no record or reputation for violation of liquor laws; and believed
that such person was the real purchaser; and had no knowledge,
information, or suspicion that he was merely a "straw" purchaserthis was a sufficient showing under § 204 (b) (2) that the claimant
had no reason to believe that the car would be used in violation
of liquor laws. The contention that, since claimant knew that
automobiles were frequently used for violation of liquor laws, he
had reason to believe that the car in question would be so used,
is rejected. P. 224.
4. Subsection (b) (3) of § 204 of the Liquor Law Repeal and Enforcement Act does not require, as a condition to remission of forTogether with No. 627, United States v. Automobile Financing,
Inc. On writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit. Argued May 1,1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

feiture by the court, that the claimant shall have investigated, at
his peril, every person with record or reputation for violating the
liquor laws who in fact, although wholly unsuspected, had acquired some right to the vehicle. The subsection was intended to
prevent remission to a claimant who had failed to make inquiry
when he should have done so, to one chargeable with willful negligence or purpose of fraud. P. 235.
5. Forfeitures are not favored; they should be enforced only when
within both the letter and the spirit of the law. P. 226.
93 F. 2d 771, 19 F. Supp. 470, affirmed.
99 F. 2d 498, 22 F. Supp. 507, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 633; 306 U. S. 625, to review the

affirmances of judgments in two cases in which the District Courts ordered remission of forfeitures under the
Liquor Law Repeal and Enforcement Act. In No. 10, the
judgment below was previously affirmed here by an
equally divided Court, 305 U. S. 564; a rehearing was
subsequently granted, 305 U. S. 666. No. 627 was assigned for argument immediately following the reargument in No. 10.
Mr. Gordon Dean, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs.
Mahlon D. Kiefer and W. Marvin Smith were on the
brief, on the reargument and on the original argument in
No. 10, and on the argument in No. 627, for the United
States.
Messrs. Duane R. Dills and Eugene E. Heaton, on the
reargument and on the original argument, for Commercial Credit Co., claimant in No. 10. Mr. Duane R. Dills
argued the cause, and Mr. James F. Kemp was on a brief,
for respondent in No. 627.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In each of these causes the District Court, proceeding
under the "Liquor Law Repeal and Enforcement Act"

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

221

Opinion of the Court.

of August 27, 1935 (c. 740, 49 Stat. 872, 878, Title 27
U. S. C. § 40a), mitigated the forfeiture of an automobile
seized for unlawful transportation of distilled spirits upon
which the federal tax had not been paid. (One was seized
December 3, 1936; the other, March 15, 1937.) The forfeiture was decreed in a proceeding based upon § 3450
R. S. (Title 26 U. S. C. § 1441). The Circuit Courts of
Appeals rightly approved and their judgments must be
affirmed.
The facts, undisputed, are essentially alike in both
causes. The points of law are the same. A statement
based on Record No. 10 will suffice.
The Repeal Enforcement Act provides"Sec. 204. (a) Whenever, in any proceeding in court
for the forfeiture, under the internal-revenue laws, of any
vehicle or aircraft seized for a violation of the internalrevenue laws relating to liquors such forfeiture is decreed,
the court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to remit or
mitigate the forfeiture.
"(b) In any such proceeding the court shall not allow
the claim of any claimant for remission or mitigation unless and until he proves (1) that he has an interest in such
vehicle or aircraft, as owner or otherwise, which he acquired in good faith, (2) that he had at no time any
knowledge or reason to believe that it was being or would
be used in the violation of laws of the United States or of
any State relating to liquor, and (3) if it appears that the
interest asserted by the claimant arises out of or is in any
way subject to any contract or agreement under which any
person having a record or reputation for violating laws of
the United States or of any State relating to liquor has
a right with respect to such vehicle or aircraft, that, before such claimant acquired his interest, or such other
person acquired his right under such contract or agreement, which ever occurred later, the claimant, his officer
or agent, was informed in answer to his inquiry, at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

headquarters of the sheriff, chief of police, principal Federal internal-revenue officer engaged in the enforcement
of the liquor laws, or other principal local or Federal lawenforcement officer of the locality in which such other
person acquired his right under such contract or agreement, of the locality in which such other person then resided, and of each locality in which the claimant has made
any other inquiry as to the character or financial standing
of such other person, that such other person had no such
record or reputation."
The following findings by the District Court, it is
agreed, correctly set out "the facts in this case"The Ford automobile in question was sold by the
Greenville Auto Sales, Incorporated (the dealer) October
3, 1936, through its agent, Elrod, to Guy Walker, who in
part payment exchanged an old car paid for by him, but
registered in, his wife's name. He was given terms for
payment under a conditional sales contract, drawn by an
agent of the dealer, in the name of his brother, Paul
Walker, who formally executed the agreement. Guy
Walker had the conditional sales contract drawn and executed in the name of his brother in order to place the title
"where his wife could not reach it." Paul Walker had
no interest in the transaction except to comply with his
brother's request. Guy Walker made the transaction with
the dealer. He selected the car, made the agreement and
handled the transaction himself. Paul Walker drove the
car from the dealer's place of business. Guy Walker at
the time, and for two or three weeks after the purchase,
was living at his brother's house. Only one payment was
made on the conditional sales contract before the seizure,
and that by Guy Walker to the dealer.
It was admitted that Guy Walker had a previous record
and reputation for violating both state and federal laws
relating to liquor. Paul Walker was convicted of violating the National Prohibition Act in 1929, and was duly

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

223

Opinion of the Court.

sentenced therefor, but his record and reputation since
serving the sentence were good.
On the date when the sale was consummated the dealer
submitted the contract to the Commercial Credit Company, the claimant here, who accepted by telephone, and
subsequently on October 5th, in the usual course of business the dealer assigned the contract to the claimant and
received a check therefor.
The claimant before accepting assignment of the sales
contract made an investigation of Paul Walker by inquiring at the headquarters of the Sheriff of Greenville
County, and at the headquarters of the Chief of Police
of Greenville, the County and City where the interest
was acquired and the locality where Paul Walker resided,
as to his record and reputation for violation of the liquor
law. Information was received from these offices that he
had no such record or reputation. Information was given,
however, from the Sheriff's office that Guy Walker had
both record and reputation as violator of state and federal
laws relating to liquor. No inquiry or investigation was
made at the headquarters of the principal federal internal-revenue officer engaged in the enforcement of the liquor laws in that locality, or at the headquarters of any
other principal local or federal law enforcement officer of
the locality as to Paul Walker, and no inquiry or investigation whatsoever was made of Guy Walker, the admitted
real owner and purchaser of the automobile.
The claimant had Paul Walker investigated in August,
1936, by the Business Service Bureau of Greenville, South
Carolina, in connection with the purchase of a refrigerator. No investigation at that time was made as to his
reputation or record for violating the liquor laws; the
investigation did disclose that he had a good reputation
in the community where he lived, and this was the reputation given him by his employer at that time.
The claimant purchased the conditional sales contract
in good faith, believing that Paul Walker was the pur-

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U.S.

chaser and owner of the automobile. It had no knowledge, information or suspicion of the true facts until after
the automobile had been seized by federal officers.
Petitioner challenges the judgment below because of
claimant's failure to establish compliance with the conditions imposed by sub-section (b) § 204. Especially because claimant failed to show that it had no reason to
believe the automobile was being used or would be used
to violate the liquor laws; also because it made no adequate inquiry concerning the record and reputation of
the real purchaser-Guy Walker.
Respondent's interest in the automobile is not questioned. It "purchased the conditional sales contract in
good faith, believing that Paul Walker was the purchaser
and owner of the automobile. It had no knowledge, information or suspicion of the true facts until after the
automobile had been seized." This is enough to show
compliance with sub-section (b) (1). There was an interest acquired in good faith.
After investigation of the record and reputation of
Paul Walker, followed by favorable reports, and believing
him to be purchaser and owner of the automobile, claimant in good faith acquired the sales contract. It had no
knowledge, information or suspicion that Paul Walker
was only a "straw" purchaser. This is enough to show
compliance with sub-section (b) (2). The suggestion
that since respondent knew automobiles were frequently
used for violation of liquor laws it therefore had reason
to believe that the one in question would be so used is
not well founded. The findings positively affirm that it
entertained no such belief or suspicion.
The difficult phrasing of sub-section (b) (3) has produced divergent views concerning its meaning.
In FederalMotor Finance v. United States, 88 F. 2d 90,
93, the Circuit Court of Appeals Eighth Circuit said"We think the fair intendment of the language of subsection (3) concerning remission of forfeiture is that the

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

225

Opinion of the Court.

appellant could not rely entirely upon a course of business
whereby it acquired an interest in the car so nearly approximating the total value thereof without taking care
to ascertain who the real owner was in possession of and
using the car."
In the causes now before us (93 F. 2d 771, 773; 99 F.
2d 498, 500), the Circuit Court of Appeals accepted the
view that"The involved language of subsection (b) (3) of the
act does permit the possible interpretation that the lienor
is charged with the duty of making inquiry as to every
one, bearing a bad reputation or record, who may have a
right under the contract of sale, whether or not it appears
on the face of the instrument. See Federal Motor Finance
v. United States, 8 Cir., 88 F. 2d 90. But in our view
Congress did not intend to impose upon the lienor the
obligation to ascertain at his peril the identity of every
person having an interest in the property and to make
inquiry of the law enforcement officers as to the previous
record and reputation of every such person, unless from
the documents themselves or other surrounding circumstances the lienor possesses information which would lead
a reasonably prudent and law-abiding person to make a
further investigation."
See also C. I. T. Corporationv. United States, (Fourth
Circuit) 86 F. 2d 311, and United States v. C. I. T. Corporation, (Second Circuit) 93 F. 2d 469.
Counsel for petitioner now maintain: "That under
the language of the statute [(b) (3)] the claimant is
required to investigate the real purchaser at its peril and
that if it fails to do so, as between it and the Government,
the claimant assumes the risk of fraud perpetrated upon
it by the dealer and the bootlegger. In any event, the
claimant should have been required to show that it at
least made a reasonable effort to ascertain who the real
161299-39--15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

purchaser and user of the car was so that he could be
investigated as required by the statute."
Manifestly, § 204 is a remedial measure. It empowers
the courts, exercising sound discretion, to afford relief to
innocent parties having interests in condemned property
where the claim is reasonable and just. Its primary purpose is not to protect the revenues; but this is proper
matter for consideration whenever remission is sought.

The section must be liberally construed to carry out the
objective. The point to be sought is the intent of the
lawmaking powers. Forfeitures are not favored; they
should be enforced only when within both letter and spirit
of the law. Farmers' & M. National Bank v. Dearing,
91 U. S. 29, 33-35. If any claimant has been negligent
or in good conscience ought not be relieved, the court
should deny his application.
Consideration of the statutory provisions relative to
remissions prior to § 204 and the circumstances of its
adoption will enlighten the purpose entertained by
Congress.
Sections 3450 and 3453 Revised Statutes (Title 26
U. S. C. §§ 1441, 1620-1621)-derived from Acts June
30, 1864 and July 13, 1866-provide that whenever any
commodity in respect of which a tax is imposed, is removed with intent to defraud the United States, it shall
be forfeited "and every vessel, boat, cart, carriage, or
other conveyance whatsoever, and all horses or other
animals, and all things used in the removal or for the
deposit or concealment thereof, respectively, shall be
forfeited." "The proceedings to enforce such forfeitures
shall be in the nature of a proceeding in rem in the circuit
court or district court of the United States for the district
where such seizure is made."'
'R. S. § 3450 (Act July 13, 1866, c. 184, § 14, 14 Stat. 98, 151;
26 U. S. C. § 1441)"(a) Every person who removes, deposits, or conceals, or is concerned in removing, depositing, or concealing any goods or com-

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

227

Opinion of the Court.

Sections 3460 and 3461 (Title 26 U. S. C. § 1624)
derived from Acts July 13, 1866 and June 6, 1872-provide that when goods, wares, or merchandise seized as
subjects of forfeiture, do not exceed $500 in value, they
may be restored to the claimant upon the execution of
a bond and this shall be delivered to the District Attormodities for or in respect whereof any tax is imposed, with intent
to defraud the United States of such tax on any part thereof, shall
be liable to a fine or penalty of not more than $500.
"(3) Every vessel, boat, cart, carriage, or other conveyance whatsoever, and all horses or other animals, and all things used in the
removal or for the deposit or concealment thereof, respectively, shall
be forfeited."
[This section was amended by Act June 26, 1936 (c. 830, Title III,
§ 325, 49 Stat. 1939, 1955) which changed the provision for $500
penalty to a "fine of not more than $5,000 or be imprisoned for not
more than three years, or both."]
Revised Statutes § 3453 (Act June 30, 1864, c. 173, § 48, 13
Stat. 223, 240; Act July 13, 1866, c. 184, § 9, 14 Stat. 98, 111;
26 U. S. C. §§ 1620-1621)"All goods, wares, merchandise, articles, or objects, on which taxes
are imposed, which shall be found in the possession, or custody, or
within the control of any person, for the purpose of being sold or
removed by him in fraud of the internal-revenue laws, or with design
to avoid payment of said taxes, may be seized by the collector or
deputy collector of the proper district, or by such other collector
or deputy collector as may be specially authorized by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for that purpose, and shall be forfeited
to the United States. And all raw materials found in the possession
of any person intending to manufacture the same into articles of a
kind subject to tax for the purpose of fraudulently selling such
manufactured articles, or with design to evade the payment of said
tax; and all tools, implements, instruments, and personal property
whatsoever, in the place or building, or within any yard or inclosure
where such articles or raw materials are found, may also be seized
by any collector or deputy collector, as aforesaid, and shall be forfeited as aforesaid. The proceedings to enforce such forfeitures shall
be in the nature of a proceeding in rem in the circuit court or district
court of the United States for the district where such seizure is
made."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ney for proper proceedings; if no bond, the articles shall
be sold and the proceeds paid into the Treasury. Within
a year any claimant may apply to the Secretary for remission which may be granted "upon satisfactory proof,
to be furnished in such manner as he shall prescribe:
Provided, That it shall be satisfactorily shown . . . that
the said forfeiture was incurred without willful negligence

or any intention of fraud on the part of the owner of
said property." 2
Where the value exceeds $500 or bond is given, forfeiture must be sought in court through a libel in rem.
'Revised Statutes §§ 3460 and 3461 (Act July 13, 1866, c. 184,
§ 63, 14 Stat. 98, 169; Act June 6, 1872, c. 315, § 40, 17 Stat. 230,
257; 26 U. S. C. § 1624)"Sec. 3460. In all cases of seizure of any goods, wares, or merchandise, as being subject to forfeiture under any provision of the internalrevenue laws, which, in the opinion of the collector or deputy collector making the seizure, are of the appraised value of five hundred
dollars or less, the said collector or deputy collector shall, except
in cases otherwise provided, proceed as follows:
"Second. If the said goods are found by the said appraisers to be of
the value of five hundred dollars or less, the said collector or deputy
collector shall publish a notice, for three weeks, in some newspaper of
the district where the seizure was made, describing the articles, and
stating the time, place, and cause of their seizure, and requiring
any person claiming them to appear and make such claim within
thirty days from the date of the first publication of such notice.
"Third. Any person claiming the goods, wares, or merchandise so
seized, within the time specified in the notice, may file with the
said collector or deputy collector a claim, stating his interest in the
articles seized, and may execute a bond to the United States in the
penal sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, with sureties to be
approved by the said collector or deputy collector, conditioned that,
in case of condemnation of the articles so seized, the obligors shall
pay all the costs and expenses of the proceedings to obtain such
condemnation; and upon delivery of such bond to the collector or

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

229

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Two Bay Mules, Etc., 36 F. 84; United
States v. Mincey, 254 F. 287; Logan v. United States,
260 F. 746; United States v. One Bay Horse, 270 F. 590.
Section 3229 Revised Statutes (Act July 20, 1868, c.
186, § 102, 15 Stat. 125, 166; 26 U. S. C. § 1661)
provides-"The Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the advice and consent of the Secretary of the Treasury, may
deputy collector, he shall transmit the same, with the duplicate list or
description of the goods seized, to the United States district attorney
for the district, and said attorney shall proceed thereon in the ordinary
manner prescribed by law.
"Fourth. If no claim is interposed and no bond is given within the
time above specified, the collector or deputy collector, as the case may
be, shall give ten days' notice of the sale of the goods, wares, or
merchandise by publication, and, at the time and place specified in the
notice, shall sell the articles so seized at public auction, and, after
deducting the expense of appraisement and sale, he shall deposit the
proceeds to the credit of the Secretary of the Treasury.
"Sec. 3461. Within one year after the sale of any goods, wares, or
merchandise, as provided in the preceding section, any person claiming to be interested in the property sold may apply to the Secretary
of the Treasury for a remission of the forfeiture thereof, or any part
thereof, and a restoration of the proceeds of the sale; and the said
Secretary may grant the same upon satisfactory proof, to be furnished
in such manner as he shall prescribe: Provided, That it shall be
satisfactorily shown that the applicant, at the time of the seizure
and sale of the said property, and during the intervening time,
was absent, out of the United States, or in such circumstances as
prevented him from knowing of the seizure, and that he did not know
of the same; and also that the said forfeiture was incurred without
willful negligence or any intention of fraud on the part of the owner
of said property. If no application for such restoration is made
within one year, as hereinbefore prescribed, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall, at the expiration of the said time, cause the proceeds
of the sale of the said property to be distributed according to law,
as in the case of goods, wares, or merchandise condemned and sold
pursuant to the decree of a competent court."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

compromise any civil or criminal case arising under the
internal-revenue laws instead of commencing suit
thereon; and, with the advice and consent of the said
Secretary and the recommendation of the AttorneyGeneral, he may compromise any such case after a suit
thereon has been commenced. Whenever a compromise
ismade in any case there shall be placed on file in the
office of the Commissioner the opinion of the Solicitor
of Internal Revenue, or of the officer acting as such, with
his reasons therefor, with a statement of the amount of
tax assessed, the amount of additional tax or penalty
imposed by law in consequence of the neglect or delinquency of the person against whom the tax is assessed,
and the amount actually paid in accordance with the
terms of the compromise."
(Amended, Acts February 26, 1926, c. 27, § 1201, 44 Stat.
9,126; May 10, 1934, c.277, § 512 (b), 48 Stat. 680, 759;
May 28, 1938, c.289, § 815,52 Stat. 447, 578.)
Wilson Motor Co. v. United States, (Ninth Circuit)
84 F. 2d 630, 632, states-"The government's brief advises that prior to the Act of August 27, 1935, the procedure of the government to afford relief to these
innocent owners was under the provisions of compromise
powers given the Attorney General and the Treasury
under section 1661, 26 U. S. C. A."
In connection with the sections referred to above the
United States Code Annotated points to their origin and
history.
The National Prohibition Act (October 28, 1919, c. 85,
Title II, § 26, 41 Stat. 305, 315, Title 27 U. S. C. § 40)
provided that "whenever intoxicating liquors transported
or possessed illegally shall be seized by an officer he shall
take possession of the vehicle and team or automobile,
boat, air or water craft, or any other conveyance, and
shall arrest any person in charge thereof." The person

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

231

Opinion of the Court.

arrested shall be proceeded against but the vehicle or
conveyance shall be returned upon execution of a bond.
Upon his conviction the court shall order the liquor
destroyed "and unless good cause to the contrary is shown
by the owner, shall order a sale by public auction of the
property seized." ' See Richbourg Motor Co. v. United
States, 281 U. S. 528. This was repealed by The Repeal
and Enforcement Act, supra.
"'When the commissioner, his assistants, inspectors, or any officer
of the law shall discover any person in the act of transporting in
violation of the law, intoxicating liquors in any wagon, buggy, automobile, water or air craft, or other vehicle, it shall be his duty to seize any
and all intoxicating liquors found therein being transported contrary to law. Whenever intoxicating liquors transported or possessed
illegally shall be seized by an officer he shall take possession of the
vehicle and team or automobile, boat, air or water craft, or any
other conveyance, and shall arrest any person in charge thereof.
Such officer shall at once proceed against the person arrested under
the provisions of this title in any court having competent jurisdiction; but the said vehicle or conveyance shall be returned to the
owner upon execution by him of a good and valid bond, with sufficient sureties, in a sum double the value of the property, which
said bond shall be approved by said officer and shall be conditioned
to return said property to the custody of said officer on the day of
trial to abide the judgment of the court. The court upon conviction of the person so arrested shall order the liquor destroyed, and
unless good cause to the contrary is shown by the owner, shall
order a sale by public auction of the property seized, and the
officer making the sale, after deducting the expenses of keeping the
property, the fee for the seizure, and the cost of the sale, shall pay
all liens, according to their priorities, which are established, by intervention or otherwise at said hearing or in other proceeding
brought for said purpose, as being bona fide and as having been
created without the lienor having any notice that the carrying
vehicle was being used or was to be used for illegal transportation
of liquor, and shall pay the balance of the proceeds into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts. All liens against
property sold under the provisions of this section shall be transferred from the property to the proceeds of the sale of the
property."

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The Act of September 21, 1922, (c. 356, § 618, 42 Stat.
858, 987) provides"Whenever any person interested in any vessel, vehicle,
merchandise, or baggage seized under the provisions of
this Act, or who has incurred, or is alleged to have incurred, any fine or penalty thereunder, files with the Secretary of the Treasury if under the customs laws, and
with the Secretary of Commerce if under the navigation
laws, before the sale of such vessel, vehicle, merchandise,
or baggage a petition for the remission or mitigation of
such fine, penalty, or forfeiture, the Secretary of the
Treasury, or the Secretary of Commerce, if he finds that
such fine, penalty, or forfeiture was incurred without
willful negligence or without any intention on the part of
the petitioner to defraud the revenue or to violate the
law, or finds the existence of such mitigating circumstances as to justify the remission or mitigation of such
fine, penalty, or forfeiture, may remit or mitigate the
same upon such terms and conditions as he deems reasonable and just, or order discontinuance of any prosecution
relating thereto."
[Regnacted by Act July 17, 1930, c. 497, § 618, 46 Stat.
590, 757; 19 U. S. C. § 1618.]
The Act May 29, 1928 (c. 852, § 709, 45 Stat. 791, 882,
26 U. S. C. § 1626) extended "the provisions of law
applicable to the remission or mitigation by the Secretary of the Treasury of forfeitures under the customs
laws . . . to forfeitures incurred or alleged to have been
incurred, before or after the enactment of this Act, under
the internal-revenue laws."
In the situation disclosed by the foregoing summary,
Congress came to consider the Act of August 27, 1935.
The Judiciary Committees of Senate and House made
reports (Senate Report No. 1330, House Report No. 1601,

. UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

233

Opinion of the Court.

74th Cong., 1st Session). In each the paragraphs relative
to § 204 (a) and (b) are the same in substance.
'House Reports, Vol. 4, 74th Congress, 1st Session, 1935, Report
No. 1601, p. 6"Section 204 (a) of section 204 provides that in any court proceeding for the forfeiture under the internal-revenue laws of any
vehicle or aircraft seized for a violation of the internal-revenue laws
relating to liquor, the court shall, upon decree of forfeiture, have
exclusive jurisdiction to remit or mitigate the forfeiture. At the
present time, the court has authority only to decree the forfeiture,
and remission or mitigation is dependent upon administrative action.
Section 204 extends to the court which determines whether the
vehicle or aircraft shall be forfeited by reason of having been used
in the violation of internal-revenue laws relating to liquor, the power
to determine whether the claim of any person having an interest in
the vehicle or aircraft should be allowed after forfeiture. Thus, in
all cases where the value of the seized property exceeds $500, and
in all cases where the value is $500 or less, but a bond is posted
in order to bring the forfeiture proceeding into court, the court will
have exclusive jurisdiction to remit or mitigate the forfeiture. In
the event that a bond is not filed in cases where the property is of
the value of $500 or less, the power to remit or mitigate will remain
in the Secretary of the Treasury.
"Certain standards are given to the court to guide it in this
determination. Thus, under subsection (b), the claimant must prove
that he acquired his interest in good faith, that he had no knowledge
or reason to believe that the vehicle or aircraft was being or would
be used in violating Federal or State liquor laws, and that, if his
interest arises out of, or is subject to, any agreement under which
any person having a record or reputation for violating Federal or
State liquor laws has a right with respect to the vehicle or aircraft,
the claimant, before he acquired his interest, or before the other
person acquired his right, which ever of these events occurred later,
inquired of the law enforcement officers in the locality where such
other person acquired his right, of the locality in which such other
person then resided, and of each locality where the claimant made
inquiry as to the character or credit standing of such other person,
whether the other person had such a record or reputation, and was
informed he had not. This last requirement is predicated upon the

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

A representative of the Treasury Department made a
statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee. An extract from this appears in the margin.
A rearrangement of the words of sub-section (b) (3)
will enlighten its meaning"The court shall not allow the [request]--claim-of
any claimant for remission or mitigation, if it appears that
recognition of the 'bootleg hazard' as an element to be considered
in investigating a person as a credit risk. As a matter of sound
business practice, automobile dealers, finance companies, and prospective lienholders on automobiles examine records, and make inquiry
of references and credit rating agencies as to the owner's or prospective purchaser's reputation for paying his debts and his ability to
do so. This subsection merely requires that in the making of such
inquiry, the 'bootleg hazard' also be examined as one aspect of the
credit risk."
'Senate Committee Hearings, 1935, Vol. 495, No. 4, p. 13"Section 204 . . .relates to proceedings in court for the forfeiture

of vehicles or aircraft seized for violations of internal-revenue laws.
At the present time, claimants of interests in vehicles or aircraft
that have been seized and forfeited for violation of internal-revenue
laws, petition the Secretary of the Treasury for the remission or
mitigation of the forfeiture, and the Secretary, under the law, requires the person claiming to have an innocent interest to show
that he had no knowledge of the unlawful use of the vehicle or aircraft. What this section will do, in the case of any court proceeding
for the forfeiture of vehicles or aircraft, is to give the court jurisdiction to determine whether or not the person claiming to have
an innocent interest actually had such an interest. Under the
present practice the Secretary of the Treasury requires such a showing.

.

.

. This section is of particular importance in connection

with the discounting by a finance company of an automobile dealer's
paper.
"At the present time, the Secretary of the Treasury considers that
the bootleg hazard is an element involved in the credit risk, and is
just as much a part of the investigation by the finance company
of a person as a credit risk as is his financial standing in the community. He requires that before a car be returned to the person
claiming an innocent interest, the latter must prove that he made an
investigation as to whether or not the purchaser had a bootlegger
record, and found that he had none."

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

235

Opinion of the Court.

the interest asserted by [him]-the claimant-arises out
of or is in any way subject to any contract or agreement
under which any person having a record or reputation
for violating laws of the United States or of any State
relating to liquor has a right with respect to such vehicle
or aircraft, unless and until he [the claimant] proves that
before [he]-such claimant-acquired his interest, or
such other person acquired his right under such contract
or agreement, whichever occurred later, [he]-the claimant-his officer or agent, was informed in answer to his
inquiry, at [certain headquarters specified in the alterna.tive] as to the character or financial standing of such
other person, that such other person had no such record
or reputation."
If the words of § 204 (b) (3) be taken literally, without
regard to history or purpose of 'the enactment, they inhibit remission by the court unless one who claims an
interest made actual inquiry concerning every person
with record or reputation for violating the liquor laws
who in fact (although wholly unsuspected) had acquired
some right to the vehicle. There would be absolute forfeiture although the claimant acquired his interest in the
utmost good faith and without suspicion of any undisclosed interest; although indeed, he had diligently but
unsuccessfully sought information concerning all the
facts from every person connected with the transaction.
Thus construed the provision would require absolute forfeiture notwithstanding the claimant could not by the utmost diligence ascertain the true situation. No greater
reason exists for saying a claimant should be relieved if
he made unsuccessful inquiry of the seller concerning
undisclosed matters than there is for relief when he had
no cause to suspect the existence of an undisclosed interest-no cause to question appearances. A measure requiring absolute forfeiture under such circumstances
probably would be expressed in language sufficiently
plain to admit no reasonable doubt.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

During many years innocent claimants had a clear
remedy either by appeal to the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury or by application for compromise
addressed to the Attorney General and Treasury officials
(Wilson Motor Co. v. United States, supra); or under
the Prohibition Act, to the court (Richbourg Motor Co.
v. United States, supra). This situation was called to the
attention of the Senate Committee by the representative
of the Treasury. He also pointed out that before restoring a car the Secretary required that the claimant "must
prove that he made an investigation as to whether or
not the purchaser had a bootlegger record and found that
he had none." The Secretary "considers that the bootleg
hazard is an element involved in the credit risk, and is
just as much a paxt of the investigation by the finance
company of a person as a credit risk as is his financial
standing in the community." The Committee reported
in respect of 204 (b) (3)-"This last requirement is predicated upon the recognition of the 'bootleg hazard' as an
element to be considered in investigating a person as a
credit risk."
These facts indicate that Congress intended a reasonable inquiry concerning the bootleg risk should be made
in connection with the investigation of financial responsibility. They negative the notion that a wholly innocent
claimant at his peril must show inquiry concerning something unknown and of which he had no suspicion.
Dealers do not investigate what they have no cause to
suspect.
The forfeiture acts are exceedingly drastic. They were
intended for protection of the revenues, not to punish
without fault. It would require unclouded language to
compel the conclusion that Congress abandoned the
equitable policy, observed for a very long time, of relieving those who act in good faith and without negligence,
and adopted an oppressive amendment not demanded by

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

237

Opinion of the Court.

the tax officials or pointed out in the reports of its
committees.
Sub-section (b) (3) was intended to prevent remission to a claimant who had failed to inquire when he
should have done so, to one chargeable with willful negligence or purpose of fraud. It would be excessively harsh,
unreasonable indeed, to say that one dealing in entire
good faith must, at his peril, first discover and then make
inquiry concerning somebody of whose existence he has
no knowledge or suspicion. We cannot think Congress
intended thus to burden dealing in all vehicles capable
of transporting liquor.
It should be observed that the following things are
possible subjects of seizure and forfeiture because of
liquor law violations: "Every vessel, boat, cart, carriage,
or other conveyance whatsoever, and all horses or other
animals, and all things used in the removal or for the
deposit or concealment, etc." "Vehicle" is thus defined"That in or on which a person or thing is or may be carried from one place to another." A wheelbarrow, a covered wagon, a "Rolls-Royce," the patient mule, a "Man
of War," and possibly a Pullman car or Ocean Liner is a
vehicle. Goldsmith-GrantCo. v. United States, 254 U. S.
505; United States v. Two Bay Mules, supra; United
States v. One Bay Horse, supra.
Sub-section (b) (3) applies not only to transactions
by financial concerns like respondent but to those of
individuals and corporations great or small. It contemplates an investigation and this presupposes some reason
at least to suspect the existence of the subject of investigation. Congress took away from executive officers the
power to mitigate forfeitures where the property exceeds
$500 in value, and gave this to the court familiar with
the circumstances; but it left with the Secretary of the
Treasury discretion to remit when the value was below
$500. The intent was to require the courts to exact

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

proof of inquiries like those demanded by the Treasury
Department practice, and disclosed by its representative
before the Senate Committee. The petitioner's view, if
adopted, would sanction one standard of remission for a
vehicle worth $500, another when appraised at a dollar
more.
The challenged decrees must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and

MR. JUSTICE STONE

took no

part in the consideration or decision of these causes.
MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

dissenting:

MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and I
think that the judgments below should be reversed.
The problem here involved raises the question of the
duty of automobile finance companies to investigate those
who purchase cars from dealers, financed by those companies, in order to determine whether the ostensible purchasers are in reality straw men for bootleggers. Here the
dealers knew that the named purchasers were only nominal purchasers; and they also knew the identity of the
real purchasers. But the finance companies made no
inquiry whatsoever of the dealers to ascertain if those
purchasers were straw men. They made no inquiry in
spite of the fact that the use of straw men by bootleggers
was not novel. They made no inquiry in spite of the
intimate business relations which exist between them and
the dealers and the presumption of availability of such
information which that relationship creates. And they
now seek the benefit of an Act which the Congress passed
to ameliorate some of the risks of confiscation and forfeiture. We do not think they have satisfied the burden
which the Congress has placed upon them.
Sec. 204 (a) gives the District Court "exclusive jurisdiction to remit or mitigate" forfeitures. Sec. 204 (b)

UNITED STATES v. ONE FORD COACH.
219

DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

sets forth three conditions precedent which the claimant
must satisfy before the court may remit or mitigate a
forfeiture. To satisfy the third of these conditions claimant must prove under certain circumstances that he made
inquiry of designated law enforcement agencies concerning any person for whom a straw man purchaser was
acting and that he was informed on such inquiry that
such person had no record or reputation for violating the
liquor laws. The circumstances under which claimant
must make that inquiry exist "if it appears that the
interest asserted by the claimant arises out of or is in any
way subject to any contract or agreement under which
any person having a record or reputation for violating
laws of the United States or of any State relating to
liquor has a right with respect to such vehicle or aircraft, . . ."

To be sure, the phrasing of § 204 (b) (3) is difficult.
But it means to us that a claimant must prove, in order
to satisfy that condition, that he made a reasonable investigation to ascertain if the purchaser was a mere
straw man acting for another or was a legitimate purchaser in his own right. The words "if it appears" carry
that connotation. A contrary construction defeats the
purpose of the Congress by placing an enormous
premium on lack of diligence. That construction opens
wide the doors to defraud the revenue, for finance companies need lift no finger nor make any effort to ascertain the existence of a straw man purchaser. Ignorance
now is surely bliss. By failure to make inquiry they can
effectively insulate themselves even from the knowledge
which their business intimates-the dealers-have. Unless informed by disclosures, in the written contract or
otherwise, they can contentedly assume that the purchaser is not a straw man for a bootlegger. That they
will thus be voluntarily informed by the parties or by
others seems unlikely. Since the function of the straw

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
DOUGLAS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

man is to conceal the bootlegger, neither the straw man
nor the bootlegger can be expected to step forward with
the information. And the automobile salesman is not
likely to volunteer the information for his desire is to
sell automobiles not to defeat sales. On the other hand,
the interpretation which we urge would give the statute
real meaning and significance in terms of this specific
bootleg hazard which concerned the Congress on its
enactment."
Furthermore, the requirement for reasonable investigation cannot possibly place such a burden on finance companies as to force us to resolve an ambiguity in statutory
language against forfeiture. In the cases before us a
single question put the dealer or the purchaser might
alone have disclosed the existence of a straw man. But
no such simple inquiry was made. An investigation in
each case was made to ascertain whether the named purchaser had a reputation or record for liquor violations.
But the existence of a straw man was never probed. Certainly on such a matter investigational techniques are
not novel, involved or unique. The responsibility for a
'Precisely the investigation here urged seems to have been intended, for the Report of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary
said as respects § 204 (b) (3): "This last requirement is predicated
upon the recognition of the 'bootleg hazard' as an element to be
considered in investigating a person as a credit risk. As a matter

of sound business practice, automobile dealers, finance companies,
and prospective lienholders on automobiles examine records, and
make inquiry of references and credit rating agencies as to the
owner's or prospective purchaser's reputation for paying his debts
and his ability to do so. This subsection merely requires that in the
making of such inquiry, the 'bootleg hazard' also be examined as one
aspect of the credit risk." Sen. Rep. No. 1330, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 6. To investigate the "bootleg hazard" as "one aspect of the
credit risk" when inquiry is made of the "prospective purchaser's
reputation for paying his debts" seems clearly to entail inquiry
as to whether or not the prospective purchaser is a straw man
for a bootlegger.

ELECTRICAL CORP. v. THOMAS CO.
219

241

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable investigation would add but imperceptibly if
at all to the cost of doing business. In this field such investigation entails a burden which any legitimate enterprise should be prepared to carry. We need not conjure
up hypothetical cases of extended inquiry which disclosed
no straw man, for they would meet the test of reasonable
investigation here proposed.
For these reasons, the judgments should be reversed.

ELECTRICAL FITTINGS CORP. ET AL. v. THOMAS
& BETTS CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 582.

Argued April 19, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

A defendant in a patent suit is entitled to appeal from so much of
a decree adjudging him not guilty of infringement as purports to
adjudge the patent valid. P. 242.
100 F. 2d 403, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 624, to review the dismissal of
an appeal from a decree of the District Court, 23 F. Supp.
920, in a suit for alleged patent infringement.
Mr. Samuel E. Darby, Jr., with whom Mr. Lloyd H.
Crews was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George Whitefield Betts, Jr., with whom Messrs.
William Bohleber and Francis H. Fassett were on the
brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This was a suit in equity by the respondents for alleged
infringement of a patent. The District Court held claim
161299°-39-16

