SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
Counsel for Parties.

383

we have an effective localization of securities through a
trust created in a State other than that of the settlor's
domicile at the time of death, and where in that other
State the trustee holds title and possession and has been
and is administering the trust subject to its laws.
I think that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
New York should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JuSTIcE BUTLER and
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS concur in this opinion.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 613.

Argued March 29, 1939.-Decided May 29, 1939.

1. Where a land grant railroad, having an established route partly
land-grant aided between two terminal points, developed an alternative route which in part was identical with the original route and
to that extent land-grant aided, held that the Government was entitled, under 'its land-grant Act contract, to compensate the railroad
for terminal-to-terminal service on the basis of the lower tariff
available on the alternative route less the higher land grant percentage deduction applicable on the original route, irrespective of
what route was actually used in shipment. Pp. 394, 401.
2. This conclusion is consistent with the long continued administrative construction given land grant contracts. P. 401.
3. Doubts in respect of the interpretation of public grants are to be
resolved in favor of the Government. P. 401.
87 Ct. Cls. 442, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 625, to review a judgment dis-

missing the petition in a suit brought by the railroad
company against the United States to recover sums
claimed to be due on account of transportation charges.
Mr. James R. Bell for petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Whitaker, with whom
Solicitor General Jackson, and Messrs. Paul A. Sweeney,
Warner W. Gardner,and Aaron B. Holman were on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case involves the right of the Government to deduct from the public terminal-to-terminal tariffs of a railroad over a route, partly of land-grant aided mileage,
identical with part of the mileage of another earlier constructed route of the same road between the same terminals, sums based upon the higher proportion of landgrant aided mileage in this latter route. On account of
the importance of the question in administration, certiorari was granted.1
The carrier owns and operates two lines of railroad between Portland, Oregon, and Roseville, California, and
Davis, California, both southern points being on the Central Pacific, now the Southern Pacific, Railroad in California. From the California junctions, there is direct
connection over the same Southern Pacific rails into San
Francisco. The older line is called the Siskiyou, the
newer the Cascade Route. For a considerable portion of
the distance between Portland and San Francisco, the two
routes are identical. There are two differences; one is between Eugene, Oregon, and Black Butte, California. On
1

Cf. Schedule of Land Grant and Bond-Aided Railroads of the

U. S., Office of the Quartermaster General of the Army, Circular No.
4, February 1, 1922. This shows the land-grant mileage in the
United States at the date of issue. In order to obtain a share of
government traffic, non-land-grant roads have entered widely into
freight land-grant equalization agreements by which they agree to

carry freight, routed over their lines at "the lowest net rates lawfully available, as derived through deductions account of land grant
distance. . . ." Cf. Circular 3, Feb. 6, 1935, Office of Quartermaster
General, War Department, Freight Land Grant Equalization Agreements.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

Opinion of the Court.

the west the Siskiyou Route passes through Grant's Pass
and Siskiyou, a distance of 300 miles, to connect Eugene
and Black Butte. The eastern, or Cascade Route, joins
the same two points by a shorter (275 miles) line through
Natron and Klamath Falls. The second deviation is between Tehama, California, and Davis and Roseville
respectively. Here the Siskiyou Route is to the east,
104 miles long, and the Cascade Route to the west, 110
miles.
Where the routes are identical, some of the mileage is
land-grant aided. Some is not. The mileage of the
Siskiyou which is different from the Cascade is largely
land-grant aided. None of the Cascade Route, except
where it uses the same rails as the Siskiyou, has land
grants. Based on the proportion of aided mileage and
the percentage of deduction allowed to the Government
from the tariffs charged private shippers, the United
States, between San Francisco and Portland, is entitled
to a land-grant deduction via the Siskiyou Route of
42.792 per cent. Via the Cascade Route, the deduction is
17.801 per cent. There are slight variations for East
Portland.
During December, 1931, and January, 1932, the carrier
transported, in both directions, certain property of the
United States on Government bills of lading from Portland or East Portland to San Francisco. No directions
were given by the Government as to the routes over which
the shipments were to move. While before November
11, 1931, the terminal-to-terminal rates over the two
routes were the same, after that date authorized revisions resulted in a rate competitive with water borne
commerce over the Cascade and a higher rate over the
Siskiyou. These public tariffs were so much lower over
the Cascade than they were over the Siskiyou Route, that
the net cost to the Government, after the deductions

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

deemed applicable by the railroad, was less over the Cascade than it was over the Siskiyou, despite the higher percentage of deduction allowed the latter route.
The Government was billed on the Cascade tariffs with
deductions for land-grant mileage of about 17 per cent.
It paid on the basis of the Cascade tariffs but deducted
on the ratio of the land-grant to total miles between the
terminals on the Siskiyou Route, or some 42 per cent.
The Government claims that it is entitled to the lowest
rate, between the terminals, less the percentage of deduction over the original land-grant aided route. The carrier protested and brought this action in the Court of
Claims to recover the difference between the Cascade
tariffs less the Cascade ratio of land-grant mileage and
that paid by the Government, the Cascade tariffs less the
Siskiyou ratio. The Court of Claims, after making
special findings of fact, adjudged that the carrier was not
entitled to recover and dismissed its petition.
The Government obtained concessions from the established tariffs by virtue of the acceptance by the carrier of
grants of land, ten alternate sections per mile on each
side of the line, to aid in the construction of a railroad as
described in the statute authorizing the conveyance.2
This statute was similar in form to the land grant construed in Burke v. Southern Pacific R. Co. and upon compliance with its requirements became a contract, "obligatory on both" 4 the carrier and Government. The carrier agreed it should "be and remain a public highway
for the use of the government of the United States, free
of all toll or other charges upon the transportation of the
property or troops of the United States; and the same
shall be transported over said road at the cost, charge,
2

Act of July 25, 1866, c. 242, 14 Stat. 239.

'234 U. S. 669.
'Id. 680; cf. United States v. Central Pacific R. Co., 118 U. S. 235,
238.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO.. v. U. S.
393

Opinion of the Court.

and expense of the corporations or companies owning or
operating the same, when so required by the government
of the United States." The authorization was "to lay out,
locate, construct, finish, and maintain a railroad and telegraph line between the city of Portland, in Oregon, and
the Central Pacific Railroad, in California, . . ." The
road was located in accordance with these requirements.
In December, 1887, the Siskiyou Route was finished.
The road running from its southern terminus at Roseville
to San Francisco had been finished in 1870. This gave
a through route from San Francisco to Portland, 774.16
miles long with 663.16 land-grant aided. The Cascade
Route was built later in small sections primarily for local
service or links in other projected distinct railroad undertakings. The California deviation from the Siskiyou
between Tehama and Davis was finished in 1882. The
Oregon section, forming with that portion of the Siskiyou
an irregular ovoid figure, was put together between 1905
and 1926, being completed September first of the latter
year. This route is 725.03 miles between Portland and
San Francisco with 258.13 miles built with grants in aid.
Each route is necessary for adequate transportation service to the areas traversed. At the time of the completion
of the Cascade and until November 10, 1931, the tariffs
over the two routes between the terminals were the same.
On May 23, 1928, there was enacted an act for the relief of the land-grant railroad operated between East
Portland, Oregon, and Roseville, California.' As Rose'The Act of May 23, 1928, c. 720, 45 Stat. 722-723, provides:
"Chap. 720.-An Act For the relief of the land-grant railroad operated between the station formerly known as East Portland, in the
State of Oregon, and Roseville, in the State of California.
"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the land-grant
railroad heretofore operated, and now being operated, between the
station formerly known as East Portland, in the State of Oregon, and
Roseville, in the State of California, shall hereafter receive compensa-

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ville is the junction terminal of the Siskiyou and is not
served by the Cascade, this description covers only the
Siskiyou line built under the 1866 act. By its terms, the
Government relinquished its privilege of free transportation and accepted in lieu thereof a right to the same rate
as is paid to other land-grant roads. This is fifty per cent
of the public tariff for land-grant aided mileage.6
The Act of 1866, granting the aid, specified, only generally, the route of the new road. It was to begin at
some point on the Central Pacific Railroad in the Sacramento Valley and thence run northerly to Portland. By
the grant of millions of acres of public lands, the Government prepaid for transportation 7 over the line, wherever
it might be built. It was entitled to service for its property or troops without further cost from whosoever
owned or operated the aided facility between the Central
Pacific and Portland." By the 1928 act, the Government
agreed, for the "relief of the land-grant" road, to put it
upon the same basis as other land-grant roads. By this
concession, no change was made in the extent of the obligation to give land-grant service.
The two acts are quite clear in their requirement that
the company which constructed the road or its successors
in ownership or operation should transport the property
tion for transportation of property and troops of the United States
at the same rate as is paid to land-grant railroads organized under the
Land Grant Act of March 3, 1863, and the Act of July 27, 1866
(chapter 278): Provided, That the Congress hereby reserves the right
at any time by law to prescribe such charges as it deems advisable
for such Government transportation."
'Lake Superior & M. R. Co. v.United States, 93 U. S. 442, 454,
455; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States, 273 U. S. 321, 323. Act
of June 7, 1924, c.291, 43 Stat. 477, 486. This act determined the
proportion of the regular tariff to be paid for the transportation.
'Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States, 267 U. S. 395, 402.
'§ 5, Act of July 25, 1866, 14 Stat. 240.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

Opinion of the Court.

or troops of the United States over the railroad at the
rate fixed by their provisions. The uncertainty as to the
meaning arises in the application of the right of transportation to the mileage. On completion of the original
project between Portland and the Central Pacific, there
was a definite right of way, the present Siskiyou Route,
with every mile between East Portland and the Central
Pacific aided by land grants. This same situation existed
as to all or parts of other bond or land aided roads.'
'The laws relating to land-grant and bond-aided railroads contain

several types of conditions. The most prevalent condition was that
"the said railroad shall be and remain a public highway for the use
of the Government of the United States, free from toll or other charge
upon the transportation of any property or troops of the United
States." This was construed to require the railroad to furnish only
free use of the rails and permanent structures. Lake Superior &
M. R. Co. v. United States, 93 U. S. 442. It is to be found in the
following acts: Act of Sept. 20, 1850, 9 Stat. 466 (Ill.
Cent. R. R.;
Mobile & 0. R. R.); Act of June 10, 1852, 10 Stat. 8 (Chicago, B. &
Q. R. R.; Missouri Pac. Ry.; St. Louis & S. F. Ry.); Act of Feb. 9,
1853, 10 Stat. 155 (Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry.; St. Louis, Iron Mtn. &
So. Ry.); Act of May 15, 1856, 11 Stat. 9 (Chicago & N. W. Ry.;
Chicago, B. & Q. R. R.; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.; Chicago, R. I. &
Pac. Ry.); Act of May 17, 1856, 11 Stat. 15 (Louisville & N. R. R.;
Seaboard Air Line Ry.); Act of June 3, 1856, 11 Stat. 17, 18, 20, 21
(Ala. Great So. R. R.; Central of Ga. Ry.; Chicago & N. W. Ry.;
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.; Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry.; Duluth, So.
Shore & At. Ry.; Grand Rapids & Ind. R. R.; Grand Trunk R. R.;
N. Y. Cent. R. R.; Louisville & N. R. R.; Mich. Cent. R. R.; Missouri, Kan. & Texas Ry.; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry.; Pere Marquette R. R.; Southern Ry. Co.; Vicksburg, S. & Pac. R. R.); Act
of Aug. 11, 1856, 11 Stat. 30 (Ala. & Vicksburg Ry.; Gulf & Ship
Id. R. R.); Act of March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 195 (Chicago & N. W.
Ry.; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.; Chicago, St. P., M. & 0. Ry.; Great
No. Ry.; Northern Pac. Ry.); Act of March 3, 1863, 12 Stat. 772
(Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry.; Missouri, Kan. & Texas Ry.); Act of May
5, 1864, 13 Stat. 64 (Northern Pac. Ry.); Act of May 5, 1864, 13 Stat.
66 (Minneapolis, St. P. & S. Ste. Marie Ry.); Act of May 12, 1864,
13 Stat. 72 (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.); Act of March 3, 1865,

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Soon there were changes and shortening of these lines.
The Government was faced with the problem of the
proper ratio of land-grant or bond-aided deductions or
allocations to be applied where new non-aid mileage is
used between terminals formerly served in a higher proportion by land-grant mileage. Cut-offs and the elimination of curves furnished occasion for these decisions. Thus
in 1888 in a ruling as to transportation services rendered
by the Central Pacific Railroad, where the Central had
three lines from Sacramento to San Francisco, with varying bond-aided mileages, the Comptroller of the Treasury
ruled, when the road sought to render statements for the
line actually used, that all United States accounts should
be stated in terms of the bond-aided mileage of the original route. As the amounts due to the carrier were applied to retirement of the bonds in aid, this ruling preserved the charges for this purpose. This ruling has been
13 Stat. 526 (Chicago & N. W. Ry.; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.;
Great No. Ry., Northern Pac. Ry.). Some of the grants went further and required the railroad to furnish free transportation. Act of
July 1, 1864, 13 Stat. 339 (Missouri, Kan. & Texas Ry.); Act of July
3, 1866, 14 Stat. 78 (N. Y. Cent. R. R.; Mich. Cent. R. R.); Act of
July 4, 1866, 14 Stat. 87 (Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.); Act of July 25,
1866, 14 Stat. 239 (Southern Pac. Co.); Act of July 26, 1866, 14
Stat. 289 (Missouri, Kans. & Texas Ry.); Act of July 28, 1866, 14
Stat. 338 (Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry.; St. Louis, Iron Mtn. & So.
Ry.). Others authorized the railroad to charge for Government transportation, subject to regulations which Congress might impose restricting such charges. Act of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365 (Northern
Pac. Ry.); Act of July 27, 1866, 14 Stat. 292 (Atchison, T. & S. F.
Coast Lines; St. Louis & S. F. Ry.; Southern Pac. Co.); Act of
March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 573 (Southern Pac. Co.). The Act of July 1,
1862, 12 Stat. 489 (Missouri Pac. Ry.), provided for fair and reasonable rates for Government transportation, not to exceed the amounts
paid by private parties for the same kind of service. See Schedule
of Land-Grant and Bond-Aided Railroads of the U. S., Office of
the Quartermaster General of the Army, Circular No. 4, February 1,
1922.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

393

followed in roads aided by land grants.10 The long continued administrative interpretation has decided weight
in reaching a conclusion upon the construction of this
contract," particularly when the Congress after such interpretation gives up a right for free transportation between the terminals. Any doubt must be resolved in
favor of the Government."
The construction adopted in the Court of Claims was
reached in United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co."
where there was a shortening of 94.24 miles in the through
route between St. Paul and Seattle by means of a cut-off.
In that case, too, the old route was maintained for local
use.
It is urged, however, that in this instance we have a new
line, an addition, rather than a cut-off in or a shortening
or straightening of an original line. 4 So far as terminalto-terminal transportation is concerned, the Cascade
Route does not function as a new line or an addition.
It is simply another way of carrying goods by the same
railroad between San Francisco and Portland. By which
route the shipment moves, is immaterial on the question
of deduction for land grants. The conclusion that the
lowest public tariffs are to have land-grant deductions
(1888) 3 Dig. Dec. 2d Comp. 299. Followed in (1899) V Dec. of
10

Comp. of Treas. 364; (1911)

XVII Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 633;

(1914) XXI Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 238; (1917) XXIV Dec. of Comp.
of Treas. 193; (1923) 3 Dec. of Comp. Gen. 267; (1931) 10 Dec. of
Comp. Gen. 552; (1936) 15 Dec. of Comp. Gen. 614. But see (1900)
VII Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 224; (1902) VIII Dec. of Comp. of Treas.
474.
Cf. Fox v. Standard Oil Co., 294 U. S. 87, 96; Armstrong Paint
& Varnish Works v. Nu-Enamel Corp., 305 U. S. 315, 329-30.
Broad River Co. v. South Carolina,281 U. S. 537, 548.
130

1,

F. 2d 655; rehearing denied, 32 F. 2d 698.

United States v. Kansas Pacific Ry. Co., 99 U. S. 455; United

States v. Denver Pacific Ry. Co., 99 U. S. 460; United States v. Central Pacific R. Co., 118 U, S. 235,
161299 -39-

26

402

OCTOBER TERM,. 1938.
BUTLER

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

based upon the proportion of the land-grant mileage in
the original line, seems consonant with the purpose of
the acts.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no

part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.
The land-grant Act of July 25, 1866, and compliance
with it constitute a contract.' This case calls for construction of a provision in § 5.2 The Court of Claims sustained the government's deduction on account of landgrant mileage that is not included in or possibly attributable to the railroad over which the shipments moved.
The inclusion, as a part of the aided railroad, of 275.6
miles of the Cascade Route between Springfield Junction,
Oregon and Black Butte, California, is not permissible
'Lake Superior & M. R. Co. v. United States, 93 U. S. 442. Union
Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 104 U. S. 662, 664. United States v.
Central Pacific R. Co., 118 U. S. 235, 238. Burke v. Southern Pacific
R. Co., 234 U. S. 669, 680. United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co.,
256 U. S. 51, 64. United States v. Galveston, H. & S. A. Ry. Co.,
279 U. S. 401.
2 "And be it further enacted, That the grants aforesaid are made
upon the condition that the said companies shall keep said railroad . . .
in repair and use, and shall at all times transport the mails upon said
railroad ... for the government of the United States, when required so to do by any department thereof, and that the government
shall at all times have the preference in the use of said railroad ...
therefor at fair and reasonable rates of compensation, not to exceed
the rates paid by private parties for the same kind of service. And
said railroad shall be and remain a public highway for the use of the
government of the United States, free of all toll or other charges upon
the transportation of the property or troops of the United States;
and the same shall be transported over said road at the cost, charge,
and expense of the corporations or companies owning or operating
the same, when so required by the government of the United States."
14 Stat. 239, 240-241.

PLAINTIFF'S EXHIBIT

No. 23.

G

)\
'ET

0

N

LEGEND

T

RED- 50% LAND GRANT LANDS
NOT USED IN COMPUTING

I
.2 S 6M
7

FOURTH SECTION FREIGHT

'AU/NIN

I

RATES.
BLUE-ROUTE USED IN COMPUTING
FOURTH SECTION FREIGHT
RATES.
RED& BLUE-50% LAND GRANT
LANDS USED IN COMPUTING FOURTH SECTION FREIGHT RATES

-

--

.

SLY
KAAH FALLs

LA

W

N
.WES

WINEMUCCA2
ROSE CREEx

*
we

Crw
r

BATTLE

5TWOo
°0

1121.
'LANIGAN

MISTI, OVELOCK

S\RINGC,

I04.6IM .

g
0

I'.

LLEF
/5ATLAPID
LINCOLN

161299--39

'ace p. 403

z

0

AE

gN

I

CHURACHI
L

E

NIT w

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

under the terms of the contract, nor is computation of
the land-grant deduction from charges for transportation
via Cascade on the percentage applicable to charges for
transportation via Siskiyou warranted by constructions
heretofore put upon like Acts. See (opposite) reproduction of map submitted as an exhibit at the argument in
this Court.
I.

The grant was made to induce and aid construction of
a railroad between Portland and some point to be selected
by the grantees on the Central Pacific to serve the
Willamette, Umqua, and Rogue River Valleys in Oregon,
and the Sacramento and Shasta Valleys in California, and
to be located as shown on maps made by the grantees
and filed with the Secretary of the Interior. The railroad was located and constructed, and, since its completion in 1887, has been maintained and kept in use, in
accordance with the contract. The aided portion is 663.13
miles long, extending between East Portland, Oregon and
Roseville, California, a point on the Central Pacific east
of Sacramento and about 111 miles from San Francisco.
It is now called the Siskiyou Route.
Section 5 declares that the grantees shall keep "said
railroad" in repair and use; that it shall be "a public highway" for the use of the United States; and that property
and troops of the United States shall be transported over
"said road" at the cost, charge, and expense of the corporations or companies owning or operating "the same,"
when so required by the Government.
Plainly the contract applies only to the land-aided railroad between Portland and Roseville; not to the haul between Portland and San Francisco, nor to that between
Roseville and San Francisco. The contract neither
expresses nor implies any special undertaking by the
carrier as to charges for government transportation be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

tween the port or terminal of Portland and that of San
Francisco.
The Act of May 23, 1928' merely substitutes 50 per

cent of the commercial charges for free transportation under §5. Thus, as modified, the Act of 1866 requires
plaintiff to furnish government transportation between
points on and wholly via the land-grant railroad for onehalf the charges applicable to like service for private
parties. And for government transportation between a
point on the aided railroad and one on another line there
is deducted from charges generally made one-half the
percentage that aided mileage attributable to that service
is of the total miles hauled.
The Cascade stretch was not completed until 1926 and,
as shown by the findings, it is made up of branches extended during a number of years prior to 1912 little by
little from Black Butte to Kirk to reach productive forest
and agricultural areas. See Diagram 1, opposite. At
its northerly end a short piece from Springfield Junction to Natron was completed in 1891; in 1912 that
branch was built to Oakridge to serve timber areas on
both sides of the Cascades and ultimately to be a part
"An Act For the relief of the land-grant railroad operated between
the station formerly known as East Portland, in . . . Oregon, and
That the landRoseville, in ... California. Be it enacted ...

grant railroad heretofore operated, and now being operated, between
the station formerly known as East Portland, in . . . Oregon, and
Roseville, in . . . California, shall hereafter receive compensation for

transportation of property and troops of the United States at the
same rate as is paid to land-grant railroads organized under the Land
Grant Act of March 3, 1863, and the Act of July; 27, 1866 (chapter
278) [pursuant to which such railroads transport government property at a charge of 50 per cent of the regular tariffs] : Provided, that
the Congress hereby reserves the right at any time by law to prescribe such charges as it deems advisable for such government transportation."

DIAGRAM 1.

Hatched Lines Show Land-aided Mileage.

0

Scale of Miles
. .,,m
40
,,
80

,

o

ORGON

61ACA'
O DS APNTA OITY
AND
PO11T,$ E'AST

--

1-IL OS
/

161299"o39

Face p. 404

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

of a line connecting with the Central Pacific in Nevada
or with the Union Pacific in eastern Oregon. These systems were then under one control. About the same
time-1911-1914-plaintiff built from Fernley, Nevada,
a point on the Central Pacific, northwesterly to Westwood, California to serve industries there. Consummation of the project to complete the line between Fernley
and Springfield Junction via Natron, Oakridge, Kirk, and
Klamath Falls was delayed because of the suit brought
in 1908 under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act by the United
States in the circuit court for the district of Utah (see 188
F. 102), which resulted in decree dissolving control by the
Union Pacific of the Southern Pacific. United States v.
Union Pacific R. Co., 226 U. S. 61. In 1929, with the
approval of the Interstate Commerce Commission, plaintiff completed the connection between Springfield Junction and Fernley to form a part of the through route between Portland, Salt Lake City, and points east.
The Court of Claims found that since the completion of
the Cascade stretch "plaintiff has had and now has two
complete lines of railroad or routes in Oregon and north
ern California, one the Siskiyou route . . . serving the
valleys and areas described . . .producing much tonnage
of timber, agricultural products, livestock, etc., and the
other the Cascade route . . . also serving large timber
areas and agricultural and livestock producing areas, each
of these lines of railroad serving producing areas quite
generally at all points. Plaintiff has maintained the
Siskiyou route, transporting a substantial and varied
traffic and serving a large and important area. The Siskiyou route and the Cascade route are two separate and
distinct routes or lines of railroad, necessary for adequate
transportation service to the interested areas or territories traversed by such lines."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

The stretch of railroad between Springfield Junction
and Black Butte via Siskiyou, all land-aided, is 300.42
miles long; it is used for through transportation and also
serves locally in the Willamette, Umqua, and Rogue
River Valleys. All land-aided mileage in that route continuously has been operated and maintained for the service of the public, including transportation of property and
troops of the United States. The stretch between the
same points via Cascade, none of it land-aided, is 275.6
miles long, most of which is east of the Cascade Mountains. It also carries through and local traffic. To illustrate how unreasonable and arbitrary it is to attribute
that mileage to the aided railroad built, as required by the
Act of 1866, to open and develop the great valleys west of
the mountains, let it be noted that except at and near the
connecting points, Springfield Junction and Black Butte,
these stretches serve widely separated territories of vast
extent; the area between them is greater than that of the
State of Massachusetts. The mileage of the Cascade
stretch is greater than the distance between Washington
and West Point via New York City. The mileage of the
Siskiyou stretch is substantially the same as the distance
between Washington and Pittsburgh.
Upon completion of the Siskiyou Route, plaintiff established through rates between Oregon and California
points; in order to meet competition of water carriers, it
was compelled to make rates between Portland and San
Francisco lower than rates between intermediate points.
In 1912, after enactment of the long and short haul clause
of § 4, Interstate Commerce Act, the Commission permitted the maintenance of lower through rates; it found
they were forced by water competition and were lower
than normal, fair and reasonable rates. In 1920, § 4 was
again amended to require the Commission to find that the
lower through rates permitted by it were reasonably com-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

pensatory. In 1927, the Commission, upon plaintiff's
showing of operating costs on the Siskiyou Route, found
that the through rates were less than reasonable and
granted authority to establish rates between the terminals
lower than intermediate rates but so much higher than
the competing water rates that plaintiff could not share
in the business. The Commission thereafter reopened
the case. In order to show the reasonably compensatory
nature of the lower through rates, plaintiff based its showing on the more favorable transportation conditions and
substantially lower operating costs on the Cascade Route.
Pursuant to the Commission's report and order of July,
1930, the plaintiff revised its tariffs effective November 11,
1931. The low through rates on the Siskiyou Route were
discontinued and higher rates in accord with § 4 were substituted. Much lower rates, to meet water competition,
were established via the Cascade Route as to transportation of about 25 per cent of all articles that move between
the cities of Portland and San Francisco. During the
period between completion of the Cascade Route and the
effective date of the new rates, the through rates were the
same via both routes.
The aided mileage in the Siskiyou Route, 663.16 miles,
between Portland and San Francisco, is 85.584 per cent of
the total. The aided mileage in the Cascade Route is
258.13 miles, or 35.602 per cent of the total. Charges for
the shipments in question applicable via the Cascade
Route, less 17.801 per cent (one-half of the per cent of
land-grant mileage to total) are substantially less than
those via Siskiyou, less 42.792 per cent. The Government did not expressly direct the shipments in question
to be hauled over the Cascade Route but it did in fact
choose to have them go that way. It was plaintiff's duty
to send them over the route on which the charges would
be lower. The Government refused to pay more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

the lower rates applicable via Cascade minus the landgrant deduction of 42.792 per cent applicable to the higher
charges over the Siskiyou Route.
The findings compel the conclusions that the Cascade
stretch between Springfield Junction and Black Butte was
not built to better alignment or lessen grades of, add
trackage to or otherwise improve, the land-aided stretch
via Siskiyou between the same points; that it was made
up of branches and extensions constructed from time to
time to develop productive areas, to serve local needs and,
upon completion, to be a separate and distinct railroad
between Springfield Junction and Black Butte, a part of
which was also to serve as a section of the transcontinental
route above referred to. Clearly it is not a part of the
railroad aided by the grant of 1866. It was not constructed to aid transportation on, or as a substitute for,
any part of the aided railroad. The fact that it is used
to haul government shipments like those in question does
not suggest any failure of plaintiff fully to perform the
land-grant contract to maintain and keep in use the aided
railroad between Portland and Roseville. There is
nothing in the grant, or in the circumstances under which
it was made and complied with, that gives any support to
the government's claim that, from the lower charges applicable to shipments by private parties via Cascade, it is
entitled to deduct the higher land-grant percentage applicable to transportation via Siskiyou.
II.
The opinion of the Court of Claims shows its judgment
to have been reached on an assumption of fact that is not
sustained by the findings or otherwise supported. It
says: "The method of settlement with plaintiff used by
the General Accounting Office in this case has been consistently and uniformly followed by the defendant's ac-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

409

J., dissenting.

counting officers for more than fifty years in cases involving the same or similar questions."
There is no finding to that effect, but to support the
statement the opinion continues: "The principle was
stated by the Second Comptroller of the Treasury in a
decision April 17, 1888, as follows: 'If a railroad have a
line between two points, aided in whole or in part, and
subsequently acquire a new line or lines nonaided between
those same points, the accounts for Government transportation, when performed over the new line or lines,
shall be stated in the same proportion of aided to nonaided miles as though the transportation were over the
original line.'"
The decision referred to has not been reported or anywhere published. It may be found on file in the General
Accounting Office, Miscellaneous Claims Division, Vol.
55, p. 422. The passage above-quoted is one of two sentences excerpted from different parts of the document
and together published, without more, as paragraph 1160,
Vol. 3, p. 299 of Kern's 1893 Digest of Decisions of the
Second Comptroller of the Treasury." As counsel failed
to make available to us the unreported text of the decision, it is assumed that nothing more than the statement
in the Digest was brought to the attention of the lower
court.
To give weight to the Second Comptroller's dictum and
justify its application to this case, the lower court adds:
"This rule as stated has been uniformly observed in the
settlement of accounts for government transportation of
property and troops of the United States, and has been
applied in settlement of accounts for transportation ren'The first sentence reads: "The Central Pacific Railroad Company
should recognize the Government's demand that its security for repayment of money advanced in aid of the construction of the original
line be not impaired or whittled away by a duplicating of the line."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

dered the Government where through service has been
rendered by a shorter line substituted in whole or in part
for the longer aided and original line. (See stipulations
of the parties in United States v. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co., 30 F. 2d 655.) This long established rule has been
acquiesced in by land-grant railroads generally and was
acquiesced in by this plaintiff during the period between
the completion of its Cascade line in 1926 to 1931 when
its accounts against the Government for the transportation of Government property were settled in this manner.
It was not until the shipments involved in this suit were
moved that plaintiff made protest against the position
of the Government. We do not regard the fact the rates
between San Francisco and Portland were the same over
both routes between 1926 and 1931 as material or altering
in any way the principle involved."
As to that passage, it is to be observed:
The opinion states that the rule, said to have been
established by administrative practice, has been applied
to transportation rendered by a "shorter line substituted
in whole or in part for the longer aided and original line."
The court definitely found that the Cascade stretch is a
line separate and distinct from the aided railroad. It
was not substituted for or used in lieu of the Siskiyou
Route. It was chosen by or for the Government because
applicable charges, whatever the basis of calculation of
land grant deductions, were less than those for like transportation via the other stretch.
The cited stipulation between the Northern Pacific
Railway and the United States cannot here be made to
serve in lieu of special findings of fact.' Moreover, as
See M. E. Blatt Co. v. United States, 305 U. S. 267, 277. Stone
United States, 164 U. S. 380, 383. Crocker v. United States, 240 U.
74, 78. Brothers v. United States, 250 U. S. 88, 93. United States
Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 120. United States v. Esnault-Pelterie,299 U.

v.
S.
v.
S,

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

will be shown, the circuit court of appeals in that case
held against the carrier on the ground that new unaided
mileage had been substituted for aided mileage in the
original route. That case makes strongly in favor of
plaintiff here, for the findings of the Court of Claims show
that no part of the original aided railroad had been
abandoned as to the traffic in question or otherwise.
The lower court's statement that, from the completion
of the Cascade stretch in 1926 until the shipments here
involved, plaintiff acquiesced in the rule adopted by the
court is not supported by the findings. But, even if warranted, it is without significance for the question presented in this case did not and could not arise while the
rates applicable between Portland and San Francisco
were the same.
III.
The Court of Claims failed to find as fact that the Government followed, or the carriers accepted as sound, the
dictum excerpted by Kern from the decision of the Second Comptroller of April 17, 1888. To supply the omission, the Government cites in its brief, without adequate
statement of the facts or explanation, all administrative
rulings and judicial decisions it deems to have any bearing
on the question now before us. The former are referred
to in footnote 10 of this Court's opinion.' Here the material substance of each will be indicated.
201, 206. And see American Propeller Co. v. United States, 300 U. S.
475, 479-480.
'The footnote reads: "(1888) 3 Dig. Dec. 2d Comp. 299. Followed
in (1899) V Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 364; (1911) XVII Dec. of Comp.
of Treas. 633; (1914) XXI Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 238; (1917)
XXIV Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 193; (1923) 3 Dec. of Comp. Gen.

267; (1931) 10 Dec. of Comp. Gen. 552; (1936) 15 Dec. of Comp.
Gen. 614. But see (1900) VII Dec. of Comp, of Treas. 224; (1902)
VIII Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 474."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

1. Ruling of April 17, 1888, by Second Comptroller of
the Treasury, Butler. At that time, the Central Pacific
had three lines between Sacramento and San Francisco.
They are indicated on Diagram 2, opposite. Route 1,
via Brighton, Tracy and Niles was the original railroad,
140 miles, of which 103 were bond-aided. Route 2 via
Davis and Port Costa, 90 miles, had no aided mileage.
Route 3 via Brighton, Tracy, and Port Costa was 151
miles, of which 63 belonged to the bond-aided stretch in
Route 1. The bonds in aid were given under the Act of
July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489, 494. See also amendatory Acts of July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356, and May 7,
1878, c. 96, 20 Stat. 56. Section 6 declares that the aid
grants are made on condition that the company shall keep
the railroad in repair and use, transport troops and property of the Government "at fair and reasonable rates of
compensation, not to exceed the amounts paid by private
parties for the same kind of service," and that all compensation for that transportation shall be applied to the
payment of the bonds. For a time immediately preceding
the Second Comptroller's decision, the Government stated
the accounts of the company as though all shipments had
been hauled over Route 1. The railroad maintained that
payment should be made in accordance with the bondaided mileage in the route used. Thus arose the issue
decided.
The bond-aid contract had been construed to require the
Treasury to retain the compensation for government
transportation over bond-aided mileage and to apply it in
payment of the bonds. United States v. Kansas Pacific
Ry. Co., 99 U. S. 455. United States v. Central Pacific
R. Co., 118 U. S. 235. These cases definitely established
that compensation for government transportation over
nonaided extensions of the aided railroads should not be
withheld or applied to pay the bond debt. But the Sec-

DIAGRAM

2.

Scale: Appx. 1 inch= 12 miles.

Hatched Lines Show Bond-aided Mileage
SACRAMENTO
ON

,PR/GH

05

0

STOCKTON

NIL ES

161299*-39

Face p. 412

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

ond Comptroller held that rule not applicable. He found
that accounting officers were required by the Act to determine whether the rates are "fair and reasonable" and
stated the problem thus: "Given a certain state of facts,
what is the service rendered by the railroad, and what is
a fair and reasonable compensation therefor? "
More specifically to disclose the point, the Second
Comptroller referred to the contractual relations between
the Government and the carriers, and asked himself:
"Are those relations impaired by the railroad, if it pursues the course which in the present case it contends to
be right?" He answered affirmatively and to sustain that
view reasoned as follows: To reimburse itself the Government may withhold compensation for "carriage over an
aided line." The security is impaired if the railroad "parallels or duplicates an aided line between two points and
diverts the government business to that line without in
some way recognizing its indebtedness to the govern-.
ment." 7
Then, granting that on strictest legal construction of
the statutes and of the decisions of this Court there was
nothing to preclude such a course by the railroad, the
Second Comptroller went on to say: "But the principles
of equity and ethics forbid the application of such a construction." *Invoking the maxim "He that seeks equity
must do equity" as being "most forcibly pertinent," he
declared that so long as the railroad is indebted to the
Government on account of the bond-aided line, it must
' And then, the decision quotes a passage from a message of President Cleveland, then very recently sent to Congress 1with the report
of three commissioners appointed to investigate the affairs of railroad
companies that had received government aid, declaring that the acts
were passed upon the theory that the roads should be constructed
"according to the common rules of business, fairness, and duty, and
that their ability to pay their debts should not be impaired by unfair
manipulations."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

not imperil the government's opportunity to recoup, and
concluded that all accounts, without regard to the route
used, should be stated upon the basis of bond-aided
mileage.
The company claimed that acquisition of Route 2 was
necessary because it threatened the existence of the Central Pacific and that Route 3 was acquired for convenience because it had better grades than the original line.
It argued that the Government had an interest in the
new lines and should be willing to pay entire compensation for carriage over them. Against that contention the
Second Comptroller said: "But the acquiring or building
by a railroad of new lines connecting two points already
connected by the road of the company is one of the ordinary elements of modern railroading, intended to enhance
the usefulness of the original line, in the same way as
does the replacing of iron by steel rails, or wooden by
stone buildings, of hand-brakes by automatic appliances.'
Is the Government to lose its right of withholding compensation for carriage over a trestle, the construction of
which in wood it aided, simply because the railroad has
seen fit to replace the wooden structure by one of iron?"
He denounced as untenable both the position of the
Government and that of the company, and declared "that
a medium course is not only practicable and equitable,
but is justified under the Acts . . . by the changed and
apparently unanticipated condition of affairs since the
construction of the railroad was contemplated." He suggested that the company should recognize that the Government's security should not be impaired by a duplicating line, and that the Government should recognize such
an improvement of route as materially lessens distance or
difficulties of transportation between two points. Then
reasoning in more definite terms, he said:
'Italics in quotations are added.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

"If the original line . . ., 140 miles in length, were
entirely aided, and the Government's supplies were taken
over the new and unaided line, 90 miles in length, it
would not be right on the one hand for the railroad to
demand actual compensation for the 90 miles, or, on the
other hand, for the Government to maintain that the account should be adjusted on a basis of 140 miles and that
amount passed to the credit of the railroad on the Government's books. The non-aided line was used to replace
the aided line, and credit for the 90 miles only should be
given the railroad on the Government's books. The same
reasoning applies when the original line was aided in
part.
"If of the original 140 miles . . . 103 were aided, and
the accounts were so stated as to pay the railroad for 37
miles and carry 103 miles to the railroad's credit, the
same ratio should be applied when transportation is over
a new line between those points, and 103/140 of the total
distance traversed should be considered as aided and
should be carried to the railroad's credit on the Government's books, compensation for the balance of 37/140
being paid direct to the railroad."
Following these passages the Second Comptroller said:
"If a railroad have a line between two points aided in
whole or in part, and subsequently acquire a new line or
lines, nonaided, between those same points, the accounts
for Government transportation, when performed over the
.new line or lines, shall be stated in the same proportion
of aided to nonaided miles, as though the transportation
were over the original line." This is the statement found
in par. 1160, 3 Dig. 2d Comp. 299, on which the Court of
Claims grounded its judgment.
Applying the generalization so attempted he ruled:
"On this basis the accounts of the railroad coming to this
bureau will be finally settled. I am of the opinion that

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

substantial justice would thus be done-the railroad
would not impair the security of the Government, and
.the Government would recognize the right of the railroad
to make improvements."
The crucial phrase of the generalization, "a new line
or lines nonaided," would include mileage that is separate
and distinct from an aided railroad maintained and kept
in use between the same points. But the Second Comptroller, on the grounds that acquisition of new lines was
the same as making additions and betterments to the
original aided line and that Routes 2 and 3 were used to
replace Route 1, treated the lines constituting the three
routes as a single railroad bond-aided to the extent of
103/140 of its length.' It thus appears that the broad
generalization does not express the principle of the decision or fit the situation described by it as mere betterment of the line built pursuant to the bond-aid contract.
The decision does not relate to the question in this case.
Plaintiff does not contend that, if aided mileage of the
Siskiyou stretch not used may be attributed to the Cascade stretch that was used to do the hauling in question,
the corresponding percentage, 42.792 per cent, should not
be applied. Plaintiff's point is that the findings preclude
the assignment of any aided mileage to the nonaided
Cascade stretch. The text of the Second Comptroller's
decision shows that he did not decide or deal with any
such issue.
2. Ruling of January 5, 1899 by Acting Comptroller
Mitchell in a Southern Pacific case, V Dec. of Comp. of
'Under our decisions, the contract extended only to the aided railroad. United States v. Kansas Pacific Ry. Co., 99 U. S. 455. United
States v. Central Pacific R. Co., 118 U. S. 235. As Routo 2 had no
aided mileage and Route 3 only 63 of its 151 miles, the Comptroller
erred in treating the lines constituting the three routes as a single
railroad.

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

Treas. 364. See Diagram 2. A government clerk traveled
to Sacramento via Stockton. A part of the route used was
bond-aided. He returned via Benicia on the shorter and
usually traveled nonaided route. The question was
whether payment should be made to the company for
transportation over the nonaided route. This decision
merely follows the uncalled for and inapplicable generalization attempted by Second Comptroller Butler in the
Central Pacific case.
3. Ruling of November 19, 1900 by Assistant Comptroller Mitchell in an Illinois Central case, VII Dec. of
Comp. of Treas. 224. See Diagram 3. The company
operated a land-aided railroad between Cairo and Chicago. It had two routes for passenger travel between
Cairo and St. Louis: the shorter via Carbondale and
Pinckneyville, had some unaided mileage; the longer, via
Du Quoin, was aided throughout. The Government having failed to designate either route and the shorter being
the usually traveled one over which all through trains
operated, the company carried the government passenger
that way. The question was whether the land-grant deduction should be calculated on the percentage of landaided mileage in the route used or on the greater percentage in the other route. Assistant Comptroller Mitchell
did not follow the general statement of Second Comptroller Butler in the Central Pacific case but held that, as
the Government did not choose between the routes, the
deduction should be calculated on the mileage used.
In the list of administrative rulings, cited by the Government, this is the first one that involves construction
of a land-grant Act. Land-aid differs essentially from
bond-aid. Contracts in respect of the latter require government transportation over aided mileage at "fair and
reasonable rates" and that the compensation earned be
applied on the bond debt. No diminution of charges for
government transportation is exacted. The railroad re161299 -39-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

ceives credit instead of cash for the charges calculated at
full rates. But the land-grant Acts require service either
free or at half rates forever. Questions as to compensation under them concern not merely form of payment of
full charges but the amount of payment. Unreasonable
indeed would it be to hold that carriers' acquiescence in
government construction of bond-aid Acts is binding or
entitled to weight in cases involving construction of the
land-grant Acts.
DIAGRAM
Scale: Appx. 1 inch

3.
- 26 miles.

Hatched Lines Show Land-aided Mileage.
WO SrLOU/3
PIN'CKNEY11141E

DI QUO/N

CARBONDALE

CAIRO

4. Ruling of January 21, 1902 by Comptroller Tracewell in a Great Northern case, VIII Dec. of Comp. of
Treas. 474. See Diagram 4. The Government shipped

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

property from St. Paul, Minnesota, to points west of
Larimore, North Dakota. The company had three routes
between the points just named. The percentage of aided
mileage in the route via Crookston, "a," is larger than
that in either route "b" or "c." The Government having
failed to choose a route, the company hauled by the shortDIAGRAM

4.

Scale: Appx. 1 inch = 74 miles.

Hatched Lines Show Land-aided Mileage.
C%
rO Sr

VINCENT

est route, "c"; it was generally used for like service. The
question was whether land-grant deduction should be calculated on the percentage of the shorter line actually
used or the higher percentage of the longer one not

used.
The decision, as well as the quoted generalization, of
Second Comptroller Butler are in terms broad enough to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BuTmR, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

cover the question presented but Comptroller Tracewell,
refusing to follow either, decided against the Government's contention. He said: "Where, with Government
aid, two separate and independent lines of railroad have
been constructed from a common point to entirely different 'points, but which subsequently by extension and independent connections are projected through a common
point, and all these lines have subsequently passed to the
control of a single company, and transportation is furnished between such common points for the Government
by the most usually traveled of said routes, deduction for
land grant should be made on the basis of such route, in
the absence of a contract or a request for transportation
by the other route."
If followed, this ruling would require land-grant deduction in the case at bar to be calculated on the land-grant
mileage of the Cascade Route used. Compare Diagrams
1 and 4.
5. Ruling of February 28, 1911 by Comptroller Tracewell in a St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern (Missouri
Pacific) case, XVII Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 633. See
Diagram 5. The company had a land-aided railroad between Birds Point, Missouri (on the west bank of the
Mississippi opposite Cairo, Illinois) and Texarkana,
Arkansas, via Dexter, Missouri. Government shipments
from Cairo to Dexter were generally transported across
the river at Birds Point and thence by the land-aided line.
On Government shipments between Cairo and Texarkana
by that route, 99.247 per cent was land aided. Because
of a change in the bed of the river, it was necessary to
haul the shipments in question via Thebes and Illmo.
The land-grant deduction applicable to that route was
81.234 per cent. The railroad insisted that, having been
forced to give up the old route, it should not be required
to make deduction for the nonaided mileage between
Cairo and Dexter via Thebes. But the Comptroller re-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BuER, J., dissenting.

fused to accept that contention and ordered settlement
on the basis of land-aided mileage in the route via Birds
Point.
DIAGRAM 5.

Scale: Appx. 1 inch = 17 miles.

Hatched Lines Show Land-aided Mileage.
/1410

H

rHEBES

-

NA, ARK.
4
rO T-EXARA
V/A L/TrE ROCK

DEX7TER

\"

There is a fundamental difference between that case
and the one before us. The carrier had abandoned the
land-aided route for hauls between Cairo and Dexter.
The Southern Pacific kept the Siskiyou Route in use.
6. Ruling of October 19, 1914 by Comptroller Downey
in an Atchison case, XXI Dec. of Comp. of Treas. 238.
See Diagram 6. The company has a line in Kansas between Lawrence and Chanute, land-aided to the extent of
91.3 miles and unaided as to 3.02 miles, part of the distance between Chanute and Humboldt. It has another
line between Atchison and the Colorado boundary via
Topeka and Emporia, all of which is land-aided. To connect these two aided lines there was built an unaided
branch between Lawrence and Topeka and later another
between Ottawa and Emporia. The Government shipped
cement from Chanute to Holbrook, Arizona. Earlier the
shipment would have moved through Humboldt, Ottawa,
Lawrence, Topeka, Emporia, and thence to point of des-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

307 U. S.

J., dissenting.

DIAGRAM

6.

Scale: Appx. 1 inch = 58 miles.

Hatched Lines Show Land-aided Mileage.
ATCHISON

re KANSAS C/TY

To
KANSAS

- COLORADO

STATMELIME

EMPORIA

6

CHN4/UTE

tination. But, because of the construction of the branch
between Ottawa and Emporia, the shipment in question
was hauled over that line. By this route the haul be-

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

tween Chanute and Holbrook was 59.13 miles less than
over the other route and aided mileage between those
points was less by 91.42 miles. The Comptroller held
that the land-grant deduction should be based on the landaided mileage of the original route. He found that the
land-grant Act (12 Stat. 772) required the aided railroads
"to be and remain public highways for the use of the government" and that the branch lines made new through
routes "to the abandonment, in part, of the aided through
route." He said: "It has long been the holding of the
accounting officers that the changing of a line of railroad
and abandoning of any part of the original aided line does
not deprive the Government of its original rights, and
settlement for service over the new line is, therefore, required to be made as if the transportation were over the
original line. (See 3 Dig. Dec. 2d Comp. 299; V Dec. of
Comp. of Treas. 364)".
As the ground on which that ruling rests is abandonment of a part of the aided line, it gives no support to the
judgment before us.
7. Ruling of October 1, 1917 by Comptroller Warwick
in a Missouri Pacific case, XXIV Dec. of Comp. of Treas.
193. The published report does not disclose the physical
situation. It is indicated by Diagram 7 prepared on the
basis of information found in an unpublished opinion in
the same case rendered May 8, 1917. The Government
shipped stone from Batesville, Arkansas on an unaided
line via Kansas City to Leavenworth Penitentiary,
Kansas. An older route between the same points was via
White River Branch Connection, Cairo Branch Connection, Carondolet Branch Connection, Pacific, and Kansas
City. The ratio applicable in computing land-grant deduction for shipments hauled that way is 17.933 per cent.
The Warden at Leavenworth paid the company for the
service in question over the unaided line, without any
land-grant deduction. However, the Comptroller held

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

the carrier subject to the same percentage of deduction as
applied to the aided route. On the company's application he granted rehearing, upheld the principle on which
he ordered the deduction, and declared it would be applied to future shipments. But, in view of particular
facts and equities involved, he concluded that the accounts paid prior to the date of the decision could be allowed without land-grant deduction.
It requires no discussion to show that the direct route
used should have been chosen for the transportation in
question. The Comptroller cited no land-grant contract
to support the rule that he made applicable to future
shipments. Nor did he cite Second Comptroller Butler's
ruling or any case-and so far as disclosed by diligent
research, briefs of counsel and this Court's opinion just
announced-there is none that tends to sustain so incongruous an attribution of aided mileage not used to an
unaided route used.
8. Ruling of October 27, 1923 by Comptroller McCarl
in a Southern Pacific case, 3 Comp. Gen. 267. See Diagram 8. This case involved a government shipment from
Marshall (Spokane), Washington, to Roseburg, Oregon.
It was routed over an unaided line of the Oregon-Washington Railroad & Navigation Company subject to an
equalization agreement that charges would not exceed
the amount payable had the service been by the landgrant line yielding the lowest net rate. The Northern
Pacific line between Marshall and Portland via Pasco and
Tacoma was land-aided. Later there was built between
Pasco and Portland a line jointly owned by the Northern
Pacific and the Great Northern; it is a part of the Spokane,
Portland & Seattle Railway. Upon completion of that
line, the Northern Pacific canceled its rates applicable between Marshall and Portland by its aided line through
Tacoma and announced that the rates in its tariffs would

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
BUT=ER,

J., dissenting.

only apply via the new unaided line. The Comptroller
held that, as to the government transportation in question, the aided stretch of the Northern Pacific had been
abandoned, and that the Government was therefore entitled "to the transportation over the substituted line on
the same basis as though transportation was furnished

over the original land-grant line," and directed that landgrant deduction should be allowed.
That case differs from the one at bar in that the Northern Pacific, having no tariff applicable to the shipment

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

via its aided line, had abandoned that line and for it
substituted a new one.
9. The decisions in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. United
States are next in chronological order. See Diagram 9,

Zs
Co

on p. 428. On government request, the company transported two Marines by through passenger train from
St. Paul to Seattle. The Northern Pacific land grant

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

aided a route from a point on Lake Superior to one on
Puget Sound. Pursuant to the terms of the statute (Act
of July 2, 1864, 13 Stat. 365) the aided railroad was built
from the terminal established at Ashland in Wisconsin to
the one established at Tacoma in Washington. Neither
St. Paul nor Seattle is or ever was a terminal on that or
any other land-grant line of the Northern Pacific. See
United States v. Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 177 U. S.435,
441. St. Paul is more than 100 miles off the aided line;
Seattle, more than 50 miles. In the route traveled by the
train in question the only aided mileage between St. Paul
and the original Northern Pacific land-grant line is a
stretch of about 20 miles between Watab and Little Falls,
which is a part of the land-aided railroad between Watab
and Brainerd constructed by the Western Railroad Company under the Act of March 3, 1857, 11 Stat. 195.10

There is no aided mileage between Seattle and Palmer
Junction, where the original line connects with the route
used.
The issue in the case was whether, in addition to an
undisputed deduction ,of 3 per cent, there should be deducted from the full commercial fare, $63.16, a land-grant
percentage of 46.001 per cent, as claimed by the company,
leaving a balance of $33.09, or 47.285 per cent, as claimed
by the Government, leaving a balance of $32.29. Thus
the amount in issue as to each passenger was 80 cents.
The controversy arose from the fact that the Government attributed to the route used the stretches of aided
mileage between Little Falls and Staples via Brainerd
and between Palmer Junction and Auburn via Meeker,
amounting in all to 94.24 miles.
The Government's theory was that the new unaided
lines were "merely alternate or lieu routes-routes estab"Between Minneapolis and St. Paul the Northern Pacific uses, under an operating contract, 8.23 miles of land-aided road belonging to
another company. That stretch was not involved in the litigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

428

BUTLER,

307 U. S.

J., dissenting.

-4

0~

00

0:

440

0

IT

4-04

u

Q
0.R

44

cd

-'a00

-.
to9

4

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
393

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

lished by the railroad to shorten or straighten its line"
and that therefore the calculation of land-grant deduction
should take into account aided mileage not used to render
the service in question. The district court refused so to
interpret the facts and held the deduction should be calculated on mileage actually used. 22 F. 2d 858, 859. But
the circuit court of appeals, one judge dissenting, found
that the unused aided mileage had been abandoned. 30
F. 2d 655. And upon that interpretation of the stipulated facts, it said (p. 659): "It thus appears that, except
by this latter route, [i. e. via unaided stretches between
Little Falls and Staples, and between Palmer Junction
and Auburn] through carriage by the Northern Pacific
[from St. Paul] to the entire Pacific coast is abandoned."
The facts clearly distinguish that case from the one now
under consideration. It is here immaterial whether the
judgment rests on a correct or erroneous interpretation of
the stipulation on which the case was submitted. It is
enough to say that the aided stretches were excluded by
the company because not used and were included by the
Government on the ground that having been abandoned,
they should be attributed to the route used.
10. Ruling of June 23, 1931 by Comptroller General
McCarl in a Missouri Pacific case, 10 Comp. Gen. 552.
See Diagram 10. The company constructed an unaided
cut-.off between Jedburg Junction and Eureka Junction,
intermediate points on its land-aided line between St.
Louis and Pacific. The distance between them via the
cut-off is 2.99 miles. Over the old land-aided line via
Glencoe, it is 4.93 miles. That track was still in use for
some local trains. At another place on its line, within the
city of St. Louis, the company substituted 0.68 of a mile
of nonaided line for a longer one which is aided. The
Comptroller General held that the aided mileage not used
should be attributed to the cut-off mileage used. He said:
"It would seem to be too clear for serious argument that

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

of the distances shown after the cut-off . . . between
Eureka and Jedburg and the 0.68 miles from union station connection to the union station, or a total of 3.67
miles is not over the land-grant line, but it is equally clear
that the new mileage of 3.67 miles was substituted for
mileage over the original line for which grants of public
lands were made."
It requires imagination to discover in that case anything in principle or in fact that will support the conclusion reached by the Court of Claims in the case at bar.
11. Ruling of January 16, 1936 by Comptroller General
McCarl, 15 Comp. Gen. 614. It has no bearing upon the
case at bar. The question was whether, in computing
percentage of land grant deduction, the line of the
Spokane, Portland & Seattle Railway between Pasco and
Portland (see Diagram 8), owned jointly by the Northern
Pacific and the Great Northern, is to be regarded as a
Northern Pacific line. The Comptroller General answered
in the affirmative.
IV.
There is apparent attempt to draw from the Act of 1928
some support for the construction on which this Court
affirms the judgment below. But, so far as concerns the
question in this case, that Act does not indicate any congressional interpretation of the land-grant Act of 1866.
The sole purpose of that measure was to substitute .50
per cent deduction in place of free transportation; it was
passed in order to relieve the Southern Pacific of a burden
to which other aided railroads were not subject. When
it was enacted, May 23, 1928, only eight of the rulings
above referred to had been made; two related to bondaid contracts and are not in point; two were in favor of
the railroads and do not support the judgment in this
case. And, as above shown, none gives any support to

SOUTHERN PACIFIC CO. v. U. S.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

the expansion of the terms of the contract that is here
made. The 1928 Act was passed while the decision of the
district court in the Northern Pacific case remained un-

reversed. 22 F. 2d 858 (1927). That case was not decided in the circuit court of appeals until 1929, 30 F. 2d
655. If the Act could be deemed to be a construction of

432

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

the land-grant-as plainly it may not-it would have to
be read as approving the decision of the district court, for
that was the only judicial decision in that field.
V..
The land-grant line has been kept in use. The contract
is that, where government transportation is wholly over
that line, deduction of 50 per cent shall be made and that,
where it is partly over that line, there shall be deducted
the percentage that aided mileage used is of total haul.
But this Court holds that, even if the Government elects
to have its freight move over a separate and distinct unaided railroad, the plaintiff is bound to apply the percentages applicable to charges for transportation over the
aided line. Thus the decision implies a formula or rule
to the effect that a land-grant deduction once found applicable to charges for transportation over a route made
ujg of aided and unaided mileage between two points is to
be applied to all subsequent government shipments between those points, even if the route actually used includes no aided mileage. There is nothing in this contract
or in any of the railroad land-grant Acts, either as written
or as hitherto construed, to warrant that construction.
I am of opinion that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLD S and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS
join in this opinion.

