496

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

does not tend to show that the rates on automobiles and
persons prescribed by the commission's order are too low.
The Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 452-453. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 372, 378,
381. It follows that appellant is not entitled to a decree
that the order is confiscatory.
More need not be written to dispose of the issues presented in this case. But in view of appellant's earnest
contentions, it is not inappropriate to say that the record,
considered in the light of its argument, fails to show that
the rate reduction will so lessen revenues from the Carquinez bridge that there will remain less than sufficient,
under the due process clause, to constitute just compensation for its use-a reasonable rate of return on the value
of the bridge property.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS concur in the result.

HAGUE, MAYOR, ET AL. V. COMMITTEE FOR
INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 651.

Argued February 27, 28, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

In a suit to enjoin municipal officers from enforcing ordinances forbidding the distribution of printed matter, and the holding without permits of public meetings,, in streets and other public places,
Held:
1. The case is within the jurisdiction of the District Court.
Pp. 512-513, 525.
2. The ordinances and their enforcement violate the rights under
the Constitution of the individual plaintiffs, citizens of the United
States; but a complaining corporation can not claim such rights.
P. 514.
3. The ordinances are void. Pp. 516, 518.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Syllabus.

4. Provisions of the decree enjoining forcible removal of plaintiffs or exercise of personal restraint over them without warrant,
or confinement without lawful arrest and production for prompt
judicial hearing, saving lawful search and seizure, or interference
with their free access to streets, parks or public places of the
city,-are not vague and impracticable. P. 517.
5. The decree properly enjoined interference with the right of
plaintiffs, their agents etc., to communicate their views as individuals to others on the streets in an orderly and peaceable manner, reserving the right of defendants to enforce law and order by
lawful search and seizure or arrest. P. 517.
6. In so far as the decree relates to distribution of literature
and holding of meetings, the decree should enjoin enforcement of
the void ordinances, and not undertake to enumerate the conditions under which those activities may be carried on. P. 518.
Per
JusTic

ROBERTS,

J., with whom

BLACK,

J.,

concurred.

The

CHIEF

concurred in part (p. 532).

1. The District Court lacked jurisdiction under Jud. Code § 24 (1).
P. 508.
(a) In suits under § 24 (1) a traverse of the allegation as to
the amount in controversy, or a motion to dismiss based upon the
absence of such amount, calls for substantial proof on the part of
the plaintiff of facts justifying the conclusion that the suit involves
the necessary sum. P. 507.
(b) The record in this suit is bare of any showing of the value
of the asserted rights to the complainants individually. P. 508.
(c) Complainants may not aggregate their interests in order to
attain the requisite jurisdictional amount. P. 508.
2. The District Court had jurisdiction under Jud. Code, § 24 (14).
P. 513.
(a) Freedom to disseminate information concerning the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act, to assemble peaceably
for discussion of the Act and of the opportunities and advantages
offered by it, is a privilege or immunity of a citizen of the United
States secured against state abridgment by § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and R. S. § 1979 and Jud. Code § 24 (14) afford
redress in a federal court for such abridgment. P. 512.
(b) Natural persons alone are entitled to the privileges and
immunities which § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment secures to
161299*-39-

32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

"citizens of the United States." Only the individual complainants
may maintain this suit. P. 514.
3. The privilege of a citizen of the United States to use the streets
and parks for communication of views on national questions may
be regulated in the interest of all; it is not absolute, but relative,
and must be exercised in subordination to the general comfort
and convenience, and in consonance with peace and good order;
but it must not, in the guise of regulation, be abridged or denied.
Distinguishing Davis v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43. P. 515.
4. The ordinance here in question, which forbids public assembly in
the streets or parks of the city without a permit from the Director
of Safety, who may refuse such permit upon his mere opinion that
such refusal will prevent "riots, disturbances or disorderly assemblage," is void upon its face. P. 516.
It does not make comfort or convenience in the use of the
streets or parks the standard of official action, and can be made
the instrument of arbitrary suppression of free expression of
views on national affairs. Uncontrolled official suppression of the
privilege of public assembly can not be made a substitute for the
duty to maintain order in connection with the exercise of the
right.
5. The question whether exemption from the searches and seizures
proscribed by the Fourth Amendment is afforded by the privileges
and immunities clause of the Fourteenth is not involved. P. 517.
6. An ordinance absolutely prohibiting distribution of circulars,
handbills, placards, etc., in any street or public place is void.
Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444. P. 518.
Per STONE, J., with whom
concurred in part (p. 532).

REED,

J., concurred.

The CHIEF JUSTICE

1. Freedom of speech and of assembly for any lawful purpose are
rights of personal liberty secured to all persons, without regard
to citizenship, by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 519.
There is no occasion in this case to consider whether freedom
of speech and of assembly are immunities secured by the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to
citizens of the United States.
2. The decree which is now affirmed is without support in the record, if the constitutional right of free speech and assembly is dependent on the privileges and immunities clause rather than the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Complainants

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Statement of the Case.

are not alleged, shown, or found to be citizens of the United
States. The findings do not support the conclusion that the proposed meetings of complainants were for any purpose affecting the
relationship between complainants and the United States or pertaining to United States citizenship. The decree is not restricted
to interferences with rights or immunities of United States citizenship, but enjoins unlawful interference with all meetings for lawful
purposes and the lawful dissemination of all information. Pp. 522524.
3. The suit is maintainable under Jud. Code, § 24 (14) as a suit for
protection of rights and privileges guaranteed by the due process
clause. P. 525.
The right of the individual complainants to maintain it conferred by § 24 (14) does not depend on their citizenship and can
not rightly be made to turn on the existence or non-existence
of a purpose to disseminate information about the National
Labor Relations Act.
4. The liberty guaranteed by the due process clause is the liberty
of natural, not artificial, persons. P. 527.
A corporation can not be said to be deprived of the civil rights
of freedom of speech and of assembly.
5. The right conferred by the Civil Rights Act of April 20, 1871,
to maintain a suit in equity in the federal courts to protect the
suitor against a deprivation of rights or immunities secured by the
Constitution has been preserved, and whenever the right is one
of personal liberty, not dependent for its existence upon the infringement of property rights, there is jurisdiction in the district
court under Jud. Code § 24 (14) to entertain it without proof
that the amount in controversy exceeds $3,000. P. 531.
Jud. Code § 24 (1), conferring upon the district court jurisdiction of suits "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States" in which the value in controversy exceeds the sum of
$3,000, is not to be interpreted as requiring a different result.
101 F. 2d 774, modified and affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 624, to review a decree which
modified and affirmed a decree of injunction, 25 F. 2d
127, in a suit brought by individuals, unincorporated
labor organizations, and a membership corporation,
against officials of a municipality to restrain alleged violations of constitutional rights of free speech and of
assembly.

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

307 U. S.

Messrs. Charles Hershenstein and Edward J. O'Mara
with whom Messrs. James A. Hamill and John A. Matthews were on the brief, for petitioners. See p. 661.
Messrs. Morris L. Ernst and Spaulding Frazer, with
whom Messrs. Lee Pressman and Benjamin Kaplan were
on the brief, for respondents. See p. 668.
By leave of Court, the Committee on the Bill of Rights
of the American Bar Association, filed a brief, as amici
curiae, discussing the right of assembly. See p. 678.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, presiding in the absence of the
and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS:

CHIEF JUSTICE

The judgment of the court in this case is that the decree
is modified and as modified affirmed. MR. JUSTICE
FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in
the consideration or decision of the case. MR. JUSTICE
ROBERTS has an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE BLACK
concurs, and MR. JUSTICE STONE an opinion in which
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs.

The CHIEF JUSTICE concurs

in an opinion. MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR.
JUSTICE BUTLER dissent for reasons stated in opinions by
them respectively.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered an opinion in which
MR. JUSTICE BLACK concurred:

We granted certiorari as the case presents important
questions in respect of the asserted privilege and immunity of citizens of the United States to advocate action
pursuant to a federal statute, by distribution of printed
matter and oral discussion in peaceable assembly; and
the jurisdiction of federal courts of suits to restrain the
abridgment of such privilege and immunity.
The respondents, individual citizens, unincorporated
labor organizations composed of such citizens, and a mem-

HAGUE v. C. 1. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

bership corporation, brought suit in the United States
District Court against the petitioners, the Mayor, the
Director of Public Safety, and the Chief of Police of
Jersey City, New Jersey, and the Board of Commissioners, the governing body of the city.
The bill alleges that acting under a city ordinance forbidding the leasing of any hall, without a permit from
the Chief of Police, for a public meeting at which a
speaker shall advocate obstruction of the Government of
the United States or a State, or a change of government
by other than lawful means, the petitioners, and their
subordinates, have denied respondents the right to hold
lawful meetings in Jersey City on the ground that they
are Communists or Communist organizations; that pursuant to an unlawful plan, the petitioners have caused
the eviction from the municipality of persons they considered undesirable because of their labor organization
activities, and have announced that they will continue so
to do. It further alleges that acting under an ordinance
which forbids any person to "distribute or cause to be
distributed or strewn about any street or public place any
newspapers, paper, periodical, book, magazine, circular,
card or pamphlet," the petitioners have discriminated
against the respondents by prohibiting and interfering
with distribution of leaflets and pamphlets by the respondents while permitting others to distribute similar
printed matter; that pursuant to a plan and conspiracy
to deny the respondents their Constitutional rights as
citizens of the United States, the petitioners have caused
respondents, and those acting with them, to be arrested
for distributing printed matter in the streets, and have
caused them, and their associates, to be carried beyond the
limits of the city or to remote places therein, and have
compelled them to board ferry boats destined for New
York; have, with violence and force, interfered with the
distribution of pamphlets discussing the rights of citizens

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

307 U. S.

under the National Labor Relations Act; have unlawfully searched persons coming into the city and seized
printed matter in their possession; have arrested and
prosecuted respondents, and those acting with them, for
attempting to distribute such printed matter; and have
threatened that if respondents attempt to hold public
meetings in the city to discuss rights afforded by the
National Labor Relations Act, they would be arrested;
and unless restrained, the petitioners will continue in
their unlawful conduct. The bill further alleges that
respondents have repeatedly applied for permits to hold
public meetings in the city for the stated purpose, as
required by ordinance,' although they do not admit the
validity of the ordinance; but in execution of a common
plan and purpose, the petitioners have consistently refused to issue any permits for meetings to be held by, or
sponsored by, respondents, and have thus prevented the
1 "The

Board of Commissioners of Jersey City Do Ordain:

"1. From and after the passage of this ordinance, no public
parades or public assembly in or upon the public streets, highways,
public parks or public buildings of Jersey City shall take place or
be conducted until a permit shall be obtained from the Director
of Public Safety.
"2. The Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized and empowered to grant permits for parades and public assembly, upon
application made to him at least three days prior to the proposed
parade or public assembly.
"3. The Director of Public Safety is hereby authorized to refuse
to issue said permit when, after investigation of all of the facts
and circumstances pertinent to said application, he believes it to be
proper to refuse the issuance thereof; provided, however, that said
permit shall only be refused for the purpose of preventing riots, disturbances or disorderly assemblage.
"4. Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this
ordinance shall upon conviction before a police magistrate of the
City of Jersey City be punished by a fine not exceeding two hundred
dollars or imprisonment in the Hudson County jail for a period not
exceeding ninety days or both."

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

holding of such meetings; that the respondents did not,
and do not, propose to advocate the destruction or overthrow of the Government of the United States, or that of
New Jersey, but that their sole purpose is to explain to
workingmen the purposes of the National Labor Relations
Act, the benefits to be derived from it, and the aid which
the Committee for Industrial Organization would furnish workingmen to that end; and all the activities in
which they seek to engage in Jersey City were, and are,
to be performed peacefully, without intimidation, fraud,
violence, or other unlawful methods.
The bill charges that the suit is to redress "the deprivation, under color of state law, statute and ordinance, of
rights privileges and immunities secured by the Constitution of the United States and of rights secured by laws
of the United States providing for equal rights of citizens
of the United States . . ." It charges that the petitioners' conduct "is in violation of their [respondents]
rights and privileges as guaranteed by the Constitution
of the United States." It alleges that the petitioners'
conduct has been "in pursuance of an unlawful conspiracy . . . to injure oppress threaten and intimidate
citizens of the United States, including the individual
plaintiffs herein, . . .in the free exercise and enjoyment
of the rights and privileges secured to them by the Constitution and laws of the United States ..
The bill charges that the ordinances are unconstitutional and void, or are being enforced against respondents
in an unconstitutional and discriminatory way; and that
the petitioners, as officials of the city, purporting to act
under the ordinances, have deprived respondents of the
privileges of free speech and peaceable assembly secured
to them, as citizens of the United States, by the Fourteenth Amendment. It prays an injunction against continuance of petitioners' conduct.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

307 U. S.

The bill alleges that the cause is of a civil nature, arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States,
wherein the amount in controversy exceeds $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs; and is a suit in equity to redress
the deprivation, under color of state law, statute and
ordinance, of rights, privileges and immunities secured by
the Constitution of the United States, and of rights secured by the laws of the United States providing for
equal rights of citizens of the United States and of all
persons within the jurisdiction of the United States.
The answer denies generally, or qualifies, the allegations of the bill but does not deny that the individual
respondents are citizens of the United States; denies that
the amount in controversy "as to each plaintiff and
against each defendant" exceeds $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs; and alleges that the supposed grounds
of federal jurisdiction are frivolous, no facts being alleged
sufficient to show that any substantial federal question is
involved.
After trial upon the merits the District Court entered
findings of fact and conclusions of law and a decree in
favor of respondents.2 In brief, the court found that the
purposes of respondents, other than the American Civil
Liberties Union, were the organization of unorganized
workers into labor unions, causing such unions to exercise
the normal and legal functions of labor organizations,
such as collective bargaining with respect to the betterment of wages, hours of work and other terms and conditions of employment, and that these purposes were lawful; that the petitioners, acting in their official capacities,
have adopted and enforced the deliberate policy of excluding and removing from Jersey City the agents of the
respondents; have interfered with their right of passage
upon the streets and access to the parks of the city; that
these ends have been accomplished by force and violence
'25 F. Supp. 127.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

despite the fact that the persons affected were acting in
an orderly and peaceful manner; that exclusion, removal,
personal restraint and interference, by force and violence,
are accomplished without authority of law and without
promptly bringing the persons taken into custody before
a judicial officer for hearing.
The court further found that the petitioners, as officials,
acting in reliance on the ordinance dealing with the subject, have adopted and enforced a deliberate policy of
preventing the respondents, and their associates, from
distributing circulars, leaflets, or handbills in Jersey City;
that this has been done by policemen acting forcibly and
violently; that the petitioners propose to continue to
enforce the policy of such prevention; that the circulars
and handbills, distribution of which has been prevented,
were not offensive to public morals, and did not advocate
unlawful conduct, but were germane to the purposes
alleged in the bill, and that their distribution was being
carried out in a way consistent with public order and
without molestation of individuals or misuse or -littering
of the streets. Similar findings were made with respect
to the prevention of the distribution of placards.
The findings are that the petitioners, as officials, have
adopted and enforced a deliberate policy of forbidding
the respondents and their associates from communicating
their views respecting the National Labor Relations Act
to the citizens of Jersey City by holding meetings or
assemblies in the open air and at public places; that there
is no competent proof that the proposed speakers have
ever spoken at an assembly where a breach of the peace
occurred or at which any utterances were made which
violated the canons of proper discussion or gave occasion
for disorder consequent upon what was said; that there is
no competent proof that the parks of Jersey City are
dedicated to any general purpose other than the recreation
of the public and that there is competent proof that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

307 U. S.

municipal authorities have granted permits to various
persons other than the respondents to speak at meetings
in the streets of the city.
The court found that the rights of the respondents, and
each of them, interfered with and frustrated by the petitioners, had a value, as to each respondent, in excess of
$3,000, exclusive of interest and costs; that the petitioners' enforcement of their policy against the respondents caused the latter irreparable damage; that the respondents have been threatened with manifold and
repeated persecution, and manifold and repeated invasions of their rights; and that they have done nothing
to disentitle them to equitable relief.
The court concluded that it had jurisdiction under § 24
(1) (12) and (14) of the Judicial Code; ' that the petitioners' official policy and acts were in violation of the
Fourteenth Amendment, and that the respondents had
established a cause of action under the Constitution of
the United States and under R. S. 1979, R. S. 1980, and
R. S. 5508, as amended.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concurred in the findings of fact; held the District Court had jurisdiction under
§ 24 (1) and (14) of the Judicial Code; modified the decree in respect of one of its provisions, and, as modified,
affirmed it.'
By their specifications of error, the petitioners limit
the issues in this court to three matters. They contend
that the court below erred in holding that the District
Court had jurisdiction over all or some of the causes of
action stated in the bill. Secondly, they assert that the
court erred in holding that the street meeting ordinance
is unconstitutional on its face, and that it has been un'28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), (12) and (14).
'8 U. S. C. §§ 43 and 47 (3), 18 U. S. C. § 51.
aHague v. Committee for Industrial Organization, 101 F. 2d
774.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

constitutionally administered. Thirdly, they claim that
the decree must be set aside because it exceeds the court's
power and is impracticable of enforcement or of
compliance.
First. Every question arising under the Constitution
may, if properly raised in a state court, come ultimately
to this court for decision. Until 1875,6 save for the limited jurisdiction conferred by the Civil Rights Acts, infra,
federal courts had no original jurisdiction of actions or
suits merely because the matter in controversy arose
under the Constitution or laws of the United States; and
the jurisdiction then and since conferred upon United
States courts has been narrowly limited.
Section 24 of the Judicial Code confers original jurisdiction upon District Courts of the United States. Subsection (1) gives jurisdiction of "suits of a civil nature,
at common law or in equity, . . . where the matter in
controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the
sum or value of $3,000" and "arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States."
The wrongs of which respondents complain are tortious invasions of alleged civil rights by persons acting
under color of state authority. It is true that if the
various plaintiffs had brought actions at law for the redress of such wrongs the amount necessary to jurisdiction
under § 24 (1) would have been determined by the sum
claimed in good faith.7 But it does not follow that in
a suit to restrain threatened invasions of such rights a
mere averment of the amount in controversy confers
jurisdiction. In suits brought under subsection (1) a
traverse of the allegation as to the amount in controversy, or a motion to dismiss based upon the absence of
Act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470.
'See
7
Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S. 58; Swafford v. Templeton, 185 U. S.
487. Compare St. Paul Mercury Indemnity Co. v. Red Cab Co.,
303 U. S. 283, 288.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

307 U. S.

such amount, calls for substantial proof on the part of
the plaintiff of facts justifying the conclusion that the
suit involves the necessary sum.8 The record here is
bare of any showing of the value of the asserted rights
to the respondents individually and the suggestion that,
in total, they have the requisite value is unavailing, since
the plaintiffs may not aggregate their interests in order
to attain the amount necessary to give jurisdiction.' We
conclude that the District Court lacked jurisdiction under
§ 24 (1).
Section 24 (14) grants jurisdiction of suits "at law or in
equity authorized by law to be brought by any person
to redress the deprivation, under color of any law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State,
of any right, privilege, or immunity, secured by the
Constitution of the United States, or of any right secured by any law of the United States providing for
equal rights of citizens of the United States, or of all
persons within the jurisdiction of the United States." "o
The petitioners insist that the rights of which the
respondents say they have been deprived are not within
those described in subsection (14). The courts below
have held that citizens of the United States possess such
rights by virtue of their citizenship; that the Fourteenth
Amendment secures these rights against invasion by a
State, and authorizes legislation by Congress to enforce
the Amendment.
'McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178;
compare KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269.
'Wheless v. St. Louis, 180 U. S. 379; Pinel v. Pinel, 240 U. S. 594,
596; Scott v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 243.
"0The section is derived from R. S. 563, § 12, which, in turn, originated in § 3 of the Civil Rights Act of April 9, 1866, 14 Stat. 27, as
reenacted by § 18 of the Civil Rights Act of May 31, 1870, 16 Stat.
144, and referred to in § 1 of the Civil Rights Act of April 20, 1871,
17 Stat. 13.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
Opinion of

496

ROBERTS,

J.

Prior to the Civil War there was confusion and debate
as to the relation between United States citizenship and
state citizenship. Beyond dispute, citizenship of the
United States, as such, existed. The Constitution, in
various clauses, recognized it "1 but nowhere defined it.
Many thought state citizenship, and that only, created
United States citizenship.12
After the adoption of the Thirteenth Amendment, a
bill, which became the first Civil Rights Act, 3 was introduced in the 39th Congress, the major purpose of which
was to secure to the recently freed negroes all the civil
rights secured to white men. This act declared that all
persons born7 in the United States, and not -subject to
any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, were citizens of the United States and should have the same rights
in every State to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be
parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell,
hold, and convey real and personal property, and to enjoy
the full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for
the security of persons and property to the same extent
as white citizens. None other than citizens of the United
States were within the provisions of the Act. It provided
that "any person who, under color of any law, statute,
ordinance, regulation, or custom, shall subject, or cause
to be subjected, any inhabitant of any State . . . to
the deprivation of any right secured or protected by this
act" should be guilty of a misdemeanor. It also conferred
on district courts jurisdiction of civil actions by persons
deprived of rights sequred to them by its terms.
By reason of doubts as to the power to enact the legislation, hnd because the policy thereby evidenced might
be reversed by a subsequent Congress, there was intro11See
12See
1

Art. I, §§ 2 and 3; Art. II, § 1.
Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393.

Act of April 9, 1866, c. 31, 14 Stat. 27.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

307 U. S.

ROBERTS, J.

duced at the same session an additional amendment to
the Constitution which became the Fourteenth.
The first sentence of the Amendment settled the old
controversy as to citizenship by providing that "All per-

sons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside." Thenceforward citizenship of the United States became primary
and citizenship of a State secondary.14
The first section of the Amendment further provides:
"No State shall make or enforce any law which shall
abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States;

. .

The second Civil Rights Act 1"was passed by the 41st
Congress.

Its purpose was to enforce the provisions of

the Fourteenth Amendment, pursuant to the authority
granted Congress by the fifth section of the amendment.
By § 18 it reenacted the Civil Rights Act of 1866.

A third Civil Rights Act, adopted April 20, 1871,6
provided "That any person who, under color of any law,
statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any
State, shall subject, or cause to be subjected, any person
within the jurisdiction of the United States to the deprivation Of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured
by the Constitution of the United States, shall, any such
law, statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of
the State to the contrary notwithstanding, be liable to
the party injured in any action at law, suit in equity, or
other proper proceeding for redress; .

.

."

This, with

changes of the arrangement of clauses which were not
intended to alter the scope of the provision, became R. S.
1979, now Title 8, § 43 of the United States Code.
" Selective Draft Cases, 245 U. S. 366, 389.
"1May 31, 1870, 16 Stat. 140. The act was amended by an Act of
February 28, 1871, 16 Stat. 433.
" 17 Stat. 13, § 1.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

As has been said, prior to the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, there had been no constitutional definition of citizenship of the United States, or of the rights,
privileges, and immunities secured thereby or springing
therefrom. The phrase "privileges and immunities" was
used in Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution, which decrees
that "The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several
States."
At one time it was thought that this section recognized
a group of rights which, according to the jurisprudence
of the day, were classed as "natural rights"; and that the
purpose of the section was to create rights of citizens
of the United States by guaranteeing the citizens of
every State the recognition of this group of rights by
every other State. Such was the view of Justice
Washington.17
While this description of the civil rights of the citizens
of the States has been quoted with approval,18 it has
come to be the settled view that Article IV, § 2, does
not import that a citizen of one State carries with him
into another fundamental privileges and immunities
which come to him necessarily by the mere fact of his
citizenship in the State first mentioned, but, on the contrary, that in any State every citizen of any other State
is to have the same privileges and immunities which the
citizens of that State enjoy. The section, in effect, prevents a State from discriminating against citizens of other
States in favor of its own.1
' Corfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371; 6 Fed. Cas. No. 3230.
" The Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 76; Maxwell v. Dow,
176 U. S. 581, 588, 591; CanadianNorthern Ry. Co. v. Eggen, 252
U. S. 553, 560.
"Downham v. Alexandria, 10 Wall. 173; Chambers v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 207 U. S. 142; La Tourette v. McMaster, 248 U. S.
465; Chalker v. Birmingham & N. W. Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522;

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

307 U. S.

The question now presented is whether freedom to disseminate information concerning the provisions of the
National Labor Relations Act, to assemble peaceably for
discussion of the Act, and of the opportunities and advantages offered by it, is a privilege or immunity of a
citizen of the United States secured against state abridgment 2 by § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment; and
whether R. S. 1979 and § 24 (14) of the Judicial Code
afford redress in a federal court for such abridgment.
This is the narrow question presented by the record, and
we confine our decision to it, without consideration of
broader issues which the parties urge. The bill, the answer and the findings fully present the question. The
bill alleges, and the findings sustain the allegation, that
the respondents had no other purpose than to inform
citizens of Jersey City by speech, and by the written
word, respecting matters growing out of national legislation, the constitutionality of which this court has sustained.
Although it has been held that the Fourteenth Amendment created no rights in citizens of the United States,
but merely secured existing rights against state abridgment,21 it is clear that the right peaceably to assemble
and to discuss these topics, and to communicate respecting them, whether orally or in writing, is a privilege inherent in citizenship of the United States which the
Amendment protects.
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37; United States v. Wheeler, 254 U. S.
281; Douglas v. New York, N. H. & H. R. Co., 279 U. S. 377;
Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431.
As to what constitutes state action within the meaning of the
amendment, see Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. S. 313; Ex parte Virginia,
100 U. S. 339, 347; Home Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278;
Mooney v. Holohan, 294 U. S. 103, 112; Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S.
444, 450.
2 The Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 77; Minor v. Happersett,
21 Wall. 162; Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; In re Kemmler, 136
U. S. 436, 448.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

In the Slaughter-House Cases it was said, 16 Wall. 79:
"The right to peaceably assemble and petition for redress
of grievances, the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus,
are rights of the citizen guaranteed by the Federal Constitution."
In United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S. 542, 552-553,
the court said:
"The right of the people peaceably to assemble for
the purpose of petitioning Congress for a redress of grievances, or for any thing else connected with the powers
or the duties of the national government, is an attribute
of national citizenship, and, as such, under the protection
of, and guaranteed by, the United States. The very idea
of a government, republican in form, implies a right on
the part of its citizens to meet peaceably for consultation
in respect to public affairs and to petition for a redress
of grievances. If it had been alleged in these counts
that the object of the defendants was to prevent a meeting for such a purpose, the case would have been within
the statute, and within the scope of the sovereignty of
the United States."
No expression of a contrary view has ever been voiced
by this court.
The National Labor Relations Act declares the policy
of the United States to be to remove obstructions to commerce by encouraging collective bargaining, protecting
full freedom of association and self-organization of
workers, and, through their representatives, negotiating
as to conditions of employment.
Citizenship of the United States would be little better
than a name if it did not carry with it the right to discuss
national legislation and the benefits, advantages, and opportunities to accrue to citizens therefrom. All of the
respondents' proscribed activities had this single end
and aim. The District Court had jurisdiction under
§ 24 (14).
161299°-39-33

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

307 U. S.

Natural persons, and they alone, are entitled to the
privileges and immunities which § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment secures for "citizens of the United States." 22
Only the individual respondents may, therefore, maintain this suit.
Second. What has been said demonstrates that, in the
light of the facts found, privileges and immunities of the
individual respondents as citizens of the United States,
were infringed by the petitioners, by virtue of their
official positions, under color of ordinances of Jersey City,
unless, as petitioners contend, the city's ownership of
streets and parks is as absolute as one's ownership of his
home, with consequent power altogether to exclude citizens from the use thereof, or unless, though the city
holds the streets in trust for public use, the absolute
denial of their use to the respondents is a valid exercise
of the police power.
The findings of fact negative thre latter assumption.
In support of the former the petitioners rely upon Davis
v. Massachusetts, 167 U. S. 43. There it appeared that,
pursuant to enabling legislation, the city of Boston
adopted an ordinance prohibiting anyone from speaking,
discharging fire arms, selling goods, or maintaining any
booth for public amusement on any of the public grounds
of the city except under a permit from the Mayor. Davis
spoke on Boston Common without a permit and without
applying to the Mayor for one. He was charged with a
violation of the ordinance and moved to quash the complaint, inter alia, on the ground that the ordinance
abridged his privileges and immunities as a citizen of the
United States and denied him due process of law because
it was arbitrary and unreasonable. His contentions were
overruled and he was convicted. The judgment was
22Orient

Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557; Holt v. Indiana

Manufacturing Co., 176 U. S. 68; Western Turf Assn. v. Greenberg,
204 U. S. 359; Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U. S. 112.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

affirmed by the Supreme Court of Massachusetts and by
this court.
The decision seems to be grounded on the holding of
the state court that the Common "was absolutely under
the control of the legislature," and that it was thus "conclusively determined there was no right in the plaintiff
in error to use the common except in such mode and subject to such regulations as the legislature in its wisdom
may have deemed proper to prescribe." The Court added
that the Fourteenth Amendment did not destroy the
power of the States to enact police regulations as to a subject within their control or enable citizens to use public
property in defiance of the constitution and laws of the
State.
The ordinance there in question apparently had a different purpose from that of the one here challenged, for
it was not directed solely at the exercise of the right of
speech and assembly, but was addressed as well to other
activities, not in the nature of civil rights, which doubtless
might be regulated or prohibited as respects their enjoyment in parks. In the instant case the ordinance deals
only with the exercise of the right of assembly for the
purpose of communicating views entertained by speakers,
and is not a general measure to promote the public convenience in the use of the streets or parks.
We have no occasion to determine whether, on the
facts disclosed, the Davis case was rightly decided, but we
cannot agree that it rules the instant case. Wherever the
title of streets and parks may rest, they have immemorially been held in trust for the use of the public and, time
out of mind, have been used for purposes of assembly,
communicating thoughts between citizens, and discussing
public questions. Such use of the streets and public
places has, from ancient times, been a part of the privileges, immunities, rights, and liberties of citizens. The
privilege of a citizen of the United States to use the

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

307 U. S.

streets and parks for communication of views on national
questions may be regulated in the interest of all; it is not
absolute, but relative, and must be exercised in subordination to the general comfort and convenience, and in
consonance with peace and good order; but it must not,
in the guise of regulation, be abridged or denied.
We think the court below was right in holding the
ordinance quoted in Note 1 void upon its face. 8 It does
not make comfort or convenience in the use of streets or
parks the standard of official action. It enables the Director of Safety to refuse a permit on his mere opinion
that such refusal will prevent "riots, disturbances or disorderly assemblage." It can thus, as the record discloses,
be made the instrument of arbitrary suppression of free
expression of views on national affairs, for the prohibition
of all speaking will undoubtedly "prevent" such eventualities. But uncontrolled official suppression of the
privilege cannot be made a substitute for the duty to
maintain order in connection with the exercise of the
right.
The bill recited that policemen, acting under petitioners' instructions, had searched various persons, including the respondents, and had seized innocent circulars and pamphlets without warrant or probable cause.
It prayed injunctive relief against repetition of this conduct. The District Court made no findings of fact concerning such searches and seizures and granted no relief
with respect to them. The Circuit Court of Appeals did
not enlarge the terms of the decree but found that unreasonable searches and seizures had occurred and that
the prohibitions of the Fourth Amendment had been
taken over by the Fourteenth so as to protect citizens of
the United States against such action.
"Lovell v. Griffln, supra. See the construction of the ordinance by
the Supreme Court of New Jersey in Thomas v. Casey, 121 N. J. L.
185; 1 A. 2d 866.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

The decree as affirmed by the court below does not
restrain any searches or seizures. In each of its provisions addressed to interference with liberty of the person,
or to the conspiracy to deport, exclude, and interfere
bodily with the respondents in pursuit of their peaceable
activities, the decree contains a saving clause of which
the following is typical: "except in so far as such personal restraint is in accordance with any right of search
and seizure." In the light of this reservation we think
there was no occasion for the Circuit Court of Appeals
to discuss the question whether exemption from the
searches and seizures proscribed by the Fourth Amendment is afforded by the privileges and immunities clause
of the Fourteenth, and we have no occasion to consider
or decide any such question.
Third. It remains to consider the objections to the
decree. Section A deals with liberty of the person and
prohibits the petitioners from excluding or removing the
respondents or persons acting with them from Jersey City,
exercising personal restraint over them without warrant
or confining them without lawful arrest and production
of them for prompt judicial hearing, saving lawful search
and seizure; or interfering with their free access to the
streets, parks, or public places of the city. The argument is that this section of the decree is so vague in its
terms as to be impractical of enforcement or obedience.
We agree with the court below that the objection is not
well founded.
Section B deals with liberty of the mind. Paragraph 1
enjoins the petitioners from interfering with the right of
the respondents, their agents and those acting with them,
to communicate their views as individuals to others on
the streets in an orderly and peaceable manner. It reserves to the petitioners full liberty to enforce law and
order by lawful search and seizure or by arrest and production before a judicial officer. We think this paragraph
unassailable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of STONE, J.

307 U. S.

Paragraphs 2 and 3 enjoin interference with the distribution of circulars, handbills and placards. The decree attempts to formulate the conditions under which
respondents and their sympathizers may distribute such
literature free of interference. The ordinance absolutely
prohibiting such distribution is void under our decision
in Lovell v. Griffin, supra, and petitioners so concede.
We think the decree goes too far. All respondents are
entitled to is a decree declaring the ordinance void and
enjoining the petitioners from enforcing it.
Paragraph 4 has to do with public meetings. Although
the court below held the ordinance void, the decree enjoins the petitioners as to the manner in which they shall
administer it. There is an initial command that the
petitioners shall not place "any previous restraint" upon
the respondents in respect of holding meetings, provided
they apply for a permit as required by the ordinance.
This is followed by an enumeration of the conditions
under which a permit may be granted or denied. We
think this is wrong. As the ordinance is void, the respondents are entitled to a decree so declaring and an
injunction against its enforcement by the petitioners.
They are free to hold meetings without a permit and
without regard to the terms of the void ordinance. The
courts cannot rewrite the ordinance, as the decree, in
effect, does.
The bill should be dismissed as to all save the individual plantiffs, and § B, paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of the decree
should be modified as indicated. In other respects the
decree should be affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE STONE:

I do not doubt that the decree below, modified as has
been proposed, is rightly affirmed, but I am unable to
follow the path by which some of my brethren have attained that end, and I think the matter is of sufficient
importance to merit discussion in some detail.

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

SToNE,

J.

It has been explicitly and repeatedly affirmed by this
Court, without a dissenting voice, that freedom of speech
and of assembly for any lawful purpose are rights of
personal liberty secured to all persons, without regard to
citizenship, by the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Gitlow v. New York, 268 U. S. 652; Whitney v. California,274 U. S. 357; Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S.
380; Stromberg v. California, 283 U. S. 359; Near v.
Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697; Grosjean v. American Press
Co., 297 U. S. 233; De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353;
Herndon v. Lowry, 301 U. S. 242; Lovell v. Griffin, 303
U. S. 444. It has never been held that either is a privilege or immunity peculiar to citizenship of the United
States, to which alone the privileges and immunities
clause refers, Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Duncan
v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382; Twining v. New Jersey,
211 U. S. 78, 97; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 538;
Hamilton v. Regents, 293 U. S. 245, 261, and neither can
be brought within the protection of that clause without
enlarging the category of privileges and immunities of
United States citizenship as it has hitherto been defined.
As will presently appear, the right to maintain a suit
in equity to restrain state officers, acting under a state
law, from infringing the rights of freedom of speech and
of assembly guaranteed by the due process clause, is
given by Act of Congress to every person within the jurisdiction of the United States whether a citizen or not, and
such a suit may be maintained in the district court without allegation or proof that the jurisdictional amount
required by § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code is involved.
Hence there is no occasion, for jurisdictional purposes
or any other, to consider whether freedom of speech and
of assembly are immunities secured by the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to citizens of the United States, or to revive the contention,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

STONE, J.

307 U. S.

rejected by this Court in the Slaughter-House Cases,
supra, that the privileges and immunities of United States
citizenship, protected by that clause, extend beyond those
which arise or grow out of the relationship of United
States citizens to the national governmdnt. 1
'The privilege or immunity asserted in the Slaughter-House Cases
was the freedom to pursue a common business or calling, alleged to
have been infringed by a state monopoly statute. It should not be
forgotten that the Court, in deciding the case, did not deny the contention of the dissenting justices that the asserted freedom was in
fact infringed by the state law. It rested its decision rather on
the ground that the immunity claimed was not one belonging to
persons by virtue of their citizenship. "It is quite clear," the Court
declared (p. 74), "that there is a citizenship of the United States,
and a citizenship of a State, which are distinct from each other, and
which depend on different characteristics in the individual." And
it held that the protection of the privileges and immunities clause
did not extend to those "fundamental" rights attached to state
citizenship which are peculiarly the creation and concern of state
governments and which Mr. Justice Washington, in Corfield v.
Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 371, 6 Fed. Cas. No. 3230, mistakenly thought
to be guaranteed by Article IV, § 2 of the Constitution. The privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States, it was pointed
out, are confined to that limited class of interests growing out of
the relationship between the citizen and the national government
created by the Constitution and federal laws. Slaughter-House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36, 79; see Twining v. New Jersey, 211 U. S.
78, 97, 98.
That limitation upon the operation of the privileges and immunities clause has not been relaxed by any later decisions of this
Court. In re Kemmler, 136 U. S. 436, 448; McPherson v. Blacker,
146 U. S. 1, 38; Giozza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 657, 661; Duncan v.
Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382. Upon that ground appeals to this
Court to extend the clause beyond the limitation have uniformly
been rejected, and even those basic privileges and immunities secured. against federal infringement by the first eight amendments
have uniformly been held not to be protected from state action
by the privileges and immunities clause. Walker v. Sauvinet, 92 U. S.
90; Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516; Presser v. Illinois, 116
U.. S. 252: O'Neill v. Vermont, 144 U. S. 323; Maxwell v. Dow, 176

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

STONE, J.

That such is the limited application of the privileges
and immunities clause seems now to be conceded by my
brethren. But it is said that the freedom of respondents
with which the petitioners have interfered is the "freedom to disseminate information concerning the provisions
of the National Labor Relations Act, to assemble peaceU. S. 581; West v. Louisiana, 194 U. S. 258; Twining v. New Jersey,
supra; Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319.

The reason for this narrow construction of the clause and the
consistently exhibited reluctance of this Court to enlarge its scope
has been well understood since the decision of the Slaughter-House
Cases. If its restraint upon state action were to be extended
more than is needful to protect relationships between the citizen
and the national government, and if it were to be deemed to extend to those fundamental rights of person and property attached
to citizenship by the common law and enactments of the states
when the Amendment was adopted, such as were described in Corfield v. Coryell, supra, it would enlarge Congressional and judicial
control of state action and multiply restrictions upon it whose nature,
though difficult to anticipate with precision, would be of sufficient
gravity to cause serious apprehension for the rightful independence
of local government. That was the issue fought out in the SlaughterHouse Cases, with the decision against enlargement.
Of the fifty or more cases which have been brought to this Court
since the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment in which state
statutes have been assailed as violating the privileges and immunities clause, in only a single case was a statute held to infringe a
privilege or immunity peculiar to citizenship of the United States.
In that one, Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, it was thought necessary to support the decision by pointing to the specific reference
in the Slaughter-House Cases, supra, 79, to the right to pass freely
from state to state, sustained as a right of national citizenship in
Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wall. 35, before the adoption of the
Amendment.
The cases will be found collected in Footnote 2 of the dissenting
opinion in Colgate v. Harvey, 296 U. S. 404, 445. To these should
be added Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366; Ferry v. Spokane, P. &
S. R. Co., 258 U. S. 314; New York ex rel. Bryant v. Zimmerman,
278 U. S. 63; Whitfield v. Ohio, 297 U. S. 431; Breedlove v. Suttles,
302 U. S. 277; Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

STONE, J.

307 U. S.

ably for discussion of the Act, and of the opportunities
and advantages offered by it," and that these are privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States
secured against state abridgment by the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. It has
been said that the right of citizens to assemble for the
purpose of petitioning Congress for the redress of grievances is a privilege of United States citizenship protected
by the privileges and immunities clause. United States
v. Cruikshank, 92 U. S.542, 552-553. We may assume
for present purposes, although the step is a long and by
no means certain one, see Maxwell v. Dow, 176 U. S. 581;
Twining v. New Jersey, supra, that the right to assemble
to discuss the advantages of the National Labor Relations
Act is likewise a privilege secured by the privileges and
immunities clause to citizens of the United States, but
not to others, while freedom to assemble for the purpose
of discussing. a similar state statute would not be within
the privileges and immunities clause. But the difficulty
with this assumption is, as the record and briefs show,
that it is an afterthought first emerging in this case after
it was submitted to us for decision, and like most afterthoughts in litigated matters it is without adequate support in the record.
The respondents in their bill of complaint specifically
named and quoted Article IV, § 2, now conceded to be
inapplicable, and the due process and equal protection
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment as the provisions
of the Constitution which secure to them the rights of free
speech and assembly. They omitted the privileges and
immunities clause of the Fourteenth Amendment from
their quotation. They made no specific allegation that
any of those whose freedom had been interfered with by
petitioners was a citizen of the United States. The general allegation that the acts of petitioners complained of
violate the rights of "citizens of the United States, in-

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

STONE, J.

cluding the individual plaintiffs here," and other allegations of like tenor, were denied by petitioners' answer.
There is no finding by either court below that any of
respondents or any of those whose freedom of speech and
assembly has been infringed are citizens of the United
States, and we are referred to no part of the evidence in
which their citizenship is mentioned or from which it can
be inferred.
Both courts below found, and the evidence supports
the findings, that the purpose of respondents, other than
the Civil Liberties Union, in holding meetings in Jersey
City, was to organize labor unions in various industries in
order to secure to workers the benefits of collective bargaining with respect to betterment of wages, hours of
work and other terms and conditions of employment.
Whether the proposed unions were to be organized in industries which might be subject to the National Labor
Relations Act or to the jurisdiction of the National Labor
Relations Board does not appear. Neither court below
has made any finding that the meetings were called to
discuss, or that they ever did in fact discuss, the National
Labor Relations Act. The findings do not support the
conclusion that the proposed meetings involved any such
relationship between the national government and respondents or any of them, assuming they are citizens of
the United States, as to show that the asserted right or
privilege was that of a citizen of the United States, and I
cannot say that an adequate basis has been laid for supporting a theory-which respondents themselves evidently did not entertain-that any of their privileges as
citizens of the United States, guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment, were abridged, as distinguished from
the privileges guaranteed to all persons by the due process
clause. True, the findings refer to the suppression by
petitioners of exhibits, one of which turns out to be a
handbill advising workers they have the legal right, under

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

SToNE,

J.

307 U. S.

the Wagner Act, to choose their own labor union to represent them in collective bargaining. But the injunction,
which the Court now rightly sustains, is not restricted to
the protection of the right, said to pertain to United
States citizenship, to disseminate information about the
Wagner Act. On the contrary it extends and applies in
the broadest terms to interferences with respondents in
holding any lawful meeting and disseminating any lawful information by circular, leaflet, handbill and placard.
If, as my brethren think, respondents are entitled to
maintain in this suit only the rights secured to them by
the privileges and immunities clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment-here the right to disseminate information
about the National Labor Relations Act-it is plain that
the decree is too broad. Instead of enjoining, as it does,
interferences with all meetings for all purposes and the
lawful dissemination of all information, it should have
confined its restraint to interferences with the dissemination of information about the National Labor Relations
Act, through meetings or otherwise. The court below
rightly omitted any such limitation from the decree, evidently because, as it declared, petitioners' acts infringed
the due process clause, which guarantees to all persons
freedom of speech and of assembly for any lawful
purpose.
No more grave and important issue can be brought to
this Court than that of freedom of speech and assembly,
which the due process clause guarantees to all persons regardless of their citizenship, but which the privileges and
immunities clause secures only to citizens, and then only
to the limited extent that their relationship to the national government is affected. I am unable to rest decision here on the assertion, which I think the record fails
to support, that respondents must depend upon their
limited privileges as citizens of the United States in order
to sustain their cause, or upon so palpable an avoidance

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

STONE, J.

of the real issue in the case, which respondents have raised
by their pleadings and sustained by their proof. That
issue is whether the present proceeding can be maintained
under § 24 (14) of the Judicial Code as a suit for the protection of rights and privileges guaranteed by the due
process clause. I think respondents' right to maintain it
does not depend on their citizenship and cannot rightly
be made to turn on the existence or non-existence of a
purpose to disseminate information about the National
Labor Relations Act. It is enough that petitioners have
prevented respondents from holding meetings and disseminating information whether for the organization of
labor unions or for any other lawful purpose.
If it be the part of wisdom to avoid unnecessary decision of constitutional questions, it would seem to be
equally so to avoid the unnecessary creation of novel constitutional doctrine, inadequately supported by the record,
in order to attain an end easily and certainly reached by
following the beaten paths of constitutional decision.
The right to maintain the present suit is conferred upon
the individual respondents by the due process clause and
Acts of Congress, regardless of their citizenship and of
the amount in controversy. Section 1 of the Civil Rights
Act of April 20, 1871, 17 Stat. 13, provided that "any person who, under color of any law, statute, ordinance . . .
of any State, shall subject, or cause to be subjected, any
person within the jurisdiction of the United States to the
deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution of the United States, shall
• . . be liable to the party injured in any action at law,
suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress."
And it directed that such proceedings should be prosecuted in the several district or circuit courts of the United
States. The right of action given by this section was later
specifically limited to "any citizen of the United States or
other person within the jurisdiction thereof," and was

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of STONE, J.

307 U. S.

extended to include rights, privileges and immunities secured by the laws of the United States as well as by the
Constitution. As thus modified the provision was continued as § 1979 of the Revised Statutes and now constitutes § 43 of Title 8 of the United States Code. It
will be observed that the cause of action, given by the
section in its original as well as its final form, extends
broadly to deprivation by state action of the rights,
privileges and immunities secured to persons by the Constitution. It thus includes the Fourteenth Amendment
and such privileges and immunities as are secured by the
due process and equal protection clauses, as well as by the
privileges and immunities clause of that Amendment. It
will also be observed that they are those rights secured to
persons, whether citizens of the United States or not, to
whom the Amendment in terms extends the benefit of the
due process and equal protection clauses.
Following the decision of the Slaughter-House Cases
and before the later expansion by judicial decision of
the content of the due process and equal protection
clauses, there was little scope for the operation of this
statute under the Fourteenth Amendment. The observation of the Court in United States v. Cruikshank, 92
U. S.542, 551, that the right of assembly was not secured
against state action by the Constitution, must be attributed to the decision in the Slaughter-House Cases that
only privileges and immunities peculiar to United States
citizenship were secured by the privileges and immunities
clause, and to the further fact that at that time it had
not been decided that the right was one protected by
the due process clause. The argument that the phrase in
the statute "secured by the Constitution" refers to rights
"created," rather than "protected" by it, is not persuasive. The preamble of the Constitution, proclaiming the
establishment of the Constitution in order to "secure the

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

STONE, J.

Blessings of Liberty," uses the word "secure" in the sense
of "protect" or "make certain." That the phrase was
used in this sense in the statute now under consideration
was recognized in Carter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 317, 322,
where it was held as a matter of pleading that the particular cause of action set up in the plaintiff's pleading
was in contract and was not to redress deprivation of the
"right secured to him by that clause of the Constitution"
[the contract clause], to which he had "chosen not to
resort." See, as to other rights protected by the Constitution and hence secured by it, brought within the provisions of R. S. § 5508, Logan v. United States, 144 U. S.
263; In re Quarles and Butler, 158 U. S. 532; United
States v. Mosley, 238 U. S.383.
Since freedom of speech and freedom of assembly are
rights secured to persons by the due process clause, all of
the individual respondents are plainly authorized by § 1
of the Civil Rights Act of 1871 to maintain the present
suit in equity to restrain infringement of their rights. As
to the American Civil Liberties Union, which is a corporation, it cannot be said to be deprived of the civil rights
of freedom of speech and of assembly, for the liberty guaranteed by the due process clause is the liberty of natural,
not artificial, persons. Northwestern Life Ins. Co. v.
Riggs, 203 U. S.243, 255; Western Turf Assn. v. Greenberg, 204 U. S. 359, 363.
The question remains whether there was jurisdiction
in the district court to entertain the suit although the
matter in controversy cannot be shown to exceed $3,000
in value because the asserted rights, freedom of speech
and freedom of assembly, are of such a nature as not to
be susceptible of valuation in money. The question is
the same whether the right or privilege asserted is secured by the privileges and immunities clause or any
other. When the Civil Rights Act of 1871 directed that
suits for violation of § 1 of that Act should be prosecuted

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of STONE, J.

307 U. S.

in the district and circuit courts, the only requirement
of a jurisdictional amount in suits brought in the federal
courts was that imposed by § 11 of the Judiciary Act of
1789, which conferred jurisdiction on the circuit courts
of suits where "the matter in dispute" exceeded $500 and
the United States was a plaintiff, or an alien was a party,
or the suit was between citizens of different states; and
it was then plain that the requirement of a jurisdictional amount did not extend to the causes of action
authorized by the Civil Rights Act of 1871. By the Act
of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, the jurisdiction
of the circuit courts was extended to suits at common
law or in equity "arising under the Constitution or laws
of the United States" in which the matter in dispute
exceeded $500. By the Act of March 3, 1911, c. 231, 36
Stat. 1087, the circuit courts were abolished and their
jurisdiction was transferred to the district courts, and
by successive enactments the jurisdictional amount applicable to certain classes of suits was raised to $3,000.
The provisions applicable to such suits, thus modified,
appear as § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (1).
Meanwhile, the provisions conferring jurisdiction on
district and circuit courts over suits brought under § 1
of the Civil Rights Act of 1871 were continued as R. S.
§§ 563 and 629, and now appear as § 24 (14) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 41 (14). The Act of March 3,
1911, 36 Stat. 1087, 1091, amended § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code so as to direct that "The foregoing provision
as to the sum or value of the matter in controversy shall
not be construed to apply to any of the cases mentioned
in the succeeding paragraphs of this section." 2 Thus,
provision made no change in existing law but was inserted
for the purpose of removing all doubt upon the point. See H. R.
Rep. No. 783, Part 1, 61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 15; Sen. Rep. No. 388,
Part 1, 61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 11. Cf. Miller-Magee Co. v. Carpenter, 34 F. 433; Ames v. Hager, 36 F. 129.
2This

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
Opinion of STOND, J.

496

since 1875, the jurisdictional acts have contained two
parallel provisions, one conferring jurisdiction on the federal courts, district or circuit, to entertain suits "arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States" in
which the amount in controversy exceeds a specified
value; the other, now § 24 (14) of the Judicial Code,
conferring jurisdiction on those courts of suits authorized
by the Civil Rights Act of 1871, regardless of the amount
in controversy.
Since all of the suits thus authorized are suits arising
under a statute of the United States to redress deprivation of rights, privileges and immunities secured by the
Constitution, all are literally suits "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States." But it does not
follow that in every such suit the plaintiff is required by
§ 24 (1) of the Judicial Code to allege and prove that the
constitutional immunity which he seeks to vindicate has
a value in excess of $3,000. There are many rights and
immunities secured by the Constitution, of which freedom
of speech and assembly are conspicuous examples, which
are not capable of money valuation, and in many instances, like the present, no suit in equity could be maintained for their protection if proof of the jurisdictional
amount were prerequisite. We can hardly suppose that
Congress, having in the broad terms of the Civil Rights
Act of 1871 vested in all persons within the jurisdiction
of the United States a right of action in equity for the
deprivation of constitutional immunities, cognizable only
in the federal courts, intended by the Act of 1875 to
destroy those rights of action by withholding from the
courts of the United States jurisdiction to entertain them.
That such was not the purpose of the Act of 1875 in
extending the jurisdiction of federal courts to causes of
action arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States involving a specified jurisdictional amount,
is evident from the continuance upon the statute books of
161299°-39-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of

SToND, J.

307 U. S.

§ 24 (14) side by side with § 24 (1) of the Judicial Code,
as amended by the Act of 1875. Since the two provisions
stand and must be read together, it is obvious that neither
is to be interpreted as abolishing the other, especially
when it is remembered that the 1911 amendment of
§ 24 (1) provided that the requirement of a jurisdictional
amount should not be construed to apply to cases mentioned in § 24 (14). This must be taken as legislative
recognition that there are suits authorized by § 1 of the
Act of 1871 which could be brought under § 24 (14) after,
as well as before, the amendment of 1875 without compliance with any requirement of jurisdictional amount,
and that these at least must be deemed to include suits
in which the subject matter is one incapable of valuation.
Otherwise we should be forced to reach the absurd conclusion that § 24 (14) is meaningless and that a large proportion of the suits authorized by the Civil Rights Act
cannot be maintained in any court, although jurisdiction
of them, with no requirement of jurisdictional amount,
was carefully preserved by § 24 (14) of the Judicial Code
and by the 1911 amendment of § 24 (1). By treating
§ 24 (14) as conferring federal jurisdiction of suits
brought under the Act of 1871 in which the right asserted
is inherently incapable of pecuniary valuation, we harmonize the two parallel provisions of the Judicial Code,
construe neither as superfluous, and give to each a scope
in conformity with its history and manifest purpose.
The practical construction which has been given by this
Court to the two jurisdictional provisions establishes that
the jurisdiction conferred by § 24 (14) has been preserved
to the extent indicated. In Holt v. Indiana Mfg. Co.,
176 U. S. 68, suit was brought to restrain alleged unconstitutional taxation of patent rights. The Court held that
the suit was one arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States within the meaning of § 24 (1) of the
Judicial Code and that the United States Circuit Court

HAGUE v. C. I. 0.
496

Opinion of

STONE, J.

in which the suit had been begun was without jurisdiction
because the challenged tax was less than the jurisdictional
amount. The Court remarked that the present § 24 (14)
applied only to suits alleging deprivation of "civil rights."
On the other hand, in Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, aff'g
219 F. 273, this Court sustained the jurisdiction of a
district court to entertain the suit of an alien to restrain
enforcement of a state statute alleged to be an infringement of the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment because it discriminated against aliens in
their right to seek and retain employment. The jurisdiction of a district court was similarly sustained in Crane
v. Johnson, 242 U. S. 339, on the authority of Truax v.
Raich, supra. The suit was brought in a district court
to restrain enforcement of a state statute alleged to deny
equal protection in suppressing the freedom to pursue a
particular trade or calling. For the purposes of the present case it is important to note that the constitutional
right or immunity alleged in these two cases was one of
personal freedom, invoked in the Raich case by one not
a citizen of the United States. In both cases the right
asserted arose under the equal protection, not the privileges and immunities clause; in both the gist of the cause
of action was not damage or injury to property, but unconstitutional infringement of a right of personal liberty
not susceptible of valuation in money. The jurisdiction
was sustained despite the omission of any allegation or
proof of jurisdictional amount, pointedly brought to the
attention of this Court.
The conclusion seems inescapable that the right conferred by the Act of 1871 to maintain a suit in equity in
the federal courts to protect the suitor against a deprivation of rights or immunities secured by the Constitution,
has been preserved, and that whenever the right or immunity is one of personal liberty, not dependent for its
existence upon the infringement of property rights, there

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

532

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

is jurisdiction in the district court under § 24 (14) of the
Judicial Code to entertain it without proof that the
amount in controversy exceeds $3,000. As the right is
secured to "any person" by the due process clause, and
as the statute permits the suit to be brought by "any
person" as well as by a citizen, it is certain that resort to
the privileges and immunities clause would not support
the decree which we now sustain and would involve constitutional experimentation as gratuitous as it is unwarranted. We cannot be sure that its consequences would
not be unfortunate.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES,

concurring:

With respect to the merits I agree with the opinion of
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and in the affirmance of the judgment as modified. With respect to the point as to jurisdiction I agree with what is said in the opinion of MR.
JUSTICE ROBERTS

as to the right to discuss the National

Labor Relations Act being a privilege of a citizen of the
United States, but I am not satisfied that the record
adequately supports the resting of jurisdiction upon that
ground. As to that matter, I concur in the opinion of
MR. JUSTICE STONE.

MR.

JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS, dissenting:

I am of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals should be reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court with instructions to dismiss the bill.
In the circumstances disclosed, I conclude that the District Court should have refused to interfere by injunction
with the essential rights of the municipality to control
its own parks and streets. Wise management of such
intimate local affairs, generally at least, is beyond the
competency of federal courts, and essays in that direction should be avoided.

U. S. v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OP.
Syllabus.

496

There was ample opportunity for respondents to assert
their claims through an orderly proceeding in courts of
the state empowered authoritatively to interpret her laws
with final review here in respect of federal questions.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting:

I am of opinion that the challenged ordinance is not
void on its face; that in principle it does not differ from
the Boston ordinance, as applied and upheld by this
Court, speaking through Mr. Justice White, in Davis v.
Massachusetts,167 U. S. 43, affirming the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, speaking through Mr. Justice
Holmes, in Commonwealth v. Davis, 162 Mass. 510; 39
N. E. 113, and that the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed.

UNITED STATES v. ROCK ROYAL CO-OPER-.
ATIVE, INC. ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 771.

Argued April 24, 25, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

Under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, the Secretary of Agriculture, after notice and hearings, made an order
for fixing and equalizing minimum prices to be paid producers
for milk sold to dealers ("handlers") and disposed of by the
latter either in liquid form or as milk products within a "marketing area" comprising the City of New York and adjacent counties.
*Together with No. 826, Noyes, Commissioner of Agriculture and
Markets of the State of New York, v. Rock Royal Co-operative,
Inc. et al.; No. 827, Dairymen's League Cooperative Assn., Inc. v.
Rock Royal Co-operative, Inc. et al.; and No. 828, Metropolitan Cooperative Milk Producers Bargaining Agency, Inc. v. Rock Royal
.Co-operative, Inc. et al., also on appeals from the District Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York.

