66

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

GIBBS, ATTORNEY GENERAL,

307 U. S.
ET AL.

V. BUCK

ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 276.

Argued January 10, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. The question of jurisdictional amount is properly determined on
the bill and motion to dismiss, where the motion in effect traverses
only a general allegation of the amount involved, and admits the
other allegations, touching the subject, merely challenging their
sufficiency to show jurisdiction. P. 71.
On submission of the question on bill and motion to dismiss, the
burden of showing jurisdictional value in controversy is on the
plaintiff. P. 72.
2. In a class suit by and on behalf of the members of a society who
have a common and undivided interest, the jurisdictional amount
or value is involved if for any member, who is a party, the matter
in controversy is of that value, or if to the aggregate of all members in the suit it is of that value. P. 72.
3. In a suit to restrain enforcement of a statute prohibiting a business, the amount in controversy is the value of the right to conduct
the business free of such prohibition. P. 74.
The cost of compliance is evidence of the value of the right to
be free from a statutory prohibition. P. 75.
4. Owners of the copyrights of musical compositions, with a view to
protection against unlicensed public performances for profit for
which they received no compensation, granted to an unincorporated
association, of which they were the members, the exclusive right
of public performance for a term of years. It was the function of
the society to protect itself and its members from piracies and to
license public performances by others, for royalties which, after
certain deductions, it distributed among its members, pursuant to
its articles of association. A Florida statute undertook to forbid
and penalize such combinations as unlawful monopolies fixing prices
in restraint of trade. In a suit by the Society and some of its
members representing all, seeking to enjoin enforcement of the
statute as an unconstitutional invasion of copyright,-held:
(1) As the members own the copyrights, less the limited assignment to the Society of the right of public performance for

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Counsel for Parties.

profit, and share in the earnings through mandatory distribution
under the articles of association and not by way of dividends, they
are proper parties to the action. P. 73.
(2) Since the members, because of the interposition of the statute, can not in combination license production and collect fees in
Florida, they have a common and undivided interest in the matter
in controversy in this class suit. P. 74.
(3) Admitted allegations of the bill support a finding that the
matter in controversy-the value of the aggregate rights of all
members to conduct their business through the Society-exceeds
$3,000 in value. P. 75.
McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178,
and KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, distinguished.
(4) In view of the allegations of the bill raising doubts of the
constitutionality of the Act, and in view of the penalties attached
to its violation, a motion to dismiss for failure to state a cause of
action wis properly overruled. P. 76.
5. A motion to dismiss a bill for failure to state a cause of action
is determined on the face of the bill without resort to affidavits
used on the accompanying motion for a preliminary injunction.
P. 76.
6. Whether to grant or refuse a motion to dismiss before answer, is
largely a matter of discretion for the trial court. P. 76.
7. Where the bill makes an attack upon the constitutionality of a
state statute, supported by factual allegations sufficiently strong,
as here, to raise grave doubts of the constitutionality of the Act
in the mind of the trial court, the motion to dismiss for failure
to state a cause of action should be denied. Id.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from an order of the District Court, of three
judges, overruling a motion to dismiss the bill and granting an interlocutory injunction, in a suit to restrain enforcement of a Florida statute forbidding combinations
of owners of copyrighted musical compositions.

Messrs. Tyrus A. Norwood, Assistant Attorney General of Florida, and Lucien H. Boggs, with whom Messrs.

George Couper Gibbs, Attorney General, and Andrew
W. Bennett were on the brief, for appellants.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Mr. Thomas G. Haight, with whom Messrs. Frank J.
Wideman, Louis D. Frohlich, Herman Finkelstein, and
Manley P. Caldwell were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal from the order of a three-judge court
refusing to dismiss a bill of complaint on motion for failure to set out facts sufficient to show federal or equity
jurisdiction, or to constitute a cause of action, and granting an interlocutory injunction against the enforcement
of a Florida statute aimed at combinations fixing the price
for the privilege of rendering privately or publicly for
profit copyrighted musical compositions. § 266, Jud.
Code.
The appellant, the state Attorney General and various
State Attorneys, are officers of the State of Florida
charged with the enforcement of the act. The appellees,
complainants below, are the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, an unincorporated association organized under the laws of the State of New
York; Gene Buck as president of the Society; various corporations publishing musical compositions; a number of
authors and composers of copyrighted music; and several
next of kin of deceased composers and authors. This suit
was brought by complainants on behalf of themselves and
others similarly situated, members of the Society, too
numerous to make it practicable to join them as plaintiffs
in a matter of common and general interest.'
One of the rights given by the Copyright Act is the
exclusive right to perform copyrighted musical compositions in public for profit.' The bill of complaint alleges
that users of musical compositions had refused to recog1Equity Rule 38.

'Act of March 4, 1909, § 1 (e), c. 320, 35 Stat. 1075, 17 U. S. C.

§ 1 (e).

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

nize this statutory right and to pay royalties for public
performances for profit, and that authors, composers and
publishers were unable, individually, to enforce their exclusive right because of the expense of detecting and suing
for infringement throughout the United States. The
Society was founded in 1914 to license performance of
copyrighted music for profit and otherwise protect the
copyrights. The state statute was directed at organizations like the Society and became effective on June 9,
1937.3 So far as is important here, the statute makes
it unlawful for owners of copyrighted musical compositions to combine into any corporation, association or
other entity to fix license fees "for any use or rendition
of copyrighted vocal or instrumental musical compositions for private or public performance for profit," when
the members of the combination constitute "a substantial number of the persons, firms or corporations within
the United States" owning musical copyrights. It declares the combination an unlawful monopoly, the pricefixing in restraint of trade, and the collection of license
fees and all contracts by the combination illegal.
The bill attacked the statute as contrary to the Constitution and laws of the United States and the constitution of Florida. More specifically, it urged that the
law impinged upon rights given by the Copyright Act
of 1909, deprived complainants of rights without due
process of law and without the equal protection of the
laws, impaired the obligation of contracts already executed, and operated as an ex post facto law.
There was a formal allegation that the matter in controversy exceeded $3,000, exclusive of interest and costs.
In addition, the bill alleged that the three publishers
owned copyrights of a value in excess of $1,000,000 while
each of the individual complainants owned copyrights
'Fla. Gen. Laws 1937, Vol. I, c. 17807.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

worth in excess of $100,000; that it would cost each individual more than $10,000 to create an agency in Florida
to protect himself against infringement by unauthorized
public performances for profit, to issue licenses and to
check on the accuracy of uses reported; that fees collected in 1936 in Florida amounted to $59,306.81 and that
similar sums were expected in the future; and that in
1936 each of the three publishers received more than
$50,000 from the Society and each individual more than
$5,000.
A motion for a temporary injunction was made on
February 7, 1938, the same day the bill was filed. Voluminous affidavits were presented in support of the
motion. They tend to substantiate the allegations of
the complaint on the value of the copyrights and the income from the Society. Each publisher deposed that it
had received more than $50,000 from the Society in 1936,
that its contract with the Society had a value in excess
of $200,000, and that to fix prices on each composition
for each use in Florida would require an expenditure of
more than $25,000. The affidavits of the individuals
showed annual incomes to them from the Society of
from $3,000 to $9,000; contracts with the Society which
the affiants valued in the thousands of dollars and an
expense, in one instance, as high as $5,000 to comply with
the requirements of the Florida statute.
On March 3, 1938, the appellants moved to dismiss on
several grounds: (1) absence of jurisdictional amount;
(2) failure to state a cause of action; (3) want of equity
and other objections not strongly pressed at this time.
The district court granted an interlocutory injunction
and denied the motion to dismiss the bill. It thought
that great damage would result unless the injunction issued and that there was grave doubt of the constitutionality of the act. Its findings of fact and conclusions of law were filed about a month and a half after the

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

per curiam decision. It found that "the matter in controversy exceeds $3,000 exclusive of interest and costs."
FederalJurisdiction.-Theissue was raised in the lower
court by a motion to dismiss on the ground that it affirmatively appears "from the allegations of the bill...
that the jurisdictional amount of $3,000.00 . . . is not
involved . . . in that it appears that the suit is brought
for the benefit of the members of the American Society
of Composers, Authors and Publishers . . . and it does
not affirmatively appear that the loss of any member of
said society due to the enforcement of [the challenged
act] would amount to the . . . necessary jurisdictional
amount." Other jurisdictional averments of the motion
state that the Society cannot suffer any loss from the
legislation because it affirmatively appears that the Society divides all its proceeds from licensing between its
members and affiliates and "therefore, the loss, if any,
sustained due to the enforcement of said Florida laws
would fall on the members of the Society, and not on the
Society itself." Finally the motion sets out the lack of
jurisdiction because it affirmatively appears from the
allegations of the bill that the jurisdictional amount is
not involved "because the plaintiffs have not shown the
extent of loss or damage they would suffer by reason of
the enforcement of said State law, as compared with
the amount of profit they would make by the non-enforcement of said law." As the form of the motion on
the jurisdiction admitted the bill's statements, it was
submitted on the allegations without the production of
any evidence.
This method of testing the jurisdiction properly raises
the question. No issue is made as to the standing of
the Society or its members to sue. The basis of the attack is that there is a lack of the essential allegations as
to the value of the matter in controversy. As there is
no statutory direction for procedure upon an issue of ju-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

risdiction, the mode of its determination is left to the trial
court.4 Both complainants and defendants were content
to rest upon the bill and motion.
The bill alleges that the value of the matter in dispute
exceeds the jurisdictional amount. Such a general allegation when not traversed is sufficient, unless it is qualified by others which so detract from it that the court must
dismiss sua sponte or on defendants' motion.' In this
instance, the allegation is, in effect, traversed by the language of the motion which asserts that no plaintiff has
shown loss from enforcement equal to the jurisdictional
amount. No other allegations are denied. By this
method of attack the facts set out in the bill are left unchallenged for the court to accept as true without further
proof. The burden of showing by the admitted facts that
the federal court has jurisdiction rests upon the complainants. If there were any doubt of the good faith of
the allegations, the court might have called for their justification by evidence6 In view of the unchallenged facts,
federal jurisdiction will be adequately established, if it
appears that for any member, who is a party, the matter
in controversy is of the value of the jurisdictional amount,'
or, if to the aggregate of all the members in this representative suit, the matter in controversy is of that value.
This Society, an unincorporated association with a
membership of more than a thousand of the leading authors, composers and publishers of music, has received by
assignment and possesses, for a five-year period which
covers the time here involved, the "exclusive right to
'Wetmore v. Rymer, 169 U. S. 115, 120, 121; McNutt v. General

Motors Acceptnnce Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 184; KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, 278.
'KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, 277; McNutt v.
General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 189.
'McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 189.
'Grosjean v. American Press Co., 297 U. S. 233, 241-242. Clark v.
Paul Gray, Inc., 306 U. S. 583.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

publicly perform for profit" musical compositions owned
by its members. Licenses are issued by the Society to
users in Florida "for the public performance for profit"
of these compositions. After payment of expenses and
royalties for similar rights to foreign associates, and retention of certain reserves, the receipts from licenses are
divided among the members in amounts and by classifications fixed by the articles of association and the Board of
Directors. The Society undertakes to protect itself and
its members from piracies of the rights assigned to it.
The Society. has, in the absence of the challenged legislation and without now giving consideration to other objections as to the legality of its organization, a right to license
which may be injuriously affected by the Florida statute.
Whether this right to license flows from its limited ownership of the copyrights or by authority of its members
is immaterial here. We find it unnecessary to decide
whether this unincorporated association has standing to
sue and confine our decision to the amount in controversy
between the members of the Society and the defendants.
Members, both corporate copyright owners and individual
composers of music and lyrics, are plaintiffs. They represent all other members. As the members own the copyrights, less the limited assignment to the Society of the
right of public performance for profit, and share in the
earnings through mandatory distribution under the articles of association and not by way of dividends, they are
These members are real
proper parties to the action.'
' Article XV, § 1, of the articles of association, reads as follows:
"Apportionment of Royalties"Section 1. All royalties and license fees collected by the Society
shall be from time to time as ordered by the Board of Directors
distributed among its members, provided, however:
"(a) That all expenses of operation of the Society and sums
payable to foreign affiliated Societies shall be deducted therefrom
and duly paid; and
"(b) That the Board of Directors, by two-thirds vote of those
present at any regular meeting may add to the Reserve Fund

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

parties in interest. Because of the interposition of the
statute they cannot in combination license production and
collect fees in Florida. Unless the relief sought, the invalidation of the statute, is obtained, the members cannot conduct their business through the medium of the
Society. They have a common and undivided interest in
the matter in controversy in this class suit."
The essential matter in controversy here is the right of
the members, in association through the Society, to conduct the business of licensing the public performance for
profit of their copyrights. This method of combining for
contracts is interdicted by the Florida statute. It is not
a question of taxation or regulation but prohibition. Under such circumstances, the issue on jurisdiction is the
value of this right to conduct the business free of the
prohibition of the statute. ° To determine the value of
this right the District Court had the admitted facts that
more than three hundred contracts expiring in 1940 were
in existence between the Society and the Florida users;
that in 1936 alone almost sixty thousand dollars was collected from the users, and that similar sums were expected for the remainder of the term. While the net
profit of the business in Florida is not shown, the business of the Society, as a whole, is profitable. The three
publisher parties receive more than $150,000 yearly and
any portion not exceeding 10% of the total amount available for
distribution; and
"(c) That the net amount remaining after such deduction for
distribution shall be apportioned as follows: one-half (1/2) thereof to
be distributed among the 'Music Publisher' members, and one-half
among the 'Composer and Author' members respectively."
(1/2)
Cf. Troy Bank v. Whitehead & Co., 222 U. S. 39; Shields v.
Thomas, 17 How. 3.
10 Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 114; cf. Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205 U. S. 322, 334; McNeil v. Southern Ry. Co., 202
U. S. 543; Bitterman v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 207 U. S. 205;
Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

individuals more than $5,000 per year each. The cost of
compliance with its requirements is evidence also of the
value of the right of freedom from the act." The complainants, other than the Society, allege without traverse
that the cost to each one of providing individually in
Florida the services now provided by the Society for each
member would exceed $10,000. Whether this is annually, for the length of the agreement or for some other
term is not shown. From these facts, the finding of the
District Court that the matter in controversy-the value
of the aggregate rights of all members to conduct their
business through the Society-exceeds $3,000 in value
is fully supported.
McNutt v. General Motors Acceptance Corp." differs.
There the State of Indiana had passed an act regulating,
not prohibiting, the business of the Acceptance Corporation. The right for which protection was sought was the
right to be free of regulation. It was to be measured
by the loss, if any, following enforcement of regulation.
This was not alleged or proved. In KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press," relief was sought to enjoin alleged pirating,
by radio, of news furnished by the Associated Press to its
members. The right for which protection was sought was
"the right to conduct those enterprises free of" interference. On the issue of the value of this right, it was deposed only that the Associated Press received more than
$8,000 per month for news in the territory served by the
broadcasting station and was in danger of losing the payments. The Associated Press was a nonprofit corporation, operated without the purpose of profiting from its
services to members and equitably dividing the expenses
11 Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140; Petroleum Exploration, Inc.
v. Public Service Comm'n, 304 U. S. 209, 215; Healy v. Ratta, 292
U. S. 263; Buck v. Gallagher, post p. 95.
12 298 U. S. 178.
13 299 U. S. 269.

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

among them. The damage in the Associated Press case
was to its members and this was not shown. Neither was
it alleged or proved that any member threatened to withdraw or to reduce its payments.
Failure to State a Cause of Action.-The motion to
dismiss also presents generally the issue whether the bill
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. By
the submission of the motion this issue was left to the
Court on the facts alleged in the bill. The elaboration
of these facts, contained in the affidavits supporting and
objecting to the motion for temporary injunction, is not
available for consideration, as these affidavits are a part
of the record only for the purpose of determining the
propriety of a temporary injunction." Whether to grant
or refuse a motion to dismiss before answer, is largely a
matter of discretion for the court below. 5 Where the bill
makes an attack upon the constitutionality of a state
statute, supported by factual allegations sufficiently
strong, as here, to raise "grave doubts of the constitutionality of the Act" in the mind of the trial court, the
motion to dismiss for failure to state a cause of action
should be denied. This bill sets out that the exercise of
rights granted by the Federal Copyright Act to control
the performance of compositions for profit is prohibited
by the statute; that existing contracts are impaired;
property taken without compensation; recovery on extra
state contracts denied and the equal protection and due
process clauses of the 14th Amendment violated in manners specifically pleaded. Drastic penalties for violation
Polk Company v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5, 9.
15 O'Keefe v. New Orleans, 273 F. 560; Wright v. Barnard,233 F.
14

329; Doherty v. McDowell, 276 F. 728; Ralston Steel Car Co. v.
National Dump Car Co., 222 F. 590, 592. Compare Kansas v.
Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, 144-145; Wisconsin v. Illinois, 270 U. S.
634. Wilshire Oil Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 100, 102-103.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

Opinion of the Court.

of the act are provided."6 The manner in and extent to
which the challenged statute offends or complies with
the applicable provisions of the Constitution will be
clearer after final hearing and findings."7 The findings
here were on the motion for interlocutory injunction and
on the issue of jurisdiction.
Other Assignments.-The other material assignments
of error to the interlocutory order specified on the appeal
are addressed (1) to the lack of equity in the bill, (2)
to the exercise of discretion in ordering a temporary injunction, (3) to the lack of findings before the order of
temporary injunction and (4) to the failure to strike from
the bill allegations as to certain sections which deal with
contract relations between the Society and users of the
musical compositions because these sections are not enforced by the state officers. We treat of them briefly:
(1) It is clear that there is equitable jurisdiction to prevent irreparable injury, if the sections of the state statute
outlawing the Society raise issues of constitutionality.
The heavy penalties for violation and the prohibition of
the issue of licenses or collection of fees show the need
to protect complainants."8 (2) Upon the conclusion that
the motion to dismiss should be overruled, there was no
abuse of discretion in granting an interlocutory injunction. 19 The damage before final judgment from the enforcement of the act as shown by the affidavits would be
irreparable. The allegations in the bill of threats of
enforcement and the declaration in the affidavit of the
16 Fine $50 to $5,000 and imprisonment one to ten years or either.
§ 8, Fla. Gen. Laws, 1937, c. 17807.
17 Borden's Farm Products Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 211-213.

Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5.
"Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, 165; Terrace v. Thompson, 263
U. S. 197, 215.
" 9Alabama v. United States, 279 U. S. 229, 231; Ohio Oil Co. v.
Conway, 279 U. S. 813.

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Attorney General of the State, the officer charged with
supervision of enforcement, ° of readiness and willingness
"to prosecute any violations of said act," sufficiently establish the immediate danger from enforcement.2" No
objection appears as to the adequacy of the bond or the
other terms of the injunction. These remain under the
control of the lower court. Ordinarily it would be expected that where a temporary injunction is considered
necessary to protect the rights of complainants against
the allegedly unconstitutional action of state officers, under a statute, a final order would follow with all convenient speed. (3) The order of the trial court was entered
April 5, 1938. The findings of fact and conclusions of
law were not filed until May 17, 1938, after the first assignment of errors had pointed out the omission and
after the appeal was allowed. The original assignment
of error, which had relied upon the failure to comply
with Equity Rule 701/2 was amended to show subsequent
compliance but no assignment of error was made on
account of the fact that the findings were out of time.
The objection was taken in the statement of points to be
relied upon on the appeal and in appellants' brief in the
specification of errors to be urged. Better practice dictates the filing of the finding of facts and conclusions of
law before or contemporaneously with the 'order or decree. It would be useless, however, to reverse the order
granting the temporary injunction and remand the cause.
The temporary injunction would now be in order. (4)
In answer to the fourth objection it may be said that
the issue like that of constitutionality can be more
satisfactorily disposed of upon final hearing.
Affirmed.
0

1

§ 10, Fla. Gen. Laws, 1937, c. 17807.
Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214-16;

Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445, 451-52.

Cline v. Frink

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLAcK, J., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

dissenting.

I believe the decree enjoining and suspending Florida's
law prohibiting monopolistic price fixing should be reversed because
(1) No showing has been made that casts any doubt
upon a State's power to prohibit monopolistic price
fixing,
(2) Complainants (appellees here) failed to sustain
their burden of showing $3,000.00 in controversy, as
required by statute,
(3) The court below failed to require a bond or other
conditions adequate to protect the people in Florida who
might be injured by the injunction.
First. Do general allegations of unconstitutionality,'
similarly general affidavits and general findings by the
trial court show that the Florida statute against monopolistic price fixing is "novel, if not unique" 2 state legislation, and raise such "grave constitutional questions"
that a federal court should suspend the statute to permit
complainants to continue exacting monopoly tribute from
the public until the court hears evidence?
The enjoined Attorney General and prosecuting attorneys of Florida do not have, and expressly disclaim
any duty to enforce the statute against appellees unless
they combine to fix monopolistic prices. Therefore, this
injunction cannot rest upon the alleged unconstitutionality of any provisions of the statute other than those prohibiting monopolistic price fixing. And allegations of the
Cf. Borden's Co. v. Baldwin, 293 U. S. 194, 203; Aetna Ins. Co. v.
Hyde, 275 U. S. 440, 447; Public Service Comm'n v. Great Northern
Utilities Co., 289 U. S. 130, 136, 137.
'Borden's Co. v. Baldwin, supra, 203.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

bill attacking other provisions of the statute raise only
moot questions. If this record can be said to raise any
"grave," "novel," or "unique" question at all, that question is whether a State has power to prohibit price fixing
by monopolies in restraint of trade.

If the issue is not narrowed to this single point, approval is given to the enjoining of state officials from
action which they have no duty to perform and have
solemnly disclaimed both here and in the District Court.'
In the absence of an interpretation by the Florida Supreme Court, to what more authoritative source or evidence may a federal court turn for the meaning of the
statute, than to the decision of the highest state official
charged with its enforcement? He has determined that,
so far as he and the prosecuting attorneys under him
are concerned, appellees may license their compositions
as they please, may combine to detect and punish infringers and may operate in Florida at will, provided
only that they abandon monopolistic price fixing. Even
as to the statutory prohibition against price fixing, all
that is before us, a practice more desirable and more in
keeping with our dual form of government, previous decisions,4 and the trend of Congressional legislation,5 would
be to refrain from federal judicial interference until the
state courts are presented with an opportunity to define
the statutory duties of appellants.

"And . . . the pre-

sumption is in all cases that the state courts will do what
the constitution and laws of the United States require."
'Cf., Carroll v. Greenwich Insurance Co., 199 U. S. 401, 412.
'Gilchrist v. Interborough Co., 279 U. S. 159, 207; Fenner v.
Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243-4; cf., Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas,
177 U. S. 28, 43; and see Clark, Brandeis, JJ., dissenting, Cincinnati
v. Cincinnati & H. Traction Co., 245 U. S. 446, 461.
'28 U. S. C. 41; c. 726, 50 Stat. 738, 48 Stat. 775, 47 Stat. 70,
43 Stat. 938, 36 Stat. 1162, amended 37 Stat. 1013.
'Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184, 194.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLAcK,

J., dissenting.

Judicially restraining these Florida officials from action
which they declare they cannot and will not take, denies to
Florida the traditional respect that has been accorded
state officials by this Court.'
Even according to the comparatively new judicial
formula here applied, the only issue is whether "novel
... unique" or "grave constitutional questions" are
raised by the charge that these state officials will perform
their sole duty under the Florida statute of prosecuting
appellees for violations of the prohibitions against monopolistic price fixing. Paraphrasing this formula, the
question here actually becomes: When complainants
charge in a federal court of equity that a State has passed,
and its officers are about to enforce, a law against monopolistic price fixing, is there so much doubt about the
power of the State to prohibit monopolistic price fixing
that operation of the law must be enjoined and effect
denied to it until evidence is heard by the Court?
Here, both the very bill upon which the injunction now
approved was granted and affidavits of record establish
beyond dispute appellees' flagrant violation of the
Florida law by combining to fix prices. This combination apparently includes practically all (probably 95%)
American and foreign copyright owners controlling rendi'See Spielman Motor Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89, 96; Cincinnati

v. Cincinnati & H. Traction Co., supra, 454, 455; Virginia v. West
Virginia, 231 U. S. 89, 91; cf. Des Moines v. City Ry. Co., 214 U. S.
179, 184. This injunction makes strikingly pertinent the question of
Justice Harlan, dissenting, in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123, 179
(1908) : "If the Federal court could thus prohibit the law officer of
the State from representing it in a suit brought in the state court,
why might not the bill in the Federal court be so amended that that
court could reach all the district attorneys in Minnesota and forbid
them from bringing to the attention of grand juries and the state
courts violations of the state act . . .?"

His apprehensive prophecy

has more than come true in the present case.
161299°-39----6

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

tion of copyrighted music for profit in the United States.
Not only does this combination fix prices through a selfperpetuating board of twenty-four directors, but its
power over the business of musical rendition is so great
that it can refuse to sell rights to single compositions, and
can, and does, require purchasers to take, at a monopolistically fixed annual fee, the entire repertory of all numbers controlled by the combination. And these fees are
not the same for like purchasers even in the same locality.
Evidence shows that competing radio stations in the same
city, operating on the same power and serving the same
audience, are charged widely variant fees for identical
performance rights, not because of competition, but by
the exercise of monopoly power. Since it appears that
music is an essential part of public entertainment for
profit, radio stations or other businesses arbitrarily compelled to pay discriminatory fees are faced with price
fixing practices that could destroy them, because the
Society has a monopoly of practically all-if not completely all-available music. When consideration is also
given to the fact that an arbitrarily fixed lower rate is
granted to a favored station itself controlled by another
instrument of public communication-a newspaper-the
ultimate possibilities for control of the channels of public
communication and information are apparent.
We have here a price fixing combination that actually
wields the power of life and death over every business in
Florida, and elsewhere, dependent upon copyrighted
musical compositions for existence. Such a monopolistic
combination's power to fix prices is the power to destroy.
Should a court of equity grant this combination the privilege of violating a state anti-monopoly law?' Does a
8 Cf., Continental Wall Paper Co. v Voight & Sons Co., 212 U. S.
227, 262, affirming 148 F. 939; Gibbs v. Baltimore Gas Co., 130 U. S.
396, 412. McConnell v. Camors-McConnell Co., 152 F. 321; Pacific

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

state law prohibiting such a combination present "grave
constitutional questions"?
It is my position that a state law prohibiting monopolistic price fixing in restraint of trade is not "novel" and
"unique" and raises no "grave constitutional questions."
The constitutional right of the States to pass laws against
monopolies should now be beyond possibility of controversy. "That state legislatures have the right . . . to
prevent unlawful combinations to prevent competition
and in restraint of trade, and to prohibit and punish
monopolies, is not open to question,"' and few have
challenged the power of state legislatures to ordain that
"competition not combination, should be the law of
trade." " Surely, there is presently no basis to doubt
this power and to assert that its exercise raises "grave
constitutional questions." As recently as 1937, this Court
held that Puerto Rico, with legislative powers not equal
to, but "nearly as extensive as those exercised by any state
legislature," could prohibit monopolistic price fixing as
one of the "rightful subjects of legislation" upon which
legislatures act.11
If the States have somehow lost their historic power to
prohibit monopolistic price fixing combinations before
Postal Telegraph Cable Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 50 F. 493;

American Biscuit & Mfg. Co. v. Klotz, 44 F. 721; 1 Pom. Equity
Juris. (3rd Ed.) § 402.
9 Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 107. "There
is nothing in the Constitution of the United States which precludes
a State from adopting and enforcing [statutes which secure competition and preclude combinations which tend to defeat it] . . .
To so decide would be stepping backwards." International Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U. S. 199, 209. See, Atlantic & Pac. Tea
Co. v. Grosjean, 301 U. S. 412, 425-6; Nebbia v. New York, 291 U. S.
502, 529; Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 366-7.
'National Cotton Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U. S. 115, 129; Carroll v.
Greenwich Ins. Co., supra, 411.
11 Puerto Rico v. Shell Co., 302 U. S. 253, 260, 261.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

presentation of evidence to a federal court, at what point
in -our history and in what manner did they lose it? The
people have not exercised their exclusive authority, by
Constitutional amendment, to strip the States of their
power over price fixing combinations and thus raise
monopoly above the traditional power of legislative
bodies.
It was expressly conceded at the bar that Florida had
the Constitutional power to prohibit price fixing combinations unless the copyright laws limited this power.
And, since argument of the present case, a decision rendered by us February 13, this year, made clear the principle that the copyright laws grant no immunity to copyright owners from statutes prohibiting monopolistic
practices and agreements. We there declared that "An
agreement illegal [by statute] because it suppresses competition is not any less so because the competitive article
is copyrighted." 12
"Due process" has been judicially endowed with great
elasticity in relation to property rights, but it is inconceivable that it would afford refuge for monopolies
deemed undesirable by the people's representatives.
When a legislature as a matter of public policy determines to prohibit monopolistic combinations, we cannot,
under any doctrine of "due process," rightfully "review
their economics or their facts." '" And, although "due
process" is invoked, can evidence either add to or take
from the legislative power to permit, regulate or prohibit
monopolies in the public interest?
Several of the general allegations in the bill are relied
upon to justify suspension of the Florida statute until
evidence is heard by a court. It is said the court should
hear evidence because the "bill sets out that the exercise
of rights granted by the Federal Copyright Act to control
Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States, 306 U. S. 208, 230.
Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157, 161.

13Central Lumber

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK, J., dissenting.

the performance of compositions for profit is prohibited
by the statute . . ." But what evidence can the court
hear that will assist it in comparing the statute with the
copyright laws? The Florida statute does not even purport to prohibit the "performance of compositions for
profit," and the enjoined officials have neither threatened,
nor do they intend, to prohibit such performance. It is
said the bill alleges "that existing contracts are impaired"
by the statute. But no contracts can be affected unless
involving prohibited monopolistic price fixing. That the
Florida law prohibits the continuation and execution of
monopoly practices in pursuance of price fixing agreements made before the law was passed, can be no basis for
constitutional objection. 4
It is said the bill alleges "property taken without compensation." If the statute, of itself, takes property, (and
no charge of unconstitutional application of the statute
is made) is evidence required to show the manner of the
taking? It is said the bill alleges that the statute violates
"equal protection." But the sole thing threatened is
prosecution of an admitted price fixing combinationcomprised of practically all the musical copyright owners
and publishers in the nation. ". . if an evil [of
monopoly] is specially experienced in a particular branch
of business, the Constitution embodies no prohibition of
laws confined to the evil, or doctrinaire requirement that
they should be couched in all embracing terms. It does
not forbid the cautious advance, step by step, and the
distrust of generalities which sometimes have been the
weakness, but often the strength, of English legislation." 11 It is said a drastic penalty is provided for prac14 Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), supra, 108.
15 Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co., supra, 411; Central Lumber Co.

v. South Dakota, supra, 160. "A legislature may hit at an abuse
which it has found, even though it has failed to strike at another."
United States v. Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 151.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

ticing price fixing. What evidence will serve to enlighten
the Court on the statutory penalty? That penalty is set
out clearly in the statute. If it invalidates the statute,
that determination should be made now.
The present case illustrates how the recently fashioned
judicial formula under which state laws must be enjoined
if "grave constitutional questions" are presented in a
complaint, actually results in an automatic judicial suspension of state statutes upon any general complaint to
a federal court. The apparently inevitable operation of
this formula runs counter to the Tenth Amendment intended to preserve the control of the States over their
own local legislation, and opens the door to further evasions of the Eleventh Amendment protecting the States
from suits in federal courts. 6 A lower federal court's
refusal in its "discretion" to suspend a state statute was
recently reversed because "grave constitutional questions"-requiring evidence-were deemed raised by
charges that the statute by requiring citrus fruit cans to
be truthfully labeled violated the Constitution.1 7 And
here, where the District Court enjoined a state law in its
"discretion," the injunction is sustained by a holding that
evidence should be heard because "grave constitutional
questions" are involved. However the lower court's "discretion" may be exercised, the formula apparently
achieves but one result-state statutes are suspended.
Careful scrutiny of appellees' bill for injunction reveals no allegations indicating that Florida's power to
prohibit monopolistic price fixing would, even under the
formula applied, be altered by proof of any "particular
economic facts

. . .

which are

. . .

properly the sub-

Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123, Harlan, J., dissenting, 168204; and see Fitts V. McGhee, 172 U. S. 516, 528, 530; In re Ayers,
123 U. S. 443, 496, 497, 505.
'Polk Co. v. Glover, 305 U. S. 5.
16 Cf.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK, J., dissenting.

ject of evidence and of findings." 18 True, the bill alleges
that the statute of Florida and similar legislation enacted
by other States were "sponsored by an organized
group . . . for their own selfish aggrandizement...
without an adequate hearing being afforded to complainants and others similarly situated," and that "in truth and
in fact, [the statute] was enacted not in the public interest..."
Appellees also allege that "unless the enforcement of this State statute is restrained . .. other
States, in addition to Florida, Montana, Washington,
Nebraska and Tennessee, may enact similar statutes . . .
all of which would work undue hardship on complainants and would violate the spirit of the Constitution . . ." These are some of the strongest-if not the
strongest-of the bill's allegations deemed to raise "grave
constitutional questions." Is the temporary injunction
approved so that the federal court in Florida may hear
evidence on what constitutes the public interest of Florida? Shall the court hear evidence to determine whether
or not "unless the enforcement of this statute is restrained" other States, "in addition to Florida," may
similarly prohibit appellees' monopoly?
It is difficult to perceive how in the future-under
this formula-any state law, directly or indirectly affecting property, can become effective until injunction
proceedings have dragged their weary way through federal courts. All state statutes might hereafter well substitute for the expression "to take effect within" a certain period of time, the words "to take effect after the
Federal courts have heard evidence to determine" their
reasonableness (wisdom). And the formula likewise fits
Congressional enactments. Had the pronouncement of this
formula not been the culmination of gradual judicial advances, it would have been everywhere recognized as a
" Borden's Co. v. Baldwin, supra, at 210.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

revolutionary departure from our constitutional form of
government, under which the wisdom of legislation,
within the field of legislative action, was left to the
judgment of elected representatives of the people.
Florida can find little comfort in the admonition that
"Ordinarily it would be expected that where a temporary
injunction is considered necessary . . . a final order
would follow with all convenient speed." This law has
now already been suspended for a year, and experience
demonstrates that injunctive suspension of state laws
and state action can hang in the courts for many years
before receiving final disposition. 9
Second. Jurisdictional Amount.
These eleven appellees alleged in their bill for injunction that they sued on behalf of themselves and the more
than 1,000 other (American) members of the Society.
No determination is made here "that for any member,
who is a party, the matter in controversy is of the value
of the jurisdictional amount"--$3,000. However, while
appellees are not aided in establishing the jurisdictional
amount by the "allegation that [they] . . . sued on
behalf of others similarly situated," 2 the court nevertheless holds that the jurisdictional amount is in controversy in "the value of the aggregate rights of all members" (including the more than 1,000 who have not
appeared in person) to combine and fix prices in
Florida.
"Assuming that such a case as this may be called a
class action, and . . . could be maintained as such . . .
yet that it may be properly a class action does not affect
the rule against aggregation [of claims for making up
9

" See dissent, McCart v. Indianapolis Water Co., 302 U. S. 419,
435, and note.
Lion Bonding Co. v. Karatz, 262 U. S. 77, 86.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

the jurisdictional amount], because [such aggregation].. . . is necessarily only applicable to those class
actions in which several claimants to a fund are joined
as plaintiffs asserting common and undivided rights
therein." 21 Appellees assert no common and undivided
rights in any fund 22 or property; 2 "the amount payable
to each [by the Society] depends upon hi contract
alone." 24 Neither does appellees' bill seek, as would the
traditional class or representative bill in equity, to protect
group rights all claimed under and traceable to a single
decree,'2 or rights "which . . . [no one plaintiff] can enforce in the absence of the" others because derived from
In this proceeding, all
a single security instrument.
that members of the Society have in common is their alleged right to violate with impunity the Florida statute
against price fixing. Unless opposition to and violation
of the statute can be their bond of unity, appellees have
"separate and distinct demands . . . [united] for convenience and economy in a single suit, [and] it is
essential that the demand of each be of the requisite
jurisdictional amount." 2
Permissible joinder of many plaintiffs as a matter of
convenience and economy is not a means of enlarging
the jurisdiction of the District Court. Rule 38, under
which this class or representative suit was brought, did
" Eberhard v. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co., 241 F. 353,
356, referred to with apparent approval in Lion Bonding Co. v.
Karatz, supra.
"Smith v. Swormstedt, 16 How. 288.
"Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566.
Eberhard case, supra, 356.
'Shields v. Thomas, 17 How. 3, but see Chapman v. Handley, 151
U. S. 443.
" Troy Bank v. Whitehead & Co., 222 U. S. 39, 41.
nId. 40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

not, in fact could not, extend that jurisdiction which
depends solely upon Acts of Congress. "
A common desire to disregard a state law cannot serve
as a common and undivided interest for purposes of federal jurisdiction; 2" otherwise, all who oppose such a law
can aggregate the values of their alleged individual rights
so as to disregard the law, in order that they may escape
the courts of a State and bring its law before a federal
court. And the fact that a state law inflicts pecuniary
loss upon members of a non-profit association because of
their membership does not permit aggregation of the
members' pecuniary interests as a basis for attack upon
the law in a federal court by some members "on behalf
and with the authority of all." 2" Here, the individual
members have made no showing of what they as individuals have at stake-or of what all the members as a
class stand to lose by virtue of the Florida law.
The enjoined state officials have only the duty to prosecute appellees if they continue to fix prices (i. e., to issue
licenses) through monopolistic combinations, and these
officials have expressly disavowed any intention to do
more.

1

Appellees are left free to form such combina-

tions as they please in Florida for the purpose of protecting against copyright infringements. They are here deprived by the Florida statute only of the right to com"Alaska Packers Assn. v. Pillsbury, 301 U. S. 174, 177; Christopher
v. Brusselback, 302 U. S. 500, 505; see, KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press,
299 U. S. 269, 279.
" Pope v. Blanton, 10 F. Supp. 15, 18, dismissed per curiam for
lack of requisite jurisdictional amount in controversy, 299 U. S. 521;
Gavica v. Donaugh, 93 F. 2d 173.
" Rogers v. Hennepin County, 239 U. S. 621. The complaint appears in the original records of this Court, No. 411, Oct. Term 1915.
Cf., Robbins v. Western Auto Ins. Co., 4 F. 2d 249, cert. den., 268
U. S. 698; Woods v. Thompson, 14 F. 2d 951, and Illinois Bankers'
Life Assn. v. Farris,21 F. 2d 1014, cert. den., 276 U. S. 621.
" Cf., Carrollv. Greenwich Ins. Co., supra, 412.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

bine to fix prices, and the value of that right must determine the amount in controversy:3 2 That right was the
object which appellees' bill for injunction sought to protect from allegedly unconstitutional interference."3 Yet,
there is no evidence at all in the record from which even
an inference can be drawn as to the amount, if any, individual appellees or other members might lose in Florida
by selling or licensing their copyrighted articles individually (which the law permits) instead of fixing prices by
monopolistic combination (which the law prohibits).
No showing was made that appellees ever have made. or
ever will make any profit from the operations of the Society in Florida. As stated by the majority opinion, the
record discloses that the business of the Society in the entire'United States and sixteen foreign countries is a profitable one. But we cannot assume from this that its Florida
operations are as a unit profitable. In fact, the record
shows only that the entire Society had sixty thousand
dollars worth of contracts in Florida in 1936. We are
not told what ratable share of this sixty thousand dollars would come to any individual in the division of the
entire amount among the forty-five thousand odd members affiliated with the Society (in America and abroad).
Each individual member's gross income from Florida
might be less than $1.50 per year.
The loss of a right to an annual gross income of $1.50
cannot amount to the loss of a right valued at ten thousand dollars-as appellees allege-on the theory that it
would cost ten thousand dollars to collect the $1.50 income individually. And it is, of course, possible that if
the Society in fact has no net income from Florida but
operates there at a loss, each member's ratable share of
'Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 107, 114, 115.
Cf., Glenwood Light & W. Co. v. Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121,
125, 126; KVOS, Inc. v. Associated Press, 299 U. S. 269, 277.

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

income from the Society will actually be increased when
the unprofitable Florida operations cease because of the
statute. Measuring the amount in controversy on the
above theory, jurisdiction might be obtained by a federal
court to enforce rights of a value far less than the jurisdictional $3,000 required by Congress. For illustration, a
statute might prohibit parking of automobiles on certain
city streets; an automobile owner assailing the law might
be admitted to the jurisdiction of the federal court by
alleging that it would cost him more than three thousand
dollars to purchase a parking lot in which to park off
the streets of the prohibited area. He would thus "comply" with the statute and abandon the streets in obedience
to it." I do not believe that jurisdiction of a federal
court can be rested on measurements of the imagined
cost of what a complainant conceivably could but certainly would never do as an alternative to action forbidden by statute.
The statutory monetary standard is precise and the
amount in controversy therefore cannot be conjectural.
"It is impossible to foresee into what mazes of speculation and conjecture we may not be led by a departure
from the simplicity of the statutory provision.
"Accordingly this Court has uniformly been strict to
adhere to and enforce it." "
"'"Cost of compliance" with an assailed legislative act may be
considered the measure of the amount in controversy when a right of
complainant is regulated, or where he is required to take affirmative
action. Cf., Kroger Grocery Co. v. Lutz, 299 U. S. 300, 301; McNutt
v. General Motors Acceptance Corp., 298 U. S. 178, 181. But
appellees have not been required to take any affirmative steps, nor
are they permitted to fix prices on condition that they "comply"
with regulations. The fixing of prices through combinations has
been prohibited. Obviously, appellees cannot be prohibited from
doing that which they may also do by "complying" with the statute.
Elgin v. Marshall, 106 U. S. 578, 581.

GIBBS v. BUCK.
66

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

Without proof of the amount each appellee or member
has in issue, how can the "aggregate amount" be fixed at
any figure?
Rigid enforcement of the jurisdictional requirement will
limit the interference of federal courts in state legislation
and will accord with the policy of Congress in narrowing
the jurisdiction of federal courts by successive increases in
the jurisdictional amount. 6 "The policy of the statute
calls for its strict construction." " Since no individual
complainant has established that he has the statutory
jurisdictional amount in controversy, to rest jurisdiction
of a federal court on no more than the unified desire of
many complainants to violate a state statute prohibiting
monopolistic price fixing, does constitute a "novel, if not
unique," and "grave" judicial departure from the jurisdictional requirement fixed by Congress.
Third. The otherwise complete suspension of Florida's
law was limited only by the condition that appellees
make bond of five thousand dollars payable to the Attorney General of Florida and the District Attorneys of
the State. Manifestly, these officials have no individual
interest in the monopoly prohibited by the Florida law.
The major injuries accruing from the suspension of the
law will not be inflicted upon them, but upon the people
of Florida who are required to pay monopoly prices while
the law remains enjoined. Thus, while the law is suspended, these non-resident appellees can carry on a monopolistic business in Florida contrary to its prohibitions,
and the people of Florida who must pay monopoly prices
are granted no protection. We have recently declared the
governing principle that "it is the duty of a court of
equity granting injunctive relief to do so upon conditions
that will protect all-including the public-whose inter" See Healy v. Ratta, 292 U. S. 263, 270.
87

Id.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

ests the injunction may affect." 8 The injunction here
was not granted upon conditions that would protect the
interests of all who might be affected by it. It neither
ordered the monopoly tribute exacted by appellees to be
paid into court during suspension of the Florida statute,
nor required a bond for the benefit of, and adequate to
indemnify those who must pay this tribute until the
court permits the statute to go into effect.
Nevertheless, this Court now refuses to correct the
grossly unjust failure to protect those who may suffer
irreparable injury from the suspension of the Florida law
on the ground that "No objection appears as to the adequacy of the bond or the other terms of the injunction.
These remain under the control of the lower court."
However, the lower court has already exercised its control
resulting in manifestly injurious error apparent on the
record. 8 And as "upon this appeal in equity the whole
case is before us, we can render such decree as under all
the circumstances may be proper." "0 Litigation is not a
game in which justice can be awarded only to the alert
and fastidious objector, particularly when-as here-a
court suspends statutory rights of members of the public
who, not being in court, have no opportunity to object.
The injustice to the public apparent on this record violates the rudimentary principles of equity and fair play.
We should neither condone nor permit it.
They who attack the constitutionality of a law, obtain
its judicial suspension, and then continue to violate its
Inland Steel Co. v. United States, 306 U. S. 153, 157.
See, Lamb v. Cramer, 285 U. S. 217, 222; United States v.
Tennessee & Coosa R. Co., 176 U. S. 242, 256; Revised Rules of the
Supreme Court of the United States, 27, paragraph 6; cf., Mahler
v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 45.
40 United States v. Rio Grande Irrigation Co., 184 U. S.416, 423;
Cincinnati v. Cincinnati & H. Traction Co., supra, 454; Ridings v.
Johnson, 128 U. S.212, 218; cf., Patterson v. Alabama, 294 U. S.
600, 607.
38

39

BUCK v. GALLAGHER.
Syllabus.

66

terms, should not benefit by the suspension, in the event
the law is later held constitutional. Otherwise, a judicially granted period of immunity will reward litigants
who unsuccessfully assail the constitutionality of legislation. Seemingly, the time has arrived when despite
our constitutional system of government no state law
can become effective until a federal court hears evidence
on its constitutionality. The courts-responsible for this
fundamental change--should at least protect citizens of
an enacting State from disobedience to a state law permitted by an erroneous or improvident interlocutory injunction.
The interlocutory injunction, should be vacated.

BUCK ET AL. V. GALLAGHER, STATE TREASURER,
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 329.

Argued January 10, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. In a suit to restrain the enforcement of a statute prohibiting or
regulating a business, the matter in controversy is the right to carry
on the business free from the prohibition or regulation. P. 100.
2. The burden of showing jurisdictional value in controversy is on
the plaintiff. P. 102.
The value of the right to be free in one's business from a statutory regulation may be shown by proving the additional cost of
complying with the regulation. P. 103.
3. Owners of the copyrights of musical compositions, with a view to
protection against unlicensed public performances for profit for
which they received no compensation, granted to an unincorporated
association, of which they were the members, the exclusive right of
public performance for a term of years. It was the function of
the society to protect itself and its members from piracies and to
license public performances by others, for royalties which, after
certain deductions, it distributed among its members, pursuant to its

