174

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

direct appeal should lie to this Court when administrative
action and not the Act of Congress is assailed.
While we are of the opinion that the Court is without
jurisdiction to review the merits on this appeal, the Court
does have jurisdiction to make such corrective order as
may be appropriate to the enforcement of the limitations
which ยง 3 imposes, and in the circumstances disclosed the
appropriate action is to vacate the decree below and to
remand the cause to the District Court for further proceedings to be taken independently of ยง 3 of the Act of
August 24, 1937. See Gully v. Interstate Natural Gas
Co., 292 U. S. 16; Oklahoma Gas Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 392.
Decree vacated.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 696. Argued March 30, 1939.-Decided May 15, 1939.
The National Firearms Act, as applied to one indicted for transporting in interstate commerce a 12-gauge shotgun with a barrel
less than 18 inches long, without having registered it and without
having in his possession a stamp-affixed written order for it, as
required by the Act, held:
1. Not unconstitutional as an invasion of the reserved powers
of the States. Citing Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U. S. 506,
and Narcotic Act cases. P. 177.
2. Not violative of the Second Amendment of the Federal
Constitution. P. 178.
The Court can not take judicial notice that a shotgun having
a barrel less than 18 inchds long has today any reasonable relation to the preservation or efficiency of a well regulated militia;
and therefore can not say that the Second Amendment guarantees
to the citizen the right to keep and bear such a weapon.
26 F. Supp. 1002, reversed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to an indictment for violation of the National Firearms Act.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
174

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Gordon Dean argued the cause, and Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Messrs. William W. Barron, Fred E. Strine, George F.
Kneip, W. Marvin Smith, and Clinton R. Barry were on
a brief, for the United States.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
An indictment in the District Court Western District
Arkansas, charged that Jack Miller and Frank Layton
"did unlawfully, knowingly, wilfully, and feloniously
transport in interstate commerce from the town of Claremore in the State of Oklahoma to the town of Siloam
Springs in the State of Arkansas a certain firearm, to-wit,
a double barrel 12-gauge Stevens shotgun having a barrel
less than 18 inches in length, bearing identification number 76230, said defendants, at the time of so transporting said firearm in interstate commerce as aforesaid, not
having registered said firearm as required by Section
1132d of Title 26, United States Code (Act of June 26,
1934, c. 737, Sec. 4 [ยง 5], 48 Stat. 1237), and not having
in their possession a stamp-affixed written order for said
firearm as provided by Section 1132c, Title 26, United
States Code (June 26, 1934, c. 737, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 1237)
and the regulations issued under authority of the said
Act of Congress known as the 'National Firearms Act'
approved June 26, 1934, contrary to the form of the
statute in such case made and provided, and against the
peace and dignity of the United States." I
'Act of June 26, 1934, c. 757, 48 Stat. 1236-1240, 26 U. S. C.
ยง 1132.
That for the purposes of this Act"(a) The term 'firearm' means a shotgun or rifle having a barrel
of less than eighteen inches in length, or any other weapon, except

176

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

A duly interposed demurrer alleged: The National
Firearms Act is not a revenue measure but an attempt
to usurp police power reserved to the States, and is therefore unconstitutional. Also, it offends the inhibition of
the Second Amendment to the Constitution-"A well
regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a
free State, the right of people to keep and bear Arms,
shall not be infringed."
a pistol or revolver, from which a shot is discharged by an explosive
if such weapon is capable of being concealed on the person, or a
machine gun, and includes a muffler or silencer for any firearm
whether or not such firearm is included within the foregoing definition, [The Act of April 10, 1936, c. 169, 49 Stat. 1192 added the words]
but does not include any rifle which is within the foregoing provisions solely by reason of the length of its barrel if the caliber of
such rifle is .22 or smaller and if its barrel is sixteen inches or more
in length.
"Sec. 3. (a) There shall be levied, collected, and paid upon firearms transferred in the continental United States a tax at the rate
of $200 for each firearm, such tax to be paid by the transferor, and
to be represented by appropriate stamps to be provided by the
Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary; and the stamps
herein provided shall be affixed to the order for such firearm, hereinafter provided for. The tax imposed by this section shall be in
addition to any import duty imposed on such firearm.
"See. 4. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer a
firearm except in pursuance of a written order from the person
seeking to obtain such article, on an application form issued in
blank in duplicate for that purpose by the Commissioner. Such
order shall identify the applicant by such means of identification
as may be prescribed by regulations under this Act: Provided, That,
if the applicant is an individual, such identification shall include
fingerprints and a photograph thereof.
"(c) Every person so transferring a firearm shall set forth in each
copy of such order the manufacturer's number or other mark identifying such firearm, and shall forward a copy of such order to the
Commissioner. The original thereof with stamps affixed, shall be
returned to the applicant.
"(d) No person shall transfer a firearm which has previously been
transferred on or after the effective date of this Act, unless such

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
174

177

Opinion of the Court.

The District Court held that section eleven of the
Act violates the Second Amendment. It accordingly
sustained the demurrer and quashed the indictment.
The cause is here by direct appeal.
Considering Sonzinsky v. United States (1937), 300
U. S. 506, 513, and what was ruled in sundry causes arisperson, in addition to complying with subsection (c), transfers therewith the stamp-affixed order provided for in this section for each
such prior transfer, in compliance with such regulations as may be
prescribed under this Act for proof of payment of all taxes on such
firearms.
"Sec. 5. (a) Within sixty days after the effective date of this
Act every person possessing a firearm shall register, with the collector of the district in which he resides, the number or other mark
identifying such firearm, together with his name, address, place where
such firearm is usually kept, and place of business or employment,
and, if such person is other than a natural person, the name and
home address of an executive officer thereof: Provided, That no
person shall be required to register under this section with respect
to any firearm acquired after the effective date of, and in conformity
with the provisions of, this Act.
"Sec. 6. It shall be unlawful for any person to receive or possess
any firearm which has at any time been transferred in violation of
section 3 or 4 of this Act.
"See. 11. It shall be unlawful for any person who is required to
register as provided in section 5 hereof and who shall not have so
registered, or any other person who has not in his possession a stampaffixed order as provided in section 4 hereof, to ship, carry, or deliver
any firearm in interstate commerce.
"Sec. 12. The Commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary,
shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary for
carrying the provisions of this Act into effect.
"Sec. 14. Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of
the requirements of this Act shall, upon conviction, be fined not
more than $2,000 or be imprisoned for not more than five years, or
both, in the discretion of the court.
"See. 16. If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the
Act, and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.
"See. 18. This Act may be cited as the 'National Firearms Act.'"
161299 *39_12

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ing under the Harrison Narcotic Act 2-United States v.
Jin Fuey Moy (1916), 241 U. S. 394; United States v.
Doremus (1919), 249 U. S. 86, 94; Linder v. United
States (1925), 268 U. S. 5; Alston v. United States
(1927), 274 U. S. 289; Nigro v. United States (1928),
276 U. S. 332-the objection that the Act usurps police
power reserved to the States is plainly untenable.
In the absence of any evidence tending to show that
possession or use of a "shotgun having a barrel of less
than eighteen inches in length" at this time has some
reasonable relationship to the preservation or efficiency
of a well regulated militia, we cannot say that the Second
Amendment guarantees the right to keep and bear such
an instrument. Certainly it is not within judicial notice
that this weapon is any part of the ordinary military
equipment or that its use could contribute to the common defense. Aymette v. State, 2 Humphreys (Tenn.)
154, 158.
The Constitution as originally adopted granted to the
Congress power-"To provide for calling forth the Militia
to execute the Laws of the Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions; To provide for organizing,
arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for governing
such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of
the United States, reserving to the States respectively,
the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of
training the Militia according to the discipline prescribed
by Congress." With obvious purpose to assure the continuation and render possible the effectiveness of such
forces the declaration and guarantee of the Second
Amendment were made. It must be interpreted and
applied with that end in view.
The Militia which the States were expected to maintain and train is set in contrast with Troops which they
2

Act December 17, 1914, c. 1, 38 Stat. 785; February 24, 1919, c.

18, 40 Stat. 1057.

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
174

Opinion of the Court.

were forbidden to keep without the consent of Congress.
The sentiment of the time strongly disfavored standing
armies; the common view was that adequate defense of
country and laws could be secured through the Militiacivilians primarily, soldiers on occasion.
The signification attributed to the term Militia appears
from the debates in the Convention, the history and legislation of Colonies and States, and the writings of approved commentators. These show plainly enough that
the Militia comprised all males physically capable of acting in concert for the common defense. "A body of
citizens enrolled for military discipline." And further,
that ordinarily when called for service these men were
expected to appear bearing arms supplied by themselves
and of the kind in common use at the time.
Blackstone's Commentaries, Vol. 2, Ch. 13, p. 409 points
out "that king Alfred first settled a national militia in this
kingdom," and traces the subsequent development and
use of such forces.
Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations, Book V, Ch. 1, contains an extended account of the Militia. It is there said:
"Men of republican principles have been jealous of a
standing army as dangerous to liberty." "In a militia,
the character of the labourer, artificer, or tradesman, predominates over that of the soldier: in a standing army,
that of the soldier predominates over every other character; and in this distinction seems to consist the essential
difference between those two different species of military
force."
"The American Colonies In The 17th Century," Osgood,
Vol. 1, ch. XIII, affirms in reference to the early system
of defense in New England"In all the colonies, as in England, the militia system
was based on the principle of the assize of arms. This
implied the general obligation of all adult male inhabitants to possess arms, and, with certain exceptions, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

cooperate in the work of defence." "The possession of
arms also implied the possession of ammunition, and the
authorities paid quite as much attention to the latter as
to the former." "A year later [1632] it was ordered that
any single man who had not furnished himself with arms
might be put out to service, and this became a permanent
part of the legislation of the colony [Massachusetts]."
Also "Clauses intended to insure the possession of arms
and ammunition by all who were subject to military service appear in all the important enactments concerning
military affairs. Fines were the penalty for delinquency,
whether of towns or individuals. According to the usage
of the times, the infantry of Massachusetts consisted of
pikemen and musketeers. The law, as enacted in 1649
and thereafter, provided that each of the former should
be armed with a pike, corselet, head-piece, sword, and
knapsack. The musketeer should carry a 'good fixed
musket,' not under bastard musket bore, not less than
three feet, nine inches, nor more than four feet three
inches in length, a priming wire, scourer, and mould, a
sword, rest, bandoleers, one pound of powder, twenty
bullets, and two fathoms of match. The law also required
that two-thirds of each company should be musketeers."
The General Court of Massachusetts, January Session
1784, provided for the organization and government of
the Militia. It directed that the Train Band should "contain all able bodied men, from sixteen to forty years of
age, and the Alarm List, all other men under sixty years
of age, . . ." Also, "That every non-commissioned officer
and private soldier of the said militia not under the controul of parents, masters or guardians, and being of sufficient ability therefor in the judgment of the Selectmen
of the town in which he shall dwell, shall equip himself,
and be constantly provided with a good fire arm," &c.
By an Act passed April 4, 1786 the New York Legislature directed: "That every able-bodied Male Person, be-

UNITED STATES v. MILLER.
174

Opinion of the Court.

ing a Citizen of this State, or of any of the United States,
and residing in this State, (except such Persons as are
hereiDafter excepted) and who are of the Age of Sixteen,
and under the Age of Forty-five Years, shall, by the Captain or commanding Officer of the Beat in which such
Citizens shall reside, within four Months after the passing
of this Act, be enrolled in the Company of such Beat.
. . . That every Citizen so enrolled and notified, shall,
within three Months thereafter, provide himself, at his
own Expense, with a good Musket or Firelock, a sufficient
Bayonet and Belt, a Pouch with a Box therein to contain
not less than Twenty-four Cartridges suited to the Bore
of his Musket or Firelock, each Cartridge containing a
proper Quantity of Powder and Ball, two spare Flints, a
Blanket andKnapsack; . . ."
The General Assembly of Virginia, October, 1785, (12
Hening's Statutes) declared, "The defense and safety of
the commonwealth depend upon having its citizens properly armed and taught the knowledge of military duty."
It further provided for organization and control of the
Militia and directed that "All free male persons between
the ages of eighteen and fifty years," with certain exceptions, "shall be inrolled or formed into companies."
"There shall be a private muster of every company once
in two months."
Also that "Every officer and soldier shall appear at
his respective muster-field on the day appointed, by
eleven o'clock in the forenoon, armed, equipped, and accoutred, as follows: . . . every non-commissioned officer
and private with a good, clean musket carrying an ounce
ball, and three feet eight inches long in the barrel, with
a good bayonet and iron ramrod well fitted thereto, a
cartridge box properly made, to contain and secure twenty
cartridges fitted to his musket, a good knapsack and canteen, and moreover, each non-commissioned officer and
private shall have at every muster one pound of good

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

powder, and four pounds of lead, including twenty blind
cartridges; and each serjeant shall have a pair of moulds
fit to cast balls for their respective companies, to be
purchased by the commanding officer out of the monies
arising on delinquencies. Provided, That the militia of
the counties westward of the Blue Ridge, and the counties
below adjoining thereto, shall not be obliged to be armed
with muskets, but may have good rifles with proper accoutrements, in lieu thereof. And every of the said officers, non-commissioned officers, and privates, shall constantly keep the aforesaid arms, accoutrements, and ammunition, ready to be produced whenever called for by
his commanding officer. If any private shall make it appear to the satisfaction of the court hereafter to be appointed for trying delinquencies under this act that he
is so poor that he cannot purchase the hrms herein
required, such court shall cause them to be purchased out
of the money arising from delinquents."
Most if not all of the States have adopted provisions
touching the right to keep and bear arms. Differences
in the language employed in these have naturally led to
somewhat variant conclusions concerning the scope of
the right guaranteed. But none of them seem to afford
any material support for the challenged ruling of the
court below.
In the margin some of the more important opinions
and comments by writers are cited.3
'Concerning The Militia-Presser v. Illinois, 116 U. S. 252; Robertson v. Baldwin, 165 U. S. 275; Fife v. State, 31 Ark. 455; Jeffers
v. Fair, 33 Ga. 347; Salina v..
Blaksley, 72 Kan. 230; 83 P. 619;
People v. Brown, 253 Mich. 537; 235 N. W. 245; Aymette v. State,
2 Humphr. (Tenn.) 154; State v. Duke, 42 Texas 455; State v.
Workman, 35 W. Va. 367; 14 S. E. 9; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, Vol. 1, p. 729; Story on The Constitution, 5th Ed., Vol. 2,
p. 646; Encyclopaedia of the Social Sciences, Vol. X, p. 471, 474.

UNITED STATES v. MORGAN.
174

Syllabus.

We are unable to accept the conclusion of the court below and the challenged judgment must be reversed. The
cause will be remanded for further proceedings.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of this cause.

UNITED STATES

ET AL.

v.MORGAN ET

AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 221.

Argued October 20, 21, 1938. Reargued April 20, 1939.Decided May 15, 1939.

1. Where an order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing stockyards
rates was set aside for procedural defects without judicial determination of the reasonableness of the rates fixed by the order,
the moneys representing the difference between the scheduled rates
in effect and the lower rates of the order, which were required to
be paid into the District Court as a condition to the granting
of an interlocutory injunction, should on motion of the -defendants (the United States and the Secretary of Agriculture) be retained in the registry to await a further and valid determination
of reasonable rates by the Secretary in a pending proceeding in
which he had reopened on his own motion the proceedings under
the Packers and Stockyards Act, and for disposition accordingly.
Pp. 185, 198.
2. The dominant purpose of the Packers and Stockyards Act is
to secure to patrons of the stockyards prescribed stockyard services at just and reasonable rates. P. 188.
3. In construing a statute setting up an administrative agency and
providing for judicial review of its action, court and agency are
to be regarded as the means adopted to attain the prescribed
end, and so far as their duties are defined by the words of the
statute, those words should be construed to attain that end through
co6rdinated action. P. 191.
4. In reviewing an order of the Secretary of Agriculture fixing rates
under the Packers and Stockyards Act, the District Court sits as

