OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
307 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

and priorities of creditors may be made to appear," 21
takes place as of that time.
The question certified should therefore be answered in
the negative.
Question answered "no."
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

RORICK ET AL. v. BOARD OF COMM'RS OF EVER-

GLADES DRAINAGE DIST.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

No. 554.

Argued March 28, 29, 1939.-Decided May 15, 1939.

A suit by bondholders of a state drainage district to restrain
the enforcement of state statutes effecting changes in rates, collection and disposition of taxes on lands of the district, and authority to issue bonds, etc., upon the ground that such changes
unconstitutionally impair the obligations of the plaintiffs' contracts, can not be tried under Jud. Code § 266 by a District Court
of three judges, nor be appealed directly to this Court, the statutes attacked not being of general application, but affecting exclusively the particular district of the State. P. 211.
Jurisdiction is not conferred in such a case by joining as defendants state officials whose duties under the statutes in question are of local, not of state-wide, concern.
24 F. Supp. 458, vacated.

from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, which dismissed a suit seeking an injunction against the enforcement of certain Florida statutes
alleged to be unconstitutional. See, also, s. c., 57 F. 2d
1058. This Court, finding itself without jurisdiction,
vacates the decree and remands the case to the District
APPEAL

"Bramwell v. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co., 269 U. S. 483, 490.

RORICK v. COMM'RS.
208

Opinion of the Court.

Court for further proceedings to be taken independently
of Jud. Code § 266.
. Mr. William Roberts, with whom Messrs. W. H. Watson and Samuel Pasco were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Clarence G. Ashby, with whom Mr. Fred H. Kent
was on the brief, for the Board of Commissioners,
appellee.
Messrs. Tyrus A. Norwood and Marvin C. McIntosh,
Assistant Attorneys General of Florida, with whom Mr.
George Couper Gibbs, Attorney General, was on the brief,
for the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund,
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case is here on appeal under § 238 of the Judicial
Code as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 345, to review a decree
of a district court of three judges convened under § 266
of the Judicial Code as amended, 28 U. S. C. § 380, denying an interlocutory injunction and dismissing the bill and
supplemental bills. The bills challenged the validity of
certain Florida statutes as impairments of the obligation
of contract between the Board of Commissioners of Everglades Drainage District and the appellants, as holders of
some of its outstanding bonds. The decree of the district
court was based on its conception of the applicability of
Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, but this and other
questions are not now open for consideration if § 266 does
not cover a situation like the present. If there be a
jurisdictional barrier here, it binds us though not invoked
by the appellees.
The record is singularly obscure. This litigation, which
has extended over eight years, is but one phase of a com.plicated controversy pursued in both state and federal
courts.
161299°-39-14

210

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The bill was filed on May 19, 1931. A supplemental
bill was filed July 4, 1931. The prayers of the bills were
amended on November 5, 1931. A district court of three
judges was convened on November 14, 1931. On September 17, 1932, orders were entered denying a motion to
dismiss, and granting an interlocutory injunction conditioned on the filing of a bond for $50,000. Answers were
filed in October and November, 1932. The required bond
was not given and on February 23, 1933 an order was
entered that the interlocutory injunction should be vacated. The matter then lay dormant until a second supplemental bill was filed on July 19, 1937. It was not
until August 2, 1938, that the order sought here to be
reviewed, denying the motion for an interlocutory injkinction and dismissing the bill, was made.
The facts will be summarized only to the extent necessary to expose the jurisdictional problem. The Everglades Drainage District (hereafter called District), comprising a large acreage in the southern part of Florida,
was established by Chapter 6456, Laws of Florida, Acts
of 1913. The administration of the District was entrusted
to a Board of Commissioners (hereafter called the Board),
a body corporate. The lands were originally part of a
grant made by Congress to Florida in 1850 whereby
Florida undertook to apply the lands and proceeds derived
from them to drainage and reclamation purposes. In
fulfillment of this obligation Florida, in 1855 (Chapter
610, Laws of Florida, Acts of 1855), vested the lands in
trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund (hereafter
called Trustees) consisting of designated state officials.
Subsequent legislation for the District made numerous
changes affecting its financial administration and the relations between the District and the Trustees (Chapters
13,633, 14,717; 17,902, Laws of Florida, 1929, 1931 and
1937). The changes concerned rates of taxes, disposition
of their proceeds, procedure in cases of tax delinquency,
and authorization of bond issues.

RORICK v. COMM'RS.
208

Opinion of the Court.

Appellants sued as holders of bonds issued prior to these
latter statutes claiming that they impaired obligations
created by such bonds as defined by § 23 of the Act of
1913 which specifically provided that the terms of that
Act should constitute "an irrepealable contract" between
bondholders and the District. In substance the bill and
the supplemental bills alleged a reduction of the available
taxes below those in effect at the time the bonds were
issued, an adverse change in the debt service, and a
diversion of revenues to purposes other than those required by the Act of 1913. The bills also complained of
important changes effected by the later Acts regarding
tax delinquencies on the lands in the District. It was
alleged that under the earlier Act lands on which taxes
were delinquent were to be sold at auction and, for want
of bidders for the amount of taxes plus costs, were to be
bid off to Trustees who were under a duty to pay for tax
certificates as well as the drainage taxes in the future.
Violation of contractual rights were alleged in that
Trustees had ceased paying for the tax certificates as well
as the drainage taxes, and that § 65 of the 1931 statute
had declared that Trustees held the certificates in trust
for the District and required them to transfer the certificates to the District. Further violations of the contract
were attributed to powers given to the District, after 1913,
whereby it was authorized to compromise taxes, to accept
bonds for redemption of lands, and to cancel tax liens
on lands which came into the ownership of the United
States. Finally, a claim of impairment of contract was
based on changes in the membership of the District after
1913.
The Board of Commissioners, the Trustees and various
county tax officials were named as defendants in the suit.
The bills sought to enjoin the defendants distributively,
and with much particularity, from effectuating the various modifications made by the Acts of 1929, 1931 and
1937 concerning the rates of taxes, the disposition of

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

their proceeds, the procedure in cases of tax delinquency,
the authorization of bond issues, and the internal relations between the District and the Trustees as all these
were claimed to be originally defined by the Act of 1913.
This appeal is properly here only if the present suit
required the convening of a district court of three judges
under § 266. We do not think that this was such a suit,
because the state statutes from which relief was sought
do not constitute legislation "of general application,"
Ex parte Collins, 277 U. S. 565.
Ex parte Collins, supra, reinforced by Ex parte Public
National Bank, 278 U. S. 101, authoritatively established
the restricted class of cases to which the special procedure of § 266 must be confined. "Despite the generality
of the language" of that Section, it is now settled doctrine that only a suit involving "a statute of general
application" and not one affecting a "particular municipality or district" can invoke § 266. Plainly, the matter
here in controversy is not one of statewide concern but
affects exclusively a particular district in Florida. This
Court in effect so held in denying a motion for leave to
file a petition for writ of mandamus to convene a court
under § 266 made by the Board of Commissioners in a
suit by a bondholder claiming impairment of the obligation of contracts existing under the 1913 Act. Ex parte
Everglades DrainageDistrict,293 U. S. 521. The present
suit differs from the earlier case in that here the trustees
of the Internal Improvement Fund were made defendants. But what is decisive under § 266 is not the formal
status of the officials sued but the sphere of their functions regarding the matter in issue. An official though
localized by his geographic activities and the mode of his
selection may, when he enforces a statute which "embodies a policy of statewide concern," be performing a
state function within the meaning of § 266. Spielman
Motor Sales Co. v. Dodge, 295 U. S. 89. Conversely a

RORICK v. COMM'RS.
208

Opinion of the Court.

state official charged with duties under a statute not of
statewide concern is not a state functionary within the
purposes for which § 266 was designed. What was matter of local concern in Ex parte Everglades Drainage
District, supra,-the administration of the affairs of the
District-remains matter of local concern in the present
suit. The nature of the controversy-legislation affecting
a locality "as against a policy of statewide concern"has remained unchanged even though the present bills
made it pertinent to join the Trustees. This suit thus
fails to satisfy an essential requirement of § 266.
Since the time for appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals has expired, and since the jurisdictional problem
determined in this case had not been fully settled prior
to this decision, we will not terminate the litigation by
dismissing the appeal but, in accordance with the practice followed in Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. v. Oklahoma Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, we will order the decree
vacated and the cause remanded to the district court for
further proceedings to be taken independently of § 266
of the Judicial Code.
Decree vacated.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.

