474

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

that the judgment of the Kansas supreme court should
be reversed.
The point that the question-whether more than a
reasonable time had elapsed-is not justiciable but one
for Congress after attempted ratification by the requisite
number of States, was not raised by the parties or by the
United States appearing as amicus curiae; it was not
suggested by us when ordering reargument. As the Court,
in the Dillon case, did directly decide upon the reasonableness of the seven years fixed by the Congress, it
ought not now, without hearing argument upon the point,
hold itself to lack power to decide whether more than 13
years between proposal by Congress and attempted ratification by Kansas is reasonable.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

joins in this opinion.

CHANDLER, GOVERNOR OF KENTUCKY,
WISE ET AL.

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF KENTUCKY.

No. 14.

Argued October 10, 11, 1938. Reargued April 18, 1939.Decided June 5, 1939.

Suit was brought in a state court to restrain the Governor and other
state officials from sending to the Secretary of State of the United
States a certified copy of a resolution enacted by the state legislature purporting to ratify the proposed Child Labor Amendment
house of representatives has three times (1924, 1934 and 1936)
defeated resolutions for ratification. In Mississippi, the Senate
adopted resolution for ratification in 1934, but in 1936 another
Senate resolution for ratification was adversely reported. In Nebraska, the House defeated ratification resolutions in 1927 and 1935,
but the Senate passed such a resolution in 1929. In New York,
ratification was defeated in the House in 1935 and 1937, and in the
latter year, the Senate passed such a resolution.

CHANDLER v. WISE.
474

Counsel for Parties.

to the Federal Constitution, it being alleged that such attempted
ratification was illegal and void. Held:
That although the state court had jurisdiction in limine, the
act of the Governor in forwarding the certification to the federal
Secretary of State after the beginning of the suit and after a
restraining order and summons had been issued, but before actual
service and without knowledge of the pendency of the proceeding,
had left no controversy susceptible of judicial determination; and
that a writ of certiorari from this Court to review the final judgment should therefore be dismissed.
271 Ky. 252; 111 S. W. 2d 633, dismissed.
CERTIORARI, 303 U. S. 634, to review the affirmance by
the court below of a judgment entered pursuant to its
opinion on an earlier review, 270 Ky. 1. The suit was
brought by individuals-citizens, taxpayers, and voters
in Kentucky-to restrain the Governor and officers of the
General Assembly from sending to the Secretary of State
of the United States a certified copy of a resolution of the
legislature purporting to ratify the proposed Child Labor
Amendment, and for a judgment declaring the legislative Act to be illegal and void because of a rejection of
the same proposed amendment by an earlier legislature
of the State, as well as by more than a majority of the
legislatures of the several States, and further because
more than a reasonable time for ratification had elapsed
since the amendment was first proposed.

Mr. J. W. Jones, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, on the reargument and on the original argument,
for petitioners.
Mr. Lafon Allen on the original argument, and with
Mr. Oldham Clarke on the reargument, for respondents.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson,
with whom Mr. Paul A. Freund was on the brief, argued
the case on behalf of the United States, as amicus curiae,
urging reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

By leave of Court, Messrs. Orland S. Loomis, Attorney
General of Wisconsin, Mortimer Levitan and Newell S.
Boardman, Assistant Attorneys General, filed a brief on
behalf of that State, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.

Opinion of the Court by MR. CHIEF
announced by MR. JUSTICE STONE.

JUSTICE HUGHES,

In January, 1937, the legislature of Kentucky adopted
a resolution purporting to ratify the constitutional
amendment proposed by the Congress in 1924 and known
as the "Child Labor Amendment." 1
Respondents, citizens, taxpayers and voters in Kentucky, brought this suit in the state court to restrain the
Governor of the Commonwealth and the officers of the
General Assembly from sending certified copies of the
resolution to the Secretary of State of the United States
and the presiding officers of the Senate and House of
Representatives, and for a judgment declaring the action
of the General Assembly to be illegal and void. The complaint stated that in 1926 the proposed amendment had
been rejected by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth and also by more than a majority of the legislatures of the States, and that the General Assembly could
not thereafter legally reconsider and adopt the amendment; and, further, that its action was not taken within
a reasonable time after the amendment was proposed.
Upon the filing of the petition, a restraining order was
granted and summons was issued. On the same day, but
before the Governor was actually served with a copy of
the restraining order or summons, he forwarded by mail
a certified copy of the resolution to the Secretary of State.
It is not claimed that the Governor then knew of the
pendency of the proceeding.
Plaintiffs then filed an amended petition setting forth
the action taken by the Governor and sought a mandatory
143

Stat. 670.

CHANDLER v. WISE.
474

Opinion of the Court.

injunction to require him to notify the Secretary of State
of the pendency of the suit and that the notice which he
had sent was void and should be disregarded. That action
was not taken. Defendants filed a general demurrer
which was sustained in the Circuit Court but its judgment
was reversed by the Court of Appeals. 270 Ky. 1; 108
S. W. 2d 1024.
The court gave opportunity on the remand to the Circuit Court, with directions to overrule the demurrer, for
such further proceedings as were not inconsistent with
its views. Upon that remand the defendants declined
to plead further and judgment was entered in accordance
with the opinion of the Court of Appeals. The judgment
so entered set forth (1) that an actual controversy existed
between the parties, that the plaintiffs had the right to
maintain the suit and the court had jurisdiction; (2) that
the resolution of the legislature purporting to ratify the
proposed amendment was void, not having been ratified
according to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States; (3) that the notice given by the Governor
to the Secretary of State was of no effect; (4) that the
clerk of the court should give official notice to the Department of State that the resolution purporting to ratify the
amendment was invalid, that it had not been ratified
according to the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States, and that the notice given by the Governor
was of no effect. The clerk was further directed to send
a duly authenticated copy of the judgment to the Secretary of State by registered mail.
On appeal, that judgment was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. We granted certiorari. 303 U. S. 634.
We think that, while the state court had jurisdiction
in limine, the writ of certiorari should be dismissed upon
the ground that after the Governor of Kentucky had forwarded the certification of the ratification of the amendment to the Secretary of State of the United States there

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

478

Syllabus

307 U. S.

was no longer a controversy susceptible of judicial
determination.
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
think that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky should be affirmed on the authority of Dillon v.
Gloss, 256 U. S. 368, and for the reasons stated in the dis-

senting opinion in Coleman v. Miller, ante, p. 470.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK

and

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

con-

curring:
For the reasons stated in concurring opinion in Coleman v. Miller, ante, p. 456, we do not believe that state or
federal courts have any jurisdiction to interfere with the
amending process.
We therefore concur in the dismissal.

BALDWIN

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. SCOTT COUNTY
MILLING CO.

CERTIORARI TO TIE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 650.

Argued April 21, 1939.-Decided June 5, 1939.

1. Where a carrier, having been ordered by the Interstate Commerce Commission to make reparation to a shipper for tariff
charges then found by the Commission to have been excessive,
pays the required amount upon demand of the shipper without
waiting to be sued under the disadvantages prescribed by ยง 16 (2)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, the payment is not voluntary;
and where afterwards, upon rehearing, the Commission sets aside
the reparation order, because the finding of unreasonable rates
upon which it was based was erroneous, the carrier may maintain
a suit to recover the payment from the shipper. This accords
with the policy of the Act. P. 481.
The fact that the shipper paid part of the money to an expert,
who acted for it before the Commission in procuring the repara-

