22

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

In view of our decision as to 1,584,150 and of the basis
of the decision below respecting 1,584,149, we think the
petitioner is entitled to a reexamination of the questions
of the validity and infringement of the latter.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed and-the cause remanded to the District Court
with directions to dismiss the bill as to Nos. 1,584,150
and 1,896,020, and to proceed, in the light of the
dismissal as to those patents, to determine whether
1,584,149 is valid and infringed.
Reversed.
KESSLER, DISTRICT DIRECTOR OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION, v. STRECKER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 330. Argued February 10, 13, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.
1. Section 1 of the Act of October 16, 1918, as amended, provides
that aliens of described classes, including "aliens who believe in,
advise, advocate, or teach, or who are members of or affiliated with
any organization, association, society, or group, that believes in,
advises, advocates, or teaches . . . the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the United States . . .", shall be excluded from admission to the United States. Section 2 provides
that "any alien who, at any time after entering the United States,
is found to have been at the time of entry, or to have become
thereafter, a member of any of the classes of aliens enumerated"
in Section 1, shall, upon warrant of the Secretary of Labor, be
taken into custody and deported, in the manner provided by law.
Held that an alien who after entry becomes a member of such
an organization is not deportable on that ground if at the time of
his arrest his membership has ceased. P. 30.
2. The legislative history of the statute supports this conclusion.
P. 30.
3. This reading of the statute makes it unnecessary in this case to
pass upon the adequacy of the evidence before the Secretary con-

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

23

Opinion of the Court.

cerning the purposes and aims of the Communist Party or the
propriety of the court's taking judicial notice thereof. P. 33.
4. The record in this case does not justify. reversal of a holding of
the court below that the evidence before the Secretary of Labor
was insufficient to support his finding that the respondent alien
believes in and teaches the overthrow, by force and violence, of
the Government of the United States. P. 34.
5. When no issue of citizenship is raised, an administrative order for
deportation of an alien made after fair hearing, based on findings
supported by evidence and without error of law, is conclusive; if
any of these elements was lacking it is void. The matter can not
be tried de novo in habeas corpus. P. 34.
95 F. 2d 976; 96 id. 1020, affirmed, with modification.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 587, to review the reversal of a
judgment dismissing a writ of habeas corpus.

Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. William W.
Barron, Matthew F. McGuire, Benjamin M. Parker, and
W. Marvin Smith were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. Whitney North Seymour and C. Alpheus
Stanfield, with whom Messrs. Herbert T. Wechsler and
Carol King were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed by
Mr. Martin Dies, urging reversal; and by Mr. Joseph R.
Brodsky on behalf of the Communist Party of the United
States, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent is an alien who entered the United
States in 1912 and has since resided here. In 1933 he
applied for naturalization to a United States District
Court in Arkansas. He made certain admissions to a
District Director of Naturalization as a result of which

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

naturalization was withheld and his case was referred to
the Department of Labor.
November 25, 1933, the Second Assistant Secretary of
Labor issued a warrant for the respondent's apprehension,
in which it was recited that he was in the United States
in violation of law in that (1) he believes in, advises, advocates or teaches the overthrow, by force or violence,
of the Government of the United States; (2) he is a
member of, or affiliated with, an organization, association, society, or group that believes in, advises, advocates
or teaches the overthrow, by force or violence, of the
Government of the United States; (3) he is a member
of, or affiliated with, an organization, association, society,
or group that writes, circulates, distributes, prints, pub-.
lishes or displays, or causes to be written, circulated,
distributed, printed, published or displayed, or that has
in its possession for these purposes written or printed
matter advising, advocating or teaching the overthrow,
by force or violence, of the Government of the United
States; and (4) after his entry into the United States
he has been found to have become a member of one of
the classes of aliens enumerated in § 1 of the Act of October 16, 1918, as amended by the Act of June 5, 1920, to
wit: an alien who is a member of, or affiliated with, an
organization, association, society or group that believes
in, advises or teaches the overthrow, by force and
violence, of the Government of the United States.
The respondent was apprehended and was given hearings before an Immigration Inspector, at which he was
represented by counsel and testified in his own behalf.
The Government offered in evidence transcripts of his
examination by the Naturalization Bureau, of an interview with him by an Immigration Inspector, and his membership book in the Communist Party of the U. S. A.,
issued November 15, 1932, with stamps affixed showing
payment of dues to the end of February, 1933. The rules

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

Opinion of the Court.

of the party, set forth in the book, provided that failure to pay dues for three months automatically results in
the loss of membership, and it is admitted there is no
evidence respondent continued to be a member after
March 1, 1933.
The book contained printed matter stating the purposes
and objects of the party. The Government also offered
a copy of a magazine called "The Communist," dated
April 1934, and read into the record excerpts from articles
appearing therein. The respondent admitted that he
joined the Communist Party in November 1932, asserted
that his membership terminated prior to March 1, 1933,
and had never been renewed, and professed ignorance of
the magazine called "The Communist" and its contents.
In some respects his testimony as to his beliefs and actions was contradictory of his statements on prior examinations, and testimony was elicited from him in an
effort to show that his denial of present affiliation with
the Communist Party might not be made in good faith;
but there was no sufficient evidence to sustain that conclusion. After a review of the record by the Board of
Review of the Department of Labor, a warrant of deportation was issued by the Assistant Secretary which recites
an affirmative finding as to each of the counts in the warrant of arrest and orders the respondent's deportation.1
The respondent petitioned a federal district court in
Arkansas for a writ of habeas corpus to deliver him from
the custody of the Immigration Inspector. The writ was
denied. Thereafter he filed the petition in the instant
case in the District Court for Louisiana. In this peti1 The delay in this case is due to the fact that respondent was
born an Austrian subject but was refused reentry into that country
on the ground that the place of his birth is now in Poland. Protracted negotiations on the part of the Department were required
to obtain the consent of the government of Poland to his return
to that country.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

tion he alleged that he had not been accorded a fair
hearing; that the Department of Labor had not correctly
construed the immigration laws applicable to his case;
that the findings were without support in the evidence;
that he had been denied due process of law, and that he
is not a citizen of Poland, to which the warrant directed
his remission. The District Court dismissed the writ.
The respondent appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
assigning error to the District Court's action in denying
each of his contentions. That court found that the hearings had been fair, but held that each of the findings recited in the warrant was without support in the evidence.
The court was of opinion the evidence failed to show that
the respondent is now a member of the Communist Party
or that he or that party, in 1933, taught, advocated, or
incited the overthrow of the Government by force and
violence, and that the record was bare of evidence to countervail his denial that he had ever taught or believed in
the unlawful destruction or overthrow of the Government
by force. The court held that the Acts of 1918 and
1920 were passed to meet a situation caused by crises in
Russia in 1918 and 1919; 2 that the major changes in
policy and conduct of the Soviet Socialist Republics which
had taken place between 1918 and 1933 rebutted the implications arising from membership in the Communist
Party at the time the Acts were adopted; that mere membership in that party in 1933 is not a statutory ground
for deportation. The order of the District Court was
reversed and the cause was remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with the opinion.'
The Government moved for a rehearing, pressing specially the contention that the overwhelming weight of
'That this view is erroneous is shown by the history of the legislation referred to infra, p. 30. Compare, House Report 504, 66th Cong.,
2nd Sess., p. 7; Senate Report 648, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 4.
'95 F. 2d 976.

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

Opinion of the Court.

authority, is to the effect that membership in the Communist Party is sufficient to warrant deportation. The
petition was entertained, the judgment was amended to
provide: "Reversed, with directions to try the issues de
novo as suggested in Ex Parte Fierstein, 41 Fed. (2d) p.
54"; and a rehearing was denied." Judge Sibley dissented
on the ground that on the basis of the respondent's membership book which refers to the Third Communist Internationale, the court could take judicial notice of the objectives and programs of the Communist Party and the Third
Internationale.
The United States petitioned for certiorari, asserting
that the single question presented is "whether the court
below erred in failing to sustain an order of deportation
against respondent, an alien who in 1932 became a member of the Communist Party of the United States." In
its specification of errors to be urged the Government
enumerated (1) the holding that an, alien who became a
member of the party in 1932 is not, by reason of that
fact, subject to deportation; (2) the holding that the
evidence before the Secretary of Labor concerning the
principles of the party was insufficient to sustain the
order; (3) the remand for a trial de novo in the District
Court, and (4) the failure to affirm the judgment of the
District Court. As reason for the granting of the writ
the Government urged a conflict of decision on the question whether membership by an alien in the Communist
Party of America subjects him to deportation. By reason of the allegation of conflict and the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals in ordering a trial de novo in the
District Court, we granted the writ.
The Government does not attempt to support the warrant of deportation on the second and third grounds
therein specified, namely, that the respondent "is a mem'96 F. 2d 1020.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ber of or affiliated with" an organization described in
the Act. The only evidence of record is that his membership ceased months before the issue of the warrant for
his arrest. The contention is that respondent, is deportable because, after entry, he became a member of a
class of aliens described in § 1 of the Act, to wit, a
member of the Communist Party, an organization membership in which is made a cause of deportation because
the organization believes in, advocates, and teaches the
overthrow of the Government of the United States by
force and violence. This contention presents the question whether the Act renders former membership in such
an organization, which has ceased, a ground of deportation. Respondent insists that the statute makes only
present membership in an organization described in the
Act such ground.
Section 1 of the Act of October 16, 1918, as amended
in 1920,' has to do with the exclusion of alien immigrants
and specifies five classes, members of which may not be
admitted to the United States. One of these classessubsection (c)-includes "aliens who believe in, advise,
advocate, or teach, or who are members of or affiliated
with any organization, association, society, or group,
that believes in, advises, advocates, or teaches . . . the
overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the
United States. .. "
Section 2 of the Act of 1918,' which was not altered
by the Act of 1920, deals with deportation. It provides
that "any alien who, at any time after entering the
United States, is found to have been at the time of entry,
or to have become thereafter, a member of any of the
classes of aliens enumerated" in § 1, shall, upon war'Act of Oct. 16, 1918, c. 186, 40 Stat. 1012, as amended by the
Act of June 5, 1920, c. 251, 41 Stat. 1008; U. S. C. Tit. 8, § 137

(a) to (e).
"40 Stat. 1012; U. S. C. Tit. 8, § 137 (g).

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

Opinion of the Court.

rant of the Secretary of Labor, be taken into custody and
deported, in the manner provided by law.
Relying on the phrases italicized in the quotation, the
Government insists that the section embraces an alien
who, after entry, has become a member of an organization, membership in which, at the time of his entry,
would have warranted his exclusion, although he has
ceased to be a member at the time of his arrest. We
hold that the Act does not provide for the deportation of
such an alien. This conclusion rests not alone upon the
language, but, as well, upon the context and the history
of the legislation.
The phrase "at any time" qualifies the verb "found."
Thus, if at any time the Secretary finds that at entry
the alien was a member, or has thereafter become and is
a member, he may be deported. The natural meaning is
that, as the alien was excludable for present membership, he is deportable for present membership subsequently acquired. The Government's construction,
which collocates the phrase "at any time" with the phrase
''or to have become thereafter" is unnatural and strained.
If Congress meant that past membership, of no matter
how short duration or how far in the past, was to be a
cause of present deportation the purpose could have been
clearly stated. The section does not bear this import.
By the first section of the Act, as amended in 1920,
aliens are to be excluded who are members of a described
organization. The section does not require the exclusion
of those who have been in the past, but are no longer,
members. When the Congress came to provide for deportation, instead of again enumerating and defining the various classes of aliens who might be deported, it provided
that if at any time it should be found that an alien
had been admitted and, at the time of admission, was a
member of any of the proscribed classes, or had thereafter
become such, he should be deported. It is not to be

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

supposed that past membership, which does not bar admission, was intended to be a cause of deportation. And
the fact that naturalization is denied to an alien only on
the ground that he "is a member of or affiliated with any
organization entertaining" disbelief in or opposition to
organized government, and not for past membership or
affiliation,' lends added force to this view.
In the absence of a clear and definite expression, we are
not at liberty to conclude that Congress intended that
any alien, no matter how long a resident of this country,
or however well disposed toward our Government, must
be deported, if at any time in the past, no matter when,
or under what circumstances, or for what time, he was a
member of the described organization. In the absence
of such expression we conclude that it is the present
membership, or present affiliation-a fact to be determined on evidence-which bars admission, bars naturalization, and requires deportation. Since the statute deals
not only with membership in an organization of the described class, but with affiliation therewith and, as well,
with belief and teaching, it enables the Secretary of
Labor, as trier of the facts, fully to investigate and to find
the true relation, belief and activity of the alien under
investigation.
The legislative history of the statute supports this conclusion. By Act of March 3, 1903,8 Congress directed the
exclusion of "anarchists, or persons who believe in or advocate the overthrow by force or violence of the Government of the United States, . . ." I and also of any "person who disbelieves in or who is opposed to all organized
government, or who is a member of or affiliated with
any organization entertaining and teaching such disbe'Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3592, § 7, 34 Stat. 596, 598.
32 Stat. 1213.
'§ 2, 32 Stat. 1214.

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

Opinion of the Court.

lief in or opposition to all organized government . . . " 1
The only section authorizing deportation of such persons
is directed to an alien found to have entered in violation
of the Act, if proceeded against within three years after
entry." These provisions were reenacted without
alteration in the Act of February 20, 1907.12
The first legislation authorizing deportation of persons who had entered lawfully is H. R. 6060, enacted by
the 63rd Congress but. vetoed by President Wilson January 28, 1915."3 This bill required deportation of "any
alien who within five years after entry shall be found advocating or teaching" the defined doctrines. It also altered existing law in respect of deportation of those who
had entered illegally to provide that "at any time within
five years after entry, any alien who at the time of entry
was a member of one or more of the classes excluded by
law" should be deported.
A bill, in substance the same, was introduced in the
64th Congress and enacted February 5, 1917, over Presidential veto."4 While this measure was in course of passage, the Chairman of the House Committee in charge
of it moved, on behalf of the Committee, to amend § 19
by inserting the phrase "at any time" so that the section
should provide for deportation of "any alien who at any
time after entry shall be found advocating or teaching"
forcible overthrow of the government. The Act, as
adopted, was in this form. The purpose of the amendment was to make plain that no time limit was fixed for
deportation of aliens found advocating the doctrine. 15
" § 38, 32 Stat. 1221.
" § 21, 32 Stat. 1218.

"34 Stat. 898, §§ 21 and 38, pp. 905, 908.
House Document No. 1527, 63rd Cong., 3rd Sess.
439 Stat. 874.
"See 53 Cong. Rec. Part. 5, p. 5165, 64th Cong., 1st Sess.; Sen.
Rep. 352, p. 14, 64th Cong., 1st Sess. to accompany H. R. 10384.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The Act of 1917 was amended by that of October 16, 1918,
here under consideration, which, by its title, purported to
apply to "aliens who are members of the anarchistic and
similar classes. . ....
Section 1 enlarged one of the classes of excludable
aliens by the addition of the words "aliens who are members of or affiliated with any organization that entertains
a belief in, teaches or advocates the overthrow by force or
violence of the Government of the United States ...
"
Section 2 modified the earlier Act in respect of deportation, both in form and substance. The provision
for deportation of those who, at the time of entry, were
members of one of the proscribed classes was retained,
but the five year period of limitation within which deportation might be had was eliminated.16 The provision
for deportation of aliens of anarchistic and similar classes
was expanded by including as causes of deportation all
the causes of exclusion enumerated in § 1 which were
themselves much broader than those included in the 1917
Act. Tlhus, although there was no provision in the Act
of 1917 for deportation of aliens who did not personally
advocate the proscribed doctrine, but were members of
an organization which did, the Act of 1918 embodied
such a provision. This alteration, and the elimination of
the five year time limitation, were the important changes,
relevant to the question under examination, which the
Act of 1918 effected in the earlier legislation. These
modifications lend no support to the contention that § 2
of the Act of 1918 was intended to make quondam membership a ground of deportation.
Nor is there anything in the formal alteration worked
by the Act of 1918 which leads to a different conclusion.
Section 19 of the Act of 1917 dealt in distinct clauses with
the various classes of aliens who might be deported, speci"

House Rep. 645, 65th Cong., 2nd Sess.

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

Opinion of the Court.

fying in one clause an alien "who at the time of entry was

a member of the classes excluded by law" and, in another
clause, an alien "who, at any time after entry, shall be
found advocating or teaching" the obnoxious doctrines.
Section 2 of the Act of 1918 combined the clauses dealing
with the two groups in a single sentence, with a somewhat
different locution. We think this consolidation was not
intended to alter the substantive law as it theretofore
stood.
The only decisions which support the Government's
position are those in the Second Circuit." We cannot approve their reasoning or result. It is claimed that the administrative construction has always accorded with the
Government's contention in the present case. We cannot
find that there has been such a uniform construction as
requires an interpretation of the Act in accordance with
that view. The administrative construction seems to have
been in favor of the respondent's view until after the decision in the Yokinen case,"8 and the construction seems
to have been changed in deference to the decision in that
9
case.'
Our reading of the statute makes it unnecessary to pass
upon the conflicting contentions of the parties concerning
the adequacy of the evidence before the Secretary concerning the purposes and aims of the Communist Party or the
propriety of the court's taking judicial notice thereof.
" United States ex rel. Yokinen v. Commissioner of Immigration,
57 F. 2d 707; United States ex rel. Mannisto v. Reimer, 77 F. 2d
1021.
House Rep. 504, p. 9, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess. Hearings Communist
and Anarchistic Deportation Cases, H. R. 66th Cong., 2nd Sess.
Subcommittee of Committee on Immigration and Naturalization,
April 21, 24, 1920, p. 17.
, See letter of Secretary of Labor embodied in Senate Rep. 769,
75th Cong., 1st Sess.
161299°-39-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The Solicitor General suggests that the evidence is sufficient to sustain the warrant of deportation on the first
ground therein stated, namely, that the respondent believes in and teaches the overthrow, by force and violence,
of the Government of the United States. It is said that
the error of the Circuit Court of Appeals in reversing the
District Court is, in this aspect, so plain that we should
notice it, although the petition does not present the question. We have the power to do this in the case of plain
error,"° but we exercise it only in clear cases and in exceptional circumstances.
We do not know on what grounds the District Judge's
action rested since he wrote no opinion. The Circuit Court
of Appeals held the evidence insufficient to support the
Secretary's finding. We think that the record does not
justify a reversal of the holding of the court below upon
this point.
The Circuit Court of Appeals remanded the cause to the
District Court for a trial de novo. In this we think there
was error. The proceeding for deportation is administrative." If the hearing was fair, if there was evidence to
support the finding of the Secretary, and if no error of
law was committed, the ruling of the Department must
stand and cannot be corrected in judicial proceedings. 2
If, on the other hand, one of the elements mentioned is
lacking, the proceeding is void and must be set aside.2
A district court cannot upon habeas corpus, proceed de
novo, for the function of investigation and finding has not
been conferred upon it but upon the Secretary of Labor.
Only in the event an alleged alien asserts his United States
Mahler v. Eby, 264 U. S. 32, 45.
"1Pearsonv. Williams, 202 U. S. 281; Zakonaite v. Wolf, 226 U. S,
272.
' Zakonaite v. Wolf, supra; Tisi v. Tod, 264 U. S. 131, 133.
21 Vajtauer v. Commissioner, 273 U. S. 103, 106; Gegiow v. Uhl, 239
U. S. 3.

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

citizenship in the hearing before the Department, and
supports his claim by substantial evidence, is he entitled
to a trial de novo of that issue in the district court. 4
The status of the relator must be judicially determined,
because jurisdiction in the executive to order deportation
exists only if the person arrested is an alien; and no statutory proceeding is provided in which he can raise the
question whether the executive action is in excess of the
jurisdiction conferred upon the Secretary. 5
It follows from what has been said that, as the Secretary erred in the construction of the statute, the writ
must be granted and the respondent discharged from
custody.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly modified and the cause is remanded to the District Court with instructions to proceed in conformity
with this opinion.
Affirmed with modification.
MR. JUSTICE

McREYNOLDS,

dissenting:

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER and I cannot acquiesce in the disposition of this cause or in the supporting opinion just
announced. It seems worthwhile briefly to indicate our
views.
More than five years have passed since the alien respondent was arrested and ordered to show why he should
not be deported. The record of the following proceedings
before the Labor Department and in the courts, printed
on eighty-four pages, is before us. It is not very difficult
to understand. Without question we have power finally
to dispose of the cause upon the merits notwithstanding
24 United States v. Sing Tuck, 194 U. S. 161,
167; Bilokumsky v.
Tod, 263 U. S. 149, 152, 153.

2

Ng Fung Ho v. White, 259 U. S. 276; compare Tod v. Waldman,

266 U. S. 113, 119.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

any omissions or defects found in the petition for certiorari. In the circumstances, we think that course should be
taken. The District Court upon another view of the
record can ascertain nothing not open to us.
If this alien is guiltless of the charge against him he
should be liberated without more ado; if guilty, the public
should be relieved of his presence now. That he is an
undesirable is made manifest.
The construction of the statute adopted by the Court
seems both unwarranted and unfortunate. If by the simple process of resigning or getting expelled from a proscribed organization an alien may thereby instantly purge
himself after months or years of mischievous activities,
hoped-for protection against such conduct will disappear.
Escape from the consequences of deliberate violations of
our hospitality should not become quite so facile.'
Seven years ago, the Court of Appeals, Second Circuit,
construed the statute under consideration in United States
ex rel. Yokinen v. Commissioner of Immigration, 57 F. 2d
707-708. There the alien had been expelled from the
Communist Party before his arrest, and for that reason
he unsuccessfully claimed exemption. The following excerpts from the court's opinion, with force and directness,
express our view concerning the true meaning of the
enactment"It is true that he was not a member of the Communist Party when arrested. He had recently been expelled because of his attitude toward negroes, but that
did not remove him from the reach of the statute. We
have nothing to do with shaping the policy of the law
1 Strecker,

born in Poland in 1888, was admitted to the United

States in 1912.
He joined the Communist Party November, 1932, but paid no dues
subsequent to February, 1933. He claims that under the Party
rules failure to pay for four weeks causes membership to cease.
Warrant for his arrest issued in November, 1933.

KESSLER v. STRECKER.
22

MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

towards aliens who come here and join a proscribed society. Congress has provided that 'any alien who, at
any time after entering the United States, is found to
have been at the time of entry, or to have become thereafter, a member of any one of the classes of aliens enumerated in this section' shall be deported. 8 USCA §
137 (g). This alien concededly did become after entry
a member of 'one of the classes * * * enumerated'
and from that time became deportable. We are urged to
ameliorate the supposed harshness of the statute by reading into it words that Congress saw fit to leave out and
interpret it to apply not to aliens who become members,
but only to those who become and continue to the time of
their arrest to be members, of one of the enumerated
classes. If the words used in the statute were equivocal
or the intention of Congress for any reason uncertain,
there might be room for such a construction as that for
which the appellant now contends. Perhaps the sufficient answer is that had Congress intended membership
at the time of arrest to be the criterion it would have
said so. It has the power to determine what acts of an
alien shall terminate his right to remain here. Skeffington v. Katzefi et al. (C. C. A.) 277 F. 129. What it

did do was to make the act of becoming a member a
deportable offense without regard to continuance of
membership and it did that in language so plain that
any attempt to read in any other meaning is no less
than an attempt to circumvent the law itself.
"Since the appellant admittedly had, after entry, become a member of a proscribed organization, the undisputed evidence required the order from which this appeal was taken. All proof upon which he was held to be
affiliated with the Communist Party was unnecessary, and
while we do not mean to intimate that any evidence on
that phase of the case was unfairly received and considered, in any event it did him no harm."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

A petition for certiorari asking this Court to review
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was refused October 10, 1932 (287 U. S. 607). It stressed the
point that-"A fair and proper construction of the statute requires that it be confined in its operation to aliens
who are members of or affiliated with a proscribed organization at the issuance of the warrant of arrest."
The unusual importance of the question was not
difficult to appreciate.
In the presence of clear and positive expression of
Congressional intent to the contrary we do not feel at
liberty to conclude that an alien who after entry has
shown his contempt for our laws by deliberately associating himself with a proscribed organization must be allowed to remain if he resigned or was debarred a day, a
month or a year before his arrest. An experienced court
years ago declared that would be "no less than an
attempt to circumvent the law itself."

MULFORD

ET AL. v. SMITH ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 505.

Argued March 8, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. Producers of tobacco, challenging the constitutionality of provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, sought to enjoin
warehousemen from deducting penalties under the Act from the
sales price of tobacco to be sold on behalf of the plaintiffs, in excess of their respective quotas. Held:
(1) The suit is within § 24 (8) Jud. Code, which confers jurisdiction upon District Courts "of all suits and proceedings arising
under any law regulating commerce," irrespective of citizenship of
parties or amount in controversy. P. 46.
(2) The suit is not forbidden by R. S. 3224, which applies only
to restraint of assessment or collection of a tax. P. 46.

