PERKINS v. ELG.

325

Syllabus.

PERKINS, SECRETARY OF LABOR, ET AL. v. ELG.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 454.

Argued February 3, 1939.-Decided May 29, 1939.

1. A child born here of alien parentage becomes a citizen of the
United States. P. 328.
2. As municipal law determines how citizenship may be acquired, the
same person may possess a dual nationality. P. 329.
3. A citizen by birth retains his United States citizenship unless
deprived of it through the operation of a treaty or congressional
enactment or by his voluntary action in conformity with applicable legal principles. P. 329.
4. It has long been a recognized principle in this country that if a
child born here is taken during minority to the country of his
parents' origin, where his parents resume their former allegiance,
he does not thereby lose his citizenship in the United States provided that on attaining majority he elects to retain that citizenship and to return to the United States to assume its duties.
P. 329.
Expatriation is the voluntary renunciation or abandonment of
nationality and allegiance. P. 334.
5. This right of election is consistent with the naturalization treaty
with Sweden of 1869 and its accompanying protocol. P. 335.
6. The Act of March 2, 1907, in providing "That any American
citizen shall be deemed to have expatriated himself when he has
been naturalized in any foreign state in conformity with its
laws, . . ." was aimed at voluntary expatriation and was not intended to destroy the right of a native citizen, removed from this
country during minority, to elect to retain the citizenship acquired
by birth and to return here for that purpose, even though he may
be deemed to have been naturalized under the foreign law by
derivation from the citizenship of his parents before he came of
age. P. 342.
* Together with No. 455, Elg v. Perkins, Secretary of Labor, et al.,

also on writ of certiorari to the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Counsel for Parties.

307 U. S.

This is true not only where the parents were foreign nationals
at the time of the birth of the child and remained such, but also
where they became foreign nationals after the birth and removal
of the child.
7. Recent private Acts of Congress for the relief of native citizens
who have been the subject of administrative action denying their
rights of citizenship, can not be regarded as the equivalent of an
Act of Congress providing that persons in the situation of the
respondent here have lost the American citizenship which they
acquired at birth and have since duly elected to retain. P. 349.
8. Threats of deportation by the Secretary of Labor and immigration officials, and refusal by the Secretary of State to issue a passport, upon the disputed ground that the person affected has lost
his native citizenship and become an alien wrongfully in the country, involve an actual controversy affording basis for a suit for a
declaratory judgment that he is a citizen and for an injunction.
P. 349.
9. In such a suit, the Secretary of State is properly included in the
declaratory provision of the decree, that he may be precluded
from refusing to issue the passport solely upon the ground that
the citizenship has been lost. Id.
69 App. D. C. 175; 99 F. 2d 408, modified and'affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

305 U. S. 591, to review the affirmance of a

decree sustaining, as to the Secretary of State, and overruling, as to the Secretary of Labor and the Acting Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, a bill
brought by Marie Elizabeth Elg for a declaratory decree

establishing her status as an American citizen, and for
injunctive relief against the respondents.
cross appeals to the court below.

There were

Mr. Henry F. Butler.for Elg.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and Messrs. William W. Barron,
William J. Connor, and Green H. Hackworth were on the
brief, for Perkins, Secretary of Labor, et al.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The question is whether the plaintiff, Marie Elizabeth
Elg, who was born in the United States of Swedish parents then naturalized here, has lost her citizenship and is
subject to deportation because of her removal during
minority to Sweden, it appearing that her parents resumed their citizenship in that country but that she returned here on attaining majority with intention to remain and to maintain her citizenship in the 'United
States.
Miss Elg was born in Brooklyn, New York, on October
2, 1907. Her parents, who were natives of Sweden, emigrated to the United States sometime prior to 1906 and
her father was naturalized here in that year. In 1911,
her mother took her to Sweden where she continued to
reside until September 7, 1929. Her father went to
Sweden in 1922 and has not since returned to the United
States. In November, 1934, he made a statement before
an American consul in Sweden that he had voluntarily
expatriated himself for the reason that he did not desire
to retain the status of an American citizen and wished to
preserve his allegiance to Sweden.
In 1928, shortly before Miss Elg became twenty-one
years of age, she inquired of an American consul in
Sweden about returning to the United States and was
informed that if she returned after attaining majority she
should seek an American passport. In 1929, within eight
months after attaining majority, she obtained an American passport which was issued on the instructions of the
Secretary of State. She then returned to the United
States, was admitted as a citizen and has resided in this
country ever since.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

In April, 1935, Miss Elg was notified by the Department of Labor that she was an alien illegally in the
United States and was threatened with deportation. Proceedings to effect her deportation have been postponed
from time to time.' In July, 1936, she applied for an
American passport but it was refused by the Secretary of
State upon the sole ground that he was without authority
to issue it because she was not a citizen of the United
States.
Thereupon she began this suit against the Secretary
of Labor, the Acting Commissioner of Immigration and
Naturalization, and the Secretary of State to obtain (1)
a declaratory judgment that she is a citizen of the United
States and entitled to all the rights and privileges of citizenship, and (2) an injunction against the Secretary of
Labor and the Commissioner of Immigration restraining
them from prosecuting proceedings for her deportation,
and (3) an injunction against the Secretary of State frdm
refusing to issue to her a passport upon the ground that
she is not a citizen.
The defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, asserting that plaintiff was not a citizen of the United States by
virtue of the Naturalization Convention and Protocol of
1869 (proclaimed in 1872) between the United States and
Sweden (17 Stat. 809) and the Swedish Nationality Law,
and § 2 of the Act of Congress of March 2, 1907, 8 U. S. C.
17. The District Court overruled the motion as to the
Secretary of Labor and the Commissioner of Immigration
and entered a decree declaring that the plaintiff is a native
citizen of the United States but directing that the complaint be dismissed as to the Secretary of State because
of his official discretion in the issue of passports. On cross
appeals, the Court of Appeals affirmed the decree. 69
App. D. C. 175; 99 F. 2d 408. Certiorari was granted,
December 5, 1938.
First. On her birth in New York, the plaintiff became
a citizen of the United States. Civil Rights Act of 1866,

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

14 Stat. 27; Fourteenth Amendment, § 1; United States
v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U. S. 649. In a comprehensive
review of the principles and authorities governing the
decision in that case-that a child born here of alien
parentage becomes a citizen of the United States-the
Court adverted to the "inherent right of every independent nation to determine for itself, and according to its
own constitution and laws, what classes of persons shall
be entitled to its citizenship." United States v. Wong
Kim Ark, supra, p. 668. As municipal law determines
how citizenship may be acquired, it follows that persons
may have a dual nationality.1 And the mere fact that
the plaintiff may have acquired Swedish citizenship
by virtue of the operation of Swedish law, on the
resumption of that citizenship by her parents, does not
compel the conclusion that she has lost her own citizenship acquired under our law. As at birth she became a
citizen of the United States, that citizenship must be
deemed to continue unless she has been deprived of it
through the operation of a treaty or congressional enactment or by her voluntary action in conformity with
applicable legal principles.
Second. It has long been a recognized principle in this
country that if a child born here is taken during minority
to the country of his parents' origin, where his parents
resume their former allegiance, he does not thereby lose
his citizenship in the United States provided that on
attaining majority he elects to retain that citizenship
2
and to return to the United States to assume its duties.
'Oppenheim's International Law, Vol. 1, § 308; Moore, International Law Digest, Vol. III, p. 518; Hyde, International Law,
Vol. I, § 372; Flournoy, Dual Nationality and Election, 30 Yale Law
Journal, 546; Borchard, Diplomatic Protection of Citizens Abroad,

§ 253; Van Dyne, Citizenship of the United States, p. 25; Fenwick,
International Law, p. 165.
'Hyde, op. cit., §§ 374, 375; Borchard, op. cit., § 259; Van Dyne,
op., cit., pp. 25-31; Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, pp. 532-551.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

This principle was clearly stated by Attorney General
Edwards Pierrepont in his letter of advice to the Secretary
of State, Hamilton Fish, in Steinkauler's Case, 15 Op.
Attys. Gen'l, 15 (1875). The facts were these: One Steinkauler, a Prussian subject by birth, emigrated to the
United States in 1848, was naturalized in 1854, and in
the following year had a son who was born in St. Louis.
Four years later Steinkauler returned to Germany taking
this child and became domiciled at Wiesbaden where they
continuously resided. When the son reached the age of
twenty years the German Government called upon him
to report for military duty and his father then invoked
the intervention of ihe American Legation on the ground
that his son was a native citizen of the United States.
To an inquiry by our Minister, the father declined to
give an assurance that the son would return to this
country within a reasonable time. On reviewing the
pertinent points in the case, including the Naturalization Treaty of 1868 with North Germany, the Attorney
General reached the following conclusion:
"Young Steinkauler is a native-born American citizen.
There is no law of the United States under which his
father or any other person can deprive him of his birthright. He can return to America at the age of twentyone, and in due time, if the people elect, he can become
President of the United States; but the father, in accordance with the treaty and the laws, has renounced his
American citizenship and his American allegiance and
has acquired for himself and his son German citizenship
and the rights which it carries, and he must take the
burdens as well as the advantages. The son being domiciled with the father and subject to him under the law
during his minority, and receiving the German protection
where he has acquired nationality and declining to give
any assurance of ever returning to the United States and
claiming his American nationality by residence here, I
am of opinion that he cannot rightly invoke the aid of

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

the Government of the United States to relieve him from
military duty in Germany during his minority. But I
am of opinion that when he reaches the age of twentyone years he can then elect whether he will return and
take the nationality of his birth, with its duties and
privileges, or retain the nationality acquired by the act
of his father. This seems to me to be 'right reason',
and I think it is law."
Secretary William M. Evarts, in 1879, in an instruction to our Minister to Germany with respect to the
status of the brothers Boisseliers who were born in the
United States of German parentage said: '
"Their rights rest on the organic law of the United
States. .... Their father, it is true, took them to
Schleswig when they were quite young, the one four and
the other two years old. They lived there many years,
but during all those years they were minors, and during
their minority they returned to the United States; and
now, when both have attained their majority, they declare
for their native allegiance and submit themselves to the
jurisdiction of the country where they were born and of
which they are native citizens. Under these circumstances this Government cannot recognize any claim to
their allegiance, or their liability to military service, put
forth on the part of Germany, whatever may be the
municipal law of Germany under which such claim may
be asserted by that Government."
Secretary Evarts gave a similar instruction in 1880 with
respect to a native citizen of Danish parentage who having been taken abroad at an early age claimed American
citizenship on attaining his majority, saying: '
"He lost no time, when he attained the age of majority, in declaring that he claimed the United States as
his country, and that he considered himself a citizen of
'Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 543.
4
Moore, Int. Law. Dig., Vol. III, p. 544.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

the United States. He appears to have adhered to this
choice ever since, and now declares it to be his intention
to return to this country and reside here permanently.
His father's political status (whether a citizen of the
United States or a Danish subject) has no legal or others' rights of
wise material effect on the younger Pcitizenship."
Secretary Thomas F. Bayard, in answer to an inquiry
by the Netherlands Legation whether one born in the
United States, of Dutch parents, who during minority
had been taken back to the Netherlands by his father,
on the latter's resumption of permanent residence there,
was ,an American citizen, answered:
"But the general view held by this Department is that
a naturalized American citizen by abandonment of his
allegiance and residence in this country and a return to
the country of his birth, animo manendi, ceases to be a
citizen of the United States; and that the minor son of a
party described as aforesaid, who was born in the United
States during the citizenship there of his father, partakes
during his legal infancy of his father's domicile, but upon
becoming sui juris has the right to elect his American citizenship, which will be best evidenced by an early return
to this country.
"This right so to elect to return to the land of his birth
and assume his American citizenship could not, with the
acquiescence of this Government, be impaired or interfered with."
In 1906, a memorandum, prepared in the Department
of State by its law officer, was sent by the Acting Secretary of State, Robert Bacon, to the German Ambassador
'Foreign Relations, 1888, Pt. 2, p. 1341. See, also, Mr. Bayard,
Secretary of State to Mr. McLane (1888), to Count Sponneck, Danish
Minister (1888); Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 548; Mr. Olney,
Secretary of State, to Mr. Materne, 1896; Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol.
III, p. 542; United States ex rel. Scimeca v. Husband, 6 F. 2d 957,
958.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

as covering "the principles" upon which the Department
had acted. In this memorandum it was said: 6
"Assuming that Alexander Bohn [the father] never
became a citizen of the United States, Jacob Bohn [the
son] .was born of German parents in the United States.
According to the Constitution and laws of the United
States as interpreted by the courts, a child born to alien
parents in the United States is an American citizen, although such child may also be a citizen of the country of
his parents according to the law of that country.
"Although there is no express provision in the law of
the United States giving election of citizenship in such
cases, this department has always held in such circumstances that if a child is born of foreign parents in the
United States, and is taken during minority to the country of his parents, such child upon arriving of age, or
within a reasonable time thereafter, must make election
between the citizenship, which is his by birth and the
citizenship which is his by parentage. In case a person
so circumstanced elects American citizenship he must,
unless in extraordinary circumstances, in order to render
his election effective, manifest ,an intention in good faith
to return with all convenient speed to the United States
and assume the duties of citizenship." 7
We have quoted liberally from these rulings-and many
others might be cited-in view of the contention now
urged by the petitioners in resisting Miss Elg's claim to
citizenship. We think that they leave no doubt of the
controlling principle long recognized by this Government.
8Foreign Relations, 1906, p. 657. See, also, "Compilation of Certain Departmental Circulars" relating to citizenship, etc., issued by
Department of State, 1925, containing instructions to Diplomatic
and Consular Officers under date of November 24, 1923, pp. 118, 121,
122; United States ex rel. Baglivo v. Day, 28 F. 2d 44.
See also, Mr. Uhl, Acting Secretary of State to Mr. Rudolph,
May 22, 1895, 202 MS. Doam. Let. 298; Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol.
III, p. 534.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

That principle, while administratively applied, cannot
properly be regarded as a departmental creation independently of the law. It was deemed to be a necessary
consequence of the constitutional provision by which persons born within the United States and subject to its
jurisdiction become citizens of the United Stateg. To
cause a loss of that citizenship in the absence of treaty
or statute having that effect, there must be voluntary
action and such action cannot be attributed to an infant
whose removal to another country is beyond his control
and who during minority is incapable of a binding
choice.
Petitioners stress the American doctrine relating to
expatriation. By the Act of July 27, 1868,8 Congress declared that "the right of expatriation is a natural and inherent right of all people." Expatriation is the voluntary renunciation or abandonment of nationality and allegiance.' It has no application to the removal from
this country of a native citizen during minority. In such
a case the voluntary action which is of the essence of the
right of expatriation is lacking. That right is fittingly
recognized where a child born here, who may be, or may
become, subject to a dual nationality, elects on attaining majority citizenship in the country to which he has
been removed. But there is no basis for invoking the
doctrine of expatriation where a native citizen who is removed to his parents' country of origin during minority
returns here on his majority and elects to remain and
to maintain his American citizenship. Instead of being inconsistent with the right of expatriation, the principle which permits that election conserves and
applies it.
The question then is whether this well recognized right
of election has been destroyed by treaty or statute.
15 Stat. 223.
'Van Dyne, op. cit., p. 269; Borchard, op. cit., § 315; Hyde, op. cit.,
§ 376.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

335

Opinion of the Court.

Third. Petitioners invoke our treaty with Sweden of
1869.1" This treaty was one of a series of naturalization
treaties with similar terms, which were negotiated with
various countries between 1868'and 1872.11 The relevant
portions of the text of the treaty with Sweden, and of the
accompanying protocol, are set forth in the margin. 2
:117 Stat. 809.
1
' North German Confederation, 1868, 15 Stat. 615; Bavaria, 1868,
15 Stat. 661; Baden, 1868, 16 Stat. 731; Wiirttemberg, 1868, 16 Stat.
735; Hesse, 1868, 16 Stat. 743; Belgium, 1868, 16 Stat. 747; Great
Britain, 1870, 16 Stat. 775; Austria-Hungary, 1870, 17 Stat. 833;
Denmark, 1872, 17 Stat. 941. See Flournoy and Hudson, Nationality
Laws, pp. 661-673; Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 358.
12
The treaty provides:
"The President of the United States of America and His Majesty
the King of Sweden and Norway, led by the wish to regulate the
citizenship of those persons who emigrate from the United States
of America to Sweden and Norway and their dependencies and territories, and from Sweden and Norway to the United States of America,
have resolved to treat on this subject, and have for that purpose
appointed plenipotentiaries to conclude a convention, . . . who have
agreed to and signed the following articles:
"Article I. Citizens of the United States of America who have
resided in Sweden or Norway for a continuous period of at least
five years, and during such residence have become and are lawfully
recognized as citizens of Sweden or Norway, shall be held by the
government of the United States to be Swedish or Norwegian
citizens, and shall be treated as such.
"Reciprocally, citizens of Sweden or Norway who have resided
in the United States of America for a continuous period of at least
five years, and during such residence have become naturalized citizens
of the United States, shall be held by the governmeni of Sweden
and Norway to be American citizens, and shall be treated as such.
."The declaration of an intention to become a citizen of one or
the other country has not for either party the effect of citizenship
legally acquired.
"Article III. If a citizen of the one party, who has become a recognized citizen of the other party, takes up his abode once more in his
original country and applies to be restored to his former citizenship,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The treaty manifestly deals with expatriation and the
recognition of naturalization by the respective powers.
The recital states its purpose; that is, "to regulate the
citizenship of those persons who emigrate" to one country
from the other. The terms of the treaty are directed to
that purpose and are appropriate to the recognition of the
status of those who voluntarily take up their residence
for the prescribed period in the country to which they
emigrate. Article I of the treaty provides:
"Citizens of the United States of America who have
resided in Sweden or Norway for a continuous period of
at least five years, and during such residence have become
the government of the last-named country is authorized to receive
him again as a citizen on such conditions as the said government
may think proper."
The protocol containing "the following observations, more exactly
defining and explaining the contents" of the convention provides:
"I. Relating to the first article of the convention.
"It is understood that if a citizen of the United States of America
has been discharged from his American citizenship, or, on the other
side, if a Swede or a Norwegian has been discharged from his Swedish
or Norwegian citizenship, in the manner legally prescribed by the
government of his original country, and then in the other country in
a rightful and perfectly valid manner acquires citizenship, then an
additional five years' residence shall no longer be required; but a
person who has in that manner been recognized as a citizen of the
other country shall, from the moment thereof, be held and treated
as a Swedish or Norwegian citizen, and, reciprocally, as a citizen of
the United States.
"III. Relating to the third article of the convention.
"It is further agreed that if a Swede or Norwegian, who has become
a naturalized citizen of the United States, renews his residence in
Sweden or Norway without the intent to return to America, he
shall be held by the government of the United States to have
renounced his American citizenship.
"The intent not to return to America may be held to exist when
the person so naturalized resides more than two years in Sweden or
Norway."

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

and are lawfully recognized as citizens of Sweden or Norway, shall be held by the government of the United States
to be Swedish or Norwegian citizens, and shall be treated
as such.
"Reciprocally, citizens of Sweden or Norway who have
resided in the United States of America for a continuous
period of at least five years, and during such residence
have become naturalized citizens of the United States,
shall be held by the government of Sweden and Norway
to be American citizens, and shall be treated as such.
"The declaration of an intention to become a citizen of
one or the other country has not for either party the effect
of citizenship legally acquired."
We think that this provision in its direct application
clearly implies a voluntary residence and it would thus
apply in the instant case to the father of respondent.
There is no specific mention of minor children who have
obtained citizenship by birth in the country which their
parents have left. And if it be assumed that a child born
in the United States would be deemed to acquire the
Swedish citizenship of his parents through their return
to Sweden and resumption of citizenship there," still
nothing is said in the treaty which in such a case would
destroy the right of election which appropriately belongs
to the child on attaining majority. If the abrogation of
that right had been in contemplation, it would naturally
have been the subject of a provision suitably explicit.
Rights of citizenship are not to be destroyed by an ambiguity: Moreover, the provisions of Article III must be
read in connection with Article I. Article III provides:
"If a citizen of the one party, who has become a recognized citizen of the other party, takes up his abode once
more in his original country and applies to be restored to
his former citizenship, the government of the last-named
Compare Secretary Hay to Mr. Harris, Foreign Relations, 1900,
p. 13.
161299o--39-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

country is authorized to receive him again as a citizen on
such conditions as the said government may think
proper."
If the first article could be taken to cover the case of
a child through the derivation of citizenship from that of
his emigrating parents, Article III by the same token
would be applicable to the case of a child born here and
taken to Sweden, who at majority elects to return to the
United States and to assume the privileges and obligations of American citizenship. In that event, the Government of the United States is expressly authorized to
receive one so returning "as a citizen on such conditions
as the said government may think proper." And if this
Government considers that a native citizen taken from
the United States by his parents during minority is entitled to retain his American citizenship by electing at
majority to return and reside here, there would appear
to be nothing in the treaty which would gainsay the
authority of the United States to recognize that privilege
of election and to receive the returning native upon
that basis. Thus, on the facts of the present case, the
treaty does not purport to deny to the United States
the right to treat respondent as a citizen of the United
States, and it necessarily follows that, in the absence of
such a denial, the treaty cannot be set up as a ground
for refusing to accord to respondent the rights of citizenship in accordance with our Constitution and laws by
virtue of her birth in the United States.
Nor do we find anything in the terms of the 'protocol,
accompanying the treaty, which can be taken to override the right of election which respondent would otherwise possess. Article III of the protocol refers to the
case of a Swede who has become a naturalized citizen of
the United States and later renews hia residence in
Sweden "without the intent to return to America." And

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

it provides that the intent not to return may be held to
exist when the person "so naturalized" resides more than
two years in Sweden. This does not appear to be applicable to respondent, who was born in the United States,
but, apart from that, the intent not to return could not
properly be attributed to her during minority, and if it
were so attributed, the presumption would be rebutted by
the election to return to the United States at majority.
Compare United States v. Howe, 231 F. 546, 549.14
The views we have expressed find support in the construction placed upon the naturalization treaties of 1868
to 1872 15 in the period following their ratification. The
first of those treaties was made in 1868 with the North
German Confederation 16 and contained provisions similar
to those found in the treaty with Sweden. But it was
under this German treaty that Steinkauler's case arose
in 1875, to which we have already referred, where Attorney General Pierrepont upheld the right of election,
saying: 17 "Under the treaty, and in harmony with the
American doctrine, it is clear that Steinkauler, the father,
abandoned his naturalization in America and became a
German subject (his son being yet a minor), and that by
virtue of German laws the son acquired German nationality. It is equally clear that the son by birth has American nationality; and hence he has two nationalities, one
There is no law of
natural, the other acquired. . .
"While the nationality law of Sweden is not to be regarded as controlling unless the treaty makes it so-which we have found is not
the case-it may be observed that it is not clear that the law of
Sweden would operate so as to preclude recognition that respondent
is a citizen of the United States. See the Swedish law of 7 May,
1909, Art. 8. That, however, is a question of foreign law which we

find it
"See
"15
"15

unnecessary to attempt to determine.
Note 10.
Stat. 615. See Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S.270, 283, 284.
Op. Attys. Gen'l. 15, 17, 18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

the United States under which his father or any other
person can deprive him of his birthright." To the same
effect, as to the right of election, was the ruling of
Secretary Evarts in 1879 in his instruction, above quoted,
to our minister to Germany with respect to the brothers
Boisseliers. 18
There were provisions similar to those in the treaty
with Sweden in the naturalization treaty with Denmark
of 1872,1" but Secretary Evarts evidently did not regard
those provisions as inconsistent with the claim, which he
sustained, of one born here of Danish parentage who
was taken abroad by his parents but insisted upon his
American citizenship when he arrived at his majority."0
These rulings, following closely upon the negotiation of
these naturalization treaties, show beyond question that
the treaties were not regarded as abrogating the right of
election for which respondent here contends.
Later rulings were to the same effect. Thus, in 1890,
in dealing with a native American citizen who, upon his
own application, had been admitted to Danish citizenship during his minority, and who had not yet come
of age, the Secretary of State, while recognizing that
"when a citizen of the United States voluntarily becomes
naturalized or renaturalized in a foreign country, he is to
be regarded as having lost his rights as an American
citizen," was careful to make the following qualifications
in support of the right of election at majority, saying:
"As Mr. Anderson has not yet attained his majority,
the Department is not prepared to admit that proceedings taken on his behalf in Denmark during his minority
would deprive him of his right, upon reaching the age
of twenty-one years, to elect to become an American
"SMoore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 543.
' 17 Stat. 941.
20Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 544.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

citizen by immediately returning to this country to resume his allegiance here." 21
Petitioners refer to an instruction by Secretary Sherman in 1897 2 in answer to a question as to the effect
of a person's return to his native country for a visit on
his rights as an American citizen which had been acquired
through the naturalization of his father. While Secretary Sherman recognized "the acquisition of United
States citizenship by an alien-born minor through the
lawful naturalization of his father under the operation
of Section 2172, Revised Statutes," the Secretary added
the following:
"If such a party having thus become a recognized
citizen of the United States, takes up his abode once
more in his original country, and applies to be restored
to his former citizenship, the government of the last
named country is authorized to receive him again as a
citizen, on such conditions as the said Government may
think proper. (Treaty of 1869, Article III.) Or he may
by residence in the country of origin, without intent to
return to the United States, be held to have renounced
his American citizenship. (Protocol, May 26, 1869.)
But this presumption, like all presumptions of intent,
may be rebutted by proof. Until a person so circumstanced shall be held to have voluntarily abandoned his
American citizenship, or shall have acquired another citizenship upon application to that end and by due process
of law, this Government is entitled to claim his allegiance and constrained to protect him as a citizen so long
as he shall be found bona fide entitled thereto."
'Mr. Wharton, Acting Secretary of State, to Count Sponneck,
Danish Minister (1890); Moore, Int. Law Dig., p. 715.
'Secretary Sherman to Mr. Grip, Swedish Minister, June 15,
1897; Moore, Int. Law Dig., Vol. III, p. 472; 8 MS., Notes to
Sweden, 58.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

We find nothing in that instruction which is inconsistent with the maintenance of respondent's right of
election in the instant case. So far as the instruction in
relation to a naturalized minor may be deemed to be
pertinent, it confirms rather than opposes respondent's
right to be considered an American citizen.
That the Department of State continued to maintain
the right of election is further shown by the memorandum of applicable principles which it issued in 1906,
above quoted, to the effect that the Department had
"always held in such circumstances that if a child is born
of foreign parents in the United States, and is taken during minority to the country of his parents, such child
upon arriving of age, or within a reasonable time thereafter, must make election between the citizenship which
is his by birth and the citizenship which is his by
parentage." 2
Fourth. We think that petitioners' contention under
§ 2 of the Act of March 2, 1907,24 is equally untenable.
That statutory provision is as follows:
"That any American citizen shall be deemed to have
expatriated himself when he has been naturalized in any
foreign state in conformity with its laws, or when he has
taken an oath of allegiance to any foreign state.
"When any naturalized citizen shall have resided for
two years in the foreign state from which he came, or
for five years in any other foreign state it shall be presumed that he has ceased to be an American citizen, and
the place of his general abode shall be deemed his place
of residence during said years: Provided, however, That
such presumption may be overcome on the presentation
of satisfactory evidence to a diplomatic or consular officer
of the United States, under such rules and regulations as
"Foreign Relations, 1906, p. 657.
234 Stat. 1228; 8 U. S.C. 17.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

the Department of State may prescribe: And provided
also, That no American citizen shall be allowed to
expatriate himself when this country is at war." 2
Petitioners contend that respondent's acquisition of
derivative Swedish citizenship makes her a person who
has been "naturalized under Swedish law," and hat
therefore "she has lost her American citizenship"
through the operation of this statute. We are unable to
accept that view. We think that the statute was aimed
at a voluntary expatriation and we find no evidence in its
terms that it was intended to destroy the right of a native
citizen, removed from this country during minority, to
elect to retain the citizenship acquired by birth and to
return here for that purpose. If by virtue of derivation
from the citizenship of one's parents a child in that situation can be deemed to have been naturalized under the
foreign law, still we think in the absence of any provision
to the contrary that such naturalization would not
destroy the right of election.
Sections 5 and 6 of this statute should also be noted as they
contain provisions applicable to minor children. They are as follows:

"Sec. 5. That a child born without the United States of alien
parents shall be deemed a citizen of the United States by virtue of
the naturalization of or resumption of American citizenship by the
parent: Provided, That such naturalization or resumption takes
place during the minority of such child: And provided further, That
the citizenship of such minor child shall begin at the time such
minor child begins to reside permanently in the United States.
"Sec. 6. That all children born outside the limits of the United
States who are citizens thereof in accordance with the provisions of
section nineteen hundred and ninety-three of the Revised Statutes
of the United States and who continue to reside outside the United
States shall, in order to receive the protection of this Government,
be required upon reaching the age of eighteen years to record at an
American consulate their intention to become residents and remain
citizens of the United States and shall be further required to take
the oath of allegiance to the United States upon attaining their
majority."

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

It should also be noted that the Act of 1907 in §§ 5
and 6 26 has specific reference to children born without
the United States of alien parents but says nothing as to
the loss of citizenship by minor children born in the
United States.
That in the 'latter case the child was not deemed to
have lost his American citizenship by virtue of the terms
of the statute but might still with reasonable promptness
on attaining majority manifest his election is shown by
the views expressed in the instructions issued under date
of November 24, 1923, by the Department of State
to the American Diplomatic and Consular Officers.2"
These instructions dealt with the questions arising under
the citizenship act of March 2, 1907, and cases of dual
nationality. It was stated that it was deemed desirable
"to inform diplomatic and consular officers of the department's conclusions, for their guidance in handling individual cases." Commenting on dual nationality the
instructions said:
"The term 'dual nationality' needs exact appreciation.
It refers to the fact that two States make equal claim
to the allegiance of an individual at the same time.
Thus, one State may claim his allegiance because of his
birth within its territory, and the other because at the
time of his birth in foreign territory his parents were its
nationals. The laws of the United States purport to
clothe persons with American citizenship by virtue of
both principles."
And after referring to the Fourteenth Amendment and
the Act of February 2, 1855, R. S. 1993, the instructions
continued:
See Note 25.
"Compilation of Certain Departmental Circulars" relating to citizenship, etc., issued by Department of State, 1925, containing instructions to diplomatic and consular officers under date of November 24,
1923, pp. 118, 121, 122.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

"It thus becomes important to note how far these differing claims of American nationality are fairly operative
with respect to persons living abroad, whether they were
born abroad or were born in the United States of alien
parents and taken during minority to reside in the territory of States to which the parents owed allegiance. It
is logical that, while the child remains or resides in territory of the foreign State claiming him as a national, the
United States should respect its claim to allegiance. The
important point to observe is that the doctrine of dual
allegiance ceases, in ° American contemplation, to be fully
applicable after the child has reached adult years. Thereafter two States may in fact claim him as a national.
Those claims are not, however, regarded as of equal merit,
because one of the States may then justly assert that his
relationship to itself as a national is, by reason of circumstances that have arisen, inconsistent with, and reasonably superior to, any claim of allegiance asserted by any
other State. Ordinarily the State in which the individual
retains his residence after attaining his majority has the
superior claim. The statutory law of the United States
affords some guidance but not all that could be desired,
because it fails to announce the circumstances when the
child who resides abroad within the territory of a State
reasonably claiming his allegiance forfeits completely the
right to perfect his inchoate right to retain American citizenship. The department must, therefore, be reluctant
to declare that particular conduct on the part of a person
after reaching adult years in foreign territory produces a
forfeiture or something equivalent to expatriation.
"The statute does, however, make a distinction between
the burden imposed upon the person born in the United
States of foreign parents and the person born abroad of
American parents. With respect to the latter, section 6
of the Act of March 2, 1907, lays down the requirement

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

that, as a condition to the protection of the United States,
the individual must, upon reaching the age of 18, record
at an American consulate an intention to remain a citizen
of the United States, and must also take an oath of allegiance to the United States upon attaining his majority.
"The child born of foreign parents in the United States
who spends his minority in the foreign country of his
parents' nationality is not expressly required by any statute of the United States to make the same election as he
approaches or attains his majority. It is, nevertheless,
believed that his retention of a right "to demand the protection of the United States should, despite the absence
of statute, be dependent upon his convincing the department within a reasonable period after the attaining of
his majority of an election to return to the United States,
there to assume the duties of citizenship. In the absence
of a definite statutory requirement, it is impossible to
prescribe a limited period within which such election
should be made. On the other hand, it may be asserted
negatively that one who has long manifested no indication of a will to make such an election should not receive
the protection of the United States save under the express
approval of the department."
It thus appears that as late as 1925, when the Department issued its "Compilation" including the circular
instruction of November 24, 1923, it was the view of the
Department of State that the Act of March 2, 1907, had
not taken away the right of a native citizen on attaining
majority to retain his American citizenship, where he
was born in the United States of foreign parents. We
do not think that it would be a proper construction of
the Act to hold that while it leaves untouched the right
of election on the part of a child born in the United States,
in case his parents were foreign nationals at the time of
his birth and have never lost their foreign nationality,
still the statute should be treated as destroying that

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

right of election if his parents became foreign nationals
through naturalization. That would not seem to be a
sensible distinction. Having regard to the plain purpose
of § 2 of the Act of 1907, to deal with voluntary expatriation, we are of the opinion that its provisions do not
affect the right of election, which would otherwise exist,
by reason of a wholly involuntary and merely derivative
naturalization in another country during minority. And,
on the facts of the instant case, this view apparently obtained when in July, 1929, on the instructions of the Secretary of State, the Department issued the passport to
respondent as a citizen of the United States.
But although respondent promptly made her election
and took up her residence in this country accordingly,
and had continued to reside here, she was notified in
April, 1935, that she was an alien and was threatened
with deportation.
When, precisely there occurred a change in the departmental attitude is not clear.28 It seems to have
resulted in a conflict with the opinion of the Solicitor of
the Department of Labor in the case of Ingrid Therese
Tobiassen, and the Secretary of Labor because of that
conflict requested the opinion of the Attorney General,
which was given on June 16, 1932. " It appeared that
Miss Tobiassen, aged 20, was born in New York in 1911;
that her father, a native of Norway, became a citizen of
the United States by naturalization in 1912; that in 1919
Miss Tobiassen was taken by her parents to Norway
where the latter had since resided; that at the age of 18
she returned to the United States and took up her permanent residence in New Jersey. The question arose
'That

there had been a change is frankly stated in the communi-

cation (a copy of which is annexed to the complaint) addressed by
the American Consul at G6teborg, Sweden, to the respondent's father
under date of October 29, 1935.
' 36 Op. Attys. Gen'l, p. 535.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

when she asked for a return permit to visit her parents.
The Department of State refused to issue a passport on
the ground that Miss Tobiassen had acquired Norwegian
nationality and had ceased to be an American citizen.
The Attorney General's opinion approved that action.
His opinion quoted the provisions of the treaty with
Sweden and Norway of 1869 'o and referred to the Norwegian Nationality Law of August 8, 1924, and to the
provisions of the Act of Congress of March 2, 1907. The
opinion noted that the claim that Miss Tobiassen had
ceased to be an American citizen did "not rest upon the
terms of the Naturalization Treaty with Norway, but
upon a law of that country, as a result of the renunciation by her father, a native of Norway, of his American
citizenship, and the resumption of his Norwegian nationality in pursuance of the terms of that treaty." The law
of Norway was deemed to be analogous to our statutes
"by virtue of which foreign-born minor children of persons naturalized in the United States are declared to be
citizens of this country"; and hence the conclusion that
Miss Tobiassen having acquired Norwegian nationality
had in consequence ceased to be an American citizen was
said to be correct.
The opinion does not discuss the right of election of a
native citizen of the United States when he becomes of
age to retain American citizenship and does not refer to
the repeated rulings of the Department of State in recognition of that right, the exercise of which, as we have
pointed out, should not be deemed to be inconsistent
with either treaty or statute. We are reluctant to disagree with the opinion of the Attorney General, and we
are fully conscious of the problems incident to .dual nationality and of the departmental desire to limit them,
"oCited as of June 14, 1871, the date of the exchange of ratifications.

PERKINS v. ELG.
325

Opinion of the Court.

but we are compelled to agree with the Court of Appeals
in the instant case that the conclusions of that opinion
are not adequately supported and are opposed to the
established principles which should govern the disposition
of this case. 1
Nor do we think that recent private acts of Congress 3
for the relief of native citizens who have been the subject
of administrative action denying their rights of citizenship, can be regarded as the equivalent of an Act of
Congress providing that persons in the situation of the
respondent here have lost the American citizenship which
they acquired at birth and have since duly elected to
retain. No such statute has been enacted.
We conclude that respondent has not lost her citizenship in the United States and is entitled to all the rights
and privileges of that citizenship.
Fifth. The cross petition of Miss Elg, upon which
certiorari was granted in No. 455, is addressed to the part
of the decree below which dismissed the bill of complaint
as against the Secretary of State. The dismissal was
upon the ground that the court would not undertake by
mandamus to compel the issuance of a passport or control by means of a declaratory judgment the discretion
of the Secretary of State. But the Secretary of State,
according to the allegation of the bill of complaint, had
refused to issue a passport to Miss Elg "solely on the
ground that she had lost her native born American citizenship." The court below, properly recognizing the
existence of an actual controversy with the defendants
"The same may be said of the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in United States v. Reid, 73 F. 2d 153
(certiorari denied upon the ground that the application was not made
within the time provided by law, 299 U. S. 544), so far as it is urged
by petitioners as applicable to the facts of the instant case.
2
Act of July 13, 1937, 50 Stat. Pt. 2, p. 1030; Act of June 25, 1938
(Private No. 751, 75th Cong., 3d Sess.).

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

(Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227), declared

Miss Elg "to be a natural born citizen of the United
States," and we think that the decree should include the
Secretary of State as well as the other defendants. The
decree in that sense would in no way interfere with the
exercise of the Secretary's discretion with respect to the
issue of a passport but would simply preclude the denial
of a passport on the sole ground that Miss Elg had lost
her American citizenship.
The decree will be modified accordingly so as to strike
out that portion which dismisses the bill of complaint as
to the Secretary of State, and so as to include him in the
declaratory provision of the decree, and as so modified
the decree is affirmed.
Modified and affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

TOLEDO PRESSED STEEL CO. v. STANDARD
PARTS, INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 166. Argued March 1, 1939.-Decided May 29, 1939.
1. Patent No. 1,732,708, Claims 1, 2, 5-7, 11-13, to Withrow and
Close, relating to a burner for outdoor warning signals, diminishing liability of flame extinguishment by wind and rain, held
invalid for want of invention. P. 356.
2. Aggregation of two old devices, productive of no new joint function, is not invention. P. 356.
* Together with No. 167, Toledo Pressed Steel Co. v. Huebner
Supply Co., also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit; and No. 603, Montgomery Ward & Co. v.
Toledo Pressed Steel Co., on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second circuit.

