O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
268

Syllabus.

mental period was available. But the narrow basis of the
supplemental registration, the very brief normal period
of relief for the persons and purposes in question, the
practical difficulties, of which the record in this case gives
glimpses, inevitable in the administration of such strict
registration provisions, leave no escape from the conclusion that the means chosen as substitutes for the invalidated "grandfather clause" were themselves invalid under
the Fifteenth Amendment. They operated unfairly
against the very class on whose behalf the protection of
the Constitution was here successfully invoked.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals must,
therefore, be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER
think that the court below reached the right conclusion
and that its judgment should be affirmed.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or disposition of this case.
O'MALLEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WOODROUGH ET UX.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.

No. 810.

Argued April 28, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

1. The provision of § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1936, requiring
that there be included in gross income, for the purpose of computing the federal income tax, the compensation of "judges of courts

of the United States taking office after June 6, 1932"--which
provision was a reenactment of a similar provision contained in
the Revenue Act of June 6, 1932, and part of a taxing measure of
general, nondiscriminatory application to all earners of income,held constitutional as applied to a judge who was appointed to

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

the Circuit Court of Appeals subsequently to June 6,1932. P. 281.
2. The provision in question can not be regarded as effecting a
diminution of the compensation of the judge in violation of the
Constitution, Art. III, § 1, nor as an encroachment on the independence of the judiciary. P. 282.
Congress did not exceed its constitutional power in providing
that United States judges appointed after the Revenue Act of
1932 shall not enjoy immunity from the incidences of taxation to
which everyone else within the defined classes of income is
subjected.
3. The fact that at the time of the judge's appointment to the
Circuit Court of Appeals he held the office of federal district judge,
to which he had been appointed prior to June 6, 1932, is irrelevant
to the matter in issue. P. 279.
Reversed.
APPEAL

under § 2 of the Act of Aug. 24, 1937, from a

judgment of the District Court denying the Government's
motion to dismiss a suit for a refund of income taxes collected under an allegedly unconstitutional Act.
Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Morris, and Messrs. Sewall Key, Arnold
Raum, and Joseph T. Votava were on the brief, for
appellant.
Messrs. J. A. C. Kennedy and George L. DeLacy, with
whom Messrs. Edward J. Svoboda and Ralph E. Svoboda
were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The case is here under § 2 of the Act of August 24,
1937 (50 Stat. 751), as a direct appeal from a judgment
of a district court whose "decision was against the constitutionality" of an Act of Congress. The suit below, an
action at law to recover a tax on income claimed to have
been illegally exacted, was disposed of upon the pleadings and turned on the single question now before us, to
wit: Is the provision of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

Opinion of the Court.

(47 Stat. 169, 178), re-enacted by § 22 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1936 (49 Stat. 1648, 1657), constitutional insofar as it included in the "gross income," on the basis
of which taxes were to be paid, the compensation of
"judges of courts of the United States taking office after
June 6, 1932."
That this is the sole issue will emerge from a simple
statement of the facts and of the governing legislation.
Joseph W. Woodrough was appointed a United States
circuit judge on April 12, 1933, and qualified as such on
May 1, 1933. For the calendar year of 1936 a joint
income tax return of Judge Woodrough and his wife disclosed his judicial salary of $12,500, but claimed it to be
constitutionally immune from taxation. Since it was not
included in "gross income" no tax was payable. Subsequently a deficiency of $631.60 was assessed on the basis
of that item, which, with interest, was paid under protest.
Claim for refund having been rejected, the present suit
was brought, and judgment went against the Collector.
The assessment of the present tax was technically under
the Act of 1936, but that Act merely carried forward the
provisions of the Act of 1932, for the inclusion of compensation of "judges of courts of the United States, taking office after June 6, 1932" which had been similarly
incorporated in the Revenue Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 680,
686-687). Therefore, the power of Congress to include
Judge Woodrough's salary as a circuit judge in his "gross
income" must be judged on the basis of the validity of
§ 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, and not as though that
power had been originally asserted by the Revenue Act
of 1936. For it was the Act of June 6, 1932 that gave
notice to all judges thereafter to be appointed, of the
new Congressional policy to include the judicial salaries
of such judges in the assessment of income taxes. The
fact that Judge Woodrough before he became a circuit
judge and prior to June 6, 1932, had been a district judge

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

is wholly irrelevant to the matter in issue. The two
offices have different statutory origins, are filled by separate nominations and confirmations, and enjoy different
emoluments. A new appointee to a circuit court of appeals occupies a new office no less when he is taken from
the district bench than when he is drawn from the bar.
By means of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932, Congress
sought to avoid, at least in part, the consequences of
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245. That case, decided on June
1, 1920, ruled for the first time that a provision requiring the compensation received by the judges of the United
States to be included in the "gross income" from which
the net income is to be computed, although merely part
of a taxing measure of general, non-discriminatory application to all earners of incomes, is contrary to Article III,
§ 1, of the Constitution which provides that the "Compensation" of the "Judges" "shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office." See also the separate
opinion of Mr. Justice Field in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan
& Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 586, 604 et seq. To be sure,
in a letter to Secretary Chase, Chief Justice Taney expressed similar views.' In doing so, he merely gave his
extra-judicial opinion, asserting at the same time that the
question could not be adjudicated.2 Chief Justice Taney's
vigorous views were shared by Attorney General Hoar.
Thereafter, both the Treasury Department 4 and Con'The letter was written on February 16, 1863, and will be found
in 157 U. S. 701.
'" . . . I should not have troubled you with this letter, if there
was any mode by which the question could be decided in a judicial
proceeding. But all of the judges of the courts of the United States
have an interest in the question, and could not therefore with propriety
undertake to hear and decide it." 157 U. S. at 702.
"13 Op. A. G. 161; but see the opinion of Attorney General
Palmer, 31 Op. A. G. 475.
'See Mr. Justice Field, concurring, in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan &
Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 588, 606-07.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

281

Opinion of the Court.

gress 5 acted upon this construction of the Constitution.
However, the meaning which Evans v. Gore imputed to
the history which explains Article III, § 1, was contrary
to the way in which it was read by other English-speaking courts.6 The decision met wide and steadily growing
disfavor from legal scholarship and professional opinion."
Evans v. Gore itself was rejected by most of the courts
before whom the matter came after that decision.8
Having regard to these circumstances, the question immediately before us is whether Congress exceeded its constitutional power in providing that United States judges
See Wayne v. United States, 26 Ct. Cl. 274; Act of July 28, 1892,
c. 311, 27 Stat. 306.
'See Judgments in Cooper v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 4
Comm. L. R. 1304, construing § 17 of the Queensland Constitution
Act of 1867 which prohibited "any reduction or diminution of the
salary of a Judge during his Term of office"; also, Judges v. AttorneyGeneral for Saskatchewan [1937] 2 D. L. R. 209, construing § 96
of the British North America Act, 1867, that "The Salaries . . . of
the Judges . . . shall be fixed and provided by the Parliament of
Canada" in connection with the Income Tax Act, 1932, of Saskatchewan.
'See Clark, Further Limitations Upon Federal Income Taxation,
30 YALE L. J. 75; Corwin, Constitutional Law in 1919-1920, 15 Am.
POL. Sci. REV. 635, 641-644; Fellman, Diminution of Judicial Salaries,
24 IOWA L. REV. 89; Lowndes, Taxing Income of Federal Judiciary,
19 VA. L. REV. 153; Powell, Constitutional Law in 1919-1920, 19
MICH. L. REV. 117-118; Powell, The Sixteenth Amendment and In-

come from State Securities, NATIONAL

INCOME TAX MAGAZINE (July

1923) 5-6; 20 COL. L. REV. 794; 43 HARV. L. REV. 318; 20 ILL. L.
REV. 376; 45 L. Q. REV. 291; 7 VA. L. REV. 69; 3 U. oF CHI. L. REV.
141.
The cases, pro and con, are collected in the recent dissenting opinion by Chief Judge Bond of the Court of Appeals of Maryland in
Gordy v. Dennis, 5 A. 2d 69, 82. Particular attention should be
called to the decision of the Supreme Court of South Africa, Krause
v. Commissioner for Inland Revenue, [1929] So. Afr. R. (A. D.) 286,
construing § 100 of the South Africa Act, which had taken over the
identical clause from Article III, § 1, of our Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

appointed after the Revenue Act of 1932 shall not enjoy
immunity from the incidences of taxation to which everyone else within the defined classes of income is subjected.
Thereby, of course, Congress has committed itself to the
position that a non-discriminatory tax laid generally on
net income is not, when applied to the income of a federal judge, a diminution of his salary within the prohibition of Article III, § 1, of the Constitution. To suggest
that it makes inroads upon the independence of judges
who took office after Congress had thus charged them with
the common duties of citizenship, by making them bear
their aliquot share of the cost ,of maintaining the Government, is to trivialize the great historic experience on
which the framers based the safeguards of Article III,
§ 1. To subject them to a general tax is merely to recognize that judges are also citizens, and that their particular
function in government does not generate an immunity
from sharing with their fellow citizens the material burden of the government whose Constitution and laws they
are charged with administering.
After this case came here, Congress, by § 3 of the Public
Salary Tax Act of 1939, amended § 22 (a) so as to make
it applicable to "judges of courts of the United States
who took office on or before June 6, 1932." 1o That section, however, is not now before us. But to the extent
'The provisions regarding security of salary had their source in
the Act of Settlement of 1700, 12 & 13 Will. III, c.2, § III, and
the Act of 1760, 1 Geo. III, c. 23. See Holdsworth, The Constitutional
Position of the Judges, 48 L. Q. RPv. 25; 2 HOLDSWORTH, THE HisTORY OF ENGLISH LAW, 559-64; 6 id. 234, 514.
" Public No. 32, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., c. 59. Section 209 of the
same statute, however, provides that "In the case of the judges of the
Supreme Court, and of the inferior courts of the United States created
under article III of the Constitution, who took office on or before
June 6, 1932, the compensation received as such shall not be subject
to income tax under the Revenue Act of 1938 or any prior revenue
Act."

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

that what the Court now says is inconsistent with what
was said in Miles v. Graham, 268 U. S. 501, the latter
cannot survive.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS did not hear the argument
in this cause and took no part in its consideration or
decision.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

Concretely, the question is whether, by exacting from
United States circuit judge Joseph W. Woodrough and
his wife $631.60 in the form of income tax on his salary
of $12,500 for 1936, the Government diminished the compensation for his services theretofore fixed by Congress.
That item excluded, they had no taxable income. The
judge's monthly pay was $1041.66. The tax took at
the monthly rate of $52.63.
The material details may be given briefly.
April 12, 1933, Judge Woodrough was appointed judge
of the United States circuit court of appeals for the
eighth circuit. He qualified May 1, 1933. Congress had
by the Act of December 13, 1926,' enacted that "To each
of the circuit judges the sum of $12,500 per year" shall
be paid as compensation. Since May 1, 1933, appellee
has received the specified pay. The Revenue Act of
June 6, 1932, applicable only to taxable years beginning
after December 31, 1931, contained a provision declaring
that in the case of judges taking office after that date
"the compensation received as such shall be included in
gross income; and all Acts fixing the compensation of
such . .. judges are hereby 'amended accordingly." 2
The Revenue Act of 1934,1 applicable only to taxable
1

c. 6, 44 Stat. 919.

'§ 22 (a), c. 209, 47 Stat. 169.

§ 22 (a), c. 277, 48 Stat. 680.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

years beginning after December 31, 1933, and that of
1936,' applicable only to taxable years beginning after
December 31, 1935, contain the same language as that
just quoted from the Act of 1932.
Judge Woodrough and his wife made a joint income tax
return for 1936; it disclosed his salary but claimed it was
not subject to the tax. The commissioner held the item
taxable and made a deficiency assessment of $631.60.
Plaintiffs paid under protest and filed claim for refund;
it was denied. Claiming the tax that they were so compelled to pay diminished the judge's compensation and
that therefore § 22 (a) of the Act of 1936 violates § 1,
Art. III, of the Constitution, plaintiffs sued to recover
the amount of the tax. The collector moved to dismiss.
The court held the Act unconstitutional, overruled the
motion and, defendant having elected not to plead further, gave plaintiffs judgment as prayed. Defendant
appealed.'
Article III, § 1, declares: "The Judges, both of the
supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and shall, at stated Times, receive
for their Services, a Compensation, which shall not be
diminished during their Continuance in Office."
It safeguards the independence of the judiciary. The
abuse against which it was intended to be a barrier is
included in the list of reasons for our Declaration of
Independence. "The history of the present King of
Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an
absolute Tyranny over these States . . . He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his
Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers.-He
has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the
'§ 22 (a), c. 690, 49 Stat. 1648.
Act of August 24, 1937, § 2, c. 754, 50 Stat. 752.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of
their salaries."
Alexander Hamilton, explaining the reasons for and
the purpose of § 1 of Art. III, said:
"The Executive not only dispenses the honors, but
holds the sword of the community. The legislature not
only commands the purse, but prescribes the rules by
which the duties and rights of every citizen are to be
regulated. The judiciary, on the contrary, has no influence over either the sword or the purse; no direction
either of the strength or of the wealth of the society;
and can take no active resolution whatever. It may
truly be said to have. neither force nor will, but merely
judgment . . .
"This simple view of the matter . . . proves incontestably, that the judiciary is beyond comparison the
weakest of the three departments of power; that it can
never attack with success either of the other two; and
that all possible care is requisite to enable it to defend
itself against their attacks . . .
"The complete independence of the courts ofjustice is
peculiarly essential in a limited Constitution. By a
limited Constitution, I understand one which contains
certain specified exceptions to the legislative authority;
such, for instance, as that it shall pass no bills of attainder, no ex-post-facto laws, and the like. Limitations of
this kind can be preserved in practice no other way than
through the medium of courts of justice, whose duty it
must be to declare all acts contrary to the manifest tenor
of the Constitution void. Without this, all the reservations of particular rights or privileges would amount to
nothing . . ." (The Federalist, No. 78.)
"Next to permanency in office, nothing can contribute
more to the independence of the judges than a fixed provision for their support . . . In the general course of
human nature, a power over a man's subsistence amounts

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

to a power over his will . . . The enlightened friends to
good government in every State, have seen cause to
lament the want of precise and explicit precautions in
the State constitutions on this head. Some of these indeed have declared that permanent salaries should be
established for the judges, but the experiment has in some
instances shown that such expressions are not sufficiently
definite to preclude legislative evasions. Something still
more positive and unequivocal has been evinced to be
requisite . . . This provision for the support of the
judges bears every mark of prudence and efficacy; and
it may be safely affirmed that, together with the permanent tenure of their offices, it affords a better prospect
of their independence than is discoverable in 'the constitutions of any of the States in regard to their own
judges." (The Federalist, No. 79.)
Mr. Justice Story declared that "Without this provision, the other, as to the tenure of office, would have
been utterly nugatory, and indeed a mere mockery . . ."
2 Story, § 1628. Chancellor Kent said: "The provision
for the permanent support of the judges is well calculated, in addition to the tenure of their office, to give
them the requisite independence. It tends, also, to secure a succession of learned men on the bench, who, in
consequence of a certain undiminished support, are enabled and induced to quit the lucrative pursuits of private business for the duties of that important station.
The Constitution of the United States, on this subject,
was an improvement upon all our previously existing
constitutions." 1 Kent Com. 294.
The first judicial construction of the clause was by the
circuit court of the District of Columbia in 1803 in the
case of United States v. More.6 The opinion was written
by Judge Cranch. The court sustained a demurrer to an
'The opinion is set forth in a footnote at p. 160 et seq., 3 Cranch.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

indictment charging that More, a justice of the peace,
under color of his office, exacted an illegal fee, 12 cents, for
giving judgment upon a warrant for a small debt. The
issue was whether an Act of Congress abolishing fees of
justices of the peace in the District of Columbia could
affect those who accepted their commissions while the fees
were legally annexed to the office. The court said: "The
3d article of the constitution provides for the independence of the judges of the courts of the United States,
by certain regulations; one of which is, that they shall
receive, at stated times, a compensation for their services,
which shall not be diminished during their continuance in
office. The act of congress of 27th of February, 1801, which
constitutes the office of justices of the peace . . . ascertains the compensation which they shall have for their
services in holding their courts . . . This compensation
is given in the form of fees, payable when the services
are rendered . . . That his [the justice's] compensation shall not be diminished during his continuance in
office, seems to follow as a. necessary consequence from
the provisions of the constitution . . . If his compensation has once been fixed by law, a subsequent law for
diminishing that compensation (a fortiori for abolishing
it) cannot affect that justice of the peace during his
continuance in office; . .
The first attempt to tax compensation of federal
judges was during the Civil War. Section 86 of the Act
of July 1, 1862,' levied "on all salaries of officers, or payments to persons in the . . service of the United
States . . . when exceeding the rate of six hundred dollars per annum, a duty of three per centum on the excess above the said six hundred dollars," and directed
disbursing officers to deduct and withhold the duty.
These general provisions were construed by the revenue
Tc.

119, 12 Stat. 472.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

officers to comprehend the compensation of the President and the judges of the United States. By letter of
February 16, 1863, Mr. Chief Justice Taney protested
to the Secretary of the Treasury. In the course of his
letter,8 he said:
"The act in question, as you interpret it, diminishes
the compensation of every judge three per cent, and if it
can be diminished to that extent by the name of a tax, it
may in the same way be reduced from time to time at the
pleasure of the legislature.
"The Judiciary is one of the three great departments
of the government, created and established by the Constitution. Its duties and powers are specifically set forth,
and are of a character that requires it to be perfectly
independent of the two other departments, and in order
to place it beyond the reach and above even the suspicion
of any such influence, the power to reduce their compensation is expressly withheld from Congress, and excepted
from their powers of legislation.
"Language could not be more plain than that used in
the Constitution. It is moreover one of its most important and essential provisions. For the articles which limit
the powers of the legislative and executive branches of
the government, and those which provide safeguards for
the protection of the citizen in his person and property,
would be of little value without a judiciary to uphold
and maintain them, which was free from every influence,
direct or indirect, that might by possibility in times of
political excitement warp their judgments ...
"Having been honored with the highest judicial station
under the Constitution, I feel it to be more especially my
duty to uphold and maintain the constitutional rights of
that department of the government, and not by any act
or word of mine, leave it to be supposed that I acquiesce
in a measure that displaces it from the independent posi'Printed in 157

U. S. at p. 701.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH'
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

tion assigned it by the statesmen who framed the Constitution; and in order to guard against any such inference,
I present to you this respectful but firm and decided
remonstrance against the authority you have exercised
under this act of Congress, and request you to place this
protest upon the public files of your office as the evidence
that I have done everything in my power to preserve and
maintain the Judicial Department in the position and
rank in the government which the Constitution has
assigned to it."
The letter of the Chief Justice was not answered and,
at his request, the Court, May 10, 1863, ordered the letter
entered on its records. In 1869, the Secretary of the
Treasury requested the opinion of Attorney General
Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar as to the constitutionality of
the Act construed to extend to judges' salaries. He
rendered an opinion in substantial accord with the views
expressed in Chief Justice Taney's protest. 13 Op. A. G.
161. Accordingly, the tax on the compensation of the
President and of judges was discontinued and the
amounts theretofore collected from them were refundedsome through administrative channels; others through
action of the court of claims and ensuing appropriations
by Congress. See Wayne v. United States, 26 C. Cls. 274,
290; 27 Stat. 306.
In 1889, Mr. Justice Miller, a member of the Court
since 1862, said: '
"The Constitution of the United States has placed
several limitations upon the general power [of taxation],
and ... some of them are implied. One of its provisions
is that neither the President of the United States (Art.
II, sec. 1, par 6), nor a judge of the Supreme or inferior
courts (Art III, sec. 1), shall have his salary diminished
during the period for which he shall have been elected,
or during his continuance in office. It is very clear that
'Miller on the Constitution of the United States p. 247.
16129)

-39-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

when Congress, during the late [Civil] war, levied an
income tax, and placed it as well upon the salaries of
the President and the judges of the courts as those of
other people, that it was a diminution of them to just
that extent."
Although the Income Tax Act of 1894 said nothing
about the compensation of the judges, Mr. Justice Field
construed § 33 10 to tax that compensation and assigned
that ground among others for joining in the decision
that the Act was unconstitutional. Pollock v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429, 604-606. Mr. Justice
Field, who was confirmed the day this Court ordered
Chief Justice Taney's letter entered on its records, had
taken his place upon this bench at the beginning of the
following term. His opinion recited the facts of that
incident and quoted extensively from the letter, which
was printed as an appendix to the volume of the reports
containing the opinions in the Pollock case. 157 U. S.
701. The Justice ended his discussion of the matter
by stating his belief, based on information, that the
opinion of Attorney General Hoar had been followed ever
since without question by the Treasury. And, upon
reargument of the cause, Attorney General Olney said
in his brief: "There has never been a doubt since the
opinion of Attorney General Hoar that the salaries of the
President and judges were exempt."
The Revenue Acts of 1913 11and 1916,12 being the first
two after adoption of the Sixteenth Amendment, ex10Section 33, 28 Stat. 557, in terms was much like § 86 of the Act
of 1862; it levied "on all salaries of officers, or payments . . . to
persons in the . . . service of the United States, . . . when exceed-

ing the rate of four thousand dollars per annum, a tax of two per
centum on the excess above the said four thousand dollars" and
made it the duty of disbursing officers to deduct and withhold the
tax.
"§
12§

2B, 38 Stat. 168.
4, 39 Stat. 759.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

pressly excluded from gross income the compensation of
judges then in office. But after this country engaged in
the World War, the Revenue Act of 1918, approved
February 24, 1919, defined gross income to include "in
the case of the President ...
[and] the judges of the
Supreme and inferior courts . . . the compensation received as such." 11 The reports of the congressional committees having the measure in charge indicate that the
Congress was in doubt as to the constitutional validity
of that provision and intended to have the question decided by the courts.14 The question was raised and
presented for decision in Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245.
The Collector included the salary for 1918 of Judge
Evans, appointed before enactment of the taxing statute,.
in gross income. Had it been excluded, he would have
had no taxable income. He paid the tax and brought
suit to recover the amount so exacted. The United
States district court for the western district of Kentucky
held him not entitled to recover. But, after argument
by eminent counsel including the Solicitor General, this
Court held that the clause declaring that compensation
of judges "shall not be diminished during their continuance in office" prevents diminution by taxation and that
it has been so construed in the actual practice of the
government.
For the purpose of disclosing the reasons for and true
meaning of the clause forbidding diminution of compensation of judges, the opinion of the Court, written by Mr.
Justice Van Devanter, brought forward statements of
Alexander Hamilton, Chief Justice Marshall, Justice
Story, Chancellor Kent, Chief Justice Taney, Justice
Field, Attorneys General Hoar and Olney and others.
213 (a), 40 Stat. 1062.
H. Rept. No. 767, 65th Cong., 2d sess., p. 29; Sen. Rept. No. 617,
65th Cong., 3d sess., p. 6; 56 Cong. Rec., p. 10370.
"§

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

Speaking for the Court, he said:
"With what purpose does the Constitution provide
that the compensation of the judges 'shall not be diminished during their continuance in office'? Is it primarily
to benefit the judges, or rather to promote the public weal
by giving them that independence which makes for an
impartial and courageous discharge of the judicial function? Does the provision merely forbid direct diminution, such as expressly reducing the compensation from a
greater to a less sum per year, and thereby leave the way
open for indirect, yet effective, diminution, such as withholding or calling back a part as a tax on the whole?
Or, does it mean that the judge shall have a sure and
continuing right to the compensation, whereon he confidently may rely for his support during his continuance
in office, so that he need have no apprehension lest his
situation in this regard may be changed to his disadvantage?
".. . The primary purpose of the prohibition against
diminution was not to benefit the judges, but, like the
clause in respect of tenure, to attract good and competent men to the bench and to promote that independence
of action and judgment which is essential to the maintenance of the guaranties, limitations and pervading principles of the Constitution and to the administration of
justice without respect to persons and with equal concern
for the poor and the rich. Such being its purpose, it is
to be construed, not as a private grant, but as a limitation imposed in the public interest; in other words, not
restrictively, but in accord with its spirit and the principle
on which it proceeds.
"Obviously, diminution may be effected in more ways
than one. Some may be direct and others indirect, or
even evasive as Mr. Hamilton suggested. But all which
by their necessary operation and effect withhold or take
from the judge a part of that which has been promised by

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

law for his services must be regarded as within the prohibition. Nothing short of this will give full effect to its
spirit and principle. Here the plaintiff was paid the full
compensation, but was subjected to an involuntary obligation to pay back a part, and the obligation was
promptly enforced. Of what avail to him was the part
which was paid with one hand and then taken back with
the other? Was he not placed in practically the same
situation as if it had been withheld in the first instance?
Only by subordinating substance to mere form could it
be held that his compensation was not diminished . . .
"The prohibition is general, contains no excepting
words and appears to be directed against all diminution,
whether for one purpose or another; and the reasons for
its adoption, as publicly assigned at the time and commonly accepted ever since, make with impelling force for
the conclusion that the fathers of the Constitution intended to prohibit diminution by taxation as well as
otherwise,-that they regarded the independence of the
judges as of far greater importance than any revenue that
could come from taxing their salaries. ...
"When we consider . .'. what is comprehended in the
congressional power to tax,-where its exertion is not directly or impliedly interdicted,-it becomes additionally
manifest that the prohibition now under discussion was
intended to embrace and prevent diminution through the
exertion of that power; for, as this court repeatedly has
held, the power to tax carries with it 'the power to embarrass and destroy'; may be applied to every object
within its range 'in such measure as Congress may determine'; enables that body 'to select one calling and omit
another, to tax one class of property and to forebear to
tax another'; and may be applied in different ways to
different objects so long as there is 'geographical uniformity' in the duties, imposts and excises imposed. [Citing.] Is it not therefore morally certain that the discern-

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

ing statesmen who framed the Constitution and were so
sedulously bent on securing the independence of the judiciary intended to protect the compensation of the
judges from assault and diminution in the name or form
of a tax? Could not the purpose of the prohibition be
wholly thwarted if this avenue of attack were left open?
Certainly there is nothing in the words of the prohibition
indicating that it is directed against one legislative power
and not another; and in our opinion due regard for its
spirit and principle requires that it be taken as directed
against them all."
Mr. Justice Holmes wrote a dissenting opinion, in
which Mr. Justice Brandeis joined. With that expression his opposition to the decision ended. Two years
later, in Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, writing for
the Court, invalidating a state tax upon net income of a
lessee from sales of his share of oil and gas received under
leases of restricted Indian land, he said (p. 505): "In
cases where the principal is absolutely immune from interference an inquiry is allowed into the sources from
which net income is derived and if a part of it comes from
such a source the tax is pro tanto void; Pollock v.
Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429; 158 U. S. 601;
a rule lately illustrated by Evans v. Gore . . ." And in
that case he relied on the truth, as put by Chief Justice
Marshall in M'Culloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 431,
that "the power to tax involves the power to destroy."
He quoted (p. 505) with approval from Indian Oil Co. v.
Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522, the statement of the opinion
(p. 530) that "A tax upon the leases is a tax upon the
power to make them, and could be used to destroy the
power to make them." 11
' Gillespie v. Oklahoma is one of the decisions subjected to condemnatory comment in the concurring opinion in Graves v. New York
ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466. It is there said: "A succession of

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

Miles v. Graham (1925), 268 U. S. 501, held invalid
§ 213 (a), Revenue Act of 1918, (condemned in Evans v.
Gore) when applied to compensation of Judge Graham,
decisions [Gillespie v. Oklahoma is the first cited] thereby withdrew
from the taxing power of the States and Nation a very considerable
range of wealth without regard to the actual workings of our federalism, and this, too, when the financial needs of all governments began
steadily to mount."
At another place in that concurrence, the writer stated: "The
volume of the Court's business has long since made impossible the
early healthy practice whereby the Justices gave expression to individual opinions. But the old tradition still has relevance when an
important shift in constitutional doctrine is announced after a reconstruction in the membership of the Court. . . . The arguments
upon which McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, rested . . .have
been distorted by sterile refinements unrelated to affairs. These

refinements derived authority from an unfortunate remark in the
opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland. Partly as a flourish of rhetoric
and partly because the intellectual fashion of the times indulged a
free use of absolutes, Chief Justice Marshall gave currency to the
phrase that 'the power to tax involves the power to destroy! ...
The web of unreality spun from Marshall's famous dictum was
brushed away by one stroke of Mr. Justice Holmes's pen: 'The power
to tax is not the power to destroy while this Court sits'. Panhandle
Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 277 U. S. 218, 223 (dissent)."
But, in the Gillespie case, Mr. Justice Holmes, speaking for the
Court, had definitely applied the doctrine that the power to tax does
involve the power to destroy.
In the Panhandle case neither the Court, nor indeed another justice dissenting, was impressed by "The power to tax is not the power
to destroy while this Court sits." The statement is vague and may
be read to imply a power that this Court never possessed. If taken
to mean that we are empowered to regulate or to limit the exertion
by Congress of its power of taxation, it justly may be regarded as
hyperbole; if taken to mean that this Court has power to prevent
imposition by Congress of taxes laid to discourage, to destroy, or
to protect, then it is in the teeth of the law. See, e. g., Veazie Bank
v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27, 53 et seq.; Magnano Co. v. Hamilton, 292 U. S. 40, 44 et seq.;
CincinnatiSoap Co. v. United States, 301 U. S. 308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

appointed after its enactment. Mr. Justice Holmes joined
in the decision. Mr. Justice Brandeis merely noted
dissent.
In the course of the opinion, we said:
"Does the circumstance that defendant in error's appointment came after the taxing Act require a different
view concerning his right to exemption? The answer depends upon the import of the word 'compensation' in the
constitutional provision.
"The words and history of the clause indicate that the

purpose was to impose upon Congress the duty definitely
to declare what sum shall be received by each judge out
of the public funds and the times for payment. When
this duty has been complied with the amount specified
becomes the compensation which is protected against
diminution during his continuance in office.
". .. The compensation fixed by law when defendant in error assumed his official duties was $7,500 per annum, and to exact a tax in respect of this would diminish
it within the plain rule of Evans v. Gore.
"The taxing Act became a law [February 24, 1919]
prior to the statute prescribing salaries for judges of the
Court of Claims [approved February 25, 1919], but if
the dates were reversed it would be impossible to construe
the former as an amendment which reduced salaries by
the amount of the tax imposed. No judge is required to
pay a definite percentage of his salary, but all are commanded to return, as a part of 'gross income,' 'the compensation received as such' from the United States. From
the 'gross income' various deductions and credits are allowed, as for interest paid, contributions or gifts made,
personal exemptions varying with family relations, etc.,
and upon the net result assessment is made. The plain
purpose was to require all judges to return their compensation as an item of 'gross income,' and to tax this as
other salaries. This is forbidden by the Constitution.

O'MALLEY v. WOODROUGH.
277

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

"The power of Congress definitely to fix the compensation to be received at stated intervals by judges thereafter appointed is clear. It is equally clear, we think,
that there is no power to tax a judge of a court of the
United States on account of the salary prescribed for
him by law."
In O'Donoghue v. United States (1933), 289 U. S. 516,
we construed the Act of June 30, 1932 16 reducing the
salaries of all judges "except judges whose compensation
may not, under the Constitution, be diminished during
their continuance in office." We there held that the
supreme court and court of appeals of the District of
Columbia were constitutional courts and therefore that
the judges of those courts were excepted from the salary
reduction. We cited the authorities, adopted the reasoning, and reaffirmed the conclusions on which rest the
Court's judgments in Evans v. Gore and Miles v. Graham. And see Booth v. United States, 291 U. S. 339.
Evidently the Court intends to destroy the decision
in Evans v. Gore. Without suggesting that there is any
distinction between that case and Miles v. Graham, it
declares that the latter "cannot survive." But the decision of today fails to deal with, much less to detract from
the reasoning of those cases. The opinion would imply
that the letter of Chief Justice Taney to the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the separate opinion of Mr. Justice
Field in the Pollock case were treated as having weight
as judicial decisions. But nowhere has that ever been
suggested. However, all who are familiar with our judicial history know that entitled to great respect are the
reasoned conclusions of these eminent American jurists
as to the true intent and meaning of the Constitution of
the United States. And similarly worthy of attention are
the opinions of the Attorneys General and other public
officials following the reasoning of Chief Justice Taney.
1"

§§ 106, 107, 47 Stat. 401, 402.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BuTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

Now the Court cites, as if entitled to prevail against
those well-sustained opinions and the deliberate judgments of this Court, opposing views-if indeed upon
examination they reasonably may be so deemed-of English speaking judges in foreign countries.
It refers, footnote 6, to the decision of the Privy Council in Judges v. Attorney-General of Saskatchewan
(1937), 2 D. L. R. 209, construing income tax statutes of
Saskatchewan. Neither the Dominion nor the Province
has any law forbidding diminution of compensation of
judges while in office and that decision has nothing to do
with the question before us. The Australian and South
African cases cited, footnotes 6 and 8, involved construction of income tax statutes under constitutions or charters
created by legislative enactments and subject to authoritative interpretation or change by the local or British parliament. They shed no light upon the issue in this case.
The opinion claims no support from any state court
decision. The one it cites, footnote 8, that of the Maryland Court of Appeals in Gordy v. Dennis, 5 A. 2d 69,
held that under a clause in the Constitution of Maryland
like that in Art. III, § 1, the compensation of state judges
may not be taxed.
The opinion also cites, footnote 7, selected gainsaying
writings of professors,-some are lawyers and some are
not-but without specification of or reference to the
reasons upon which their views rest. And in addition it
cites notes published in law reviews, some signed and
some not; presumably the latter were prepared by law
students.
The suggestion that, as citizens, judges are not immune
from taxation begs the question here presented. The
Constitution itself puts judges in a separate class, declaring that at stated times they shall receive for their
services compensation which "shall not be diminished."
And so their salaries are distinguished from income of

RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE.
277

Syllabus.

others. The immunity extends only to compensation for
their services. No question of comparison or reasonableness is involved.
Admittedly the Court now repudiates its earlier decisions upon the point here in issue. The provision defining
tenure and providing for undiminishable compensation
was adopted with unusual accord. There has been unanimity of opinion that, -because in comparison with the
legislative and executive the judicial department is weak,
its independence is essential to our system of government. These safeguards go far to insure that independence. And, from the beginning, statesmen and jurists
have agreed that the clause forbids diminution of judges'
compensation by any form of legislation. The clause in
question is plain: no exception is expressed; none may
be implied. Its unqualified command should be given
effect.
For one convinced that the judgment now given is
wrong, it is impossible to acquiesce or merely to note dissent. And so this opinion is written to indicate the
grounds of opposition and to evidence regret that another
landmark has been removed.
I am of opinion that the judgment of the district court
should be affirmed.
RORICK v. DEVON SYNDICATE, LTD.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 676.

Argued April 24, 1939.-Decided May 22, 1939.

1. Review is confined to the questions urged in the petition for
certiorari. P. 303.
2. The fact that he is an employee of a corporation of which the
plaintiff in the case is president does not disqualify a notary public
under § 11532, General Code of Ohio, from taking an affidavit
in attachment or garnishment. P. 303.

