OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

A petition for certiorari asking this Court to review
the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was refused October 10, 1932 (287 U. S. 607). It stressed the
point that-"A fair and proper construction of the statute requires that it be confined in its operation to aliens
who are members of or affiliated with a proscribed organization at the issuance of the warrant of arrest."
The unusual importance of the question was not
difficult to appreciate.
In the presence of clear and positive expression of
Congressional intent to the contrary we do not feel at
liberty to conclude that an alien who after entry has
shown his contempt for our laws by deliberately associating himself with a proscribed organization must be allowed to remain if he resigned or was debarred a day, a
month or a year before his arrest. An experienced court
years ago declared that would be "no less than an
attempt to circumvent the law itself."

MULFORD

ET AL. v. SMITH ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 505.

Argued March 8, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. Producers of tobacco, challenging the constitutionality of provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, sought to enjoin
warehousemen from deducting penalties under the Act from the
sales price of tobacco to be sold on behalf of the plaintiffs, in excess of their respective quotas. Held:
(1) The suit is within § 24 (8) Jud. Code, which confers jurisdiction upon District Courts "of all suits and proceedings arising
under any law regulating commerce," irrespective of citizenship of
parties or amount in controversy. P. 46.
(2) The suit is not forbidden by R. S. 3224, which applies only
to restraint of assessment or collection of a tax. P. 46.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

39

Syllabus.

(3) Upon the averments of the bill -the case is of equitable cognizance, for want of adequate legal remedy. P. 46.
2. Title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, reciting,
inter alia, the importance to the Nation of the marketing of
tobacco; that tobacco is sold on a national market,-almost wholly
in interstate and foreign commerce; and that without federal assistance tobacco farmers are unable to bring about orderly marketing, with the consequence that excessive supplies are produced
and dumped on the market, bringing burdens and obstructions to
interstate and foreign commerce,-directs that when in any year,
on November 15th, the Secretary of Agriculture finds that the
total supply of tobacco, as of July 1st, exceeded the reserve supply level which is defined in the Act, he shall proclaim the total
supply and a national marketing quota shall be in effect throughout the marketing year which commences the following July 1st,
but not. if more than one-third of the producers of the crop of the
preceding year, at a referendum held by the Secretary, oppose
the imposition of such quota. The quota for any year is to be
first apportioned among the States, largely on the basis of past
production, and each state allotment is to be apportioned among
the farms largely on the basis of past production and marketing.
Each farmer is to be notified of his marketing quota, and if tobacco
in excess of the quota for any farm on which it was produced is
marketed through a warehouseman, the latter must pay to the
Secretary a penalty equal to fifty per cent. of the market price
of the excess and may deduct an amount equivalent to the penalty
from the price paid the producer. Held:
(1) The statute does not purport to control production, but
regulates commerce in tobacco through marketing. P. 47.
(2) Where marketing conditions are such that regulation as to
sales in interstate and foreign commerce can not be effective unless
extended to sales in intrastate commerce also, such extension of
regulation is constitutional. P. 47.
(3) In order to foster, protect and conserve interstate commerce,
or to prevent the flow of that commerce from working harm to the
people, the amount of a given commodity which may be transported in it may be limited. P. 48.
(4) The motive of Congress in asserting the power is irrelevant
to the validity of the legislation. P. 48.
(5) The provisions under review do not amount to unconstitutional delegation of the legislative power to the Secretary of
Agriculture. P. 48.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1938.
Statement of the Case.

307 U. S.

Definite standards are laid down in the Act to govern the Secretary, in fixing the quota and in its allotment amongst the States
and farms. He is directed to adjust allotments so as to allow for
specified factors which have abnormally affected the production of
the State or the farm in question in test years. Congress has indicated in detail the considerations to be held in view in making
these adjustments, and, in order to protect against arbitrary action,
has afforded both administrative and judicial review to correct
errors.
3. In its application to the marketing year 1938, the above mentioned
Act provided that the national marketing quota should be proclaimed within 15 days from February 16, 1938, the date of the
Act's approval. Subsequent steps were so far delayed that producers of flue-cured tobacco in Georgia and Florida, who had begun
preparations in the preceding December for their 1938 crops, and
at great expense had brought them to harvest, curing and grading,
were not notified of their quotas, which were below the quantities
produced, until a few days before the markets opened.
Held, that in being subjected to the statutory penalty on the
excess, they were not deprived of property without due process,
through retroactive operation of the statute. Pp. 49, 51.
The statute operated, not on production, but prospectively on
marketing, the activity regulated. It did not prevent any producer from holding over the excess of tobacco produced, or from
processing and storing it for sale in a later year; and the circumstance that the producers in Georgia and Florida had not provided
facilities for these purposes is not of legal significance.
24 F. Supp. 919, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of a three-judge District Court
which dismissed the bill in a suit brought by tobacco
farmers to enjoin warehousemen from deducting, and
remitting to the Secretary of Agriculture, the penalties
inflicted by the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 on
tobacco sold for the plaintiffs in excess of the quotas assigned to their respective farms. The suit was begun in
the Superior Court of Georgia. The defendants removed the case to the federal court. The United States
intervened, under the Act of August 24, 1937.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. J. Little, with whom Messrs. C. A. Avriett and
L. E. Heath were on the brief, for appellants.
Solicitor General Jackson and Mr. Robert K. McConnaughey, with whom Assistant Attorney General
Arnold, and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, Robert L. Stern, John
S. L. Yost, Mastin G. White, Robert H. Shields, and W.
Carroll Hunter were on the brief, for the United States
(intervening defendant), appellee.
Mr. Omer W. Franklin for Smith et al., appellees.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellants, producers of flue-cured tobacco, assert
that the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938,1 is unconstitutional as it affects their 1938 crop.
The portions of the statute involved are those included
in Title III, providing marketing quotas for flue-cured
tobacco.2 The Act directs that when the supply is found
to exceed the level defined in the Act as the "reserve supply level" a national marketing quota shall become effective which will permit enough flue-cured tobacco to be
marketed during the ensuing marketing year to maintain
the supply at the reserve supply level. The quota is to
be apportioned to the farms on which tobacco is grown.
Penalties are to be paid by tobacco auction warehousemen for marketing tobacco from a farm in excess of its
quota.
152

Stat. 31, as amended March 26, 1938, 52 Stat. 120, April 7,

1938, 52 Stat. 202, May 31, 1938, 52 Stat. 586, and June '0, 1938,
52 Stat. 775; U. S. C. Supp. IV, Title 7, §§ 1281, et seq.

Title III, Subtitle B, Marketing Quotas, Part I, marketing quotas-tobacco, §§ 311-314, inclusive. See also § 301, Definitions. §§ 361375, inclusive, administrative provisions; §§ 388 and 389 relating to
personnel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Section 311 is a finding by the Congress that the marketing of tobacco is a basic industry which directly affects
interstate and foreign commerce; that stable conditions
in such marketing are necessary to the general welfare;
that tobacco is sold on a national market and it and its
products move almost wholly in interstate and foreign
commerce; that without federal assistance the farmers
are unable to bring about orderly marketing, with the
consequence that abnormally excessive supplies are produced and dumped indiscriminately on the national market; that this disorderly marketing of excess supply burdens and obstructs interstate and foreign commerce,
causes reduction in prices and consequent injury to commerce, creates disparity between the prices of tobacco in
interstate and foreign commerce and the prices of industrial products in such commerce, and diminishes the volume of interstate commerce in industrial products; and
that the establishment of quotas as provided by the Act
is necessary and appropriate to promote, foster and obtain
an orderly flow of tobacco in interstate and foreign commerce.
There is no provision for continuous regulation of tobacco marketing, but, by § 312 (a), regulation becomes
effective in any year only if, on November 15th, the Secretary finds that the total supply of tobacco as of July 1st
exceeded the reserve supply level which is defined in the
Act
If he so finds, he shall, by December 1st, proclaim
the total supply and a national marketing quota shall be
in effect throughout the marketing year which commences
the following July 1st. The quota is to be the amount
which the Secretary finds will make available during the
ensuing marketing year a supply of tobacco equal to the
'The total supply, the carry-over for a marketing year, the reserve
supply level, the normal supply, a normal year's domestic consumption, and a normal year's exports, are defined in § 301.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

Opinion of the Court.

reserve supply level. As it was not passed until after
November 15, 1937, the Act provided, with respect to the
marketing year beginning July 1, 1938, for which the
quotas involved in this case were in effect, that the determination and proclamation of the national marketing
quota should be made within fifteen days after the statute's approval.'
Within thirty days after proclamation, the Secretary is
to conduct a referendum of the producers of the crop of
the preceding year to ascertain whether they favor or
oppose the imposition of a quota. If more than one-third
oppose, the Secretary is to proclaim the result before January 1st and the quota is not to be effective.5
By § 313 (a) it is directed that the quota is to be first
apportioned among the states based on the total quantity
of tobacco produced in each state during the five years
immediately preceding the year in question, plus the
normal production of any acreage diverted under any
agricultural adjustment and conservation program in any
of the years. The basic determination is to be adjusted
to correct state allotments, giving due consideration to
seed bed or other plant diseases, production trends, or
abnormal producing conditions which affected production in the several states during the five-year period, and
to make required provision for allotments to small farms.
A limit is set below which the quota of any state may not
be reduced.
The Act provides for the apportionment of the state
allotment amongst the farms which produced tobacco in
the current year or have produced previously in one or
more of the four preceding years. Apportionment to
'§ 312 (d).
'§ 312 (c). With respect to 1938 quotas, the proclamation of the
result of the referendum was to be made within forty-five days after

approval of the Act. § 312 (d).

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

44

Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

these farms is to be made on the basis of past marketing,
after due allowance for drought, flood, hail, and other abnormal weather conditions, plant bed and other diseases,
land, labor, and equipment available for the production
of tobacco, crop-rotation practices, and soil and other
physical factors affecting production. A limit is fixed
below which the adjustment may not reduce the production of a given farm. Allotment to new tobacco farms
is to be made on a slightly different basis.'
Apportionment of the quota amongst individual farms
is to be by local committees of farmers according to standards prescribed in the Act, amplified by regulations and
instructions issued by the Secretary. Each farmer is to
be notified of his marketing quota and the quotas of individual farms are to be kept available for public inspection in the county or district where the farm is located. If
the farmer is dissatisfied with his allotment he may have
his quota reviewed by a local review committee, and, if
dissatisfied with the determination of that committee,
he may obtain judicial review.
Section 314 provides that if tobacco in excess of the
quota for the farm on which the tobacco is produced is
marketed through a warehouseman, the latter must pay to
the Secretary a penalty equal to fifty per cent. of the
market price of the excess, and may deduct an amount
equivalent to the penalty from the price paid the
producer.'
O§§

313 (b) and 313 (c).

If the tobacco is marketed directly to a person outside the
United States, the producer is required to pay the penalty. If
the tobacco is sold by the grower directly to a purchaser without

intervention by the warehouseman or other agent, the buyer is required to pay the penalty, but may deduct an equivalent amount
from the purchase price. §§ 314, 372, 373. The penalty is to be
three cents per pound if that rate is higher than 50% of the market
price. § 314.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

Opinion of the Court.

Section 376 gives the United States a civil action for
the recovery of unpaid penalties.8
A few days before the 1938 auction sales were to take
place, the appellants, who produce flue-cured tobacco in
southern Georgia and northern Florida, filed a bill in
equity in a Georgia state court against local warehousemen to restrain them from deducting penalties under the
Act from the sales price of tobacco to be sold at their auction warehouses on behalf of appellants. The bill alleged
that the Act is unconstitutional; that it illegally commands the defendants to deduct penalties, pay them over
to the Secretary, who must cover them into the treasury
of the United States; that, if the defendants should make
the required payments, the amounts paid by them would
aggregate so large a sum that they would be unable to
satisfy judgments in actions brought to recover the illegal
payments. The court granted a preliminary injunction
and ordered the defendant warehousemen to pay the
amounts of the penalties into the registry of the court.
The cause was removed to the United States District
Court for the Middle District of Georgia. The District
Court continued the injunction, modified the order to
require the payments to be made into its registry, the
auction sales were held, and payments into the court were
made. The United States was permitted to intervene as
a defendant.' The warehousemen and the United States
filed answers. The cause was set down before a court
, The Secretary may make regulations necessary for identifying
tobacco subject to quotas, § 375; and requiring the keeping of
records and the making of reports. The Act imposes upon handlers
other than producers a fine of $500 upon conviction of failure to
make any report or keep any record, or for making any false report
or record. § 373 (a) and (b).
'Act of August 24, 1937, c. 754, § 1, 50 Stat. 751; U. S. C. Supp.
III, Tit. 28, § 401.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

consisting of three judges,"° which heard it on a stipulation of facts and entered a decree dismissing the
bill."
Before coming to the merits we inquire whether the
court below had jurisdiction as a federal court or as a
court of equity. Though no diversity of citizenship is
alleged, nor is any amount in controversy asserted so as to
confer jurisdiction under subsection (1)12 of § 24 of the
Judicial Code, the case falls within subsection (8)13 which
confers jurisdiction upon District Courts "of all suits and
proceedings arising under any law regulating commerce."
Maintenance of the bill for injunction is not forbidden
by R. S. 3224,14 which applies only to a suit to restrain assessment or collection of a tax. Under the averments of
the bill the defendant warehousemen would be wrongdoers
if they deducted and paid over the prescribed penalties,
but no action at law would be adequate to redress the
damage thus inflicted. It appears that the total of the
penalties involved in this suit is some $374,000. The allegation that the warehousemen would be unable to respond in actions for sums aggregating this amount has,
therefore, reasonable basis. Before any such action could
be initiated the penal sum would have been paid to the
Secretary of Agriculture and by him to the Treasurer of
the United States and covered into the general funds of
the Treasury. No action could be maintained against the
warehousemen or either of these officials for disposing of
the penal sums in accordance with the terms of the Act
unless prior notice not to do so had been served upon each
of them. In the light of the fact that the appellants received notice of their quotas only a few days before the
Ibid, U. S. C. Supp. III, Tit. 28, § 380 (a).
"24 F. Supp. 919.
'RU. S. C. Tit. 28, § 41 (1).
"U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 41 (8).
U. S. C. Tit. 26, § 1543.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

Opinion of the Court.

actual marketing season opened, the maintenance of actions based upon collection of the penalties would have
been a practical impossibility. We are of opinion, therefore, that a case is stated for the interposition of a court
of equity.
The appellants plant themselves upon three propositions: (1) that the Act is a statutory plan to control
agricultural production and, therefore, beyond the powers
delegated to Congress; (2) that the standard for calculating farm quotas is uncertain, vague, and indefinite, resulting in an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power
to the Secretary; (3) that, as applied to appellants' 1938
crop, the Act takes their property without due process
of law.
First. The statute does not purport to control production. It sets no limit upon the acreage which may be
planted or produced and imposes no penalty for the planting and producing of tobacco in excess of the marketing
quota. It purports to be solely a regulation of interstate commerce, which it reaches and affects at the throat
where tobacco enters the stream of commerce,-the marketing warehouse." The record discloses that at least
two-thirds of all flue-cured tobacco sold at auction warehouses is sold for immediate shipment to an interstate
or foreign destination. In Georgia nearly one hundred
per cent. of the tobacco so sold is purchased by extrastate purchasers. In markets where tobacco is sold to
both interstate and intrastate purchasers it is not known,
when the grower places his tobacco on the warehouse
floor for sale, whether it is destined for interstate or intrastate commerce. Regulation to be effective, must, and
therefore may constitutionally, apply to all sales." This
15Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1; compare Townsend v. Yeomans,
301 U. S. 441.
" The Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; The Shreveport Case,
234 U. S. 342; Currin v. Wallace, supra.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

court has recently declared that sales of tobacco by growers through warehousemen to purchasers for removal
outside the state constitute interstate commerce.17 Any
rule, such as that embodied in the Act, which is intended
to foster, protect and conserve that commerce, or to
prevent the flow of commerce from working harm to the
people of the nation, is within the competence of Congress. Within these limits the exercise of the power, the
grant being unlimited in its terms, may lawfully extend
to the absolute prohibition of such commerce,18 and a
fortiori to limitation of the amount of a given commodity
which may be transported in such commerce. The motive of Congress in exerting the power is irrelevant to the
validity of the legislation.1 9
The provisions of the Act under review constitute a
regulation of interstate and foreign commerce within the
competency of Congress under the power delegated to it
by the Constitution.
Second. The appellants urge that the standard for allotting farm quotas is so uncertain, vague, and indefinite
that it amounts to a delegation of legislative power to
an executive officer and thus violates the Constitutional
requirement that laws shall be enacted by the Congress.
What has been said in summarizing the provisions of
the Act sufficiently discloses that definite standards are
laid down for the government of the Secretary, first, in
fixing the quota and, second, in its allotment amongst
states and farms. He is directed to adjust the allot"Currin v. Wallace, supra; and see Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 290; Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S.
189, 198. Compare Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50.
Champion v. Ames, 188 U. S. 321; Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; Brooks
v. United States, 267 U. S. 432; Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S.124.
1

Story, Commentaries on the Constitution (4th Ed.), §§ 965,

1079, 1081, 1089.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

Opinion of the Court.

ments so as to allow for specified factors which have
abnormally affected the production of the state or the
farm in question in the test years. Certainly fairness
requires that some such adjustment shall be made. The
Congress has indicated in detail the considerations which
are to be held in view in making these adjustments, and,
in order to protect against arbitrary action, has afforded
both administrative and judicial review to correct
errors. This is not to confer unrestrained arbitrary power
on an executive officer. In this aspect the Act is valid
within the decisions of this court respecting delegation
to administrative officers."0
Third. In support of their contention that the Act, as
applied to the crop year 1938, deprives them of their
property without due process of law in violation of the
Fifth Amendment, the appellants rely on the following
undisputed facts.
Tobacco growers in southern Georgia and northern
Floridabegan to arrange for the planting of their 1938
crop in December, 1937, when it was necessary for them
to prepare beds for the planting of the seeds. Thereafter it was necessary to cultivate the seed beds, sow and
water the seed, cover the beds with cloth, and otherwise
care for the plants until they were large enough to be
transplanted. At the date of approval of the Act each
of the plaintiffs had planted his seed beds and, about
the middle of March, began transplanting into the fields,
which were prepared and fertilized at large expense.
The plants were thereafter cultivated and sprayed, and
harvesting began during June and continued during July,
followed by the curing and grading of the tobacco.
'United States v. Grimaud, 220 U. S. 506; Avent v. United
States, 266 U. S. 127; Hampton & Co. v. United States, 276 U. S.
394; New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S.
12; Currin v. Wallace, supra.
1612903 °

--

4

50

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

All of these activities involved labor and expense.
The production of flue-cured tobacco requires, at prevailing price levels, a cash outlay of between thirty and
forty dollars per acre for fertilizer, plant bed covering,
twine, poison, etc. The use of animals and permanent
and semi-permanent equipment demands an average expenditure, over a period of years, ranging from twenty to
thirty dollars an acre. The labor expended per acre is
between three hundred and four hundred man-hours.
The total cost per pound varies from ten cents to twenty
cents.
The marketing season for flue-cured tobacco in Georgia
and Florida commences about August 1st of each year.
Each of the appellants was notified of the quota of his
farm shortly before the opening of the auction markets.
Prior to the receipt of notice each of them had largely,
if not wholly, completed planting, cultivating, harvesting,
curing and grading his tobacco. Until receipt of notice
none knew, or could have known, the exact amount of his
quota, although, at the time of filing the bill, each had
concluded from available information that he would
probably market tobacco in excess of any quota for his
farm.
The Act was approved February 16, 1938. The Secretary proclaimed a quota for flue-cured tobacco on February 18th and, on the same date, issued instructions for
holding a referendum on March 12th. March 25th the
Secretary proclaimed the result of the referendum which
was favorable to the imposition of a national marketing
quota. In June he issued regulations governing the fixing of farm quotas within the states. July 22nd he determined the apportionment as between states and issued
regulations relative, to the records to be kept by warehousemen and others. Shortly before the markets opened
each appellant received notice of the allotment to his
farm.

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

On the basis of these facts it is argued that the statute
operated retroactively and therefore amounted to a taking of appellants' property without due process. The argument overlooks the circumstance that the statute operates not on farm production, as the appellants insist, but
upon the marketing of their tobacco in interstate commerce. The law, enacted in February, affected the marketing which was to take place about August 1st following, and so was prospective in its operation upon the activity it regulated. The Act did not prevent any producer from holding over the excess tobacco produced, or
processing and storing it for sale in a later year; and the
circumstance that the producers in Georgia and Florida
had not provided facilities for these purposes is not of
legal significance.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissenting.

Plaintiffs are farmers in Georgia and on their farms
raise tobacco. They sell it in the market year when produced because, in their circumstances, they are unable to
process and make it fit to be held for sale in a later year.
The sales axe at auction markets, through defendants who
are Georgia warehousemen, to purchasers intending to
take the tobacco outside the State. The Secretary of Agriculture, assuming to be empowered by the Agricultural
Adjustment Act of 1938, undertook to prescribe the
amount of flue-cured tobacco to be raised in 1938 in the
United States, in each State, and on each farm. He
failed to let plaintiffs know the quotas respectively assigned to them until after their crops had matured and
were ready for marketing. Each raised more than the assigned quota.
The Act declares that, if more than the amount fixed
for a farm is marketed, the warehouseman shall pay to

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

the Secretary a penalty equal to one-half the price of the
excess, but it authorizes him to retain that amount from
the farmer raising and bringing it to market for sale. If,
without resort to a warehouseman, the farmer sells directly to one in this country, the purchaser is required to
pay the penalty but is authorized to take the amount
from the purchase price. If the farmer sells directly to
one outside the United States he is required to pay the
penalty to the Secretary. Thus, in any event, the penalty
is effectively laid upon the farmer. Enforcement of the
Act will compulsorily take from plaintiffs an amount of
money equal to one-half of the market value of all tobacco raised and sold by them in excess of the prescribed
quotas.
In United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, we held the
federal government without power to control farm production. We condemned the statutory plan there sought
to be enforced as repugnant to the Tenth Amendment.
That scheme was devised and put in effect under the
guise of exertion of power to tax. We held it to be in
excess of .the powers delegated to the federal government; found the tax, the appropriation of the money
raised, and the directions for its disbursement, to be but
the means to an unconstitutional end; showed that the
Constitution confers no power to regulate production
and that therefore legislation for that purpose is forbidden; emphasized the principle established by earlier decisions that a prohibited end may not be attained under
pretext of exertion of powers which are granted; and
finally we declared that, if Congress may use its power
to tax and to spend compulsorily to regulate subjects
within the reserved power of the States, that power
"would become the instrument for total subversion of
the governmental powers reserved to the individual
States."

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

BuTLER, J., dissenting.

After failure of that measure, Congress, assuming
power under the commerce clause, enacted the provisions
authorizing the quotas and penalties the validity of which
is questioned in this case. Plaintiffs contend that the
Act is a plan to control agricultural production and therefore beyond the powers delegated to Congress. The
Court impliedly concedes that such a plan would be beyond congressional power, but says that the provisions
do not purport to control production, set no limit upon
the acreage which may be planted or produced and impose no penalty upon planting and production in excess of marketing quota. Mere inspection of the statute and Secretary's regulations unmistakably discloses
purpose to raise price by lessening production. Whatever may be its declared policy or appearance, the enactment operates to control quantity raised by each
farmer. It is wholly fallacious to say that the penalty is
not imposed upon production. The farmer raises tobacco only for sale. Punishment for selling is the exact
equivalent of punishment for raising the tobacco. The
Act is therefore invalid. United States v. Butler, 297
U. S. 1. Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251. See
Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, 438; Kentucky
Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois Central R. Co., 299 U. S.
334, 350. Cf. Retirement Board v. Alton R. Co., 295
U. S. 330, 362, et seq.
Assuming that, under Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1,
plaintiffs' sales in interstate commerce at defendants'
auction markets are to be deemed subject to federal
power under the commerce clause, the Court now rules
that, within suggested limits so vague as to be unascertainable, the exercise of power under that clause, "the
grant being unlimited in its terms, may lawfully extend
to the absolute prohibition of such commerce and a fortiori to limitation of the amount of a given commodity
which may be transported in such commerce."

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BULER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

That ruling is contrary alike to reason and precedent.
To support it, the Court merely cites the following
cases:
The Lottery Case, (Champion v. Ames) 188 U. S. 321,
held that an Act of Congress prohibiting transportation
of lottery tickets in interstate commerce is not inconsistent with any limitation or restriction imposed upon exercise of the powers granted to Congress. After demonstrating the illicit character of lottery tickets, the Court
said (p. 357): "We should hesitate long before adjudging
that an evil of such appalling character, carried on
through interstate commerce, cannot be met and crushed
by the only power competent to that end. . . . [p. 358]
It is a kind of traffic which no one can be entitled to
pursue as of right."
Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States, 220 U. S. 45, held
within federal power the provisions of the Food and Drug
Act forbidding transportation in interstate commerce of
food "debased by adulteration" and authorizing articles
so transported to be seized as contraband.
Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308, sustained congressional prohibition of interstate transportation of
women for immoral purposes.
Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, upheld a statute of the United States making it a crime to transport a
stolen automobile in interstate commerce.
Gooch v. United States, 297 U. S. 124, construed an
Act of Congress making it a crime to transport a kidnapped person in interstate commerce.
Plainly these cases give no support to the view that
Congress has power generally to prohibit or limit, as it
may choose, transportation in interstate commerce of
corn, cotton, rice, tobacco, or wheat. Our decisions
establish the contrary:
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, upheld an Act regulating hours of service of employees of interstate carriers

MULFORD v. SMITH.
38

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

by rail. The Court, following the teaching of earlier decisions, said (p. 346): "The extent of regulation depends
on the nature and character of the subject and what is
appropriate to its regulation. The powers possessed by
government to deal with a subject are neither inordinately enlarged or greatly dwarfed because the power
to regulate interstate commerce applies. This is illustrated by the difference between the much greater power
of regulation which may be exerted as to liquor and that
which may be exercised as to flour, drygoods and other
commodities. It is shown by the settled doctrine sustaining the right by regulation absolutely to prohibit lottery tickets and by the obvious consideration that such
right to prohibit could not be applied to pig iron, steel
rails, or most of the vast body of commodities."
Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, held repugnant
to the commerce clause and to the Tenth Amendment an
Act prohibiting transportation in interstate commerce
of articles made at factories in which child labor was employed. The Court said (p. 269): "In other words, the
power [granted by the commerce clause] is one to control the means by which commerce is carried on, which
is directly the contrary of the assumed right to forbid
commerce from moving and thus destroy it as to particular commodities. But it is insisted that the adjudged
cases in this court establish the doctrine that the power
to regulate given to Congress incidentally includes the
authority to prohibit the movement of ordinary commodities and therefore that the subject is not open for
discussion. The cases demonstrate the contrary. They
rest upon the character of the particular subjects dealt
with and the fact that the scope of governmental authority, state or national, possessed over them is such that
the authority to prohibit is as to them but the exertion
of the power to regulate. . . . [p. 276] In our view the
necessary effect of this act is, by means of a prohibition

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Bumna, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

against the movement in interstate commerce of ordinary
commercial commodities, to regulate the hours of labor
of children in factories and mines within the States, a
purely state authority. Thus the act in a twofold sense
is repugnant to the Constitution. It not only transcends
the authority delegated to Congress over commerce but
also exerts a power as to a purely local matter to which
the federal authority does not extend. The far reaching
result of upholding the act cannot be more plainly indicated than by pointing out that if Congress can thus regulate matters entrusted to local authority by prohibition
of the movement of commodities in interstate commerce,
all freedom of commerce will be at an end, and the power
of the States over local matters may be eliminated, and
thus our system of government be practically destroyed."
Heretofore,. in cases involving the power of Congress to
forbid or condition transportation in interstate commerce,
this Court has been careful to determine whether, in view
of the nature and character of the subject, the measure
could be sustained as an appropriate regulation of commerce.* If Congress had the absolute power now attributed to it by the decision just announced, the opinions
in these cases were unnecessary and utterly beside the
mark.
For reasons above suggested, I am of opinion:
The penalty is laid on the farmer to prevent production
in excess of his quota. It is therefore invalid.
*Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321, 355 et seq. United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 415. Hipolite Egg Co. v. United
States, 220 U. S. 45, 57-58. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308,
321-323. Seven Cases v. United States, 239 U. S. 510, 514. Caminetti
v. United States, 242 U. S. 470, 491-492. Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247
U. S. 251, 270 et seq. Brooks v. United States, 267 U. S. 432, 436-438.
See Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 346. Cf. Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Md. Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 325. United States v. Hill,
248 U. S.420. Kentucky Whip & Collar Co. v. Illinois CentralR. Co.,
299 U. S.334, 346 et seq.

U. S. TRUST CO. v. HELVERING.

57

Statement of the Case.

38

If the penalty is imposed for marketing in interstate
commerce, it is a regulation not authorized by the commerce clause.
To impose penalties for marketing in excess of quotas
not disclosed before planting and cultivation is to deprive
plaintiffs of their liberty and property without due process
of law.
The judgment of the district court should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 453.

Argued March 3, 1939.-Decided April 17, 1939.

1. An estate tax is not a tax upon the property of which an estate
is composed, but is an excise upon the transfer of or shifting in
relationships to property at death. P. 60.
2. The proceeds of a War Risk Insurance policy payable to a deceased veteran's widow were properly included in his gross estate
for the purpose of computing the federal estate tax. Revenue Act
of 1926, § 302 (g), as amended. P. 60.
3. Section 22 of the World War Veterans' Act, 1924, providing that
such insurance "shall be exempt from all taxation," does not
prevent. P. 59.
4. No provision of the Government's contract with an insured veteran is impaired in violation of the Fifth Amendment by the inclusion in his gross estate of proceeds of a War Risk Insurance
policy for the purpose of computing the federal estate tax. P. 60.
98 F. 2d 734, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 591, to review the affirmance of
a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining a determination of a deficiency in federal estate tax.

