OCTOBER TERM, 1938.

214

Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES v. POWERS

307 U. S.
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 687. Argued April 21, 1939.-Decided May 15, 1939.
1. Whether an offense' against a temporary Act may be punished
after the Act has expired depends upon the legislative purpose.
P. 216.
2. An Act of Congress, designed to protect interstate and foreign
commerce from "contraband" oil and to encourage oil conservation
and containing administrative and punitive provisions for its effectuation, provided that it should "cease to be in effect on June 16,
1937." It was amended June 14, 1937 by an Act which declared
its purpose to continue the earlier Act until June 30, 1939 and
which merely changed the date of expiration accordingly.
Held, a clear indication of purpose to treat the entire Act as
if by its original terms it was to expire on the day to which it
was so extended; and that violations of the Act committed prior
to the original date of expiration were indictable thereafter. P. 217.
3. Article I, § 9, cl. 3 of the Federal Constitution, proscribing ex
post facto laws, does not bar such prosecution. P. 218.
4. A statute susceptible of more than one interpretation should be
given that which will make it effective. P. 217.
Reversed.
APPEAL

under the Criminal Appeals Act and § 238 Jud.

Code, from a judgment sustaining demurrers to an indictment and motions to quash it.
Mr. Charles A. Horsky, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General McMahon, and
Messrs. William W. Barron, Amos W. W. Woodcock,
George F. Kneip, and Douglas W. McGregor were on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. John D. Cofer, with whom Messrs. Elbert Hooper,
Myran G. Blalock, Jack Blalock, Clarence Lohman, and
Robert E. Cofer were on the brief, for appellees.

UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
214

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an appeal, under the Criminal Appeals Act of
March 2,1907, 18 U. S. C. § 682, and § 238 of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 345, from a judgment of a district
court sustaining demurrers and motions of the appellees
to quash an indictment.
The indictment, filed September 17, 1938, charges appellees with violations of the Connally (Hot Oil) Act of
February 22, 1935, as amended, 15 U. S. C. § 715 et seq.,
and with conspiracy to violate such Act, 18 U. S. C. § 88.
The various substantive counts charge that appellees, in
violation of the Act, as amended, transported in interstate commerce from the Conroe Oil Field in Montgomery
County, State of Texas, to Marcus Hook, Pa. certain
petroleum products in excess of the amounts permitted
to be produced, transported, and withdrawn from storage
under the laws of Texas and the regulations and orders
prescribed by the Railroad Commission of Texas. These
transportations are alleged to,have been made on various
dates from November 4, 1935, to March 20, 1936. The
conspiracy count charges a conspiracy by appellees to
violate the Act, as amended, by producing, transporting,
and withdrawing from storage petroleum in excess of the
amounts permitted to be produced, transported, and withdrawn from storage under the laws of Texas and the regulations and orders promulgated thereunder. These transportations are alleged to have been made between the
same places alleged in the substantive counts, on various
dates from on or about September 4, 1935, to on or about
March 15, 1937.
Sec. 13 of the Act of February 22, 1935, provided that
"This Act shall cease to be in effect on June 16, 1937."
This section was amended by the Act of June 14, 1937,

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

"by striking out 'June 16, 1937' and inserting in lieu
thereof 'June 30, 1939'." No other amendments to the
Act were made.
The single question before us is whether violations of
this Act alleged to have been committed prior to June 16,
1937, may be prosecuted under an indictment returned
subsequent thereto. The district court by sustaining the
demurrers and motions to quash answered that question
in the negative. We think it erred.
The Congress alone may declare whether those who,
before June 16, 1937, violated the Act may be prosecuted
thereafter. The question is one of the purpose of Congress. Explicit provisions in the amendment preserving
the right of prosecution after the date originally set for
expiry of the Act would have made that purpose clear
beyond question. But the surrounding circumstances
here make this purpose as clear and as unequivocal as an
explicit provision. This is an Act designed to protect
interstate and foreign commerce from the diversion and
obstruction of, and the burden and harmful effect upon,
such commerce caused by contraband oil, (as defined in
the Act) and to encourage the conservation of deposits of
crude oil within the United States. Administrative machinery is provided for the control of shipment or transportation of contraband oil in interstate commerce. §§ 4,
5 and 9. Such shipment or transportation is prohibited,
unless on appropriate findings the President, by proclamation, lifts the prohibition. §§ 3 and 4. Penalties are
provided for violations of the Act or any regulations
prescribed thereunder. §§ 6 and 7. And § 10 implements
the Act with civil and criminal procedures to enforce its
sanctions. The Act is thus a self-sustained and organic
whole, equipped to effectuate a declared policy of the
Congress. By its original terms it would have expired
June 16, 1937. But it never expired, for on June 14, 1937,

UNITED STATES v. POWERS.
214

Opinion of the Court.

the whole Act was continued in effect until June 30, 1939.
Its substantive phases were not altered one whit or tittle;
its sanctions were neither reduced nor increased. Precisely the same acts continue to be prohibited after the
amendment as before. The amendment merely perpetuated the entire Act for another term.
In view of these circumstances, it seems clear beyond
question that it was the purpose of Congress, expressed
in the amendment of June 14, 1937, to treat this Act
precisely in the same way as if by its original terms it
was to expire on June 30, 1939. Due to the amendment,
the Act has never ceased to be in effect. No new law
was created; no old one was repealed. Without hiatus
of any kind, the original Act was given extended life.
There was no First Connally Act followed by a Second
Connally Act. During the periods in question there was
but one Act. No evidence has been brought to our attention, and we have found none, that Congress proposed
to waive or to pardon violations which occurred prior to
June 16, 1937, but which were not prosecuted until subsequent thereto.
There is a secondary consideration which points to
the same conclusion. If the appellees are right in their
contention, a temporary act such as this one would lose,
as a practical riatter, some of its sanctions. Violations
could occur with impunity months before its expiry, for
in practice there frequently is an unavoidably substantial
lag between violation and prosecution. The statute
should not be so construed if another interpretation will
make it effective. As this Court said in Bird v. United
States, 187 U. S. 118, 124, "There is a presumption
against a construction which would render a statute ineffective or inefficient or which would cause grave public
injury or even inconvenience." We are unwilling to conclude that although the same acts continue to be prohib-

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ited after June 16, 1937, as before, violations committed
prior to that date are not punishable thereafter.
In view of this conclusion, we do not reach the nub
of appellees' argument based on Chief Justice Marshall's
statement in The Irresistible, 7 Wheat. 551, 552 "that
an offense against a temporary act cannot be punished
after the expiration of the act, unless a particular provision be made by law for the purpose." For in this case,
as we have said, the Act of February 22, 1935, did not
expire on June 16, 1937.
But even if we assume the validity of that statement, it
seems to us clear that though the Act be treated as having expired or terminated on June 16, 1937, the result is
the same. For in this case "particular provision" has
been made "by law for the purpose" of extending the
enforcement machinery with reference to prior criminal
violations. The "particular provision" was the amendment of June 14, 1937, extending the effective period of
the Act. That amendment was passed prior to the original expiration date. When read in light of the title of
the amendatory statute, viz. "An Act to continue in
effect until June 30, 1939, the Act . . . approved February 22, 1935," the statement of purpose becomes plain
and unambiguous. If the amendment of June 14, 1937,
had merely "extended" the duration, or postponed the
expiration, of § 10 of the Act dealing wilh criminal penalties, "particular provision" for subsequent prosecutions
would have been indubitably clear. The fact that all
sections, including § 10, were extended makes it nonetheless plain. The whole, though larger than any of its
parts, does not necessarily obscure their separate
identities.
In view of these various considerations, we hold that
this prosecution does not offend the prohibition in Article
I, § 9, cl. 3 of the Constitution against ex post facto
laws.
Judgment reversed.

