350

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

(Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227), declared

Miss Elg "to be a natural born citizen of the United
States," and we think that the decree should include the
Secretary of State as well as the other defendants. The
decree in that sense would in no way interfere with the
exercise of the Secretary's discretion with respect to the
issue of a passport but would simply preclude the denial
of a passport on the sole ground that Miss Elg had lost
her American citizenship.
The decree will be modified accordingly so as to strike
out that portion which dismisses the bill of complaint as
to the Secretary of State, and so as to include him in the
declaratory provision of the decree, and as so modified
the decree is affirmed.
Modified and affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.

TOLEDO PRESSED STEEL CO. v. STANDARD
PARTS, INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 166. Argued March 1, 1939.-Decided May 29, 1939.
1. Patent No. 1,732,708, Claims 1, 2, 5-7, 11-13, to Withrow and
Close, relating to a burner for outdoor warning signals, diminishing liability of flame extinguishment by wind and rain, held
invalid for want of invention. P. 356.
2. Aggregation of two old devices, productive of no new joint function, is not invention. P. 356.
* Together with No. 167, Toledo Pressed Steel Co. v. Huebner
Supply Co., also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit; and No. 603, Montgomery Ward & Co. v.
Toledo Pressed Steel Co., on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Second circuit.

TOLEDO CO. v. STANDARD PARTS.
350

Opinion of the Court.

3. Evidence of unsuccessful efforts upon the part of a few others,
not familiar with the prior art, to attain the result achieved by
the patented device; of acceptance of licenses by manufacturers
not shown to have made wide or successful use of it; and evidence
of its utility and commercial success,-held insufficient to establish
novelty in this case. P. 356.
93 F. 2d 336, affirmed.
99 F. 2d 806, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 305 U. S. 667; 306 id. 623, to review three
decrees in infringement suits. In the first two suits,
which involved the same claims, relief was denied by the
court below. In the third suit, which involved some of
those claims and some others in addition, relief was
granted.
Messrs. Samuel E. Darby, Jr. and Wilber Owen for
petitioner in Nos. 166 and 167 and respondent in No. 603.
Mr. Carl V. Wisner, with whom Messrs. Anthony
William Deller and Carl V. Wisner, Jr. were on the brief,
for petitioner in No. 603.
Mr. W. P. Bair, with whom Mr. Will Freeman was on
the brief, for respondents in Nos. 166 and 167.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are patent infringement suits brought by the
Toledo Pressed Steel Company, owner of Withrow and
Close Patent No. 1,732,708, issued October 22, 1929, for
a burner for use in outdoor warning signals such as construction torches and truck flares. The first two suits
were brought in the federal court for the northern district
of Ohio. It filed an opinion indicating the facts that it
deemed established by the evidence and without formal
findings held the patent valid and infringed by the Bolser
and Kari-Keen flares respectively sold by the defendants.
The circuit court of appeals for the sixth circuit held the

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

patent invalid for want of invention and reversed. 93
F. 2d 336. The other suit was brought in the federal
court for the eastern district' of New York. It made
findings as required by Rule 701/2, held plaintiff's patent
invalid, and dismissed the bill. The circuit court of appeals for the second circuit held the patent valid and
infringed by the Anthes flare sold by the defendant, and
reversed. 99 F. 2d 806.
In the interest of plaintiff, seeking to uphold the patent
prima facie valid, and of the public, liable to exclusion
from manufacture, use, or sale in virtue of the right it
purports to confer, final adjudication as to validity is of
primary importance. The patent in suit relates to torches
for guarding street obstructions and to flares, which are
large torches, for warning that vehicles are stopped on the
road.
Formerly, red lanterns were much used. But, after
general use of automobiles having red tail lights to some
extent resembling them, they did not serve so satisfactorily as before. Open-flame torches came to be extensively employed. The motion of the luminescent flame
distinguishes them from other signals. But there were
complaints that they were sometimes extinguished by
wind or rain.
Open-flame torches in use for some years before patentees' claimed invention, included those which, were
bomb-shaped, flat-bottomed, weighted for stability, and
with an opening in the top for a wick. That type was
well known, at least after the patent covering it,
McCloskey No. 1,610,301, was issued December 14, 1926;
in 1929 it was held invalid by the circuit court of appeals
for the sixth circuit for lack of invention and because anticipated. McCloskey v. Toledo Pressed Steel Co., 30 F.
2d 12. Plaintiff had a large business in the manufacture
and sale of torches, including the McCloskey type. It
advertised that they would burn in all kinds of weather;

TOLEDO CO. v. STANDARD PARTS.
350

Opinion of the Court.

having received many complaints of extinguishment by
wind and rain, patentees, respectively plaintiff's president
and vice president, set about producing something to
make them dependable and to serve as represented.
Within a year, but after experiments, trials, and failures,
they brought forward the patented device.
The specification states that the claimed invention particularly relates to devices to increase efficiency and to
prevent flame extinguishment. It declares that the objects of the invention are to provide a simple attachment
to attain those ends and a burner so constructed that liability of extinguishment by wind or rain will be reduced
to a minimum. It further says that with the described
construction and arrangement consumption of oil and
wick is materially decreased.
The claims involved are printed in the margin.' Considered together, unobscured by artificiality in their state1 In

all the cases, claims 2, 5, 11 and 12 are involved. In Nos. 166

and 167, claim 13 is also involved. In No. 167, claims 1, 6 and 7
are also involved.
"1. In a device of the class described, a torch body having an opening at its upper end, a wick-receiving tube extending into said opening, and a cap disposed on the outer side of said torch body to enclose
the outer end of the wick, said cap having an imperforate upper
wall, lateral flame openings, and air openings below the flame
openings.
"2. In a device of the class described, a torch body having an
opening for a wick, and a flame guard for said wick mounted on the
outside of said torch body, said guard including a cap provided with
an imperforate top wall and lateral flame openings adapted to emit
a luminescent flame, and air ports.
"5. In a device of the class described, a construction torch having
an opening in its upper end for a wick, means to hold the wick in
place, and a guard fitting over the outer end of the wick but spaced
from the sides thereof, said guard having an imperforate top wall
and side flame and air openings.
"6. In a device of the class described, a torch body having a wickopening, a tube for receiving the wick and adapted to extend inside
of the torch body, an outwardly extending flange in the region of said
161299°-39-

23

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

ment, it fairly may be said that they show that all that
the patentees did was to put over the wick of a torch,
well known in the art, an inverted metal cuplike cap having holes in its sides, some to let in air for combustion and
others to let out flame. The cap was also well known and
had been used as a part of other devices for the protection
of kerosene and other flames.
A number of devices patented earlier than plaintiff's
included the elements essential to its burner.
Billingham Patent, No. 191,031, issued August 15, 1876,
related to torches for lighting street-lamps. It shows a
wick-opening, and a cap connected to said flange and having an
imperforate top wall, said cap having a flame opening adjacent its
outer end and an air port beneath said flame opening.
"7. In a device of the class described, a torch body having a wickopening, a cap for enclosing the outer end of the wick but spaced
from the sides thereof, an imperforate end wall for said cap, said cap
having a series of flame openings and a series of air ports beneath
the flame openings, and a disc adapted to embrace the wick and
having a flanged upper portion disposed in the region of said air ports.
"11. A burner for a construction torch adapted to emit a luminescent flame and comprising a wick holder having a portion in contact with the wick and a supporting and heat-receiving flange, and
means enclosing a space above said flange and surrounding the wick,
except for provision for lateral exit of flame and restricted entrance
of air for combustion.
"12. A burner for a construction torch adapted to emit a luminescent flame and comprising a wick holder having a portion in contact with the wick and a lateral flange, and a cap enclosing and spaced
from the end of the wick and having an imperforate top and provision for lateral exit of flame and entrance of air, and the bottom of
the cap being in heat conducting relation to said flange.
"13. A burner for a construction torch adapted to emit a luminescent flame and comprising a wick holder having a portion in contact with the wick and a laterally extending flange and a cap over
the wick, the cap having an imperforate, dome-shaped top wall, a
lateral flame opening approximately even with the top of the wick
and a smaller opening for the inlet of air lower than the flame opening
and above the lower edge of the cap, said lower edge being in heattransferring relation to said flange."

TOLEDO CO. v. STANDARD PARTS.
350

355

Opinion of the Court.

wick-type torch with a tube-like cap having holes, some
to let in air, and others to let the flame come out. This
cap, imperforate at the top, serves to prevent extinguishment of the flame by wind or rain. Almond Patent, No.
193,796, issued August 7, 1877, related to vapor burners
for heating. The device, some parts detached, serves as
an illuminating lamp consisting of a body, a wick holder,
a cap, a flange having a rim supporting a tube closed at
the top. Holes are in the rim to admit air; larger ones
in the tube are to let the flames out. Rutz Patent, No.
1,101,146, issued June 23, 1914, covers a flash igniter for
gas stove burners. It has a cap to guard the flame and
adapted to emit flames extending from the igniter to the
gas burners to be lighted. This cap, like plaintiff's, has
a supporting and heat receiving flange, a means to enclose
the space above the flange and a restricted entrance to
admit air for combustion. The record shows that the
Rutz hood has been used to achieve the identical results
attained by plaintiff's device.
There are other patents, issued before patentees developed the structure in suit, that may be referred to as relevant to the issue of invention in this case. Examples of
these are cited in the margin.2
The torch body was old in the art to which it belonged.
The cap, as part of devices used in other fields, was old
and useful to prevent extinguishment of flames by wind
or rain and to permit flames to extend through holes to
the open air. The problem patentees set for themselves
was to prevent extinguishment while preserving usefulness of the flames as warning signals. They solved it by
merely bringing together the torch and cap. As before,
the torch continued to produce a luminescent, undulating
flame, and the cap continued to let in air for combustion,
' Blake Patent, No. 453,335, June 2, 1891.

Heston Patent, No.

270,587, January 16, 1883. Reekie Patent, No. 192,130, June 19, 1877.
Kahn Patent, No. 1,175,527, March 14, 1916.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

to protect the flame from wind and rain and to allow it
to emerge as a warning signal. They performed no joint
function. Each served as separately it had done. The
patented device results from mere aggregation of two old
devices, and not from invention or discovery. Hailes v.
Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353, 368. Reckendorfer v. Faber,
92 U. S. 347, 357. Lincoln Co. v. Stewart-Warner Corp.,
303 U. S. 545, 549-50. On the records before us, it is
impossible to hold that production of the patented device
required more than mechanical skill and originality attributable to those familiar with the art of protecting
flames of kerosene and other burners. Altoona Theatres
v. Tri-Ergon Corp., 294 U. S. 477, 486; Powers-Kennedy
Co. v. Concrete Co., 282 U. S. 175, 186; Concrete Appliances Co. v. Gomery, 269 U. S. 177, 184, 185; Hollister
v. Benedict & Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S. 59, 72-73.
As evidence in its favor on the question of invention,
plaintiff cites efforts to find something useful to protect
open-flame torches from extinguishment by wind or rain
put forth by one engaged in operation of a street railway
and by another employed by a manufacturer of lanterns.
But it does not appear that either was familiar with the
relevant prior art. Nor is there any evidence of general
or widespread effort to solve the problem here involved.
There is nothing that tends to raise what patentees did
to the realm of invention. See Paramount Corp. v. TriErgon Corp., 294 U. S. 464, 476. Plaintiff also brings
forward the fact that some manufacturers, including three
substantial ones, have taken licenses under its patent. It
does not appear that these licensees have made wide or
successful use of the device. Lack of novelty being clearly
shown, acceptance of license under the circumstances of
this case, is without weight. Thropp's Sons Co. v. Seiberling, 264 U. S. 320, 330. John T. Riddell v. Athletic Shoe
Co., 75 F. 2d 93, 95. And similarly without significance
on the question of novelty is the fact that, as plaintiff

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
Syllabus.

350

claims, utility resulted and commercial success followed
from what patentees did. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
v. U. S. Rubber Co., 79 F. 2d 948, 954.
It results that the decrees in Nos. 166 and 167 must be
affirmed, and that in No. 603 must be reversed.
Nos. 166 and 167, affirmed.
No. 603, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

CURRY, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER OF ALABAMA, ET AL. v. McCANLESS, COMMISSIONER
OF FINANCE AND TAXATION OF TENNESSEE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 339.

Argued January 9, 1939. Reargued April 28, 1939.Decided May 29, 1939.

1. Decedent, domiciled in Tennessee, transferred to a trustee in Alabama certain stocks and bonds on specific trusts.

The net in-

come was to be paid to her during her lifetime; and upon her
death the property was to be held in trust for specified beneficiaries. She reserved, however, certain powers over the trustee
and the handling of the trust, and the power to dispose of the
estate as she might direct by will. Until her death the trust was
administered by the trustee in Alabama and the paper evidences
of the intangible property were kept there. Upon her death, in
Tennessee, she bequeathed the trust property to the same trustee
to be held in trust for the same and other beneficiaries, in different
amounts and by different estates from those provided for by the
trust indenture. By the will she appointed a Tennessee executor
"as to all property which I may own in the State of Tennessee
at the time of my death," and an Alabama executor "as to all
property which I may own in the State of Alabama and also as
to all property which I may have the right to dispose of by last
will and testament in said state." It was probated and letters
testamentary issued to the respective executors, in both States.
Held that each of the two States could constitutionally impose a

