CURRY v. McCANLESS.
Syllabus.

350

claims, utility resulted and commercial success followed
from what patentees did. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
v. U. S. Rubber Co., 79 F. 2d 948, 954.
It results that the decrees in Nos. 166 and 167 must be
affirmed, and that in No. 603 must be reversed.
Nos. 166 and 167, affirmed.
No. 603, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

CURRY, STATE TAX COMMISSIONER OF ALABAMA, ET AL. v. McCANLESS, COMMISSIONER
OF FINANCE AND TAXATION OF TENNESSEE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 339.

Argued January 9, 1939. Reargued April 28, 1939.Decided May 29, 1939.

1. Decedent, domiciled in Tennessee, transferred to a trustee in Alabama certain stocks and bonds on specific trusts.

The net in-

come was to be paid to her during her lifetime; and upon her
death the property was to be held in trust for specified beneficiaries. She reserved, however, certain powers over the trustee
and the handling of the trust, and the power to dispose of the
estate as she might direct by will. Until her death the trust was
administered by the trustee in Alabama and the paper evidences
of the intangible property were kept there. Upon her death, in
Tennessee, she bequeathed the trust property to the same trustee
to be held in trust for the same and other beneficiaries, in different
amounts and by different estates from those provided for by the
trust indenture. By the will she appointed a Tennessee executor
"as to all property which I may own in the State of Tennessee
at the time of my death," and an Alabama executor "as to all
property which I may own in the State of Alabama and also as
to all property which I may have the right to dispose of by last
will and testament in said state." It was probated and letters
testamentary issued to the respective executors, in both States.
Held that each of the two States could constitutionally impose a

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Syllabus.

307 U. S.

tax on the transfer of the intangibles held by the Alabama trustee
but passing under the will of the decedent, domiciled in Tennessee.
Pp. 360, 372-373.
2. The opinion considers the grounds for the doctrine that power to
tax tangible property is confined to the State in which the property
is located. P. 363.
When we speak of the jurisdiction to tax land or chattels as
being exclusively in the State where they are physically located,
we mean no more than that the benefit and protection of laws
enabling the owner to enjoy the fruits of his ownership and the
power to reach effectively the interests protected, for the purpose
of subjecting them to payment of a tax, are so narrowly restricted
to the State in whose territory the physical property is located as
to set practical limits to taxation by others. P. 364.
3. Rights in intangible property are but relationships between persons, which the law recognizes by attaching to them certain sanctions enforceable in courts. The power of government over them
and the protection which it gives them can not be exerted through
control of a physical thing, but can be made effective only through
control over and protection afforded to those persons whose relationships are the origin of the rights. As sources of actual or potential
wealth-which is an appropriate measure of any tax imposed on
ownership or its exercise-they can not be dissociated from the
persons from whose relationships they are derived. P. 366.
4. From the beginning of our constitutional system control over the
person at the place of his domicile and his duty there, common to
all citizens, to contribute to the support of government have been
deemed to afford an adequate constitutional basis for imposing on
him a tax on the use and enjoyment of rights in intangibles measured by their value. P. 366.
5. In cases where the owner of intangibles confines his activity to
the place of his domicile it has been found convenient to substitute
a rule for a reason, by saying that his intangibles are taxed at
their situs and not elsewhere, or, perhaps less artificially, by invoking the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam. P. 367.
6. But when the taxpayer extends his activities with respect to his
intangibles, so as to avail himself of the protection and benefit of
the laws of another State, in such a way as to bring his person or
property within the reach of the tax gatherer there, the reason for
a single place of taxation no longer obtains, and the rule is not

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Statement of the Case.

even a workable substitute for the reasons which may exist in any
particular case to support the constitutional power of each State
concerned to tax. P. 367.
7. The State of domicile is not deprived, by the taxpayer's activities
elsewhere, of its constitutional jurisdiction to tax, and consequently
there are many circumstances in which more than one State may
have jurisdiction to impose a tax and measure it by some or all
of the taxpayer's intangibles. P. 368.
8. Since Alabama may lawfully tax the property in the trustee's
hands, the Court perceives no ground for saying that the Fourteenth Amendment forbids that State to tax the transfer of it or
an interest in it to another merely because the transfer was effected
by decedent's testamentary act in another State. P. 370.
9. Exercise of the decedent's power to dispose of the intangibles was
a taxable event in Tennessee. P. 371.
10. In effecting her purposes, the testatrix' brought some of the
legal interests which she created within the control of one State
by selecting a trustee there and others within the control of the
other State by making her domicile there. She necessarily invoked
the aid of the law of both States; and her legatees, before they
can secure and enjoy the benefits of succession, must invoke the
law of both. P. 372.
11. The prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment against the taxation of property not within the taxing "jurisdiction" of a State is
not to be extended by ascribing to intangibles .in every case a
locus for taxation in a single State despite the control over them
or their transmission by any other State and its legitimate interest
in taxing the one or the other. The Court can find nothing in the
history of the Fourteenth Amendment and no support in reason,
principle, or authority for saying that it prohibits either State, in
the circumstances of this case, from laying the tax. Pp. 373, 372.
174 Tenn. 1; 118 S. W. 2d 228, reversed.

APPEAL taken by taxing officials of the State of Alabama from a decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee
declaring trust property in Alabama disposed of by a
decedent's will to be subject to succession or transfer
taxation in Tennessee but not in Alabama. This suit
was brought by the executors in the two States, praying
for a declaratory judgment.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Mr. Marion Rushton on the reargument, and with
Mr. Chas. C. Trabue, Jr. on the original argument, for
appellants. Messrs. A. A. Carmichael, Attorney General
of Alabama, Ray Rushton, and Walter Knabe were with
them on the brief.
Mr. Edwin F. Hunt on the reargument and on the original argument for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE, STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The questions for decision are whether the States of
Alabama and Tennessee may each constitutionally impose
death taxes upon the transfer of an interest in intangibles
held in trust by an Alabama trustee but passing under
the will of a beneficiary decedent domiciled in Tennessee;
and which of the two states may tax in the event that it
is determined that only one state may constitutionally
impose the tax.
Decedent, a domiciled resident of Tennessee, by trust
indenture transferred certain stocks and bonds upon specified trusts to Title Guarantee Loan & Trust Company,
an Alabama corporation doing business in that state. So
far as now material, the indenture provided that the net
income of the trust property should be paid over to
decedent during her lifetime. She reserved the power to
remove the trustee and substitute another, which was
never done; the power to direct the sale of the trust
property and the investment of the proceeds; and the
power to dispose of the trust estate by her last will and
testament, in which event it was to be "handled and disposed of as directed" in her will. The indenture provided
further that in default of disposition by will the property
was to be held in trust for the benefit of her husband, son,
and daughter. Until decedent's death the trust was administered by the trust company in Alabama and the

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

paper evidences of the intangibles held by the trustee
were at all times located in Alabama.
By her last will and testament decedent bequeathed
the trust property to the trust company in trust for the
benefit of her husband, son, and daughter, in different
amounts and by different estates from those provided
for by the trust indenture, with remainder interests over
to the children of the son and the daughter respectively,
and to his wife and her husband. By her will testatrix
appointed a Tennessee trust company executor "as to all
property which I may own in the State of Tennessee at
the time of my death," and an Alabama trust company
executor "as to all property which I may own in the State
of Alabama and also as to all property which I may have
the right to dispose of by last will and testament in said
state." The will has been probated in Tennessee and in
Alabama, and letters testamentary have issued to the two
trust companies named as executors in the will.
The present suit was brought by the two executors in a
chancery court of Tennessee against appellants, comprising the State Tax Commission of Alabama, and appellee,
Commissioner of Finance and Taxation of the State of
Tennessee, who are charged with the duty of collecting
inheritance or succession taxes in their respective states.
The bill of complaint prayed a declaratory judgment pursuant to the Tennessee Declaratory Judgments Act, Tennessee Code, 1932, §§ 8835-8847, determining what portions of the estate of decedent are taxable by the State of
Tennessee and what portions by the State of Alabama.
Appellants and appellee appeared and by their answers
and by stipulation recited in detail the facts already
stated and admitted that the taxing officials of each state
had imposed or asserted the right to impose an inheritance or death transfer tax on the trust property passing
under decedent's will.

362

OCTOBER TERM. 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

The chancery court of Tennessee decreed that the State
of Alabama could lawfully impose the tax and that the
inheritance tax law of Tennessee violated the Fourteenth
Amendment in so far as it purported to impose a tax
measured by the trust property disposed of by decedent's
will. The Supreme Court of Tennessee reversed, and
entered its decree declaring the trust property disposed
of by decedent's will to be "taxable in Tennessee and not
taxable in Alabama for purposes of death succession or
transfer taxes." 174 Tenn. 1; 118 S. W. 2d 228. The case
comes here on an appeal from this decree taken by the
taxing officials of Alabama under § 237 (a) of the Judicial
Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
Alabama has assessed a state inheritance tax on the
trust property pursuant to Article XII, c. 2, of its General Revenue Act. Alabama Acts, 1935, pp. 434 et seq.
No transfer tax has been assessed upon the property by
the Tennessee taxing officials, but they assert the right
under the Tennessee statute to tax the transfer under
decedent's will of the trust property. Sections 1259
and 1260 of the Tennessee Code of 1932 impose a tax
upon the transfer at death by a resident of the state of
his intangible property wherever located, including trans-'
fers under powers of appointment.
Both the court of chancery of Tennessee and the Supreme Court of Tennessee, conceiving that the Fourteenth Amendment requires the transmission at death of
intangibles to be taxed at their "situs" and there only,
considered that the primary question for determination
was the situs or location to be attributed to the intangibles of the trust estate at the time of decedent's death.
After considering all of the relevant factors, the one court
concluded that the situs of the intangibles was in Alabama, the other that it was in Tennessee. Despite the
impossibility in the circumstances of this case of attributing a single location to that which has no physical

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

characteristics and which is associated in numerous intimate ways with both states, both courts have agreed
that the Fourteenth Amendment compels the attribution to be made and that, once it is established by judicial
pronouncement that the intangibles are in one state rather
than the other, the due proces clause forbids their
taxation in any other.
The doctrine, of recent origin, that the Fourteenth
Amendment precludes the taxation of any interest in the
same intangible in more than one state has received support to the limited extent that it was applied in Farmers
Loan & Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204; Baldwin v.
Missouri,281 U. S. 586; First NationalBank v. Maine, 284
U. S. 312. Still more recently this Court has declined
to give it completely logical application.' It has never
been pressed to the extreme now urged upon us, and we
think that neither reason nor authority requires its
acceptance in the circumstances of the present case.
That rights in tangibles-land and chattels-are to be
regarded in many respects as localized at the place where
the tangible itself is located for purposes of the jurisdiction of a court to make disposition of putative rights
in them, for purposes of conflict of laws, and for purposes of taxation, is a doctrine generally accepted both
in the common law and other legal systems before the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment and since. 2
'See,

in the case of income taxation, Lawrence v. State Tax

Comm'n, 286 U. S. 276; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S.
308; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Virginia, 305 U. S. 19; cf. Senior v.
Braden, 295 U. S. 422, 431-432. And in the case of taxation of
shares of stock, see Corry v.Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466; First Bank
Stock Corp. v. Minnesota, 301 U. S. 234, 239-240; Schuylkill Trust
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 302 U. S. 506, 514-516.
2Green v. Van Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307; 7 Wall. 139; Pennoyer v.

Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Arndt v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316; Fall v. Eastin,
215 U. S. 1; Olmsted v. Olmsted, 216 U. S. 386; United States v.
Guaranty Trust Co., 293 U. S. 340, 345-346; Paddell v. City of New

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

Originating, it has been thought, in the tendency of the
mind to identify rights with their physical subjects, see
Salmond, Jurisprudence (2nd ed.) 398, its survival and
the consequent cleavage between the rules of law appli,cable to tangibles and those relating to intangibles are
attributable to the exclusive dominion exerted over the
tangibles themselves by the government within whose
territorial limits they are found. Green v. Van Buskirk,
7 Wall. 139, 150; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714; Arndt
v. Griggs, 134 U. S. 316, 320-321. See McDonald v.
Mabee, 243 U. S. 90, 91; cf. Harris v. Balk, 198 U. S.
215, 222; Frick v. Pennsylvania, supra, 497. The power
of government and its agencies to possess and to exclude
others from possessing tangibles, and thus to exclude
them from enjoying rights in tangibles located within its
territory, affords adequate basis for an exclusive taxing
jurisdiction. When we speak of the jurisdiction to tax
land or chattels as being exclusively in the state where
they are physically located, we mean no more than that
the benefit and protection of laws enabling the owner to
enjoy the fruits of his ownership and the power to reach
effectively the interests protected, for the purpose of subjecting them to payment of a tax, are so narrowly restricted to the state in whose territory the physical property is located as to set practical limits to taxation by
others. Other states have been said to be without jurisdiction and so without constitutional power to tax tangibles if, because of their location elsewhere, those states
can afford no substantial protection to the rights taxed
and cannot effectively lay hold of any interest in the
York, 211 U. S. 446; St. Louis v. Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 423, 430;
Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473; see Story, Conflict of Laws
(8th ed.), §§ 550, 551; Dicey, Conflict of Laws (5th ed.), pp. 418,
et seq., 583 et seq., 606 et seq.; 1 Beale, Conflict of Laws, § 48.1
et seq.; American Law Institute, Restatement of Conflict of Laws,
§§ 48, 49; 2 Cooley, Taxation (4th ed.), §§ 447, 451.

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

property in order to compel payment of the tax. See
Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194, 202; Frick
v. Pennsylvania,268 U. S. 473, 489 et seq.
Very different considerations, both theoretical and
practical, apply to the taxation of intangibles, that is,
rights which are not related to physical things. Such
'But there are many legal interests other than conventional ownership which may be created with respect to land of such a character
that they may be constitutionally subjected to taxation in states other

than that where the land is situated. No one has doubted the
constitutional power of a state to tax its domiciled residents on their
shares of stock in a foreign corporation whose only property is
real estate located elsewhere, Darnell v. Indiana, 226 U. S. 390;
Hawley v. Malden, 232 U. S. 1; cf. Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730;
Corry v. Baltimore, 196 U. S. 466; Cream of Wheat Co. v. County of
Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325, 329; Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania,
302 U. S. 506, 514-516, or to tax a valuable contract for the purchase
of land or chattels located in another state, see Citizens National
Bank v. Durr,257 U. S. 99, 108; cf. Gish v. Shaver, 140 Ky. 647, 650;
131 S. W. 515; Golden v. Munsinger, 91 Kan. 820, 823; 139 P. 379;
Marquette v. Michigan Iron & Land Co., 132 Mich. 130; 92 N. W.
934, or to tax a mortgage of real estate located without the state,
even though the land affords the only source of payment, see
Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491; cf. Savings & Loan Society
v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 421; Bristol v. Washington County,
177 U. S. 133; Paddell v. New York, 211 U. S. 446. Each of these
legal interests finds its only economic source in the value of the
land, and the rights which are elsewhere subjected to the tax can be
brought to their ultimate fruition only through some means of control
of the land itself. But the means of control may be subjected to
taxation in the state of its owner whether it be a share of stock or a
contract or a mortgage. There is no want of jurisdiction to tax these
interests where they are owned in the sense that the state lacks
power to appropriate them to the payment of the tax. No court
has condemned such action as so capricious, arbitrary or oppressive
as to bring it within the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment,
for it is universally recognized that these interests are of themselves
in some measure clothed with the legal incidents of property enjoyed
by their owner, in the state where he resides, through the benefit
and protection of its laws.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

rights are but relationships between persons, natural or
corporate, which the law recognizes by attaching to, them
certain sanctions enforceable in courts. The power of
government over them and the protection which it gives
them cannot be exerted through control of a physical
thing. They can be made effective only through control
over and protection afforded to those persons whose relationships are the origin of the rights. See Chicago, R. I. &
P. Ry. Co. v. Sturm, 174 U. S. 710, 716; Harris v. Balk,
198 U. S. 215, 222. Obviously, as sources of actual or
potential wealth-which is an appropriate measure of any
tax imposed on ownership or its exercise-they cannot be
dissociated from the persons from whose relationships
they are derived. These are not in any sense fictions.
They are indisputable realities.
The power to tax "is an incident of sovereignty, and is
co-extensive with that to which it is an incident. All subjects over which the sovereign power of a state extends,
are objects of taxation; but those over which it does not
extend, are, upon the soundest principles, exempt from
taxation." McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 429.
But this does not mean that the sovereign power of the
state does not extend over intangibles of a domiciled
resident because they have no physical location within
its territory, or that its power to tax is lost because we
may choose to say they are located elsewhere. A jurisdiction which does not depend on physical presence within
the state is not lost by declaring that it is absent. From
the beginning of our constitutional system control over
the person at the place of his domicile and his duty there,
common to all citizens, to contribute to the support of
government have been deemed to afford an adequate constitutional basis for imposing on him a tax on the use and
enjoyment of rights in intangibles measured by their
value. Until this moment that jurisdiction has not been
thought to depend on any factor other than the domicile

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

of the owner within the taxing state, or to compel the
attribution to intangibles of a physical presence within its
territory, as though they were chattels, in order to support
the tax. Carpenter v. Pennsylvania, 17 How. 456; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 100 U. S. 491; Hawley v. Malden, 232
U. S. 1; Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Cream of
Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325; Blodgett v.
Silberman, 277 U. S. 1; Farmers Loan & Trust Co. v.
Minnesota, supra; Baldwin vi Missouri, supra; Beidler v.
South Carolina, 282 U. S. 1; First National Bank v.
Maine, supra; Virginia v. Imperial Coal Sales Co., 293
U. S. 15; Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania, 302 U. S.
506.
In cases where the owner of intangibles confines his
activity to the place of his domicile it has been found
convenient to substitute a rule for a reason, cf. New York
ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308, 313; First Bank
Stock Corp. v. Minnesota, 301 U. S. 234, 241, by saying
that his intangibles are taxed at their situs and not elsewhere, or, perhaps less artificially, by invoking the maxim
mobilia sequuntur personam, Blodgett v. Silberman,
supra; Baldwin v. Missouri, supra, which means only
that it is the identity or association of intangibles with
the person of their owner at his domicile which gives
jurisdiction to tax. But when the taxpayer extends his
activities with respect to his intangibles, so as to avail
himself of the protection and benefit of the laws of another state, in such a way as to bring his person or property within the reach of the tax gatherer there, the
reason for a single place of taxation no longer obtains,
and the rule is not even a workable substitute for the
reasons which may exist in any particular case to support
the constitutional power of each state concerned to tax.
Whether we regard the right of a state to tax as founded
on power over the object taxed, as declared by Chief
Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland, supra,

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

through dominion over tangibles or over persons whose
relationships are the source of intangible rights; or on
the benefit and protection conferred by the taxing sovereignty, or both, it is undeniable that the state of domicile is not deprived, by the taxpayer's activities elsewhere,
of its constitutional jurisdiction to tax, and consequently
that there are many circumstances in which more than
one state may have jurisdiction to impose a tax and
measure it by some or all of the taxpayer's intangibles.
Shares of corporate stock may be taxed at the domicile
of the shareholder and also at that of the corporation
which the taxing state has created and controls; and income may be taxed both by the state where it is earned
and by the state of the recipient's domicile.' Protection,
benefit, and power over the subject matter are not confined to either state. The taxpayer who is domiciled in
one state but carries on business in another is subject
to a tax there measured by the value of the intangibles
used in his business. New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S.
309; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S. 133; State
Board of Assessors v. Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388;
Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S.
395; Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Board, 221 U. S. 346;
Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193; cf. Blodgett
v. Silberman, supra; Baldwin v. Missouri, supra. But
taxation of a corporation by a state where it does business, measured by the value of the intangibles used in its
business there, does not preclude the state of incorporation from imposing a tax measured by all its intangibles.
Cream of Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, supra, 329; ' see
Fidelity & Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.
54.
The practical obstacles and unwarranted curtailments
of state power which may be involved in attempting to
'See Footnote 1, ante.
'See also Footnote 2, ante.

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
Opinion of the Court.

357

prevent the taxation of diverse legal interests in intangibles in more than a single place, through first ascribing to
them a fictitious situs and then invoking the prohibition
of the Fourteenth Amendment against their taxation elsewhere, are exemplified by the circumstances of the present case. Here, for reasons of her own, the testatrix,
although domiciled in Tennessee and enjoying the benefits of its laws, found it advantageous to create a trust
of intangibles in Alabama by vesting legal title to the
intangibles and limited powers of control over them in
an Alabama trustee. But she also provided that by resort
to her power to dispose of property by will, conferred
upon her by the law of the domicile, the trust could be
terminated and the property pass under the will. She
thus created two sets of legal relationships resulting in
distinct intangible rights, the one embodied in the legal
ownership by the Alabama trustee of the intangibles,
the other embodied in the equitable right of the decedent
to control the action of the trustee with respect to the
trust property and to compel it to pay over to her the
income during her life, and in her power to dispose
of the property at death.
Even if we could rightly regard these various and distinct legal interests, springing from distinct relationships,
as a composite unitary interest and ascribe to it a single
location in space, it is difficult to see how it could be said
to be more in one state than in the other and upon what
articulate principle the Fourteenth Amendment could be
thought to have withdrawn from either state the taxing
jurisdiction which it undoubtedly possessed before the
adoption of the Amendment by conferring on one state,
at the expense of the other, exclusive jurisdiction to tax.
See Paddell v. City of New York, 211 U. S. 446, 448. If
the "due process" of the Fifth Amendment does not require us to fix a single exclusive place of taxation of intangibles for the benefit of their foreign owner, who is
161299 -39-24

370

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

entitled to its protection, Burnet v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378;
cf. Russian Volunteer Fleet v. United States, 282 U. S.
481, 489, the Fourteenth can hardly be thought to make
us do so here, for the due process clause of each amendment is directed at the protection of the individual and
he is entitled to its immunity as much against the state
as against the national government.
If taxation is but a means of distributing the cost of
government among those who are subject to its control
and who enjoy the protection of its laws, see New York
ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, supra, 313; First Bank Stock
Corp. v. Minnesota, supra, 241, legal ownership of the
intangibles in Alabama by the Alabama trustee would
seem to afford adequate basis for imposing on it a tax
measured by their value. We can find no more ground
for saying that the Fourteenth Amendment relieves it, or
the property which it holds and administers in Alabama,
from bearing that burden, than for saying that they are
constitutionally immune from paying any other expense
which normally attaches to the administration of a trust
in that state. This Court has never denied the constitutional power of the trustee's domicile to subject them to
property taxation. Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v. Virginia, 280 U. S. 83; see cases collected in 30 Columbia
Law Rev. 530; 2 Cooley, Taxation (8th ed.), § 602. And
since Alabama may lawfully tax the property in the
trustee's hands, we perceive no ground for saying that the
Fourteenth Amendment forbids the state to tax the
transfer of it or an interest in it to another merely because the transfer was effected by decedent's testamentary act in another state.
No more plausible ground is assigned for depriving
Tennessee of the power to tax in the circumstances of this
case. The decedent's power to dispose of the intangibles
was a potential source of wealth which was property in
her hands from which she was under the highest obliga-

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

tion, in common with her fellow citizens of Tennessee, to
contribute to the support of the government whose protection she enjoyed. Exercise of that power, which was
in her complete and exclusive control in Tennessee, was
made a taxable event by the statutes of the state. Taxation of it must be taken to be as much within the jurisdiction of the state as taxation of the transfer of a mortgage on land located in another state and there subject
to taxation at its full value. See Kirtland v. Hotchkiss,
supra; cf. Paddell v. City of New York, supra.
For purposes of taxation, a general power of appointment, of which the testatrix here was both donor and
donee, has hitherto been regarded by this Court as equivalent to ownership of the property subject to the power.
Chanler v. Kelsey, 205 U. S. 466; Bullen v. Wisconsin,
supra, 630; Chase National Bank v. United States, 278
U. S. 327, 338; see Gray, Rule Against Perpetuities (3d
ed. 1916), § 5242 Whether the appointee derives title
from the donor, under the common law theory, or from
the donee by virtue of the exercise of the power, is here
immaterial. In either event the trustee's title under the
will was derived from decedent, domiciled in Tennessee.
Cf. Wachovia Trust Co. v. Doughton, 272 U. S. 567.
There is no conflict here between the laws of the two
states affecting the transmission of the trust property.
The title of the trustee under the original Alabama trust
came to an end upon the exercise, of the testatrix's power
of appointment; and although the trustee after her death
still had title to the securities, it was in by a new title as
legatee under her will, and a new beneficial interest was
created, both derived through the exercise of her power
of disposition. The resulting situation was no different
from what it would have been if she had bequeathed the
'No comparable right or power resided in the beneficiaries upon
whom a tax was sought to be levied in Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v.
Virginia, 280 U. S. 83, 91.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
Opinion of the Court.

307 U. S.

intangibles upon a new trust to a new and different
trustee, either within or without the state of Alabama.
So far as the powhr of Tennessee to tax the exercise of
the power of appointment is concerned, there is no substantial difference between the present case and any
other case in which at the moment of death the evidences
of intangibles passing under the will of a decedent domiciled in one state are physically present in another. See
Blodgett v. Silberman, supra; Baldwin v. Missouri, supra.
It has hitherto been the accepted law of this Court that
the state of domicile may constitutionally tax the exercise or non-exercise at death of a general power of appointment, by one who is both donor and donee of the power,
relating to securities held in trust in another state. Bullen
v. Wisconsin, supra. If it be thought that it is identity
of the intangibles with the person of the owner at the
place of his domicile which gives power over them and
hence "jurisdiction to tax," and this is the reason underlying the maxim mobilia sequuntur personam,it is certain
here that the intangibles for some purposes are identified
with the trustee, their legal owner, at the place of its
domicile and that in another and different relationship
and for a different purpose-the exercise of the power of
disposition at death, which is the equivalent of ownership-they are identified with the place of domicile of
the testatrix, Tennessee. In effecting her purposes, the
testatrix brought some of the legal interests which she
created within the control of one state by selecting a
trustee there and others within the control of the other
state by making her domicile there. She necessarily invoked the aid of the law of both states, and her legatees,
before they can secure and enjoy the benefits of succession,
must invoke the law of both.
We can find nothing in the history of the Fourteenth
Amendment and no support in reason, principle, or authority for saying that it prohibits either state, in the

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Opinion of the Court.

circumstances of this case, from laying the tax. On the
contrary this Court, in sustaining the tax at the place
of domicile in a case like the present, has declared that
both the decedent's domicile and that of the trustee are
free to tax. Bullen v. Wisconsin, supra, 631; cf. Keeney
v. New York, 222 U. S. 525, 537; Guaranty Trust Co. v.
Blodgett, 287 U. S. 509. That has remained the law of
this Court until the present moment, and we see no reason for discarding it now. We find it impossible to say
that taxation of intangibles can be reduced in every case
to the mere mechanical operation of locating at a single
place, and there taxing, every legal interest growing out
of all the complex legal relationships which may be entered into between persons. This is the case because in
point of actuality those interests may be too diverse in
their relationships to various taxing jurisdictions to admit
of unitary treatment without discarding modes of taxation long accepted and applied before the Fourteenth
Amendment was adopted, and still recognized by this
Court as valid. See Paddell v. New York, supra, 448.
The Fourteenth Amendment cannot be carried out with
such mechanical nicety without infringing powers which
we think have not yet been withdrawn from the states.
We have recently declined to press to a logical extreme
the doctrine that the Fourteenth Amendment may be invoked to compel the taxation of intangibles by only a
single state by attributing to them a situs within that
state. 7 We think it cannot be pressed so far here.
If we enjoyed the freedom of the framers it is possible
that we might, in the light of experience, devise a more
equitable system of taxation than that which they gave
us. But we are convinced that that end cannot be attained by the device of ascribing to intangibles in every
case a locus for taxation in a single state despite the

'See 'Footnote 1, ante.

374

OCTOBER TERM; 1938.
BUTLER, J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

multiple legal interests to which they may give rise and
despite the control over them or their transmission by any
other state and its legitimate interest in taxing the one
or the other. While fictions are sometimes invented in
order to realize the judicial conception of justice, we cannot define the constitutional guaranty in terms of a fiction so unrelated to reality without creating as many tax
injustices as we would avoid and without exercising a
power to remake constitutional provisions which the Constitution has not given to the courts. See Bristol v. Washington County, supra, 145; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S.
730, 732, quoted with approval in Hawley v. Malden,
supra, 13; Bullen v. Wisconsin, supra, 630; Fidelity &
Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, supra, 58; Cream of
Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks, supra, 330.
So far as the decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee denies the power of Alabama to tax, it is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs in this opinion except as to
the statement that "taxation of a corporation by a state
where it does business, measured by the value of the intangibles used in its business there, does not preclude the
state of incorporation from imposing a tax measured by
all its intangibles." Upon this point he reserves his
conclusion.
dissenting.
The sole question is whether, on the facts about to be
stated, the Tennessee inheritance tax law, consistently
with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, may be extended to intangible personal property
evidenced by certificates of stock and bonds held in
Alabama.
The suit was brought in a chancery court of Tennessee
under the declaratory judgments act of that State.1 ComMR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

'Tennessee Code, 1932, §§ 8835-8847.

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

plainants were the Nashville Trust Company, a Tennessee corporation appointed by the will of Mrs. Grace C.
Scales as executor for Tennessee, and the Title Guarantee
Loan & Trust Company, which will be referred to as the
Birmingham trust company, an Alabama corporation appointed as executor for that State. Defendants were the
Commissioner of Finance and Taxation of Tennessee,
and the members of the Alabama Tax Commission. The
bill prayed that the court determine what portions of the
estate are taxable by Tennessee and what portions are
taxable by Alabama. The Tennessee commissioner filed
answer praying declaration and decree that the securities
held in Alabama are subject to the inheritance tax law of
Tennessee.' The members of the Alabama commission
filed their answer and a cross-bill praying decree in favor
of that State and against the Birmingham trust company
for the tax claimed under the laws of Alabama.3
2Tennessee

Code, 1932: "Section 1259.

is imposed ...

Subdivision 1....

A tax

upon transfers, in trust or otherwise, of the fol-

lowing property, or any interest therein or accrued income therefrom:
(a) When the transfer is from a resident of this state ... (3) All
intangible personal property . . . Section 1260. Subdivision 2....
The transfers enumerated in subdivsion 1 ... shall be taxable if
made-(a) By a will . . ."

'Alabama General Revenue Act, approved July 10, 1935, Art.
XII, c. 2 (Acts 1935, pp. 434 et seq.): Section 347.1: ".

.

. there

is hereby levied and imposed upon all net estates passing by will,
devise, or under the intestate laws of the State of Alabama, or
otherwise, which are lawfully subject to the imposition of an estate
tax by the State of Alabama, a tax equal to the full amount of
State tax paid permissible when levied by and paid to the State
of Alabama as a credit or deduction in computing any federal estate
tax payable by such estate according to the Act of Congress in
effect, on the .date of the death of the decedent, taxing such estate,
with respect to the items subject to taxation in Alabama. . . " Section 347.7: ". . . all of the provisions of this Chapter shall be ap-

plicable to so much of the estates of non-resident decedents as is subject to estate tax under the Act of Congress in effect at the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

The parties stipulated that the facts are as stated in the
pleadings. In substance they are as follows:
At all times involved in this case, Mrs. Scales was a
resident of and domiciled in Tennessee. Her brother,
formerly living in Alabama, died in 1905 leaving a will
that bequeathed to the Birmingham trust company stocks
and bonds issued by Alabama corporations to be held in
trust for the use and benefit of his widow and at her death
to be delivered to Mrs. Scales. The widow died in 1917.
Immediately, December 29, 1917, and without taking any
of them from the possession of the trust company, Mrs.
Scales executed jointly with it an indenture covering the
stocks and bonds of which she had become owner under
her brother's will.
By paragraph 1, she transferred 50 bonds to the trust
company as trustee for the use and benefit of her son and
directed that it hold and manage the property and pay
net income to him during his life, and that, subject to his
power of disposition by will, all property belonging to the
trust at the time of his death should go to his children.
By paragraph 2, she transferred to the same company
50 other bonds to be held in trust for the benefit of her
daughter subject to trusts, conditions, and power of testamentary appointment by her daughter like those specified
in the provisions creating the trust for her son.
By paragraph 3, she transferred to the same trustee the
balance of the property by it to be held in trust and
managed for specified uses and purposes and upon terms
and conditions in substance as follows: (a) She directed
the trustee to pay the income to her while she lived. (b)
She reserved the right by will to dispose of all the trust
property. (c) She directed that if she made no disposithe death of decedent as consists of real estate or tangible personal property located within this State, or other item of property
or interest therein lawfully subject to the imposition of an estate tax
by the State of Alabama. .. "

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Bumm, J., dissenting.

tion by will the trustee should pay $200 per month out
of income to her husband during his life and the balance
of income to her son and daughter during their lives; that
the child or children of either, if dead, should receive the
share of income which the parent would have received if
living; that one-half of the property in the trust at the
time of her death be transferred to the trust created for
her son; and that the other half be transferred to the
trust created for her daughter. (d) She reserved power
at any time that she deemed income insufficient for her
support to direct the trustee to sell a part of the trust
property and to give her the amount received for it, and
retained the right to direct transfer to her son or daughter
of any portion of the trust property, and (e) the right to
direct investments. She retained authority to remove the
trustee and to appoint a successor. As to nearly all the
property held in trust under paragraph 3, Mrs. Scales, her
son, daughter, and the trustee, January 11, 1929, executed
a writing releasing the power reserved to encroach on or
dispose of corpus.
January 1, 1926, Mrs. Scales exerted the power by will
to dispose of the trust property. Item two recites that
she had reserved the right to dispose by will of property
conveyed to the trustee under paragraph 3 of the trust
agreement and provides: "Now, therefore, desiring to
exercise the right to dispose of the said trust property, I
do hereby give, devise, and bequeath all of the property
in custody of said Title Guarantee Loan & Trust Company . . . at the time of my death to the said company,
as trustee, the same to be held by it in trust upon the uses
and trusts, terms, conditions, and limitations hereinafter
set forth in this item of my will."
Section one of that item directs that from the trust
estate there shall be set aside property of the value of
$100,000 to be held in trust as there specified for her

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

daughter and her daughter's children. Section two makes
like provision for her son and his children. Section three
directs that, after the trust property shall be set aside as
specified in sections one and two, the balance in the hands
of the trustee shall be given in equal shares to her
daughter and son to be theirs absolutely.
An amendment to the answer of the members of the
Alabama
Tax Commission alleges, and by stipulation the
other parties admit, that from the trust indenture it fully
appears that the title, possession and control of the securities passed completely to the Birmingham trust company
and that such was the status of the securities at the time
of the death of Mrs. Scales. That amendment also
alleges, and the stipulation admits, that she never exercised the right reserved to her to remove the trustee and
that the trust property could not have been removed from
Alabama except upon an order of a circuit
court and in
4
compliance with the statutes of that State.
The chancery court found that at the time of the death
of Mrs. Scales the securities in question "had a legal situs
analogous to the situs of tangible personal property in the
State of Alabama." It decreed that Alabama may legally
impose upon them a death transfer or succession tax and
that in so far as the inheritance tax law of Tennessee
attempts to impose the tax claimed by that State it violates the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The state supreme court reversed the chancery court.
It held that the securities were not so used in Alabama as
to give them a situs there; that when Mrs. Scales died
the situation was the same as though there never had
been a trust; and that the property passed under the will
as her absolute property. It entered a decree declaring
the property taxable in Tennessee and not taxable in
Alabama.
'Alabama Code, 1928, §§ 10418-10421.

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

BUTLER, J., dissenting.

The Tennessee commissioner and the members of the
Alabama commission respectively claim the right to impose an inheritance or death succession tax based upon
the value of all the property held in the trust at the time
of the death of Mrs. Scales. Rightly the parties agreed
and the state courts assumed that, consistently with the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, both
States may not impose transfer taxes in respect of the
same property. Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473,
489-494. Farmers Loan Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204,
210-212. Baldwin v. Missouri, 281 U. S. 586, 591.
Beidler v. South Carolina Tax Comm'n, 282 U. S. 1, 7-8.
First National Bank v. Maine, 284 U. S. 312, 328. City
Bank Co. v. Schnader, 293 U. S. 112, 116-117. See Burnet
v. Brooks, 288 U. S. 378, 401-402; Senior v. Braden, 295
U. S. 422, 432; Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox, 298 U. S. 193,
209-210; New York ex rel. Whitney v. Graves, 299 U. S.
366, 372; New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308,
314-315; Worcester County Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292,
297, 298. No distinction is suggested between the securities covered by the relinquishment, January 11, 1929, of
the right reserved to encroach upon and to direct transfer
from the corpus and the small part to which the relinquishment did not extend. And, as the parties and the
state courts have treated all alike, this Court may decide
upon title and taxability as if the relinquishment covered
all.
The parties agree that, upon execution of the indenture,
title, possession, and control passed completely to the
trustee and so continued until the death of Mrs. Scales.
There being no provision authorizing revocation, the
grant was irrevocable. Perry on Trusts and Trustees (7th
ed.) § 104. Bogert, Trusts and Trustees, § 993. Keyes v.
Carleton, 141 Mass. 45, 49; 6 N. E. 524. Ewing v. Jones,
130 Ind. 247, 254-255; 29 N. E. 1057. Bath Savings Institution v. Hathorn, 88 Me. 122, 128-129; 33 A. 836.

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

.T., dissenting.

307 U. S.

Wilson v. Anderson, 186 Pa. 531, 537; 40 A. 1096.
Hellman v. McWilliams, 70 Cal. 449, 453; 11 P. 659.
Strong v. Weir, 47 S. C. 307, 323; 25 S. E. 157. Unquestionably it presently vested full legal and equitable title
in the trustee and beneficiaries, subject to be divested
only by the exertion by Mrs. Scales of her power of appointment by will. Coolidge v. Long, 282 U. S. 582, 597.
Marvin v. Smith, 46 N. Y. 571, 575. Carroll v. Smith,
99 Md. 653, 658 et seq.; 59 A. 131. Boone v. Davis, 64
Miss. 133, 140; 8 So. 202. That power did not amount to
an estate or interest in the trust property. United States
v. Field, 255 U. S. 257, 263. Porter v. Commissioner, 288
U. S. 436, 441. All doubt as to that is precluded by the
clause of the indenture which provides that in the absence
of disposition by her will the property shall continue to
be held in trust for purposes there specified.
The reserved authority to direct investment contemplates action as trustee and not control as owner.
Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339, 346-347.
The authority to remove the trustee and to appoint a successor detracts nothing from the plenary grant of title.
See Bowditch v. Banuelos, 1 Gray 220, 230. When read
as it must be in connection with the provisions of the
Alabama statute above referred to, that provision of the
indenture does not reserve power to remove the trust
securities from the State of Alabama.
As the death of Mrs. Scales and taking effect of her will
were coincident, the legal title remained in the trustee.
The purposes Mrs. Scales intended to effect by the trusts
defined by her will are like those she intended to serve by
the trusts created by the indenture which, in absence of
will, were to continue after death. Stripped of mere
legalism, and taken according to substance, the will operated to amend and continue the trusts created by the
indenture. Questions of power to tax are governed by
the substance of things rather than by technical rules,

CURRY v. McCANLESS.
357

Bumr,

J., dissenting.

concerning title. Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497,
503.
It follows that, save her right to income, Mrs. Scales,
after her relinquishment, January 11, 1929, and at the
time of her death, had no estate or interest in the securities held by the trustee. There is no basis for application of the fiction mobilia sequuntur personam. Wachovia Trust Co. v. Doughton, 272 U. S. 567, 575. Brooke
v. Norfolk, 277 U. S. 27, 29. Safe Deposit & T. Co. v.
Virginia, 280 U. S. 83, 92, 94. McMurtry v. State, 111
Conn. 594. Estate of Bowditch, 189 Cal. 377. Matter of
Canda, 197 App. Div. 597; 189 N. Y. S. 917. Cf. Bullen
v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625. Tennessee may not impose
the inheritance tax claimed in this suit by its Commissioner of Finance and Taxation.
Moreover, if contrary to the indenture as above construed, it should be held that at the time of her death
Mrs. Scales in addition to having power of appointment
by will owned an interest in the trust property, Tennessee would nevertheless be without power to impose a tax
on the transfer of that interest because the intangibles in
question had no situs in that State.
Intangibles, like tangibles, may be so held and used
outside the State of the domicil of the owner as to become
taxable in the State where kept. See e. g. New Orleans
v. Stempel, 175 U. S. 309. Bristol v. Washington County,
177 U. S. 133, 143 et seq. State Board of Assessors v.
Comptoir National, 191 U. S. 388. Scottish Union &
Nat. Ins. Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, 619-620. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. New Orleans, 205 U. S. 395, 402.
Liverpool & L. & G. Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221
U. S. 346, 353. The general rule of mobilia sequuntur
personam must yield to the established fact of legal
ownership, actual presence and control in a State other
than that of the domicil of the owner. The phrase "business situs" as used to support jurisdiction of a State

OCTOBER TERM, 1938.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

307 U. S.

other than that of the domicil of the owner to impose
taxes on intangible personal property is a metaphorical
expression of vague signification; its meaning is not limited to investment or actual use as an integral part of a
business or activity, but may extend to the execution of
trusts such as those created by the indenture and imposed on the trustee in this case. DeGanay v. Lederer,
250 U. S. 376, 381-382. New York ex rel. Whitney v.
Graves, supra, 372 et seq. Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Fox,
supra, 211. First Bank Stock Corp. v. Minnesota, 301
U. S. 234.
The stock certificates, bonds or other documents evidencing the intangibles constituting the trust property
were never held in Tennessee. Neither their issue or
validity nor the enforcement or transfer, inter vivos or
from the dead to the living, of any right attested or supported by them was at all dependent on the laws of that
State," From the beginning, the trust estate has been
under the protection of, and necessarily the trusts have
been and are being executed under, the laws of Alabama
unaffected by those of any other State. See Hutchison
v. Ross, 262 N. Y. 381, 394; 187 N. E. 65; Sewall v.
Wilmer, 132 Mass. 131, 137.
At least since 1917, Mrs. Scales had no power to remove
the trust or any of the trust property from Alabama.
Exertion of any right or power reserved to her by the
indenture was dependent on the laws of Alabama and not
upon or subject to those of Tennessee, where she happened to have her domicil. Wachovia Trust Co. v.
Doughton, ubi supra. Subject to the laws of Alabama,
all transactions in which the trust properties were capable of being used were identified with that State. The
securities, held there not only for safekeeping but as well
for collection of income and principal, and subject to sale
and reinv-estment of proceeds, could not be more com5See footnote 4.

GRAVES v. ELLIOTT.
357

383

Syllabus.

pletely localized anywhere. DeGanay v. Lederer, ubi
supra.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Tennessee
should be reversed and the case remanded to that court
for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES, MR. JUSTICE MCREYNand MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS join in this opinion.

OLDS

GRAVES ET AL., COMMISSIONERS CONSTITUTING
THE STATE TAX COMMISSION OF NEW YORK,
v. ELLIOTT ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SURROGATES' COURT OF THE COUNTY
AND STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 372, October Term, 1937. Argued January 9, 1939.
April 28, 1939.-Decided May
29, 1939.

Reargued

Decedent, while domiciled in Colorado, transferred to a Colorado
bank certain bonds to be held upon certain specified trusts with
specified powers in the trustee to administer, invest, reinvest, etc.
The trust indenture provided that the trustee should pay over the
income to decedent's daughter for life and afterward to the
daughter's children until each had reached the age of twenty-five
years, when a proportionate share of the principal of the trust fund
was to be paid over to such child. In default of such children
the principal was to revert to decedent and pass under her will.
She reserved the right to remove the trustee, to change any beneficiary of the trust, and to revoke the trust and revest herself with
the title to the property, the trustee in that event undertaking to
assign and deliver to her all the securities then constituting the trust
fund. After creating the trust decedent became and remained a
domiciled resident of New York, where she died without appointing new beneficiaries of the trust or revoking it. Meanwhile, the
trustee continued to administer the trust and held possession of the
bonds evidencing the intangible property of the fund. Following
her death the taxing authorities of Colorado assessed a tax on the
transmission at death of the trust fund.
Held that the State of New York could constitutionally levy a

