54

SUPREME COURT
Webster v. Cooper.

And it is further ordered, that a similar copy in all respects
be by said clerk forwarded to his Excellency, the Governor of
the State of Missouri.
And it is further ordered, that the clerk forward a copy to
each of said commissioners, Hendershott and Minor, of the
order referring the matter of costs "and charges, the clerk's report thereon, and so much of the foregoing decree as respects
the costs and charges, for the guidance of said commissioners in the performance of their duties in this respect.

HENRY WEBSTER, PLAINTIFF, V. PETER UOOPER.

*Where it appears that the whole case has been certified pro fina,in order to take
the opinion of this court, without any actual, division of opinion in the Circuit
Court, the practice is irregular, and the case must be remanded to the Circuit Court
to be proceeded in according to law.
The decision of this court in the case of Nesmith and others v. Sheldon (6 Howard, 41) affirmed.

Tis case came up on a certificate of division of opinion,
pro forma, between the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Maine.
It was a real action, in which the plaintiff demanded a certain parcel of land situated in Pittston, in the county of. Kennebec and State of Maine, and claimed title under the will of
one Florentius Vassal, made in England in 1777.
Most of the points of division certified arose upon the construction of this will, and the remainder were upon the right of
the plaintiff to maintain the action, and the rule of 6stimation
as to improvements covering in fact the whole case.
The cause was argued by Mr. Dexter and Mr. B. H. Daveis,
for the plaintiff, and Mr. Allen, for the defendant; but as no
decision was had upon the merits, the arguments of counsel
are omitted.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been argued at the bar upon points certified
as upon a division of opinion in the Circuit Court. But it appears by the record that the whole case has been divided into
points and sent up to this court, -and several of the latter
points could not have arisen on the trial until tHe previous ones
were first decided. We understand it was a pro forma division,
certified at the request of the counsel for the respective parties.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

55

Webster v. Cooper.

This court has frequently said that this practice is irregular, and would, if sanctioned, convert this court into one of
original jurisdictiou in questions of law, instead of being, as
the Constitution intended it to be, an appellate court to revise
the decisions of inferior tribunals. Indeed, it would impose
upon it the duty of deciding in the first instance, not only the
questions of law which properly belonged to the case, but also
questions merely hypothetical and speculative, and which
might or might not arise, as previous questions were ruled the
one way or the other.
The irregularity arid evil tendency of this practice has upon
several occasions attracted the attention of the court, although
it has been occasionally acquiesced ih, and the points scF certified acted upon and decided. But at December term, 1847,
the subject was very fully considered, and it was then deter.
mined that this practice ought not to be sanctioned i and that
this court would in all cases refuse to take jurisdiction, when it'
was obvious that the whole case had been certified pro forma,
in order to take the opinion of this court, without any actual
division of opinion in the Circuit Court. The result of this determination will be found in the case of Nesmith and others v.
Sheldon and others, 6 Howard, 41. The case before us cannot
be distinguished from the one referred to. It is true that it
was certified before that decision was pronounced. ' But the
opinion in that case conformed to all the opinions previously
expressed by this court upon the irregularity of this practice.
This case, therefore, must be remanded to the Circuit Court;
to be proceeded in according to law.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maine, and on the points and questions on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in 'opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and
was argued by counsel. And it appearing to this court, upon
an inspection of the said transcript, that no point in the case
within the meaning of the act of Congress ,as been certified
to this court, it is thereupon now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, and that this cause be, and the samie is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, to be proceeded in according to
law.

