146

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Mlarriott.

GRANVILLE S.

OLDFIELD, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H.
MARRIOTT.

The secondarticle of the treaty between the United States and Portugal, made on
the 26th of August, 1840 (8 Stat. at Large, 560), provides as follows, viz.: "Vessels of the United States of America arriving, either laden or in ballast, in
the ports of the kingdom, of Portugal, and, reciprocally, Portuguese vessels arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the ports of the United States of America, shall
be treated, on their entrance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the
same footing as national vessels coming from the same place, with respect to the
duties of tonnage, lighthouse duties, pilotage, port charges, as well as to the fees
and perquisites of public officers, and all other duties and charges, of whatever
kind or denomination, levied upon vessels of commerce, in the name or to the
profit of the government, the local authorities, or any publie or private establishment whatever."
This article is confined exclusively to vessels. It does not include cargoes, or make
any provision for an indirect trade,- that is, it does not provide for the introduction of articles which are the growth, produce, or manufacture of some third country, into the ports of Portugal in American vessels upon the same terms upon
which they are introduced in Portuguese vessels, or the introduction of such articles into the ports of the United States in Portuguese vessels upon the same terms
upon which they are introduced in American vessels. These classes of cases are
left open to the legislation of each country.
The Tariff Act of Congress, passed on the 30th of July, 1846, has the following
section:-" Schedule I. (Exempt from duty.) Coffee and tea, when imported direct from the place of their growth or production, in American vessels, or in foreign vessels entitled by reciprocal treaties to be exempt from discriminating duties,
tonnage, and other charges."
The treaty with Portugal is not one of those referred to in this paragraph.
Consequently, a cargo of coffee, imported from Rio Janeiro in a Portuguese vessel, was
subject to a duty of twenty per cent., being the duty upon
-enumerated articles.
An historical account given of the course pursued by the government of the United
States, showing
that, since
the into
year 1785, it has been constantly endeavoring to
persuade
other nations
to enter
treaties for the mutual and reciprocal abolition
of .discriminating duties upon commerce in the direct and indirect trade.

Tuis case
brought up, by wr'it of error,
the Circuit
Court of the was
United States for the District of from
Maryland.
It was an action brought by Oldfield against Marriott, who
was the c ector of the port of Baltimore, to recover back the
amount of duties paid under protest upon an importation of

coffee in a Portuguese vessel from Rio Janeiro.
On the 26th of August, 4
reaty was made between
the. United States and Portiugal ($ Stat, at Large, 560), the
second article of which provided that "vessels of the United

States of America arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the
ports
the kingdom
Portugal,
Portuguese
vesselsof ariving,
either ofladen
or and,
ballast,
-nreciprocally,
in the ports
of the
United States offAmerica, shall be teated, on their en.ance,
during their stay, and at their depatBure, upon the same footing as national vessels coming from the same place,with respect to. the duties of tonnage, lighthouse duties, piotage,
port charges, as well as to the fees and perquisites of public
Officers, and all other duties and charges, of whatever kind

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

147

Oldfield v. Marriott

or denomination., levied upon vessels of commerce, in the name
or to th6 profit of the government, the local authorities, or any
public or private establishment whatever2
On the 30th 5f July, 1846, Congress passed "An Act reducing the duty on imports and for other purposes," the third
section of which enacted, "that from and after the first day of
December next, there shall be levied, collected, and paid on all
goods, wares, and merchandise imported from foreign countries, and not specially provided for in this act, a duty of twenty
per centum ad valorem."
In the same act of 1846, was the following section: " Schedule I. (Exempt from duty) Coffee and tea, when
imported direct frdm the place of their growth or production,
in American vessels, or in foreign vessels entitled by reciprocal
treaties to be exempt from discriminating duties, tonnage, and
other charges; coffee, the growth or production of the possessions of the Netherlandi, imported from the Netherlands in the
same manner."
In the trial of the cause in the Circuit Court, the following
statement of facts was agreed to.
v. WILLIA)E H. M&PRIOTT, Collector
of the Port of Baltivwre.
It is agreed and admitted, in the Above cause, that the brig
Sandade Eterna arrived at the port of Baltimore, from Rio
Janeiro, in Brazil, with a cargo of coffee, the production and
growth of Brazil, on or about the 15th day of, November,
1847; that the said brig was, at the time of said arrival and
importation of said coffee, a regularly documented vessel of
the kingdom of Portugal; that 1,188 bags of the coffee So
imported were consigned to the plaintiff in the above cause,
who proceeded, on the 16th of the said month of November,
to make an entry of the same as if free of duty, and to obtain
a permit, agreeably to such enb: to unload and discharge
from said brig the said 1,188 bags of coffee so- imported and
consigned to him, as appears by the papers herewith filed and
marked No. 1 aid No. 2.
(Then followed the import entry;the consignee's oath, and
the permit.)
. It is further admitted and agreed, that after the said permit
had bee±, given to the plaintiff, but before any portion of the
said coffee was unloaded from said brig under said permit,
and before the permit was delivered or shown to the inspector
of customs of the aforesaid port, in whose charge the said vessel
had been placed for custody and delivery of her cargo, the said
permit was countermanded by the defendant, as collector as
GRANVILLE

S.

OLDPIELD

148

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

aforesaid, so far as he could legally countermand it, and the
aforesaid entry made of the said coffee by the plaintiff as if the
same were free of duty refused, so far as the said collector could,
refuse, and a claim and charge of duty of twenty per cent. ad
valorem made by the said collector (amounting to $ 2,070.60)
against the said coffee, as being due and payable upon the
same, under the provitions of Schedule I of the Tariff Act of
1
the United States of the 30th of July, 1846.
It is further admitted and agreed, that the said plaintiff wholly denied the legality of the said claim of duty made as aforesaid by the said collector, and protested against the payment
of the same; and that only because of his inability to obtain
possession of his said coffee without the payment of the said
duty so claimed and demanded, and after filing with the said
collector a protest and notice, of which the annexed paper,
marked No.'3, is a copy, did the said 1Plaintiff pay to the said
collector the aforesaid sum of $ 2,070.60 as a duty upon the
said coffee. (Then followed a copy of the protest and notice.)
It is further agreed, that a Paper herewith flied, and marked
No. 4, is a true copy of the decree of the government of Portugal, of which it purports to be a translation and copy, and
that the said decree had been in fill force from the time of its
date, in all the dominions of the Queen of Portugal, until and
after'the importation of the aforesaid coffee and payment of
the duty herein before mentioned.
No. 4.

Decree of the Queen of Portugal.

'(Copy.)
" Treasury Department of State.
"Donna Maria, by the grace of God and the constitution of
-the monarchy Queen of Portugal, &c., &c., make known to all
our subjects that the General Cortes have decreed, and we
have sanctioned, the following law: "Article 1. The premium of fifteen per cent. granted by art.
1 of the decree of 16th January, 1837, to articles, merchandise,
and manufactures imported in Portuguese vessels, and entered
at the custom-houses of the kingdom and adjacent islands, is
abolighed.
"Sect. 1. Articles, merchandise, and manufactures, coming
from countries or ports where the Portuguese flag is not admitted, imported and entered for consumption, shall pay the respective duties, and one fifth more of the eniount of said duties.
"Sect. 2. Articles, merchandise, and manufactures, coming
from countries or ports where the Portuguese flag is admitted,
and not subjected to differential duties, imported in foreign
vessels, not of the country of the production of said articles,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

149

Oldfield v. Marriott.

merchandise, and manufactures, and entered for consumption,
shall also pay the respective duties, and one fifth more of the
amount of said duties.
" Sect. 3. Articles, merchandise, and manufactures, coming
from countries or ports where the Portuguese flag may be subjected to differential duties, imported in foreign vessels, and
entered for consumption, shall pay the respective duties, and
the additional duties which the government.is bound to impose
on them according to article 8th of the general tariff of duties,
organized in conformity to the law of the 11th of March, 1841.
"Article 2. The provisions of the present law shall commence to -take effect three months after its publication, for articles, merchandise, and manufactures which shall be entered in
vessels coming from ports in Europe and North America, and
six months for all other ports.
"Article 3. All contrary legislation is hereby revoked.
"We therefore order all authorities, &c.
"1Given at the Palace of Necessidades, the 18th of October,
1841.
"9THE QUEEN.

"ANTONIO

JOSE D'AvILA,

&ecretary of the Treasury."
Article 8th of the General Tariff Law referred to.
"A special order of the government shall authorize the col.
lectors to receive an add'ional duty on goods imported from
foreign countries, equivalent to the difference of duties which
said nations shall make between their national vessels and
those of Portugal, ot between Portuguese goods on their importation."
(And the.said decree regulated and controlled within the
kingdom of Portugal the indirect trade b9tween the United
States of America and the kingdom of Portugal at the time
of the said importation and demand and payment of said
duties; and that, under said decree, coffee and other articles of
merchandise the production and growth of Brazil, and imported
into any port of the kingdom of Portugal in vessels of the
said United States, were subjected in said kingdom, by virtue
of said decree, to the payment of a discriminating duty of
twenty per cent upon the amount of duty payable upon the
same articles if imported into the kingdom of Portugal in a
Portuguese vessel.)
It is agreed that the facts herein stated may be modified and
added to in such way as may be thought proper and necessary
by the court for a full and correct presentation and decision of
the issue in the cause.
13

150

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott

It is also admitted that the said decree of Portugal is executed in like manner, in reference to all foreign vessels and
their cargoes, as in reference to those of the United States.
It is also admitted, that, since the passage of the Tariff Act
of 1846, several Portuguese vessels have arrived from Rio de
Janeiro, in ports of the United States, with cargoes of coffee
the growth of Brazil; that such coffee was admitted free of
duty, the Secretary of the Treasury not having been consulted
in reference thereto, ard lihaving given no directions about the
same.
It is further agreed that the court shall render a judgment,
upon this statement, for the plaintiff or for the defendant, according to the views which the court may take of the law of
the case; and that either party may prosecute a writ of error
from whatsoever judgment may be rendered by the court in
this case.
GEno. M. GILL,for Plaintff.
W. L. MARSHALL, for Defendant.
Upon this statement of facts the Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendant. Whereupon, Oldfield brought the case
up to' this court.
It was argued by 11ir. Gill and 11r. David Stewart, for the
plaintiff in error, and by 11r. Crittenden, Attorney-General, for
the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended,First. That upon the true construction of the act of 1846,
in connection with the treaty with Portugal, the coffee imported
by appellant was free from duty, it having been imported from
its place- of growth to this country in a Portuguese vessel,
which, under the treaty with Portugal, is exempt from discriminating duties, tonnage, and other charges.
Second. That in the construction of the act of 1846, each
word. used is to have its usual and ordinary meaning; and
while effect is to be given to each word, the whole sentence is
to be governed by grammatical rules. Respect is also to be
had to the order and relation between themselves of the words
employed, and such interprcation is to be given as will elucidate the meaning of the whole sentence, and yet give effect, if
possible, to each word thereof. If, upon applying the above
rules of construction, the meaning of the whole is clear and
apparent, then there will be no necessity to look beyond the
context. In this case, it is contended that, upon the application of the above principles, the meaning of the law is clear
and without ambiguity; and that all coffee imported into this

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

151

Oldfield v. Marriott.

country from the place of its growth, in American vessels,
or in foreign vessels which, under reciprocal treaties, are exempt from discriminating dutiesi tonnage, and other charges,
is free.
Third. That revenue laws are, in no just sense, either remedial laws or founded upon permanent public policy, and are,
therefore, not to be liberally construed. Nor is it necessary or
proper to look beyond the context of the law to ascertain its
meaning or intent, which ought to be gathered from the law
itself. In support of this view, the appellant relied upon the
case of The United States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 370.
Fourth. That if, in ascertaining the construction of the act
of 1846, reference be had to acts in par! materia,the necessity
of which in this case is not admitted, the appellant relied upon
the following acts. Act of 27th April, 1816, § 3 (3 Stat. at
Large, 313) ; Act of 22d Mqay, 1824, § 2 (4 Stat. at Large, 29) ;
Act of 14th July, 1832, § 10 (Ibid. 592) ; Act of 30th August,
1842, §§ 9, 10 (5 Stat. at Large, 561).
These various acts of Congress all contain a similar provision, by which an additional duty of ten per cent. is imposed
upon goods imported in foreign vessels beyond that imposed
on the same goods imported in American vessels, unless the
said goods are entitled, by treaty or act of Congress, to be imported in such foreign vessels on payment of the same duties
as they would be if imported in the vessels of the United States.
In all these cases the exemption from the additional duty refers
in express terms to the goods themselves. In the case under
-consideration, the exemption has reference to the vessels, and
not to the goods. The difference in the mode of expressing
these exemptions was relied on as showing that, in the act of
1846, the exemption from discriminating duties has reference
to the vessel, and not to the cargo; and it was contended that
other and different language would have been used in the
act of 1846, if the policy of the previous acts of 1816, 1824,
1832, and 1842 had been designed to be continued in that
act.
Fifth. The appellant, in considering accs in pari materia,
further contended, that the acts of 7th January, 1824 (4 Stat.
at Large, 4), and of 31st Mlay, 1830 (Ibid. 425), were general
laws to regulate the duties of tonnage and impost; and, being
such, were founded upon views of reciprocity, and were intended
to repeal discriminating duties on vessels of foreign nations
only where the nations to which these vessels belonged had no
discriminating duties against our vessels; and that the same
principle is applied to cargoes in foreign vessels.
The law of the 7th of January, 1824, in the first place. refers

152

SUPREmE COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott

tor a discriminating duty on tonnage; and in the second place,
to a discriminating duty on, goods. Now, if the framer of the
act of 1846 meant to continue the safne policy in that law as
that contained in the laws of i824 and 1830, the same or similar language would have been used, and the same distinction
-would have been draw'x, which have not been done ; and hence
the appellant contended that the same policy has not, in fact,
been pursued, and was not intended to be pursued. In this
view, the appellant relied upon the act of 14th July, 1832, the
third section of which provides that coffee shall be free from
duty. Under this last law, coffee; no matter whence imported,
or in what vessels,-is free from duty.
Sixth. The appellant also contended; that the true object and
policy of the law of 1846 was to redce the cost of tea and
coffee f -1heconsumer-in .theUnited States. Hence, thee articles are t6 be free from duty only if impoxted' frdi th ir'place
of growth; and, secondly, to enjoy this privilege, these articles
must be imported either in American vessels, or in foreign vessels the charges of which in our ports are not greater than those
,of American vessels. This policy may be illustrated by the
act of 1832, which, as shown, admits all coffee, no matter
whence imported, or in what vessels, free, and that of 1842,
which admits tea and coffee free only when imported from the
place of their growth, and in American vessels. Now, the act
of 1846 was framed upon the idea that, by admitting these articles as free when imported from their place of growth, and in
vessels which might transport them at the lowest freight the
object of reduction of pice would -be most certainly accomplished.
Seventh. The appellant contended that laws imposing duties
are never construed beyond the natural import of the language
used, and duties are never imposed upon the citizens upon
d6ubtful interpretations. If a doubt, therefore, exist in this
case, the appellant is entitled to the benefit of that doubt, and
the duty in question is not to b6 imposed. In support of this
view, he relied upon the cases of Adams v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner,
384; United States v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 370.
Eighth. The tLppellant further contended, that it is a general
rule, in the interpretation of statutes levying taxes or duties,
not to extend their provisions by implication beyond the clear
import of the language used, or to enlarge their operation so
as to embrace matters not specifically pointed out, although
standing upon a close analogy. He referred, in support of Ihis
view, t6 Dwarris on Statutes, 749, found in 9 Law Library, 76;
to 9 Pickering, 412; and to the authorities in Sumner and Story
already referred to.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

153

Oldfield v. Marriott.

The counsel for the plaintiff also cited the following authorities. 1 Kent's Commentaries, 462, 5th edition; 20 Wendell,
561; 4 Dallas, 30; 4 Gill, 332; 4 l'Ieeson & Welsby, 195;
7 Meeson & Welsby, 202; 10 Mleeson & Welsby, 389, 434,
719; Dwarris on Statutes, 707, 708, 743, 749; 3 Kelly (Ga.,
146; 9 Port. (Ala.), 266; 3 Sumner, 384; 4 Wheaton, 202.

iL. Crittenden, Attorney-General, for the defendant in error,
contended, . Exemption of American vessels, in the ports of Portugal,
from discriminating duties of tonnage, lighthouse duties, and
port charges upon the hulls of the vessels, whilst the discriminating duties upon the cargoes remain to be collected and
paid, does not satisfy the sense and policy of the statutes of
the United States, nor the true meaning and reason of the
Schedule I, for exempting from discriminating duties the foreign goods impdrted in foreign vessels into the ports of the
United States.
IL It is a known rule of interpretation of all instruments,
that such construction be made upon the whole, as that no
clause, sentence, or word shall prove superfluous, void, or insignificant, if by any interpretation it may be rendered useful
and pertinent. 4 Bac. Abr., Statutes, I. § 9, p. 645; Butler v.
Duncomb, 1 P. Wins. 457; Touchstone, chap. 5, p. 87; 19
Vin. Abr., Statutes, E. 6, pl. 160, p. 528.
III. Another rule for the interpretati6 of statutes is, that
the words must be understood as having regrard to the subjectmatter, "sermones sdmper accipiendi sunt secundum subjectami
materiam.' The legislator is always supposed to have that in
his eye, and to have directed all his expressions to the subject,
occasion, and end which caused him to speak and to enact the
law. 1 Black. Comm., Introduction, pp. 60, 61.
IV. It is an established rule of construction of smatutes, to
compare one statute with other statutes that are made y the
same legislature, ' that have some affinity with the subject, or
that expressly relate to the point."
"All acts in pari materia are to be taken together as if they
were one law." Ailesbury v. Pattison, Doug.- 30; The King
v. Mason, 2 T. R. 586; 1 Tucker's Black. Comm., p. 60, note 8.
"If divers statutes relate to the same thing, they ought all.
to be taken into consideration in construing any one of them;
notwithstanding some of them may be expired, or are not referred to in the statute, they must all be taken as one system,
and construed consistently." Rex v. Loxdale and others,
1 Bun 447; 4 Bac. Abr., Statyi , L 3, pl. 21 to 28, pp., 64 to
67 (edition by Dodd, Vol. VII. pp. 454, 455).

154

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

Blackstone has given two examples, his annotator one, and
Bacon four, with the citations of the adjudged cases, from
which he has extracted the substance of each case; to which
the counsel for defendant respectfully refers the court.
Mr. Crittenden then proceeded, under these authorities, to
show, by reference to former statutes, that the expressions in the
act of 1846 - viz.: "Schedule I. (Exempt from duty.) Coffee
and tea when imported direct from the place of their growth
or rodiietion, in foreign vessels, entitled by reciprocal treaties
to be exempt from discriminating duties, tonnage, and other
charges; coffee the production of the possessions of the Netherlands, imported from the Netherlands in the same manner, "have relation to a system of discriminating duties for the protection of the ship-building, ship-owning, navigating, and commercial interests of the citizens of the United States; that the
expressions quoted from the act of 1846 have a well-defined
meaning explained by previous acts, a sense understood at home
and abroad, as belonging to the public policy of the United
States for countervailing, by discriminating duties, the policy
of foreign nations injurious to the commerce of the United
States; that this system of countervailing duties, this public
policy of the United States, is not satisfied and fulfilled by the
repeal to be made by a foreign nation of the discriminating
duties, of tonnage and port charges on the hulls of vessels of
the United States arriving in the ports of that foreign n tioa,
whilst the discriminating duty 6n merchandise remains; that
the reciprocity required by the UTnited States from 'a foreign
nation, to exempt foreign merchandise from our discriminating.
duties on merchandise imported into the United States in foreign vessels, is, and must include, an exemption from the discriminating duty on merchandise when conveyed in American
vtrels into. the ports of such foreign nation.
He cited and commented on, - The Act of Congress of 3d
Marcli, 1815 (3 Stat. at Large, 224). The Convention between
the United States and Great Britain, ratified 22d December,
1815 (8 Stat. at Large, 228). The Act of Congress of 1st
March, 1816 (3 Stat. at Large, 255), passed in consequence of
that Convention. The Act of Congress of 3d March, 1817
(3 Stat. at Large, 377); Act of 20th April, 1818. (3 Stat. at
Large, 465). (Both these acts, he said, defined "discriminating
duties" to include duties of tonnage on vessels and duties on
merchandise composing the cargoes of the vessels.) The
Proclamations of President Monroe, found in 3 Stat. at Large,
Appendix, No. 3, 4,- , 6, 7. The Act of Congress of April
20th, 1818 (3 Stat. at Large, 464). -The Act of 3d March,
1819 (3 Stat. at Large, 510). The Act of 7th January, 1824

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

155

Oldfield v. Marriott.

(4 Stat. at Large, 2). (In this act the term "reciprocal exemption" is used and explained to mean duties on goods and
tonnage duties also.) The Act of May 24th, 1828 (4 Stat. at
Large, 308). The Proclamations issued by the President under
this act, found in 4' Stat. at Large, Appendix, pages 814,
815, 816, 817. The Act of Cofigress of 31st May, 1830 (4
Stat. at Large, 425). The act of 13th July 1832 (4 Stat. at
Large, 578).
Since these two acts of 31st May, 1830, and 13th July, 1832,
took effect, an exemption by one nation of the vessels of the
United States from the duty of tonnage may gain for the
vessels of tha nation a reciprocal exemption from the duty of
tonnage in the ports of the United States. But neither before
nor since those acts canan exemption from the discriminating
duties of tonnage alone, allowed by a nation to vessels of the
United States, gain for that nation an exemption from the discriminating duties imposed by the laws of the United States
upon goods imported into the United States.in foreign vessels.
Such an unequal exemption would be in direct contravention
of the established policy of the United States, adopted for
the purpose of countervailing the policy of foreign nations
prejudicial to the commerce of the United States.
The act of 3d August, 1846, passed in consequence of the
treaty of 19th January, 1839, between the United States and
King of the Netherlands (8 Stat. at Large, 524).
3rb. Cittenden then said, - In the series of legislative acts,
treaties, and proclamations, under the powers conferred* upon
the President, I have not found a single instance in which the
United States have released or abolished, in favor of any nation, or proposed to release or abolish, the discriminating duties
upon goods imported into the United States in foreign vessels,
without a reciprocal release or exemption, by such foreign
nation, of the discriminating duties upon the vessels of the
United States, and upon their cargoes also, in: the ports of such
foreign nation.
An exemption from the foreign discriminating duties of
tonnage might obtain a reciprocal exemption from the discriminating duties of tonnage in the ports of the United States;
but nothing short of an exemption from the foreign discriminating duties, both of tonnage and impost, upon the cargoes,
could gain for a foreign nation av., exemption from the .discriminating duties upon goods, wares, and merchandise imported
in foreign vessels into the ports of the United States.
In opposition to the positions taken by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error, and the authorities cited in support of them,
Jrr. Crittenden referred to the following.

156

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott

The revenue laws are not to be construed with great strictness, like penal laws, "but so as most effectually to accomplish
the intention of the legislature in passing them." Taylor v.
United Stats, 3 Howard, 210.
"Statutes which concern the public good ought to be construed liberally." "1Astatute made pro bono publico shall
be bonstrued in such mamer as that it may, as far as possible,
attain the end proposed." Bac. Abr. Statute, I. pL 68, 69, 73,
84, 85, 86, Vol. IV. pp. 650,.652; 19 Viner, Statutes, E. 6, pl.
49, 50, p. 516; 5 Comyn's Digest, Parlianient,R. 10, pl. 1,5,
17, 18, 19, 28, pp. 337, 338, 340; Taylor v. United States, .3
Howard,
210.must be"so construed as that no collateral prejuo Statutes
dice grow thereby." "In statutes, incidents are always supplied by inteudment." 2 Inst., 112 and 222; 19 Viner, Statutes, E. 6, 1I. 145, 146, p. 527.
" A thing which is within the inten ion of the makers of the
statute is as much within the statute as if it were within the
letter." 4 Baa. Abr., Statute, I. pl. 42, p. 648; 19 Viner,
Satutes, E. 6 pl. 80, 81, p. 519; Mountjoy's'case, 5 Co., 1
resolve, p. 5; 1beawfage's case, 10_ Co. 101, Stowell v. Zouch,
Plowd. 366.'
"It is not the words of the law, but the internal sense of it,
that makesthe law; the letter of the law is the body of the
law, and the sense and reason of the law is the soul of the
law, quia,ratio legis, est anima, legis."
-1And the law may be resembled to a nut, which has a shell
and a kernel within; the letter of the law represents the shell,
and the sense of it the kernel;. and as you will be no better for
the nut if you make use only of the shell, so you will receive
no benefits by the law if you rely only upon the letter." Eys.
ton v. Studd, Plowd. 465.
The argument for the plaintiff, that "the exemption has
reference to 'the Vessels, and not to the goods," sticks in the
letter, disreg-ards' the meaning and reason of the law, makes
use only of the shelli and tastes not of the kernel, - the sub-tan.ce and intention of the law. As it is the foreign character
'of the ships which subjects their cargoes to the discriminating
duties, so the exemption from sueh duties must be communicated by the ships to their cargoes through the .instrumentality
of a treaty (or oth%r cQuiva eub actj of the natien to which
the ships' belong, in extending a retvAocal exemption in her
ports to the ships of the UIb-ne States and their cargoes.
A reciprocal exemption tram disnimbiafing duties of tonnage and port charges only, oinittfi,? the reciprocal exemption
from the discriminating duties upon goods, wares, and mer-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

157

Oldfield v. Marriott.

chandise, did not entitle the Portuguese vessel Sandade Eterna to an entry and permit to her master to unload her cargo
of coffee exempt from the duty levied by the third section of
the act of 1846, operating as a discriminating, duty between
the cargoes of American vessels and of foreign vessels, according to Schedule I of the act.
Mr. Justice 'WAYNE delivered th6 opinion of the court.
This cause was tried and decided in the Circuit Court, upon
a statement of facts made by the parties.
The question arising from it is, whether or not the vessels
of Portugal are within that clause of the act of the 80th of
July, 1846, to reduce duties on imports, in which it is said
coffee and tea are exempt from duty when imported direct
from the place of their growth or production in American vessels, or in foreign vessels entitled by reciprocal treaties to be
exempt from dicriminating duties, tonnage, and other charges.
It is contended that Portuguese vessels are within the act,
upon a proper construction of it in connection with the second
article of 'the treaty with Portugal.
This article is in these words:-", Vessels of the United
States of America arrivirig, either laden or in ballast, in the ports
of the kingdom. and possessions of Portugal, and, reciprocally,
Portuguese vessels arriving, either laden or in ballast, in the ports
of the United States of America, shall be treated on their en,
trance, during their stay, and at their departure, upon the same
footing as national vessels coming from the-same place, with
respect to the duties of tonnage, lighthouse duties, pilotage,
port charges, as well as to the fees of public officers, and all
other duties and charges, of whatever kind or. denomination,
levied upon vessels of commerce in the name or to the profit
of the government, the local authorities, or of any public or
private establishment whatever." Its meaning is, that there
shall be an entire reciprocity of duties and charges upon the
vessels of the two nations in their respective ports; that is,
that Portuguese vessels in our ports shall pay no other charges
than American vessels do, and that American vessels in Portuguese ports shall be charged with the same duties as Portuguese vessels may be liable to pay. -'What these duties may
be shall be determined by each nation for its own ports.
There is not a word in the article relating to the duties upon
the cargoes-of tile vessels of either nation. Nor is there a provision in the treaty, -as we shall show there is in other treaties between the United States and other nations, - restricting
either nation from levying discriminating duties upon cargoea
carried by the vesseis of either into the ports of the other,
14
voL. x.

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

when they are made up of articles, merchandige, or manufactares the growth or production.of a different nation than that
to which the vessel carrying it belongs, or when the cargo shall
not be the production either of Portugal or of the United
States.
This is the view which both nations have taken of the second
article, and of the other parts of the treaty relating to the cargoes of vessels.
The Queen of Portugal, in October, 1841, in less than six
months after the ratification of the treaty had-been proclaimed
by the United States, promulgated a decree of the general
Cortes, imposing a discrimlnating duty upon, goods imported
in foreign vessels which were not, the production of the countyies. to which' such vessels might belong. The object of it
was to secure to Portuguese vessels the direct carrying-trade of
such merchandise to the ports of Portugal.
The United States did the same by the eleventh section of the
act of the 2h August, 1842, two years after the treaty was
made. It placed an additional duty of ten per centum above
the rates of duty fixed in the act, "upon goods, on the importation of which, in American or foreign vessels, a specific discrimination between them is not made in the act, which shall
-be imported in ships not of the United States."
This legislation was acted upon byboth nations without any
complaint, or even suggestion, that it was not in confonnity
-with the treaty stipulations between them. It shows that the
.views of both were that the vessels of bQth were to pey in
their respective ports the charges their own vessels were subjeeted to;, and no more, and that the duties upon -goods, not
of American or Portuguese production, imported into the ports
of either nafion'by the vessels of the other, might be made
liable to such tliscriminating duties as either might think
would give to their own vessels the direct trade of such articles.
We wl now show that'this practice of both nations was
exactly what the treaty itself had provided for between them.
The third, fourth, fifth, and sixth articles of the treaty relate
to the intioduction of merchandise into the two countries, and
re Pll that do so. The seventh and eighth exclude. frdm the
operation of those before them the coastwise trade of both
nations, and the ports and countries in the kingdom and
possession of Portugal where foreign coimerce and navigation were not admitted. And the thirteenth article is a nWutual
undertaKing, if either nation shall grant to any other nation a
particular favorin.navigation or commerce, that it shall become
common to the other party, upon the same terms upon which
the grant may be made. The third article provides that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

159

Oldfield v. Marriott.

productions of either nation shall be admitted into their respective ports upon payment of the same duty as would be
payable on the same merchandise if it. were the growth of
any other foreign country. No prohibition can be put upon
the importation or exportation of the produce of either nation
which shall not extend to all other foreign nations; nor shall
there be any higher or other duty in either country, upon the
exportation7 of articles to either from the other, than is put.
upon the like articles exported to any other foreign country.
As yet nothing has been said about the transportation of
commodities from one nation to the other, or from foreigrn
states. That is provided for in the fourth, fifth, and sixth articles. By the fourth, both nations can carry in their vessels
the productions of each into the ports of the other upon the
same terms, -the produce and manufactures of Portugal and
the United States, it must be remembered, not the produce
or manufactures of any -foreign country; for the stipulation in
the fifth article in respect to the transportation of these permits it to be done only whenever there may be lawfully imported into any or all of the ports of either nation, in vessels
of any foreign country, articles which are the growth, produce, or manufacture of a country other than that to which
the importing vessel shall belong. By the sixth article, the
vessels of both nations may exporE and re-export from the
ports of each all kinds of merchandise which can be lawfully
exported or re-exported from the ports of either, without paying
higher or other duties or charges than the same articles pay
when exported or re-exported in the .'essels of either nation.
From all this it must be seen that neither nation has a right
by the treaty to carry in its vessels to the ports of the other
the produce of foreign countries, except upon the payment of
such duties, discriminating and othervwise,. as each nation may
impose.
So stood both nations under the treaty from the time of ite
ratification, and under their respective legislation afterwards
relating to' duties upon cargoes of foreign produce, without any
misapprehension by either, or by the merchants of either, of
the privileges of commerce conferred by the treaty. Indeed,
there could have been none. But it was necessary to state
particularly what our treaty stipulations are, that the nature
of the claim now made for her vessels may be more fully
understood.
It is now said, that that which the treaty does not permit
the vessels of Portugal to do, our own legislation allows, in that
part of the act of 1846, to reduce duties on imports, which exempts coffee from any duty.

160

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

There was such a misapprehension for some time. It was
*acted upon, too, for several months by some of our merchants and collectors,. - perhaps until corrected in this instance.
The error arose from a misapplication of the act to the treaties
which we had with nations abolishing discriminating duties of
tonnage and pot dbharges, instead of.confining it to our treaties
with those of them in which the same thing had been done,
with the additional reciprocity, permitting our vessels and
theirs to import into the ports of either, on payment of the
same duties, the productions of other foreign countries, whether
they are shipped from the country in 7hich they are produced,
o from any other foreign country.
When the act of July 30, 1846, was passed, we had commercial treaties with twenty-four nations. Thirteen of them
-Russia,,
Austria, Prussia, Sweden, Denmark, Hanover, Sardinia, the Hanseatic cities, Greece, Venezuela, Brazil, Central
America, and Ecuador-"had acceded to the most liberal
and extended basis of maritime and commercial reciprocity."
They admit our vessels to enter their ports, whether coming
from. the United States or any other foreign country, laden or
in ballast, - whether laden with the produce of the United
States or of any other foreign country, -- paying the same
tonnage duties and. charges as national vessels; Our vessels
may clear from their ports, either for the United States or for
any foreign -country, wh~ther laden or in ballast, -whether
laden with national or any other produce. They admit the
produce of the United States to entry, either for consumption
or for re-exportation, on payment of the same duties and
charges as similar articles the produce of any other foreign
country pay, whether imported in American or national ves.sels; and the productions of other foreign countries, likewise,
-on payment of the same duties and charges, whether imported
in American or national vessels, and whether coming from the
United States, the country of production, or any other foreign
country. W64n re-exported, the productions of the United
States are allowed the same drawbacks as similar productions
of other couintries, whether originally imported in American
or national,'vessels; and other goods are allowed the same
bounties, whether exported in American or national vessels.
(Senate Report 80, 26th Congress, 1st Session.) These provisions give to us and to them a direct and indirect carrying
trade. Each, nation gets as much of both as its ability and
enterprise can secare; and gathers a supply of the produce of
other nations by foreign vessels, which they may not be able
to bring in their own.
Between the treaties of which we have been just speaking

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

161

Oldfield v. Marriott.

and our treaty with Portugal there is nothing in common,
except the provision in the latter abolishing discriminating
duties of tonnage and all other port charges upon vessels. In
the negotiation of our treaty with her, our Charg4 d'Affaires,
Mr. Kavanagh, was instructed to offer and to ask for the same
enlarged intercourse which we had with these nations. But
Portugal preferred to keep the direct trade, placing herself with
those nations which had denied to us the indirect trade, or the
transportation of foreign produce in our vessels from the place
of its growth to their ports.
Having shown that there are nations which have a right by
treaties to bring into our ports in their vessels the produce of
foreign nations, from the places of their production, upon the
same terms that our own vessels may import them, the act ex.
empting coffee from duty when brought in American vessels
direct from the place of its growth, or when brought by foreign
vessels -entitled by reciprocal treaties to be exempt from discriminating duties, tonnage, and other charges, has a plain intention and certain application. Its terms are no longer doubtful. No room is left for interpretation. The nations to which
it applies are known. If would, indeed, be a very wide construction to include other nations under the act, with which
the United States have no such reciprocity either by mutual
legislation or by treaties. If a different application of the act
is made, it opens a trade fo our ports in the article of coffee
in foreign vessels, which those nations deny to the United
States. The act itself shows a careful consideration of our
carrying trade of that article. Reciprocity is what the United
States had desired in that particular. It cannot be supposed
that Congress meant to disregard it, or that it was inadvertently done, or that, for some unavowed and undiscoverable
cause or reason, Congress has permitted foreign vessels to bring
into our ports, from the place of its growth or manufacture,
merchandise duty free, only because we have treaties with the
nations to which they belong abolishing duties of tonnage and
port charges. Such an interpretation of the act of July, 1846,
involves a departure from a point in our commercial system
which has never been yielded to any nation, except when reciprocally done, or where a compensating advantage has been
gained by doing so, which was supposed'to be the case in
our treaty with France of 1822. With Portugal there was no
such inducement. The plaintiff in error relies upon the second
article of the treaty with Portugal in cqanection with the tariff
act of July, 1846, and upon nothing else. They do not avail
for his purpose. The suggestion that such an interpretation
may be given to the act, because it might have been the inten14*

162

SUPREME

COURT.

Oldfield v. Marriott.

tion to givc the consumption of coffee duty free to the people
of the United States, is not at all probable. It surrenders a
principle more important, - one upon which the United States
have invariably acted, - not to grant an indirect trade to our
ports to any nation by which it is not reciprocated.
Our conclusion in this case affirms what has been the unvarying policy of the United States since they began as a
nation their commercial intercourse with other nations. Its
effects upon our own interests have been beneficial; its influence upon other nations has been ultimately decisive and successful.
much the
Perhaps it is not too much to say, -however
changed political and productive condition of nations, during
the last half-century, may have aided in liberalizing navigation
between them, - that it would not have been what it now is,
if it had not been for the stand taken by the United States, in respect to navigation and commerce, as early as 1785, which has
been kept ever since. Its basis was to ask for no exclusive
privileges and to grant none, - to offer to all nations, and to
ask from them, that entire reciprocity of navigation which is
made by each carrying to the other, in its own vessels, its
own productions and those of all nations, without regard to
the places from which they may be shipped, upon the same
terms, both as to vbssels and cargoes, as the vessels of each
nation may take them to its own ports. One great object
has been to produce such relations, either by corresponding
-legislation or by treaties; the latter being preferred, as legislative liberty totrade is too vague and uncertain to secure to a
nation all the advantages of its own commercial condition.
Thirty years, however, passed, before our proposals made any
impression upon the restricted navigation system of Europe,
and then only partially so. During all that time our vessels
could only take to the countries with which we traded the productions of the United States. Even that could not be done
to many of the ports and colonies of other nations. Repeated
efforts were made to get for our vessels a larger carrying
trade, by offers to all nations of the same reciprocity.
It may be said, as it has been, that our liberal views were
forced upon the United States, by the necessities of their commercial condition at the close of the Revolutionary war. It may
be so; but the remark admits the restraifits that were upon
navigation between nations, and it cannot be denied that the
application of them fo the United States brought its appropriate wisdom.
Our views upon commerce and navigation were a part and
parcel of fhe intellect and spirit oi our men of that day,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

163

Oldfield v. Marriott.

made what they were by the great events in which they had
borne their parts, and the difficulties which they saw were to
be overcome before their country would be put upon a commercial equality with other nations. The trade which the
States as colonies had been allowed with the other colonies of
England was cut off by our separation; that with the mother
country was subjected to the rigid exclusions of the third section of the navigation act of Charles II.chap. 12. The English system, too, in respect to navigatibn, had been adopted by
the other nations of Europe, with very slight exceptions, which
can scarcely be said to have been relaxations. Heavy duties
were laid upon our vessels and their cargoes by all of them.
The trade and navigation of the United States with all parts
of the world were altogether permissive, -such as each nation
chose to allow upon its own terms. Our treaty stipulations at
that time wfth France, the Netherlands, and Sweden were not
exceptions of any value. The only benefit from them was, that
the commerce and navigation of the United States could not
be burdened more than that of any other foreign nation. With
Great Britain, Spain, Portugal, and Denmark there was not
even that reciprocity. In such a state of things, the United
States began their career as a nation. How changed oui condition now!
Our views upon commerce were promulgated in the state
papers of that day. As early as 1785, Mr. John Adams, then
representing the U ited States in England, proposed a reciprocation of trade in the produce and manufactures of both Iations, and in foreign produce in the vessels of each, upon the
same terms and duties, upon the vessels and their cargqes, as
national vessels might pay. His proposals were rejected, with
a refusal to make any commerbial treaty with the United
States. Mr. Adams says, in a letter to MT
r. Jay, dated London,
21st October, 1785,-" This being the state of things, you may
depend upon it the commerce of Am ica will have np relief at
present, nor, in my opinion, ever, untit the United States shall
have generally passed navigation acts. If this measure is not
adopted we shall be derided, and the more we suffer the more
will our calamities be laughed-at. My most earnest exhortation to the States, then, is, and ought to be, to lose no time
in passing such acts." The temper of the times concerning
navigation and commerce generally, and towards the United
States especially. had been previously shown in Parliament by
its rejection of I&ir. Pitts bill "to permit vessels belonging to
citizens of the United.States to go into the ports of the West
India islands, with goods or merchandise of American origin,
and to export to the United States any merchandise or goods

164

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

whatever, subject only to the same duties and charges as if they
had been. the property of British natural-born subjects, and had
been exported and imported in British vessels." Afterwards
American vessels were altogether excluded from the British
West Indies, and the staple productions of the United States
could not be carried there even in British vessels.
The exhortation of Mr. Adams had been disregarded by most
of the States. Some of them adopted his recommendations,
but, as others refused to concur, they were unavailing. The
statesmen of England knew'that it would not be generally
done by the States, and thought, rightly too, that, as Congress
had not the "power by the Articles of Confederation to pass
national countervailing restrictions, England might trade with
some of the States directly, and through those indirectly with
the rest of them, upon her own terms. It was also truly said,
in reply to our offers to negotiate, that in a confederacy of
States, without plenary power to regulate their trade and navigation conjointly, it would be difficult to make and to exercise
treaty commercial arrangements between them. This result
awakened the American people to the full extent of their actual
and prospective commercial condition. Greater efforts were
made to get the States to pass connectively countervailing
restrictions. They were urged to do so by every argument
which could be drawn from these foreign restraints upon commerce which had already pressed the known enterprise of the
American people almost into inaction, - by all that aggravation of commercial distress which would inevitably follow from
the legislation of Great Britain in respect to American commerce since 1783, unless it was resisted. The newspaper essays of that day upon the subject will amply compensate a
perusal of them. Without such a perusal, and a careful attention to the acts of Parliament preceding that of the 28th
George III. ch. 6, in connection with tliat act, no one can have
an historical idea of American commerce, or of those causes
which so much lessened the harmony of feeling between the
two n.tions for so many years afterwards; now no longer felt,
and lost in the interest which both have in preserving their
present liberal commercial intercourse.
Still the States did not pas8 countervailing restrictions. On
that account mor6 than any other, those conventions were held
which happily terminated in the present Constitution of the
Uited States. The first countervailing act under it attracted
the attention of the nations of Europe, particularly of the
statesmen of Great Britain. The advantages which they had
in our former national condition were -lost. An English writer
says the acts passed by the first Congress that met under the

DECEMBER TERM, -1850.

165

Oldfield v. Marriott.

new form of government, imposing discriminating tonnage
duties, did not escape the notice of British statesmen. -Their
injurious effects upon the navigating interest of Great Biftain
were at once perceived by them. They saw that American
commerce was no longer at the mercy of thirteen distinct legislatures, nor subject to the control of the king and council.
As early as September, 1789, therefore, the acts imposing those
duties were referred to the lords of the Bbard of Trade, The
same coromittee was afterwards instructed to consider and report what were the proposals of a commercial nature it would
be proper fdr the government to make to the United States.
In January following, the committee made a report upon the
subject of -American duties, and also upon the general subject
of the commercial relations between the two countries. The
report was drawn up by Mr. Jenkinson, then Baron Hawkesbury, afterward Lord Lixverpool
On the subject of a -commercial treaty, especially in respect
to navigation, it states, -" After a full consideration 6f all that
has been offered on the subject of navigation, the committee
think that there is but one proposition which it would be advisable for the mil isters of Great Britain to make on this. head
to the government of the United States, in a negotiation for a
commercial treaty between the two countries; viz., that British
ships trading to the ports of the United States should be treated, with respect to the duties upon tonnage and imports, ih
like manner as the sbivs of the United States shall Pe treated
in the ports of Great Britain; and also, if Congress should
propose, as it certainly will, That this principle of, equality
should be extended to our colonies and islands, and that the
ships of the United States should be there treated as British
ships, it should be answered that this demand cannot be admit.
ted even as a subject of negotiation."
These extracts from that report show that the statesmen of
Great Britain did not entertain the liberal notions of trade and
navigation which ihen prevailed in the United States. They
were brought up under an opposite policy, which had long prevailed, - probably very proper at first, as a war measure, to
break up the carrying trade of the Dutch, the great rival of
Great Britain; but it haZI become with most of her vriters and
public men a fixed principle of the protection which each na,
tion should give to its trade and navigation against the competition of other nations. We do not intend to enter upon that
discusgion. But in confirmation of those differences of opinion
concerning trade and navigation which at that time existed
between American and British statesmen, we refer to Lord
Sheffield's contemporary strictures .on the necessity of inviola-

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

bly preserving the navigation and colonial system of Great
Britain.
Pursuing the point, however, that the stand originally taken
by the United States has contributed to the present extended
reciprocity of navigation between nations, we remark that the
example of -England towards the United States had directed
the commercial policy of all the other nations of Europe with
which the United States then traded. The utmost that could
be gained from France, Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden was, that our commerce with them should
be put upon the footing of the most favored nation. That,
however, was very short of what the United States had proposed to Great Britain and the other nations just mentioned.
Those nations, yielding to the commercial supremacy of
Great Britain, had not then made an effort to release themselves from it. Nor were they in a condition to do so. In
three years afterwards, the intelligence and enterprise of the
United States, unsubdued by past failures, induced them to
renew their efforts to gain a more extended trade and navigation. Mvr. Jefferson, then Secretary of State, made a report to
Congress upon the subject. It has the ability of every paper
written by him in his long political career. Air. Forsyth says
that it suggested, "First, friendly arrangements with the several
nations with whom the restrictions existed, or separate acts of
our legislation to counteract these defects. The end proposed
to be attained by the first would have been a free commerce
of exchange between the different nations in those descriptions
of commodities which nature had best fitted each to produce,
subject to such modifications as purposes of revenue might
render necessary; and it was 9upposed that its operation would
be an exchange of the raw materials then produced in the
United States, either for manufactures which had received the
last finish of art and industry, or mere luxuries. Failing this, the
alternative of statutory prohibitions and countervailing duties
and regulations was to be applied." (Report of the Secretary
of State to the Senate, 30th December, 1839.) Upon the earlier state papers and newspaper essays already mentioned,the report of Air. Jefferison, another by Mr. Hamilton (which
preceded it), and the proposals of Mr. Adams in 1785, -we
rest our assertion that the United States were in advance of
other nations in respect to the principles by which commerce
and navigation should be conducted between nations. The
refusal of Great ]3nt~in to meet our proposals in a corresponding spirit proves it. From what has been said, it must -be
admitted, also, that, from the beginning, the countervailing
commetcial legislation of the United States has been strictly

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

167

Oldfield v., Marriott

retaliatory. If further proof of either were wanting, it may be
found in the correspondence of iVMr. Jay, connected 'With his
negotiation of the treaty of 1794 with Great Britain, and in
the treaty itself. As all of us know, the restrictions which
were put upon our commerce by that treaty Were offensive to
the pride as well as the interests of the American people. But
being the utmost that England would yield at that time of her
owif long-established system, it was thought that the exigencies
of our commercial condition required its ratification. Results
proved it to be so. It did not reciprocate in any way the lib.
eral views of commerce which had been indulged in the United
States. But we now know that it was the most that could be
got; and history not only relieves Mr. Jay from the complaints
of that day, but places his memory far above them.
Notwithstanding the failure of every effort to place our navigation and commerce upon a better footing, nothing was done
legislatively by the United States from which it can be said
that there was any departure from the liberal policy which had
been. proposed to other nations. The natural advantages of
the United States, the value of our productions, and the wars
in Europe aiding the consumption of them, were constantly
overcoming foreign exclusions, and kept us forbearing, if not
always in good temper. In fact, except discriminating duties
upon tonnage in favor of our vessels, to countervail such as all
the nations of Europe had imposed in favor of their own ships,
of them intended to bear particularly upon American'
-several
commerce, - our legislation was, up to that time, and for
twenty years afterwards, exempt from every interference with
a free navigation. In 1812, as a war measure, Congress passed
an act doubling all duties upon goods imported into the United
States, with an additional duty of ten per cent. upon such as
might be brought in foreign vessels. The act also increased
the duty upon the tonnage of foreign ships one dollar -and fifty
cents. That it was strictly a war measure is shown by its
limitation to the continuance of the war with England.
When the war was at an end, and those in Europe had
ceased by the overthrow of Napoleon, the United States took
the earliest opportunity to renew their efforts for a more liberal
navigation than had been at any time allowed by the n~tions
of Europe with each other, or with the United States.
In March, 1815, Congress declared that the discriminating
duties laid by the act of July, 1812, upon foreign ships and
their cargoes, were no longer to be levied, when the President
should be satisfied that the discriminating arid countervailing
duties of any foreign nation had been abolished, so far as hey
operated to the disadvantage of the United'States. When

168

SUPREME C-OURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

that declaration was made, or shortly after it, our plenipotentiaries, Mr. John Quincy Adams, Mr. Clay, and Mr. Gallatin,
were in London, engaged in negotiating the commercial convention of 1815 with England. It is not doubted that the act
had its influ~ence upon the result. The convention contains
all that the act proposes. It was the first relaxation made by
Great Britain of her navigation laws in favor of free navigation,
and the first step taken to meet the liberal principles of commercial intercourse which had been proposed to all nations by
the United States so early in our history as has been already
stated. It secured national treatment for our vessels; equal
terms for cargoes, whether imported or exported in United
,States or English ships; equal import duties on the produce
of the United States, as on like articles the produce of other
foreign nations. But it still restricted the intercourse between
the two nations to the production of either, -in other words,
to the direct trade.
Every effdrt which had been made by the United, States, for
more than thirty years, to give and to get an indirect trade, had
failed. Indeed, the Continental nations were not only unwilling to make any such arrangement, but they refused to accdpt,
as England had done, the terms offered by the act of the 3d of
March, 1815. It was then determined to renew.the discriminating ddties which that act had modified. It was confidently
believed, that, by doing so, some of those nations which had
disregarded that act would be coerced to accept its terms. It
was done in April, 1816; and in January following" another
act was passed, subjecting foreign vessels coming from any port
or place to which the vessels of the United States were not
permitted to go and trade, to a duty of two dollars a ton. The
act was limited to six months; but in two months afterwards,
during the same session, Congress, believing that the indefinite
extension of it would effect ifs object sooner, passed such a law.
Within the year, Prussia, the Netherlands, and the Hanse
Towns, repealed their discriminating duties upon -American
vessels in their ports, and their vessels were consequently admitted into the ports of the United States upon corresponding
terms.
Much was gained, compared with what had been our carrying
trade. Still the great object, to get and to give an indirect trade,
had failed. It had been defeated by the refusal of England to
relax that clause of the navigation act of Charles' II. ch. 12,
which prohibited the produce and manufactures of every foreign country from being imported into Great Britain except in
British ships, or in such as were the real property of the people
of the countrv or place in which the goods were produced, or

DECEMBER- TERM, 1850.

169

Qldfield v. Marriott.

from which they could only be or were most usually exported.
The same principle had been adopted by the Continental nations to protect their own from the superior mercantile marine
of England. Its increase, too, of English tonnage and commerce, its influence upon both of the other nations of Europe,and the recollection of its ruinous effects upon the trade of the
Dutch, which it was originally meant to crush, had misled the
judgment of most European statesmen into th," conclusion
that it was an essential, regulation to protect the navigation of
each nation from the*competition of others. But the general
pacification of 1815 restored the long-suspended commercial
intercourse between them, and with it sounder views of trade.
It was believed, indeed it had become known, that there were
nations in Europe who had become as anxious as the United
States were to rid themselves of the restrictions imposed upon
their commerce by the English navigation act. They were
not, however, in a condition to do so immediately in respect to
each. other, or unitedly against the supremacy'of English navigation. Besides, our overtures to some of them for an indirect tiade had not been met with the promptness or decision
which had been anticipated. The time was favorable for more
efficient legislation by the United States than had been made
before. It was a matter of doubt and hesitation with many of
our public men what could or should be done in such a crisis.
Fortunately, there were those among them who, were more
decided; -and Congress determined to adopt the clause of the
English navigation act of which we had always complained,
with this proviso, however, that it should not be extended to
the vessels of any foreign nation which had not adopted and
which should not adopt a similar regulation. The proviso explains the purpose of the act of the 1st March, 1817. Before
that was passed, the United States had-not had a navigation
act. It was not, however, followed for several years by any
coincident result. But about that time an incident occurred in
the political world, which was destined to change, in a great
measure, the commercial intercourse between nations. It was
the revolt of the Spanish American provinces from Spain, and
the recognition of them by -kbe United States and by England
as independent nations. Both were anxious to secure a trade
with these new States. The United States sought it upon
terms of the most extended reciprocity, both as to vessels and
cargoes, -England with more commercial liberality than her
usual policy, without, however, yielding that main point of it
which prevented foreign vessels from having an indirect trade
to her ports. Indeed,.so fixed had that exclusion become with
the nations of Europe, that France, five years afterwards, would
15
VOL. X.

170

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriott.

not relinquish, in her treaty with the United States, her right to
impose discriminating duties upon cargoes brought into her
ports, by foreign vessels.
In 1825, the Ulited States reaped the first fruits of the act
of March 1, 1817. Then a treaty was made with Central
America, the first known between nations, establishing that
reciprocity, in respect to vessels and cargoes, which had been
offered forty years before by the United States to other nations,
and which had for seven years been tendered by the act of
Maich 1, 1817. That treaty was followed by others. Russia,
A'hstria, Prussia, Denmark, Sweden,. Sardinia, Greece, the
Hanseatic cities, Hanover, Brazil, Ecuador, and Venezuela made
treaties with the United States upon the same principle. The
vessels of each of those nations were permitted o carry into
the ports of the other, without discriminating duties, the productions of any foreign country, whether they were shipped
from. the places of production or elsewhere. In other words,
the vessels of the United States, under those treaties, carry on,
with those nations an indirect trade, which they can do in their
vessels to our ports. The act of 1817 was slow in producing
any arrangement of a like kind with Great Britain. But it
has ultimately done so. The original interpretation of it by
Mr.'Secretary Crawford having been renewed by Mr. Secretary
Walker's circular, after an interruption of several years, a negotiation was opened with England upon the subject, which
resulted in giving to both nations the full intention and benefit
of the act of the 1st March, 1817. Its operation, as'we have
said, had been suspended for several years, from some official
misapprehension of its import, when a case occurred in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the -Southern District of
New Yoik, in which the learned judge who presided gave the
first judicial interpretation of the act. Judge Betts in that case
reviews the legislative history of the act. The question presented in the case of the Redorder and her cargo was, whether
an importation into the port of New York by a British vessel
from London of a quantity of silks, the production of the British possessions in India, was prohibited by the first section ofthe act of 1st March, 1817. The court decided that the word
"country" used in the section comprehended the British possessions in India, and that consequently the importation was
lawful. The learned judge took occasion also to give his views
as to the effect of the proviso in the first section. Upon the
.publication of the court's opinionf the Secretary of the Treasury availed himself of its authority, in connection with what
had been the first interpretation of the act, and issued his circular on the 6th of November, 1847, to the collectors and officers

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

171

Oldfield v. Marriott.

of the customs, directing them that, "where it is satisfactorily
shown that any foreign nation allows American vessels, laden
with goods the growth, produce, or, manufacture of any country out of the United States, freely to enter and land such merchandise in any of the ports of said country, whether such
goods be carried directly from the place of origin, or from the
ports of the United States, or from any other country whatsoever, the penalties of the act of the 1st March, 1817, are
not to be enforced against the vessels of such nations bringing
like goods either from the country of production or from the
ports of the country to which the vessels may belong." The
opinion of Judge Bets and Secretary Walker's circular led to
a negotiation, which terminated in Great Britain passing, in
1849, the statute of 12 and 13 Victoria, ch. 49, and thus accomplished the great purpose of our policy which had been
proposed by the United States to the nations of Europe, to
England particularly, in 1785, by Mr. Adams. The circular.
of Mr. Meredith of the 15th October, 1849, shows what that
policy was, and why it was issued. We give it at length.
"In consequence of questions submitted by merchants and
others, asking, in consideration of the recent alteration of the
British navigation laws, on what footing the commercial Telations between the United States and Great Britain will be
placed on and after the first day of January next, - the day on
which the recent act of the British Parliament goes into operation, -the Department deems it expedient at this time to issue
the following general instructions for the information of the
officers of the customs and others interested.
"First. In"consequence of the alterations of the British navigation laws, above referred to, British vessels, from British or
other foreign ports, will, under our existing laws, after the first
day of January next, be allowed to enter our ports with cargoes
of the growth, manufacture, or production of any part of the
world.
"Second. Such vessels'and their cargoes will be admitted,
from and after the date before mentioned, on the same terms
as to duties, imposts, and charges, as vessels of the United
States and their cargoes."
With such facts to sustain it as have been recited, - and
they are all official, - it may very truly be said that the r:3ciprocity of navigation now existing between nations, and particularly between Great Britain and the United States, is in a
great degree owing to the perseverance of the United States in
proposing and contending for it for more than sixty years. It
cannot, therefore, be said, as it has been by more than one foreign writer, that, after the American Colonies had established

172

SUPREME COURT.
Oldfield v. Marriot.

their independence, they set about to form a code of navigation"
laws on the model.of those of England. Those writers have
mistaken our legislation for our history, without seeking in the
latter the causes of the former.
Discriminating duties were never laid by Congress, except
they were retaliatory, and for the purpose of coercing other nations to a modification or repeal of their restrictions upon commerce and navigation. The leading point and constantly
avowed intention of the United States have been, to produce
that reciprocity of trade for the vessels of different nations
which had been denied by the nations of Europe for more than
two hundred years. It was the American system confradi§tinguished from the European, - the last now happily no
longer so to the extent of its former and long-continued exclu.sivenesso
The judgment of the Circuit Court is affirmed.
Note. -It
has been stated that the opinion of Judge Betts
and Secretary Walker's circular led to a negotiation, which
terminated-in Great-Britain passing, in 1849, the statute of 12
and 13 Victoria, and thus accomplished the great purpose of
our policy, which had been proposed by the United States to
the nations of Europe, and to England particularly, by Mr.
Adams in 1785. Mr. Walker's circular of November 6th, 1847,
restoring the construction given to the act of March 1, 1817, by
Mr. Crawford having been cited, the importance of the subject
will justify a reference to anbther official document.
On the 18th of January, 1849, Mr. Buchanan, then Secre.
tary of State, referred to the Secretary of the Treasury a note
,of the British Charg6, Mr. Crampton, requesting the views of
the United States government, as. to the effect here of the
proposed change of the British navigation laws. In his reply
of the 31st January, 1849, to the letter of Mr Buchanan, Mr.
Walker, in discussing the subject, made the following remarks.
"The alterations in the navigation laws of Great Britain,
,contemplated by the printed memorandum accompanying
Mr. Crampton's note, if adopted to the extent proposed
therein, it is conceived, would remove most of the restrictions
and disabilities to which our navigation and commercial interests are at present subjected in their intercourse with Great
Britain and her colonies, and if the privileges proposed by
the measure to be accorded to her colonies should be exercised
in a liberal spirit, all the restrictions and disabilities which
have heretofore attended our intercourse with said colonies
would be likely to be removed.
" Arbitrary restiictions upon navigation or trade are as ad-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

173

Oldfield.v. Marr.ott.

verse to the liberal spirit of our institutions as they are opposed
to our true interests. The navigation act of the 1st of March,
1817, was passed with a view to counteract the restrictive policy of other nations, and mainly in 'eference to that of Great
Britain, operating as was alleged to the prejudice of our shipping and trade.
"4In pursuance of the construction given to the before-mentioned act of 1817, and its present practical operation, as contained in the accompanying copy of circular instructions issued
to the officers of the customs, under date of the 6th of November, 1847, it will be perceived that its provisions are not construed to prohibit any foreign nation from pursuing the" indirect
bade with the United States, provided such nation does not
interdict the shipping of the United States from carrying on a
similar trade with her ports and possessions. Consequently,
should Great Britain remove her restrictions in this particular,
no additional leMgislation on our part would be necessary to extend to her shipping the privilege referred to."
This official construction by the Treasury Department of the
act of 1st March, 1817, was communicated in February, 1849,
by the Secretary of State,.to the British Charg6, and by him it
was transmitted to his government, by whom, after full deliberation and legal advisement, it was adopted as the true interpretation of the act of 1817. As a consequence, the act of
Parliament, before referred to, was submitted as a ministerial
rmeasure by the British Cabinet, and became a law early in
1849; upon the express assurance of the ministry that our act
of 1817 would thus, proprio vigo'ore, be brought into operation,
the British act being but an acceptance of the term of reciprocity in the trade, direct and indirect, between the two countries, tendered by the American Congress in 1817. Mr. Meredith, in his circular, consummated the views of M. Crawford,
Judge Betts, and Mr. Walker, and put into effect the act of
1817; in this way restoring the original construction of it
which had been given by Mr. Crawford, but which had been
suspended by a Treasury circular issiiea by Mr. Forward, on
the 6th of July, 1842, upon an opinion given by Mr. Legar6,
then Attorney-General, which was overruled by the decision
of Judge Betts in the case of the Recorder and her cargo.
Thus, after the lapse of sixty-four years from our first offer,
in 1785, and thirty-two years from our second offer, in 1817,
Great Britain, in 1849, abandoned her restrictions upon Amer.
ican vessels, and accepted the full reciprocity in the trade,
direct and indirect, so long tendered to all nations by the
United States.

SUPREME COURT.

174

Hallett et al. v. Collins.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the rec-

ord of the Circuit Court of the United -States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
where6of, it is now here, ordered and adjudged by-this court, that

the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

WI LLIArI

R.

HALLETT AND ROBERT L. WALKER, ExEcUToRs OF JOSHUA

KENNEDY, DECEASED, JOHN G. AiKiN AND CLARISSA HIS WIFE, JOHN
H. HASTIE AND HIS WIFE SECLUDA, AUGUSTUS R. MESLIER AND HIS

WIFE, MARY AVGUSTA KENNEDY, JOSHUA KENNEDY, JAIgES INERARITY, SA'IUEL KITCHEN, WVILLIADI KIT( JEN, JAIES CAMPBELL, AND THE

BRANCH BANE OF THE STATE OF ALt-BAIA AT MOBILE, ArPELLANTS,
V. SIDNEY E. COLLINS.
In order to constitute a valid marriage in the Spanish colonies, all that was necessary was that there should be consent joined with the will to marry.
Tie ouncil of Trent, in 1563, required that marriage should be celebrated before
the paris4 or other priest, or by license of the ordinary and before two or three
witnesses. This decree was adopted by the king of Spain in his European dominions, bat not extended to the colonies, in which the rule above mentioned, established by the Partidas, was'permitted to remain unchanged.
An ecclesiastical decree, proprio vzgore, could not affect the status or civil relations of
persons. This could only be effected by the supreme civil power.
In 1803, Collins obtained from the military commandant at Mobile a permit to take
possession of a lot of ground near that place, and made a contract with William E.
Kennedy that the latter should improve it, so as to lay the foundation for a perfect
title, and then they were to divide the lot equally.
Kennedy's ownership of a hostile claim, whether held theu or acquired subsequently,
enured to the joint benefit of himself and Collins; and when Kennedy obtained a
confirmation of his title under the acts of the commissioners appointed under an
act of Congress, he became a trustee for Collins to the extent of one half of the lot.
The deeds afterwards made by Kennedy, under the circumstances of the case, did
butwith
the it.assignee, having full knowledge of the trust, must
not destroy this trust;
be held bound to comply
for an inadequate consideration, from the heirs of
releises,
obtained
This assignee
Collins, who had just come of age,'were poor, and ignorant of their rights. These
releases were void.
Before Kennedy conveyed to the assignee just spoken of, he had conveyed the prop.
erty to another person who held it as a security for a debt; and who, when the
debt was paid, transferred it to the same assignee to whom Kennedy had conveyed
it. This added no strength to ,the title, but pnly gave to this assignee a claim to
be reimbursed for the money which he paid to extinguish the. debt
)The absence of the complainant from the State, and the late discovery of 'the fraud,
account for the delay and apparent laches in prosecuting his claim.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama.
The controversy had its origin, in transactions long-anterior

