224

SUPREME COURT.
Trigg et aL Iv. Drew.

in the legal currency of the country; and, secondly, that, if
otherwise, the obligor in this case has expressly stipulated to
pay the debt in specie or its equivalent.
Mr. Justice GRIER.
I concur withmy brother Nelson.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of .Arkansas, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration vhereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum.

JAMES TRIGG, RICHARD PRYOR, AND JOHN W. PAUP, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. THomrs S. DREW, As GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, AND SUCCESSOR OF AuCHIBALp YELL, DECEASED.
The decision in the preceding case of Paup et aL v. Drew again affirmed.

THIS case, like the two preceding, was brought up, by writ
of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of' Arkansas.
It was similar to the case of Paup et al. v. Drew, except that
Trigg was here the principal instead of.being the surety, and
the amount of the bonds was greater, because Trigg purchased
a larger amount of land. In every other respect, the cases
were identical, and therefore neither the statement nor arguments of counsel need be repeated. Trigg's debt was $ 6,860,
and the judgment against him for that sum, with $ 3,849.10
interest and costs, with interest on the debt and damages at
the rate of ten per cent. per annum, from the 23d of December,
1847, till paid.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, from the Supreme Court of Arkansas, on a
writ of error.
An action was commenced in the Pulaski Circuit Court, on
certain bonds given by the plaintiffs in error to Archibald Yell,
Governor of the State of Arkansas, and his successors in office,
to pay certain sums of money at the time specified, which

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

225

Greely v. Thompson et al.

bonds were negotiable at the principal bank of the State of
Arkansas, and to be paid "in specie or its equivalent," &c., in
payment for certain tracts of land, sold by the Governor under
a law of the State, as a part of the Seninary lands given by
Congress for the support of a seminary, under certain acts of
Congress.
A plea was filed, setting up in defence a tender of the notes
of the State Bank of Arkansas, and that in the charter of said
bank the State bound itself to receive said notes in payment
of debts, &c.
A judgment was finally entered against the defendants below, for ten thousand seven hundred and nine dollars and ten
cents, and costs. That judgment was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas, and was there affirmed.
As this case is similar in principle to the above case of Paup
et al., it is unnecessary to repeat the reasons assigned in that
case for the judgment of the court. The judgment of the State
court is affirmed.

Note by Ihe Reporter.- For the separate opinions of Mr.
Justice CATRON, MIr. Justice DANIEL, lr. Justice N-ELSON, and Mlr. Justice GRIER, see the preceding case of Paup
et al. v. Drew,.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

PHILIP GREELY, JUNIOR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM THOMiPSON
AND WILLIAM HENRY FORMAN, MERCHANTS AND COPARTNERS, TRADING
UNDER THE STVLE AND FIRnt OF THOMPSON AND FORIAN, ALIENS
AND RESIDENTS or LONDON, DEFENDANTS.
In an action brought against a collector for the return of duties paid under protest,
it was not competent for him to give in evidence a letter from the Secretary of the
Treasury, to show that the'removal of one of the merchant appraisers was done by
his order.
The legality of such removal as to third persons was valid or not, according as the
collector possessed legal power tojuake it on the facts of the case. Courts must

