SUPREME COURT.
Shelby v. Bacon et aL

ISAAC SHELBY, COMPLAINANT, V. Jom BACON, ALEXANDER SymjNOTON, THOMAS ROBINS, JAMES ROBERTSON, RICHARD H. BAYARD,
JA ES S. NEWBOLD, HERMAN CoPH, THOMAS S. TAYLOR, AND
GEORGE BEACH.
By a statute of Pennsylvania, passed in 1836, "assignees for the benefit of creditors and other trustees" were directed to record the assignment, file an inventory
of the property colveyed, which should be sworn to, have it appraised, and give
bond for the faithful performance of the trus all of which proceedings were to be
bad in one of the State courts.
This court was vested with the power of citing tht assignees before it, at the instance of a creditor who alleged that the trust was not faithfully executed.
"he
of the
of1 ,the
ad
by Pennsylvania,
recorded
theassignees
assignment
as Bank
directe
andUnited
filed accounts
of their receipts
and disbursements
the prescribed
court,
which wereafterwards
sanctioned
by athat
court.
A in
citizen
of the State
of Kentucky
filed
biUlin
the Circuit Court of the
United
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, against these assiguces, who
pleaded States
to the for'the
jurisdiction
of the court.
principle is well settled, that where two or more tribunals have
ae
a concnrrent jurisdiction over the same suhject-mgtter and the parties, a suit commenced in any
one of them may be pleaded in abatement to anuaction for the same cause in any
other.
But
thenotproceedings
in theand
State.court
'was
be considered
as a suit.
complied with_
Thestillstatute
even if it cannot
had been,
the Ciruit'Courvt
wend
hare
Sad jurisdiction over the matter.

THIs cause came up on a certificate of division of opinion
between the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastetn District of Pennsylvania.
The complainant was a citizen of Kentucky, and the defendants were all citizens of Pennsylvania. The latter (under
three
7th of June
and tlie 4th and
6th assignments
September,
eof bearing
1841) date
werethe
trustees
of the
Bank of tne
United
States,
a
banking
istitution
incorporatd
.bythe Legislature of the State of Pennsylvania, by an act passed
on the
18th
day
of February,
1S36. being unable to meet its liabilities,
oIt appeared
that the bank,
made an ssignment of a part of its property on the 1st
of
Btay, 1841, to certainth ustees, to secure the payment of sundry
wapost-nots, held by ceritain banks of the, city and county
of
Philadelphia. Afterwards, on the 7th of June, 1841, it made
another assignment of a portion f its property to the defendants Bacon, Symington, and Robins, in ust to secure the
payment of its bank-notes and dep sits. Subsequently, two other
assignments were made by the bank to
The
defendants Robertson,
Newbold,
Cope,theand
Taylor,
in trust
the paymentBayard,
of its debts
generally,
first
of which
was for
executed
on
the 4th, and the other on the 6th of September, 1841. These
several assignments were duly recorded, and the trustees
accepted and proceeded to minister the tusts.
The bill and amended bill, after setting forth the chartering

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

57

Shelby v. Bacon et al.

of the bank, and the assignment of its property to the defendants in trust, nlleged that on the 6th day of September, 1841,
one George Beach, a citizen of Pennsylvania, recovered a judgment in the District Court for the city and county of Philadelphia, against the said bank, for the sum of $ 53,688.66, besides
interest and costs; that this judgment was founded on promissory notes of said bank, called post-notes. That subsequently
the said George Beach, in a suit on said judgment, in the
Commercial Court of New Orleans, recovered a judgment for
the sum of $ 53,688.66, with interest thereon and costs; on
which the sum of $ 4,075 was paid; and that *the residue of
both said judgments remains unpaid. The bill then alleged,
that through several mesne assignments the complainant became invested with all right under said judgments; that the
debt due is provided for in said assignments, but that the
trustees have refused to pay any part thereof; 'and that they
have kept complainant and other creditors in ignorance of the
situation of the trust funds. Prayer for a decree for an account
of the trust, for the payment of complainant's debt in full or a
distributive share thereof, and for general relief.
The defendants Robertson, Bayard, Newbold, Cope, and
Taylor pleaded as follows :" That the said corporation mentioned in said comprainant's
bill, viz. the President, Directors, and Company of the Bank
of the United States, incorporated by the State of Pennsylvania, and having its banking-house and chief place of business
in the city of Philadelphia, did, on the fourth .and sixth days
of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and
forty-one, execute and deliver to these defendants assignments
and transfers of certain property upon trusts therein particularly set forth, - as by reference to copies of said assignments at.
tached hereto, and made by reference part of this their plea,
will fully and at large appear; that said assignments, after
having been duly proved, were afterwards, to wit, on the fourth
and seventh days of September, A. D. 1841, recorded, according
to the statute of Pennsylvania in such case made and provided in the office for the recording of deeds, &c., for the city and
county of Philadelphia, -the execution of the trusts thereof
having been previously accepted by these defendants. And
these defendants further aver, that, in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the said State of Pennsylvania, full and
complete jurisdiction of and over the said trust fund so conveyed to these defendants, and of and over the execution of
the said trusts, and of and over these defendants personally, as
trustees as aforesaid, was and is vested in the Court of Common Pleas of the city and county of Philadelphia, which now

58

SUPREME COURT.
Shelby v. Bacon et al.

has cognizance bf the same, with ample power and authority
in said tribunal to enforce the execution of the said trusts, to
decide upon the rights of all parties claiming an interest therein,and right and justice fully to administer in the premises;
that, in the execution of the trusts aforesaid, and the collection
of the assets so assigned to them, these defendants have been
governed by the laws of Pennsylvania, and, among other
things, by certain laws-of the said State, by which they have
b~en c6mpelled to accept and receive from their debtors, in
payment-of debts due to the said bank or to the said trustees,
at par, the notes andother evidences of debt issued or created
by the said bank; aid the defendants further aver, that, having in part executed the trusts so as above committed to them,
they did, on the seventh day of January, A. D. 1843, file in the
office of the prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas aforesaid an acount, duly verified, of their receipts and disburse.
ments, and vf their acts and doings, -as trustees as aforesaid,
from the commencement of said trust down to the first day of
January, A. . 1843 ;- and subsequently, to wit, on the thir.
teenth day of January, A. D. 1844, they did file a further account in the office aforesaid, and duly verified as aforesaid, of
their receipts and disbursements, acts and doings, as aforesaid,
down to the first day of January in the year 1844, which said
accounts were absolutely confirmed by the said court, agreeably to the laws of the said State; and the defendants further
-aver, hat'on the seventeenth day of January, 1845, and on the
thirteenth day of January, 1846, respectively, they 'filed additional accounts as aforesaid, in the office aforesaid, showing
their receipts and disbursements, acts and doings, aforesaid
down to the first day of January, A. . 1846, which said last.
mentioned accounts were referred by the said court to auditors,
who have made reports thereon, respectively, to the said court;
and the defendants further aver, that, on the fourteenth day of
January, A. ). 1847, they filed another' account as aforesai,
showing their administration of said trust down to the first day
of January, A. D. 1847, which said last-mentioned account was
likewise referred by the said court to auditors, before whom
the same is flow pending, - as byreference to the records of
the said court will fully appear; and these defendants further
aver, that, in pursuance of the direction and decree of the said
court, they have distributed and paid over large sums of m'oney, being the proceeds of the assets assigned to them as aforesaid, and have likewise, under the direction of the said court,
invested large sums of money to await the result of pending
litigation, and in all other respects have conformed to-the directions of the said court in relation- to the trust aforesaid.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

59

Shelby v. Bac6n et aL

" All which matters and things these defendants do ever tn
be true, and plead the same to the whole of the said bill, and
humbly demand the judgment of this honorable court, whether
they ought to be compelled to make ansWer'to the said bill of
complaint; and humbly pray to be hence dismissed, with reasonable costs and charges in this behalf most wrongfully sustained."
The other defendants pleaded the same plea in substance,
reddendo singula singwlis.
The cause coming on to be heard on the amended bill and
pleas, the judges were divided in opinion on the following
points.
"First. *Whether the facts stated in the plpa to the amended
bill filed by John. Bacon, Alexander Symington, and Thomas
Robins, deprive this court of jurisdiction of the case, and
whether the said plea is a sufficient plea to the plaintiff's bill,
and ought to bd allowed.
" Second. Whether the facts stated in the plea to the amend.
ed bill, filed by the defendants, James Robertson, Richard H.
Bayard, James S. Newbold, Herman Cope, and Thomas S.
Taylor, deprive this court of jurisdiction of the case, and
whether the said plea is a sufficient plea to the plaintiff'a bill,
and ought to be allowed."
The following sections of the Act .of Assembly of Pennsylvania, of 14th June, 1836, were relied on in vrgument, ahd are
therefore inserted.
"Sect VII. It shall be lawful for the Court of Common
Pleas of the 'proper cointy, on the application of any person
interested, or. co-trustee or co-assignee, to issue a citation to
any assignee or trustee for the benefit -of creditors, whether appointed by any voluntary assignment, or in pursuance of the
laws relating to insolvent debtors and domestic attachments,
requiring such assignee or trustee to appear and exhibit, under
oath or affirmation, the accounts of the trust in the said court.
within a certain time, to be named- in such citation.
" Sect. IX. 'The several Courts of Common Pleas shall, by
a general order, or by such order as the circumstances of any
particular case may rejuire, direct the prothon'otary of the
same court to give notice of the exhibition and filing of every
account as aforesaid, during s&ch time, and in such public
newspapers, as they shall appoint, setting forth in such notice,.
that the accounts will be allowed by the courts at a certain
time, to be stated in such notice, unless cause be shown why
such account should not be allowed.
49Sect. XL Whenever it shall'be made to appear in 'a Court of Common Pleas, having jurisdiction as aforesaid, that an as-

60

SUPREME
She

COURT.

v..Bacon et al.

signee or trustee as aforesaid has neglected or refused, 'when
required by law, to file a true and complete inventory, or to
give bond with surety, when so required by law, or to fie accounts of his trust, or that such assignee or trustee is wasting,
neglecting, or mismanaging the trust estate, or is in failing circumstances, or about to remove out of the jurisdiction of the
court, in any such case it shall be lawful for such .court to issue
.a citation t& such asignee or trustee to appear-before the
cour, at a time to be therein named, to show cause why he
should not be dismissed from his trust.
" Sect. XIL On the return of such citation, the court may
require such security,.or such other and further security fr6m
such assignee or trustee, as they may think reasonable, or may
proceed at once to dismiss such assignee or trustee from the
trust.
"Sect. XIII The like proceedingg may be had whenever it
shall be made to appear to such court, that any-person whb
shall have become surety for any assignee or trustee as aforesaid, in any bond, given for the due execution of the trust, is
in failing circumstances, or has removed out of this Commonwealth, or signified his intention so to do."
The case was argued by Mr. Clay, for the complainant, and
by Mr. Win. A. Porter and Mr. George M. Wharton, for the
defendants.
Mr. Clay, for complainant.
The Bank-of the United States, chartered by the State of
Pennsylvania,'having become insolvent, executed several deeds
of trust conveying all their assets for the purpose of paying
their debts, according to classifications- of them described in
the said deeds. By two of the same deeds provision was made
for the payment of the debt of the complainant., to recover satisfaction for which is the object of this suit. That debt originally existed in the form of post-notes. These post-notes were
reduced to a judgment, in the name of George Beach, obtained
in the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia. This judgment, by various assignments, was transferred to the complainant, and became his property.
The defendants refused to pay the amount of this judgment.
They refused even to recognize the complainant as one of the
creditbrs of the bank, who was entitled to a ratable proportion of the assets of the bank, transferred to the defendants, in
common for his benefit and that of other creditors.
It was under these circumstances that the complainant instituted this suit The objects of this suit were, first, to compel
the defendants to admit the complainant as one of the cred-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

61

Shelby v. Bacon et aL

itors, to receive his distributive share of the common fund*
second, to have-an account of the execution of the-trust, as far
as the defendants had proceeded in it; third, to compel the defendants to complete the execution of the trust, by collecting,
selling, and distributing all the assets on which they have not
previously administered.
The complainant is a citizen of Kentucky, and the defendants are citizens of Pennsylvania. The parties, therefore, stand
exactly in that relation to each other, which, according to the
provision of the Constitution of the United States and the law
of the United States, entitled the Federal judiciary to entertain jurisdiction of the controversy. In consequence, the complainant brought this in the Circuit Court of the United States
or the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The defendants pleaded to the jurisdiction of the court.
Their plea, in siubstance, is, that by the local laws of Pennsylvania jurisdiction is conferred upon one of her local tribunals
over all matters of trust, to control, manage, and finally and ex.o
clusively to settle and close them. That the defendants have
proceeded before that tribunal, in part, to settle and account for
the assets which they have received; and that they are only
amenable to that local tribunal for the further and complete
execution of the entire trust.
The two judges composing the Circuit Court of'the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, being divided
in opinion as to the sufficiency of this plea to the jurisdiction
of the court, gertified that difference, and the question and only
question which this court has now to determine is, whether thii
Circuit Court had or had not jurisdiction of the cause.
That question involves two others ;- first, had the complainant a right, by the Constitution and the law of the United
States, to resort to the Federal tribunal; and secondly, whether
he could be divested of that right by. the laws of any State, in
the passage of which he had no voice. To which may be
added a third question, and that is, whether, if the State of
Pennsylvania could divest a citizen of Kentucky of a right with
which he is invested by the Constitution of the United States,
that has been done by the laws of that Stite, and the proceedings which have taken place under them.
The mere statement of these questions is an answer to them.
The .Constitution of the United States expressly confides to
the Federal judiciary all controversies arising between citizens
of different States. It is the constitutional privilege, therefore#
of a citizen of one State to sue -a citizen of another State in
the tribunal which is common to them both. He cannot be
deprived of this right by any act of the State of which he is
voL. x.
6

SUPBEME COURT.
Shelby

;.

Bacon et al.

not a citizen. Nor is this right at all impaired or affected by
the nature or object of the suit.which he prosecutes. It cannot
be contended, that, because .the subject-matter, of controversy
arises out of the local laws of a State, he is bound to submit
to the'tribunals of that State, and is stripped of his privilege to
appeal to the Federal tribunal. It is true, when he goes before
the latter, that is bound, in the particular case, to administer
the laws of the State which govern it. But the Constitution
of the United States is founded "on the presumption, that the
Fede l judiciary will be less biased and more impartial in the
administration of justice between citizens of different States
thar'tfie local tribunal.of one of them would be.
If, by any arrangement of its own laws and tribunals, a
State or Legislature of a State could divest the Federal judiciary of that braich. of its jurisdiction which relates to controversiis between citizens of different States, it might, by other
or similar arrangements, divest their judiciary of all judicial
granted to it by the Constitution of the United State.
power
* So careful
has Congress been to preserve to the citizens of
different States their right to be henrd before the Federal tribunal, that it has provided, by the act of 1789, that when a
citizen of one' State is sued by a citizen of another State, in a
State court, the defendant may remove the cause into the Federal court.
- It is not, therefore, true, as a -universal proposition, that in
cases of concurrent jurisdiction the court that first acquires it
can hold fast -on the case, to the exclusion of the concurrent
court.
If the defendant fail to avail himself of his 'privilege to remove the cauie in due season, he deprives himself of the bene.
fit of the Federal tribunal, and is bound to submit to the
local jurisdiction. But itis not pretended that the complainant in this cause has ever waived his right to the Federal jurisdiction. Hewas no party to the proceedings of ihe trustecs in
the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia. No process
from that court was ever served upon him; no opportunity
ever existed, theref6re, for him to remove the cause from the
local to the Federal tribunal. And if such opportunity had
presented itselfl the conplainant, being only one of the numerous persons concerned W,the trust, could not have removed the
settlement of the aceuiits of the trustees from the Court of
Common Pleas of Philadelphia to the Circuit Court of the
United States.
" I submit, then, with great confidence, to the court, that the
Constitution of the United Sta-es, which is paramount to all
State constitutions and laws, having secured to Isaac Shelby,

DECEMBER TERMf, 1850.

63

Shelby v. Bacon et aL

the complainant, a citizen of Kentucky, the privilege of bringing his suit in the Circuit Court of the United States against
the defendants, citizens of Pennsylvania, the power of that
State is incompetent to deprive him of that privilege. Upon
an examination of the laws of Pennsylvania in relation to
trusts, the.settlement of trustees' accounts, and the distribution
of trust funds, it will be found, I think, that the jurisdiction
conferred on the several Courts of Common Pleas was only
preliminary and precautionary', and not final and absolutely
conclusive. The object was, on the one hand, to exert a salutary supervisory authority over the trustees, to prevent the
waste and misapplication of the trust funds, and, on the other,
to afford protection and security to the trustees, by the sanctidn of a court of justice, in the periodical settlement of their
accounts, and in the investment and distribution of the trust
funds.
The provisions in the laws of Pennsylvania bear a strong
similitude to the laws which prevail in all the States, in respect
to the settlement of the accounts of executors and- administrators. The County Courts and the Courts of Probate have full
jurisdiction over executors and administrators, their removal,
the settlement of their ac'ounts, and the final distribution of
the estates of the deceased. It has never been thought or contended that their jurisdiction excludes that of courts of justice,
to which appeals are made for a revisal of the conduct and aCcounts of such-executors and administrators; and on such appeals, what has been done under the sanction of the County
Court or Court of Probate will be so far respected as to be
presumed to be rightly done, and the onus probandi will be
thrown on the party impeaching it. So, in a case of the settlement of a trustee's account before the Court of Common Pleas,.
the account will be held primd faie evidence of a proper settlement, until the cqntrary be shown by the party contesting it.
Assuming that the Court of Common Pleas has any exclusive jurisdiction over these trusts and their administration, what
is the extent of that exclusive jurisdiction? It must be limited
to what has been actually done by that court, or is-now pending before it. It cannot extend to the question, for example,
of the rights of Isaac Shelby, which are not submitted to that
court. It cannot extend to what remains to be done in the execution of the trust, that is to say, in collecting outstanding
debts, selling real estate and other property not yet disposed of,
collecting the proceeds of sale, &c., &c. These are matters
.which are not now before the Court of Common Pleas, -which
may never be brought by the trustees before it, hut which are
properly and legitimately included in this suit.

SUPREME

COURT.

Shelby v. Bacon et aL

I made an examination into the laws of Pennsylvania in respect to trustees some time ago, and regret I have been unable
to refresh my recollection of them by a perusal at this time.
If my memory does not deceive me, they recognize, if they do
not expressly authorize, the investigation of the conduct of
trustees before other tribunals than the Court of Common
Pleas.
Messrs. Porterand Wharton, for the defendants.
The judgment on which the complainant claimed was re,covered after the assignments, and was assigned to him after
the accounts of the trustees had been settled in the Common
Pleas-of Philadelphia, without exception or appeal. The complainant claims subject to the assignments, and not against
them. When he took the transfer of the judgment, he was
bound to inquire what had been done or permitted by his as.signors. It is a fair legal presumption, that he knew the accounts had been filed in the Common Pleas, and that the jurisdiction of that court had attached to the subject-matter of the
trust. Shall he be allowed to upturn what has been done in
that couft?
The law of Pennsylvania is, that -such accounts, although
partial; are nevertheless conclusive in favor of the accountants,
when properly filed; settled, and confirmed, Moore's Appeal,
10 Barr, 485; Weber v:. Samuel, 7 Barr, 499. The trustees
have relied on this principle, and have regulated their conduct
by it. Shall they have its protection? or shall they be required
to resettle their past, and file their future accounts in the Federal court?
The argument of the complainant's counsel-assumes that
there is no such thing as a proceeding, and an adjudication in
.rem, which, by its operation on the subject-matter, shall bind
the world, no matter who the parties claimant may bi, or where
they may reside. In the case of a vessel seized under a replevin issued out of a State court, and-process subsequently
issued out of the, admiralty against the same vessel, the former
retains the jurisdiction. Taylor v. Royal Saxon, 1 Wallace, jr.
311. Here the suitor was turned out of the admiralty, not for
any defect ia his cause of action, nor because the question had
been decided, but because the replevin was pending in the State
court. In the case of an attachment of money in the State
court, and an oction against the debtor in the Federal court,
the former, having first obtained possession of the subject, retains jurisdiction over it. Wallace v. AlcConnell, 13 Peters,
136. The question is not as to the original right of the party
to come into this court, but is it a proceeding in rem ? Has

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

65

Shelby v. Bacon. et al

jurisdiction attached? Would it produce collision of jurisdi.clion to disturb it?
In opposition to the complainant's positions, the defendlant
take the following grounds :
1. The party assignor, the Bank of the United States, being
a corporation created by an act of the Legislature of -Pennsylvania,.was a local corporation, and, so far as a corporation-can
be such, was a resident or inhabitant of that State, was lia-"
blefor its debts in the manner prescribed by the laws thereof, and could only dispose of its property by .irtue of the-said
l aw s.
II
2. That becoming insolvent, and, in consqquence -thereof,
making an assignment to secure the payment of its debts, the
validity and effect of the assignment are to be determined and
regulated by the laws of Pennbylvania.
3. That the administration of the assets, under such an assignment, should be in accordance with the laws of Pennsylvania, and under the direction of the tribunal, and according to.
the rules, whiclr those laws have prescribed.,
4. That a suit like the present, brought to administer the
trusts of the assignment of an insolvent local.corporation, made
to citizens of the same State, in. order to secure the uayment of
its debts, in pursuance of the laws of that State, which 0ontroland regulate the whole subject-mattr, is"notwithin the ,jurisdiction of the courts of the United States.
5. That even if the foregoing proposition be not correct, the
jurisdiction of the State court had attached, by the filing therein of their partial accounts by the trustees of the bank, and ju;
risdiction over the subject-matter of these trusts having thusbecome vested in the State tribunal, the United States court
could not withdraw the same therefrom.
6. That the trustees, being subject to the jurisdictionof the
State court, and having partially settled their accounts under
its authority, are compellable to settle their future accounts before the same tribunal; and, if the present bill be sustained,
will be also compelled to adjust and settle, at additional expense to the trust estate, their accounts in a court of the United
States, which may be governed by different rules from the State
court, and may adjust the same accounts upon different principles.
That court which first rightfully takes possession of the subject, or in which suit has been first commenced, or application
made, or petition presented, or writ issued, shall retain the jurisdiction until a final disposition is made of the matter in controversy. Smith v. McIver, 9 Wheaton, Z32; Pratt v. Northam,
5 Mason, 95; Merrill v. Lake, 16 Ohio, 373; Ship Robert Ful6*
-

66

SUPREME COURT.
Shelby v. Bacon et al.

ton, 1, Paine, 620; Peck v. Jenness, 7 Howard, 612; Campbell
v. Emerson, 2- McLean, 30; Embree v. Hanna, 5 Johns. 101;
Holmes v. Remsen, 20 Johns. 229; Hall v. Dana, 2 Aiken, 381;
State v. Yarborough, 1 Hawks, 78.
The jurisdiction of the Common Pleas of Philadelphia has
attached to the settlement of the trusts by the filing of the accounts. That court has had exclusive possession of the subject for several years. Not only have proceedings been had,
but 'questions have been decided and decrees entered. Why
should the filing of a petition, or issuing of a writ, fix, the jurisdiction, and not the filing and adjustment of an entire account, the decree of the court on it, and the distribution of
the balance exhibited by it? Why should matters of form
work such important differences in result?
But what is the subject-matter to which the jurisdiction of
the State court has attached ? We answer, the entire trust
which the trustees have undertaken to execute,- the duties
and responsibilities imposed by the assignment, - the rights
conferred by the property conveyed by it.
-It is said, Why not allow the past accounts to remain stable,
and compel the trustees to file their future accounts in the Federal court? The answer is, All the accounts are but parts of a
whole, conclusive so far as they go, but unfinished parts of the
same thing. Until the last account is filed, the work is incomplete. The .ftiture accounts, if filed in the Cifcuit Court, must
start with the balances ascertained in the Common Pleas accounts, and must contain items similar to those embraced in
the former accounts. That court has considered these items,.
and entered decrees upon them. The Circuit Court-may make
a different decision on the same subject. This i the collision
of decision which it is the policy of the law to prevent, and
which the rule regulating cases of concurrent jurisdiction was
intended to prevent.
In regard to the sixth and last proposition submitted, it will
not be contended that this court has any power to terminate
the proceedings'in the Common Pleas. Other creditors have
obtained rights which that court will not allow to be defeated.
The statute of Pennsylvania directs attachment and imprisonment if the trustee refuses to file his account, and this court
has no power to deliver him. The trifstees in this case cannot
remove* the proceedings into the Federal court, because they
are not defendants in the State court, as the Judiciary Act requires, and they are citizens of Pennsylvania, and not of another State. Whatever be the result of the present application,
they will be obliged to continue to file their accounts in the
State court. The practical consequences are easily foreseen.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

67

Shelby v. Bacon et al.

They must give public notice. to creditors to claim the same
fund in two courts. A portion of the creditors will prove their
debts in the Common Pleas, and the remainder in the Circuit
Court. Some may claim in both places. A creditor excluded
by one tribunal -may xapply to the other. The courts. may
readily differ in their views of the facts presented by the accounts, and the principles regulating them. One court-miLy surcharge with one amount, and the other with a different amount.
A dividend of fifteen per cent. may be declared in one court,
and of twenty in the other. How are the trustees to pay? If
payment be made, with what balance shall the succeeding account start? At whose expense will the litigation be conducted ?
If the prayer of the bill be granted, the complainant is not
benefited; if refused- he is not injured. If he alleges an error,
he may go into the 6 ommon Pleas, and move to open the accounts. This court will not have surrendered any power which
it possesses. It will only have said, that, as the complainant
stood by while the settlements were made, it is too, late now to.
open them. The effect on the trustees of granting the prayer
deserves attention. They are officers of the law, and are engaged in executing a public trust. Their office is difficult and
responsible, and they are entitled to the highest protection the
law can afford them. A protracted litigation must withdraw
their time and attention from the execution of their trust, without an equivalent advantage.
MIr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us from the Circuit Court of the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on a certificate of a division
of opinion between the judges.
The complainant, who is a citizen of Kentucky, filed his bill
against John Bacon and others, assignees of the late Bank of
the United States under the charter "-om the State of Pennsylvania. The bank, being in a failing condition, executed assignments of its assets for the benefit of its creditors, anu" of, eeftain creditors of the Bank of the United States -chartered by
Congress.
The complainant represents himself to be a'crlit.or of the
late bank, to a large amount, which is shown by judgments
recovered in the "District Court" for the city and county of
Philadelphia; and in the Commercial Court of New Orleans.
That, on application to the trustees aforesaid, they refused to
.pay the said judgments or any part of them, although they
.have funds in their.hands or under their' control, to pay the
debts of the bank, &c.

68

SUPREME COURT.
Shelby -v. Bacon et al.

The defendants pleaded to the jurisdiction of the court.
They admit the trust.as alleged, and aver that the assignments
were recorded as required by- the acts of Pennsylvania; and
they aver that the Court of Common Pleas of the city and
county of Philadelphia has ample power to enforce the trus
in regard to the rights of all parties claiming an interest therein. That the defendants under those laws, at different periods
down to the 1st of January, 1847, filed their accounts, duly verified, "of their receipts and disbursements, with the prothonotary of the said court," which were sanctioned by the cour
That under its direction they have vested large sums of money
to await the result of pending litigations. And they submit to
the court whether they ought to be compelled to answer.
On the hearing the judges were opposed in opinion on the
following points:
1. Whether the facts stated in the plea to the amended bill
filed by John Bacon, Alexander Symington, and Thomas Robins, deprive the court of jurisdiction of the case; and whether
the plea to the plaintiff's bill is sufficient and ought to be allowed.
2. 'Whether the-facts stated in the plea to the amended bill
filed by the defendants James Robertson, Richard H. Bayard,
James S. Newbold, Herman Cope, and Thomas S. Taylor, deprive the court of jurisdiction of the case, and whether the said
plea is a-sufficient plea to the plaintiff's bill, and ought to be
allowed.
There is no principle better settled, than that, where two or
more tribunals have a concurret'jurisdiction over.the same
subject-matter and the parties, a suit commenced in any one
of them may be. pleaded in abatement to an action for the
same cause in any other. And the question we are now to
consider is, whether the procedure in the Court of Common
Pleas, above stated, 'under the special acts of Pennsylvania,
abates the suit of the plaintiff.
Can the proceeding stated in the plea be considered a suit?
The revised act of Pennsylvania, of the 14th of June, 1836,
entitled, 'LAn Act relating to assignees for the benefit of creditors and other trustees," requires in the first six sections the
assignment to be recorded in thirty days, and the assignment
being voluntary,." the assignees shall file an inventory or schedule of the estate or effects so assigned, which shall be sworn to";
on which it is made the duty of the courtto appoint appraisers,
who shall return an inventory and appraisement; on the return
of which the assignees are required to give bond "to the Commonwealth, that they will in all things comply -vith the provisions of the act of Assembly, and shall faithfully execnte the
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

69

Shelby v. Bacon et al.

trust confided to them," &c. The defendants -aver, "that having in part executed the tust so as above committed to them,
they did, on the 7th of January, 1843, file in the office of the
prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas aforesaid an account, duly verified, of their receipts and disbursements," &c.
And several other and similar returns are averred to have been
made.
By the seventh section of the act, the court are authorized,
on the application of any person interested, to issue a.citation
to any assignee or trustee for the benefit of creditors, whether
appointed by a voluntary assignment or in pursuance of the
laws relating to insolvent debtors, &c., requiring him "to appear and exhibit, under oath or affirmation, the accounts of the
trust in the said court," &c. The ninth section authorizes the
court to give notice, by publication, when the accounts will be
acted on, that objections to them may be made. And by the
eleventh section, where a trustee has neglected or refused, when
required by law, to file a true and complete inventory, or to
give bond with surety, when so required by law, or to file the
accounts of his trust, "it shall be lawful for the court ".(of Common Pleas) 19to issue a citation, &c., to show cause why he
should not be dismissed."
Now it does not appear from the plea that the assignees ever
filed the inventory of the assets in. their hands with the prothonotary of the court, as required by the first section, and.it
Would seem that not only the inventory must be filed, where
the assignment is volt.,tary, to give jurisdiction to the court,
but also that it must be sworn to, an appraisement of the trust
property made and returned, and bond giVen by the assignees.
This is a proceeding under a statute, and to bring the case
within the statute, every material requirement of the-act must
be complied with. And if the above requisites have not been
observed, it is not perceived how the court.could take jurisdiction of the case.
In the plea it is stated that accounts have been filed by the
assignees at different times, and moneys distributed among the
creditors. But how can this give jurisdiction ? The court has
no evidence of the extent and value of the trust, and no bond
of the assignees faithfully to account. If these important steps
hve been- taken, they should have been stated in the plea; as
it must show, to be effectual, that the court had jurisdiction of
the whole matter.. The plea is defective in not setting out the
above requirements.
But if the plea had been perfect in this respect, it would not
follow thab the complainant could not invoke the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court. ie being a non-resident has his option

70

SUPREME COURT.
Shelby v. Bacon et aL.

to bring his suit in that court, unless.he has submitted, or is
made a party, in some form, to the special jurisdiction of the
Court of Common Pleas.
It appears from the bill, that the assignees have refused to
allow the claim of the plaintiff, or any part of it. To establish
this claim as against the assignees, the complainant has a right
to sue in the Circuit Court, which was established chiefly for
the benefit of non-residents. Not that the claim should thus
be established by any novel principle of law or equity, but that
his rights might be investigated free from any supposed local
prejudice or unconstitutional legislation. On the most liberal
construction favorable to the exercise of the special jurisdiction,
the rights of the plaintiff, in this respect, could not, against his
consent, be drawn into it.
It is difficult to define the character of this procedure under
the Pennsylvania law. There being no court of chancery in
that State, statutory provision was made for the execution of
trusts. The statutes adopt some of the principles of chancery,
but do not invest the court with the powers of a court of equity
which are necessarily exercised in administering trusts.
It is not strictly a proceeding in rem. The proceeding is
intended to adjust the rights of debtors and creditors of the
bank, ,beyond the jurisdiction of the State of Pennsylvania.
Citizens residing, perhaps, in a majority-of the States of the
Union, are debtors or creditors of the bank. It is difficult to
perceive by what mode of procedure the State of Pennsylvania
can obtain and exercise an exclusive jurisdiction over the rights
of persons thus situated. From the plea, it does not appear
that any notices have- been given, or citations issued, as authorized by the statute. 'Nothing more seems to have been done
by the assignees than to file their accounts, have them referred
to auditors, and finally sanctioned by the court. Whether ihis
procedure isevidence of a faithful discharge of the trust so far
as the accounts have been so adjusted, it is not necessary to
inquire. We stippose that it could not be contended, that
fraud or collusion might not be shown to avoid the proceeding
before any tribunal haiing jurisdiction.
No suit seems to be pending in th6 Common Pleas. The
action of the assignees appears to be voluntary, for their own
justification, and not in obedience to the order of the court.
By the statute, any person interested may, on application, to
the court, obtain a citation to the assignees to appear and answer. But this is nothing more than the ordinary exercise of a
chancery power to c6mpel them-to account. And it is only an
exercise of jurisdiction over them from the time the bill is filed
and a notice served, or the applicationf for a citation is made

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

71

Shelby v. Bacon et aL

on due notice. If no such proceeding is had, the assignees, it
would appear, file their accounts or omit to do so' at their
pleasure.
This is not in the nature of a bankrupt or insolvent procedure. Neither the person nor the property of the assignor is
entitled to exemption, under the statute, from the claims of
creditors. But in such a proceeding, notice to the creditors
and a schedule of debts, as well as assets, are required by law.
Under the laws of Pennsylvania a debtor may assign his
property for the benefit of his creditors, giving a preference to
some of them over others. This may be done by the common
law. The assignment made by the late Bank of the United
States specifies different classes of creditors, but none are excluded from the benefits of the assignment.
The assignees admit, in their plea, that they have vested a
large amount of assets to await the determination of-certain
suits still pending. Suppose' they had reduced to possession
the whole amount of the. assets of the bank, and held them
ready for distribution; could it be doubted that the complainant would have a right to file his bill in the Circuit Court, not
only to establish his claim against them, but also for a proportionate share of the assets. The Circuit Court could not enjoin
the Court of Common Pleas, nor revise its proceedings, as on
a writ of error; but it could act on the assignees, and.enforce
the rights of the plaintiff against them.. The debts due by the
bank being ascertained, and the amount of its assets, after the
payment of all costs, the equitable distribution would not be
difficult.
Not doubting that the complainant may file his bill in the
Circuit Court for the purposes stated, against the defendants,
we deem it unnecessary at this time to consider questions
which may arise in the exercise of the jurisdiction. The questions certified by the Circuit Court are both answered in the
negative.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastem District of Pennsylvania, and on the points and questions
on which the judges of the said Circuit Court-were opposed
in opinion, and which were certified to this court for its opinian, agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and
On consideration
provided, and was argued by counsel.
shereof, it is the opinion of this court, 1st. That the facts stated
in the amended plea to the amended bill filed by John Bacon;
Alexander Symington, and Thomas Robins, do not deprive

72

SUPREME COURT.
McNulty v. Batty et al.

the said Circuit Court of jurisdiction of this case; 2d. That
the facts stated in the plea to the amended bill filed by the defendants James Robertson, Richard H. Bayard, James S.Newbold, Herman Cope, and Thomaf S. Taylor, do not deprive
'the - said .Circuit Court of jurisdiction of this case; - and that
this bpinion renders it unnecessary foi this court to answer the
remainder of the -questions certified. Whereupon it is now
here ordered and adjudged by-this court, that it be so certified
to the said Circuit Court.

JoHN McNuLTY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN BATTY, ROnERT SHAw,

DANtIEL

WVANN, A&ND
THonmAs C. LEGA&TE.

Where a case had been brought up to this court from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Wiiconsin, and was pending in this court at the time when Wisconsin

was admitted as a State, the jurisdiction of this court over it ceased when such admission took place. •
Provision was made in the act of Congress for the transfer, from the Territorial
courts to the District Court of the United States, of all cases appropriate to the
jurisdiction of the new District Court; but none for cases appropriate
to the juris-

diction of State tribunals.
By the admission of Wisconsin as a State, the Territorial government ceased to exist,
and all th6 authority under it,
including the laws organizing its courts of justice

and providing for a revision.of their judgments in this court.
The act of Congress passed in February, 1848, supplementary to that of February,
1847, applies only'to cases which were pending in the Territorial courts, and do-t
rot include such as were pending in thi court at the time of the admission of Wisconsin as a State.
Even if Congress had directed the transfer, to the District Court of the United States,
of cases appropriate to the 3urisdiction of State courts, this court could not have
carried its judgment into effect by a mandate to the District Court.

THE'facts in this case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by rt. May, for the
plaintiff in error, and Mrit. Carlisle, for the defendants in error.
r.May's argument was as follows.
This case. comes here by writ of error to the Supreme Court
of Wisconsin Territory.
In the District Court of Iowa County, on the 3d of November,
1845, the plaintiff in error- sued out his writ of attachment, irf
an action of debtr against the defendants in error, founded on
his affidavit (according to the law and practice of that Territory).
I The sherift seized certain goods and chattels of one of the
defendants, to wit, Legate, which, on motion, were ordered by
the court to be sold.
The defendants, at the next term of said court, on the 4th of

