DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

225

Greely v. Thompson et al.

bonds were negotiable at the principal bank of the State of
Arkansas, and to be paid "in specie or its equivalent," &c., in
payment for certain tracts of land, sold by the Governor under
a law of the State, as a part of the Seninary lands given by
Congress for the support of a seminary, under certain acts of
Congress.
A plea was filed, setting up in defence a tender of the notes
of the State Bank of Arkansas, and that in the charter of said
bank the State bound itself to receive said notes in payment
of debts, &c.
A judgment was finally entered against the defendants below, for ten thousand seven hundred and nine dollars and ten
cents, and costs. That judgment was taken to the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas, and was there affirmed.
As this case is similar in principle to the above case of Paup
et al., it is unnecessary to repeat the reasons assigned in that
case for the judgment of the court. The judgment of the State
court is affirmed.

Note by Ihe Reporter.- For the separate opinions of Mr.
Justice CATRON, MIr. Justice DANIEL, lr. Justice N-ELSON, and Mlr. Justice GRIER, see the preceding case of Paup
et al. v. Drew,.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record of the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum
per annum.

PHILIP GREELY, JUNIOR, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM THOMiPSON
AND WILLIAM HENRY FORMAN, MERCHANTS AND COPARTNERS, TRADING
UNDER THE STVLE AND FIRnt OF THOMPSON AND FORIAN, ALIENS
AND RESIDENTS or LONDON, DEFENDANTS.
In an action brought against a collector for the return of duties paid under protest,
it was not competent for him to give in evidence a letter from the Secretary of the
Treasury, to show that the'removal of one of the merchant appraisers was done by
his order.
The legality of such removal as to third persons was valid or not, according as the
collector possessed legal power tojuake it on the facts of the case. Courts must

226

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et al.

look to the laws themselves, and n6t to the constructions placed upon them by the
heads of Departments, although these are entitled to great respect, and will always
be duly weighed by the court.
Under the various acts of Congress providing for the payment of dutics, the time of
procurement is the true time for fixing the value, when the goods are manufactured
or procured otherwise than by purchase, and are not of an origin foreign to the
country whence they are imported hither. The proviso in the fifth section of the
act of 1823 (3 Stat, at Large, 732), relates altogether to this latter class of goods.
The penalty provided in the act of 1842 related only to goods purchased, and not to
goods procured otherwise than by purchase.
The regular appraisers and the m.-rchant appraisers who may be detailed for the duty
must, each one, personally inspect and exafmine the goods. It will not do for one
to report to the other that the goods are " merchantable," and then to fix the value
according to a general knowledge of the value of merchantable goods of that description.
The removal, by the collector, of one of the merchant appraisers, because he wished
time tiven to obtain more evidence from England, and the substitution of another,
was irregular, and made the whole appraisement invalid. These apprasers are
tem orary umpires between the permanent appraisers and the importers, and after
enteing on their duties could not be removed, either by the collector or Secretary,
.without some grave public ground beyond a mere difference of opinion.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
Mr. Justice Catron did not sit at the trial in this court, being
a stockholder and copartner of a railroad company having a
similar interest.
It was argued in conjunction with the ensuing case of Maxwell v. Griswold et al. Ar. Crittenden (Attorney-General)
covered both cases in his opening argument; M11r. Sherman replied in this, case, and, Mr. 1c Cullolt in Maxwell v. Griswold,
when Mr. Crittenden concluded with a reply applicable to both
cases. It is difficult,-therefore, to separate the arguments, although each case wvq]i
be stated separately.

It was an action of assumpsit brought by Thompson & Forman, merchants in London, to recover back froim Greely, the
collector of the port of Boston, an excess of duty and penalty

paid to him as collector under protest.
The bill of exceptions stated all the material facts in the
case, which were as follows.

Bill of Exceptions.
This was -an action of assumpsit brought by the plaintiffs,
merchants in London, England, against the defendant, the
collector of the port of Boston, to recover back the sum of
$ 6,282.37, with interest thereon ; said sum being the amount
of the additional duty and penalty alleged by the plaintiffs to
have been illegally exacted by the defendant, in his capacity
aforesaid, upon a cargo of railroad iron imported by the plain-

tiffs into said port of Boston, in the manner and under the
circumstances below stated, and which said sum was paid under protest.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

227

Greely v. Thompson et al.

Upon the trial of said cause before the jury, after issue joined,
it was shown in evidence that the plaintiffs were manufacturers
of railroad iron in Wales, and resided in London, England;
that through their agents in Boston, Messrs. William F. Weld
& Co., they contracted to sell certain railroad iron to the Fitchburg and Worcester Railroad Company, and to deliver it in
Boston; that they made the rails ready for shipment in Newport, Wales, and chartered a vessel for the transportation of
said iron to Boston, on the 24th of January, 1849; that the
lading of the vessel was completed on the 24th of February
following, on which day the bills of lading and invoices were
dated, and the vessel sailed.
The invoice, duly made and authenticated, as the act of
Congress requires, fixed the value of the iron at five pounds
per ton, which was proved to be the fair market price at that
date, to wit, on- the said 24th day of January; that on the arrival of the vessel in Boston in April of the same year, the iron
was entered, and the duties paid according to the invoice; that
before the iron was removed, the appraisers at the customhouse, acting under general orders from the Treasury Department, appraised the iron at six pounds per ton, taking the date
of the invoice and. bill of lading- as the time when the value
should be fixed, to wit, the 24th-of February, 1849, the price
having materially advanced during the previous thirty days;
that the plaintiffs appealed from this appraisement, and gave
notice thereof to the defendant, who, in supposed pursuance of
statute provisions in such cases, appointed two merchants, viz.
Peter Harvey and Charles Thompson, to make a valuation of
the iron according to the provisions of the laws of Congress, as
construed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and they took the
following oath.
" Custom-House, Boston,
Collector's Office, April 14, 1849.
"We, the undersigned, appointed by the collector of Boston
and Charlestown to appraise a lot of railroad iron, imported
per Abellino, from Newport, Wales, the said importer having
requested a new appraisement thereof, in accordance with the
provisions of the sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the act
of the 80th of August, 1842, do hereby solemnly swear (or
affirm) diligently and faithfully to examine and inspect said lot
of railroad iron, and truly to report, to the best of our knowledge and belief, the true value thereof, in accordance with the
provisions of the laws of Congress, as construed by the Secre.
tary of the Treasury, in several instructions issued by him, ir
pursuance of the authority vested in the said Secretary of th(

228

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et al.

Treasury, by the twenty-third and twenty-fourth, sections of
said act of 30th August, 1842, by the act of 30th July, 1846,
and the second section of the act of August 10th, 1846.
'PETER HARVEY,
CHARLES THOMPSON.

" April 14, 1849, before me,
MARCUS MORTON,

"A true copy.

Attest:

1. 0.

Collector.

BARNES,

Clerk."

One of these merchant appraisers, viz. Peter Harvey, doubting whether the invoice was too low, and thinking that it was
due to the plaintiffs that they should have time and opportunity to furnish evidence from England, as to the true market
value of the iron, reported this to the collector in order that
.tjme might be given; that thereupon this merchant was removed by the collector, and another, viz. Flavel Mosely, was
appointed by the collector in his place, who took the same oath
which is mentioned above as having been taken by Harvey and
Thompson; that these merchant appraisers, viz. Thompson
aid Mosely, thus constituted, valued the iron at five pounds
tnd fifteen shillings per ton, taking, in obedience to instructions
rorn the Treasury Department, the 24th of February as the
"ime when the valuation should be made; that this value so
appraised being more than ten per cent. above the invoice value
of the iron, the defendant exacted a duty of thirty per cent. on
the amount which had been added to the invoice, and, in addition, a penalty of twenty per cent. on the appraised value; that
the additional duty and the penalty amounted to $ 6,282.37,
which sum, with interest so paid, the plaintiffs sought to recover
back in this action; that this sum above mentioned was paid
under protest by the plaintiffs; that the custom at the port of
Boston was to fix the value of the imports at the date of the
invoice or bill of lading; that one of the custom-house apliraisers did not inspect or see the iron, as it did not fall in his division (i. e. the two appraisers divide the labor, one taking one
class of goods, and the other another class, and it was not the
work of that appraiser who did not examine the iron to appraise that class or kind of goods) ; that only one of the merchants who finally acted as merchant appraisers ever saw the
iron; but that the said Mosely testified that the other appraiser,
Thompson, and also Harvey, hhd seen it, and that the kind of
iron was admitted, and that it was merchantable, without saying by whom; that it was not necessary for him to see the iron
to give it its value, but that he could, when its quality was
stated to him, fix its value; and that he could and did in this
way fairly appraise the value of such iron.

229

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Greely v. Thompson et al.

The merchant appraisers made the following return, viz. "Boston, May 18, 1849.,
"SIR, -

We have examined the following merchandise im-

ported by William F. Weld & Co., in the Abellino, froth Newport, valued in the invoice at L 4,720 Os. 10d., but which we are
of opinion could not have been purchased at the time and
place of exportation for less than X 5,428 Os. ld.
"IIn conformity, therefore, with the provisions of the sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the tariff act, approved August 30, 1842, we do appraise the said merchandise as follows,
any invoice or affidavit thereto to the contrary notwithstanding.
M'Iarke.

Nu m

Dezcription of Merchandise.

Value.

642 [31 bars railroad iron, eighing 920 tons
.
19 cwt. 2 qr. 23 lbs. at Z£5 15s. per ton,
......
CommissioT 2, per .

z£5,295 13 1
132 7 10
£5,428 0 11

CHARLES THoMPsoN,

FLAv.EL MOSELEY,

MerchantAppraisers.
Boston
of
the
District
of
"To the COLLECTOR
and CIarlestown.
"A true copy. Attest:
ISAAC 0. BARNES, Clerk, C. 01
The regular custom-house appraisers had appraised it at £ 6
per ton, making, with the commission, the amount of the invoice to be X 5,664 Is. 2d.
The defendant offered to introduce a letter of the Secretary
of the Treasury to the defendant, to prove that the substituti6n
of the merchant appraiser, upon the delay of the first one to
report finally, was done by the orders of the Treasury Departinent, but the letter was ruled out by the court.
The court instructed the jury, 1st. That the date of the procurement of the iron in England or Wales, to wit, the 24th of January, was the time at
which the appraisers should have fixed the value of the irorv
and not the date of invoice and bill of lading, to wit, the 24th
of February, when materially different
2d. That if both appraisers, in each set of appraisers, did
not make some personal examination of the iron, their report
or decision was not made in conformity to law, and did not justify the penalty.
3d. That the valuation of the merchant appraisers was
20
voL. x.

230

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et al.

invalid, because one of the merchants who made The appraisal
was wrongfully substituted for anothei, to wit, the merchant
appraiser who was turned out of office, or attempted to be,
without any legal authority to do it on the facts of the case.
The jury found that the defendant did promise in manner
and form as the plaintiff had declared against him, and assessed damages in the sum of $ 6i681.28.
To which ruling and instructions of the court, given as
aforesaid, the said defendant at the trial excepted, and prayed
this his bill of exceptions to be signed and sealed by the court.
All which being found true, the same is accordingly signed
and sealed.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal.
[SEAL.]
LEvi WooDiuny,
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, U. ,.
Upon this exception the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr.Critlenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
plaintiff in error, and by lIfr. Sherman, for the defendants in

error.

lTr. Criltenden made the following points.

I. That the period of exportation from the foreign country is
the true date, in contemplation of law, at which the value of
imported articles subject to an ad valorem duty is fixed.
This question depends on the construction of the following
statutes - Section 16 of Tariff Act of '1842 (5 Stat. at Large,
563) ; section 8 of Tariff Act of 1846 (Session Laws, 43) ; section 2 of Appropriation Act of 1846; sections 8 and 10 of the
Act of 1st March, 1823 (3 Stat. at Large, 735).
By the twenty-third section of the act of 1842 (5 Stat. at
Large, 566) it is enacted, " That it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of the Treasury from time to time to establish such
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the
United States, to secure a just, faithful, and impartial appraisement of all goods, wares, and merchandise imported into the
United States, and just and proper entries.of such actual market value or wholesale price thereof." Secretary Walker's Circular of 1st July, 1847 (1 Mayo, 364) ; another of 7th August,
1848; and another of 26th December, 1848. Tucker v. Kane,
decided in Circuit Court for Maryland District, in manuscript.
The act of 10th February, 1820, entitled "An Act to provide for obtaining accurate statements of the foreign commerce
of the United States" in its tenth section, enacts, " That all
articles imported shall be valued at their actual cost, or the
values which they may truly bear in the foreign ports from

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

231 '

Greely v. Thompson et al.

which they are exported for importation into the United States,
at the time of such exportation." (3 Stat. at Large, 542.)
II. That the dutiable valuation of goods is the market
value or wholesale price at the period of the exportation from
the foreign country is manifest from the eighth section of the
act of 1846, which makes it "lawful- for the owner, consignee,
or agent of imports which have been actually purchased, on
entry of the same, to make such addition in the entry to the
cost or value given in the invoice as in his opinion may raise
the same to the true markei value of such imports in the principal markets of the 'country whence the importation shall
have been made, or in which the goods imported shall have
been originally manufactured or produced, as the case may be."
III. That the invoice of the iron, dated 24th February, 1849,
as follows: "Invoice of railway iron shipped at Newport, by
Thompson and Forman, on board the Abellino, Captain C. H.
Crozier, bound for Charlestown, Boston harbor, consigned to
Messrs. W.r F. Weld & Co., for account of the Fitchburg and
Worcester Railroad Company," and the oath of Mr. Weld,
made by him on making the entry, that the railroad company were the owners of the iron, show that the case came
within the eighth section above mentioned, and that the provisions of that section were applicable to it.
IV. That the bill of lading and the invoice, in the latter of
which the iron is valued at five pounds per ton, presented to
the collector at the time of entry, are dated the 24th February,
1849, and that no evidence of the value of the iron on any
other day is applicable, which shows that the value should
be estimated at the time of exportation. Act of 1823, § 23
(3 Stat. at Large, 737).
V. That it isnot necessary that all the official appraisers, or
all the merchant appraisers, should have made a personal examination of the iron. Act of 1823, § 16 (3 Stat. at Large,
785); Act of 28th May, 1830, §§ 1 and 2 (4 Stat. at Large,
409) ; Act of lkh July, 1832, § 8 (4 Stat. at Large, 592) ; Act
of 1842, §§ 16, 17, 21, and 22 (5 Stat. at Large, 563 et seq.).
The seventeenth section is applicable to merchant appraisers.
VL That the appraisement of the merchant appraisers was
final. Act of 1842, § 17 (5 Stat. at Large, 564); Tucker v.
Kane, above referred to.
VII. That the valuation was valid, being made by two mer.
chants. Act of 1842, § 17; Treasury Circular of 26th December, 1848; Act of 1823, § 19 (3 Stat. at Large, 736).
VIII. Tjat the action cannot be maintained by Thompson
and Forman. Act of 2d March, 1799, 6 62 (1 Stat. at Largei
675); Act of 26th February, 1845, § 1 (5Stat. at Large, 727);

22

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et a.

Independent Treasury Act of 1846, § 9; Meredith v. United
States, 13 Pet. 486; Knox v. Devens, 5 Mason, 397.
Mr. iSkerman, for the defendants. in error, contended,
1. That the appraisement was illegal and void, and did not
justify the exactipn of the additional duty and penalty imposed
and paid, nor any portion thereof: 1. Because the dutiable value of said iron, as fixed by law,
was "the fair market value," or "actual value " thereof, "at
the time and place when and where procured," or manufactured (with the dutiable charges added); and not its value at
the time.of exportation, as estimated by the appraisers; andthat the proviso to the sixteenth section of the Duty Act of
30th August, 1842, under which the appraisers were directed,
by circulars from the Secretary 'of the Treasury, to assume the
date of exportation in fixing the value of all imports, applies
only to goods, wares, and merchandise "imported into the
United States, from a country in which the same have not
been manufactured or produced "; and, therefore, did not apply
to the iron in question, which was produced and manufactured
in the country from whbich it was imported, and the actual
value, or "fair market value" of which "when procured," is
conceded to have been truly stated in the invoice and entry
thereof.
Because both of the appraisers did not "examine and inspect" the iron, as the law and their oaths required, ancl as they
alleged in their return they had done; arid that to render an
appraisement valid, either by public appraisers or merchant
appraisers, both appraisers of either set of appraisers must have
made some personal examination or inspection of the merchandise.
3. Because the merchant appraisers were not legally qualified, having taken an oath different from that prescribed by
law, and one which bound them to make an appraisement in
-violationof law, by fixing the dutiable value of the iron at a
period different from that prescribed by Congress; and because
the nerchant appraiser Moseley appears not to have been
sworn at all.
4. Because the iemoval of the merchant appraiser Harvey,
after he had been appointed, sworn, and efitered upon the dis-'
charge of his duty, (and the substitution of another,) for having
expressed doubts "whether the invoice was 1oo low; and thinking that it was due to the plaintiffs that they should have time
and opportunity to furnish evidence from England as to the
true market value of the iron," and had "reported this to the
collector, in order that such time might be given," was arbitrary and illegal.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

233

Greely v. thompson et al.

Duty Act of 1st March, 1823, particularly §§ 4, 5, 7, 8, 16,
18 (3 Stat. at Large, 729); Duty Act of July, 1832, particularly §§ 7, 15 (4 Stat. at Large, 583); Duty Act of 30th August, 1842, particularly §§ 16, 17, 21 (5 Stat. at Large, 548);
and Duty Act of 30th July, 1846, particularly § 11 (Schedule C) and § 8 (Session Laws; 1846; p. 68).
Reference will also be 'made, if necessary, to Duty Acts of
2d March, 1799 (1 "Stat. at Large, 644); of 20th April, 1818
(3 Stat. at Large, 43); of May, 1828 (4 Stat. at Large, 570);
and -f 28th May, 1830 (Ibid. 409).
Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 80; Elliott v.
Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137; United States v. Lyman, 1 Mason, 504. United States v. 14 Packages, Gilpin, 235; United
States v. Tappan, 11 Wheaton, 419; United States v. Freeman,
3 Howard, 564; Kunckle v. Kunckle, 1 Dallas, 364; United
States v. Slade,-2 Mason, 75; Day v. Wilber, 2 Caines, 134;
United States v. Two Bales of Cloths, 3 Hunt's Merchants'
Magazine, 527; Liverpool Hero, 2 Gall. 183; Gilpin's D. C. R.
239, 240, and 241; United States v. 16 Packages, 2 Mason,
48; Moore v. Ewing et al., Coxe (N. J.) 144; The King v.
Wykes, Andrews, 238; Billings v. Prinn et al., 2 Black. 1017;
The King v. The Inhabitants of Hamstall Ridw.re, 3 Term
R. 380; Dalling v. Matchett, Barnes, 57; Jacob's Law Dict.,
fit. Oath, p. 425; 1 Mayo's Fiscal Department, 364.
II. The mere letter of the Secretary of the Treasury, offered
by the defendant below to justify the removal of the merchant
appraiser Harvey, and the substitution. of another, because
said Harvey had asked for, or suggested to the collector,'the
delay necessary to procure the evidence deemed proper for a
fair and faithful performance of his duty, could not legally
justify such arbitrary removal and substitution, and was
therefore properly rejected by the court below. Duty Act
of 2d March, 1823, § 18; Duty Act of 30th August, 1842,
§§ 16, 17; Tracy and Balestier v. Swartwout 10 Peters, 80;
Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 137; United States v. Lyman,
1 Alason, 504; Alfonso v. United States, 2 Story, 421; Tucker
v. Kane, MS. decision of Chief Justice Taney, Maryland Circuit.
III. The eighth section of the Duty Act of July Uth, 1846,
under which the additional duty and penalty were exacted,
was only applicable to goods, wares, and merchandise which
had been "actually purchased," and not to those which had
been "procured otherwise than by purchase"; and therefore
did not authorize such exaction. Duty Act of 30th July, 1846,
§ 8; Whitney v. Emmett, 1 Baldwin, C. C. 316; Barlow v.
United States, 7 Peters, 404.

20*

SUPREME COURT.

234

Greely v. Thompson et al.

Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error is brought by the collector of Boston to
reverse a judgment rendered against him in favor of Thompson et al., importers of a quantity of railroad iron.
The judgment was, that he should refund $ 6,681.28, which
had been exacted of the importers, on the ground that the iron
was appraised more than ten per cent. above the invoice. The
.first questions appearing on the record relate to rulings against
the defendants, admitting certain-evidence that the appraisers
werj duly sworn, to which the defendants objected.
But as the defendants do not bring a writ of error on that
account, the final judgment being in their favoi, we proceed to
consider the rulings and instructions of which the collector,
who is the plaintiff here, complains.
The first ground of objection by him is the refusal of the
court below to allow in evidence a letter from the Secretary
of the Treasury, to show that the removel of one of the merchant appraisers was made by his order.
We think, however, that the removal of that appraiser must
be deemed valid or not, as to third persons, according as the
collector possessed legal power to make it on the facts of the
case. The orders as well as the opinions of the head of the
Treasury Department, expressed in either letters or circulars,
are entitled to much respect, and will always be duly weighed
by this court; but it is the laws which are to govern, rather
than their opinions of them, and 'importers, in cases of doubt,
are entitled to have their right settled by the judicial exposition
of those laws, rather than by the views of the Department.
(Marriott v. Brune, 9 Howard, 634, 635.) And though, as between the custom-house officers and the Department, the latter
must by law control the course of proceeding (5 Stat. at
Large, 566), yet, as between them and the importer, it is well
settled, that the legality of all their doings may be revised in
the judicial tribunals. (Tracy et al..v. Swvartwout, 10 Peters,
*95; United States v. Lyman, 1 Mason, C. C. 504; Opinions of
Attorneys-General, 1015.)
Besides this objection, there are specific exceptions, taken to
these instructions below, which deserve a separate and more
detkiled examination. Those instructions, as set out in the
record,

re, -

"1st. That the date of the procurement of the iron in England .or Wales, to wit, the 24th of January, was the time at
which the appraisers should have' fixed the value of the iron,
and not the date of invoice and bill of lading, to wit, the
24th bf February, when materially different.
"2d. That if both appraisers, in each set of appraisers,

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

235

Greely v. Thompson et al.

did not make some personal examination of tne iron, their report or decision was not made in conformity to law, and did
not justify the penalty.
"3d. That the valuation of the merchant appraisers was invalid, because one of the merchants who made the appraisal
was wrongfully substituted for another, to wit, the merchant
apptalser who was turned out of office, .or attempted to be,
without any legal authority to do it on the facts of the casa"
The first of these instructions extends merely to the point of
law, whether the date of the procurement of the iron abroad
was, by the acts of Congress, the proper time at which to fix the
value of it, or the date of the invoice and bill of lading.
This has become a highly important question to the government, as well as the commercial world, under facts such as exist
in this case, because a month had intervened here between the
procurement and the shipment, and in the mean time, under
one of those extraordinary fluctuations in prices which occasionally happen in trade, iron had risen nearly one fifth in value.
Ordinarily, the time of the procurement of an article, as also
the time of the purchase of it, when it is bought and not manufactured by the importer, is near the date of the invoice or exportation, and the price differing but little. Then, if selecting
for the period of the appraisal the latter date, it is acquiesced
in by the importer as immaterial. But where, as in this ihstance, the difference in time and value is great, the importer
has a right to insist on the time as provided by the acts if
Congress.
Which is the proper time is, therefore, all that is involved
in this first instruction, and not an'other question*beside, which
has been urged by the plaintiff ill error; whether the chartering of the vessel in England to transport the iron here, after
it was ordered, made, and collected for shipment by the importers who manufactured it, should in point of law be deemed
the time of its procurement. No charge below on that point is
set out, none, therefore, can be revised here, however easily it
could be settled.
After full consideration, we think that the time of procurement was the proper time for appraising the value, and it
seems to us to have been stated, in the instruction in conformity with both the express language of several acts *of
Congress, and the reason of the case.
The first leading act on this subject was passed March 1st,
18I3. (3 Stat. at Large, 732.) Officers to appraise the value
existed before only in the case of goods with no invoice, or
damaged, or fraud suspected. (1 Stat. at Large, 41, 42, 166.)
The invoice, with the oath of the importer, was previously
the chief guide.

236

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et aL

But under an impression that goods were often undervalued
in the invoice after the increased duties imposed in 1816, and
that the revenue thus became diminished, itwas provided by
the sixteenth section of the act of 1823, that appraisers should
be appointed to examine and estimate the true value of the
merchandise imported. And to remove all doubt as to the
time when the value was to be fixed, it was expressly enacted
in the fifth section, "that the ad'valorem rates of duty upon
goods, wares, and merchandise shall be estimated in the manner following: to the actual cost, if the same shall have oeen
actually purchased, or the actual value, if the same shall have
been procured otherwise than by purchase, at the time an'd
place when and where purchased, or otherwise procured, or to
the appraised value, if appraised, except in cases where goods
are subjected to the penalty provided for in the thirteenth section of this act, shall be added all charges, except insurance,
and also twenty per centum on the said cost or value, and
charges, if imported from the Cape of Good Hope, or any
place beyond that, or from beyond Cape Horn, or ten per centurn if from any other place or country; and the said rates of
duty shall be estimated on such aggregate amount: Provided,
that in all cases where a.ny goods, wares, and merchandise,
subject to ad valbrem duty, shall have been imported from a
country other than that in which the same were manufactured
or produced, the appraisers shall value the same at the current
value at the time of exportation in the country where the same
may have been originally manufactured or produced." (3 Stat.
at Large, 732.)
These words seem too plain for doubt, that the time to fix
the value, in a case like this, when the goods have been procured rather than purchased, is the time of procurement, and
when purchased, is the time of the purchase; and in neither
case should be the date of the invoice or bill of lading, if they
are at a different time.
It has been urged, however, in pursuance of a treasury circular of November 26, 1846, that this act should receive a different construction, and that the true time is the time of exportation ; because that is named in the proviso, and thus is supposed to annul or modify all which precedes it.
But it seems to be overlooked, that the proviso relates to
another kind of merchandise than that regulated before in the
body of the section, the former being expressly goods of an
origin foreign to the country whence they are now to be imported, and the latter, goods not foreign,.but of the growth or
manufacture of the country from which they are imported
hithem

DECEMBER TERM, 1850,

27

Greely v. Thompson et al.

As the time of the original procurement or purchase of We
proviso goods in the country of their biith might have been
years before, and difficult to fix, a new and different time is
selected for them, namely, the period of their exportation to
this country.
This distinction has been ever since preserved in our laws
between these kinds of merchandise. See the sixteenth section
of the Act of August 20, 1842 (4 Stat. at Large, 664) ; see also
Alfonso v. United States, 2 Story, 429, 430.
It would be very irrational to consider. such a proviso as a
repeal or a change of the body of a section where it does not
contradict it, but merely purports to regulate the appraisal of a
different species of goods in a different manner. (See on this,
1 Kent, Com. 462, 463.)
The proviso does not pretend, in words or spirit, to interfere
with goods situated like those contained in the shipment in
the present case, and hence, instead of conflicting, it is in harmony and consistent. 23 Maine, 360.
As further proof that the time of the procurement was to
remain the guide in cases like this, notwithstanding the proviso,
the fourth section of this act continues in full force and unmodified, and requires the manufacturer or owner, as was done
here, when importing, to swear that "the goods were not actually bought by me in the ordinary mode of bargain and sale,
but are of the value stated, including charges, &c., at ihe time
or timfes, and place or places, when and where procured for~my
account." (3 Stat. at Large, 732.) See on this oath, 2 Story,
430.
So the eighth section still exists, and positively requires the
oath of the importer, when, as here, a foreigner,-that "the invoice contains a true and faithful account of the said goods,
wares, and merchandise, at their fair market value at the time
and place when and where the same were procured or manuCfactured, as the case may be, and all charges thereon." 3 Stat.
at Large, 733.
Other similar illustrations of this might'be cited, but are not
necessary to support this obvious position, that the time of procurement.is the true time for fixing the value, when the goods
are manufactured or procured otherwise than. by purchase, and
are not of an origin foreign to the country whence they are imported hither. Indeed, it *ould seem reasoniable, independent
of the expiress language of the acts of Congress, that, if uncertainty remained about the true construction of the fifth section
of the act of 1823, the Proper time for fixing the value of goods
should be considered the time they were purchased or procured;
because the idea of having the" value and charges fixed, and

238

SUPREME COURT.
Greely v. Thompson et al.

assessing the. duty on them, is to tax the importer on the
amount or value he has expended. And what he has expended
cannot be more than what he has thus paid; and the invoice
itself, often prepared, as in the interior, days and weeks before
the vessel sails, states the price or value as thus made up, and
not at the time of the bill of lading, when the market value may
be higher or lower.
We do not find that the value at the time of exportation of
goods of the growth or manufacture of the country whence exported, has ever been selected by any act of Congress for the
purpose of assessing the duty. Though in one instance it is
adopted merely to compile statistical tables of the value of
foreign imports (3 Stat at Large, 542); it is never done to
regulate duties.
The value for statistical purposes it is reasonable to fix at
the time of exportation, because it thus indicates the worth of
all shipped hither, which is what is then desired; but the value
on which to tax the importer is the capital or price he has invested in the goods, which is primd facie the amount paid, if
purchased, or the amount for which they were procured, if not
-purchased.
There is another' objection in this cage to the applicability of
+he act of 1842, if construed to affix 'his penalty to an undervaluation of goods, procured otherwise than by purchase. (See
§§ 16, 17; 5 Stat. at Large, 563, 664.)
So
That act applies expressly only to goods "purchased."
the act of 1846, July 30, applies only to goods "actually
purchased." See §8, page 43, Pamphlet Laws for 1846.
They thus appear to.leave goods, procured other ways than
by purchase, to the provisions of the acts of 1823 and 1830,
which do not at all affix, tire penalty here exacted, looking to
the valud; whether when procured & wvhen exported.
Especially in a penal provision, it could not seem judiciovs,
any more than'legal, to extend it beyond the clear language of
the act. (See cases in Maxwell v. Griswold, post, p. 242.) But
on this objection, growing out of the words of the act of 1842,
it is hardly necessary to give a decisive opinion; as the instruction to the jury does not in form 'cover it; nd on the other
ground, the appraisal is palpably erroneous, on account of its
being made as of the wrong time.
The second general instruction excepted to is, that the ap.
praisal was invalid,;because not made on a personal examina.
tion of any of the goods.by all of those certifying to its correctness.
It is almost impossible to adopt any'other construction of
the acts of Congress, or of the analogies of the case. Those

DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

-239.

Greely v. Thompson et al.

acts expressly require, that the appraisers should inspect or
examine a portion of the goods pointed out by the collector.
4 Stat. at Large, 410 ; 3 Stat. at Large, 736; 5 Stat. at Large,
565.
The oaths administered to them are, "diligently and.faithfully to examine the goods," &c. Act of 1823, § 16 (3 Stat.
at Large, 735).
So of the assistant appraisers, the oath is in like words. (4
Stat. at Large, 409).
In this very case the appraisers swore " diligently and faithfully to examine.and inspect said lot of railroad iron," and reported that "we have examined" it, &c., when the record states,
that one of the merchant appraisers "never saw the iron," and
one of the lpbrmanent appraisers did not "examine," and "did
not inspect or see the irony
Besides this, it would be unreasonable to overturn the invoices and oaths of importers, unldss by a personal inspection
and examination; an insufficient value should clearly appear to
have been affixed, considering the quality*of the. article first,
and next the market value abroad of articles of that quality, at
the time required by law.
But it has been-urged, that if one examines and reports to
e rc
hantable," the other can corthe other that the article is I- m
rectly fix the value,,by knowingthe value of what is merchantable.
The answer to this Is, that the law requires the quality to be
fixed by inspection or examination, and not alone by evidence
or opinion of others.
Again, too, an article may be barely -merchantabld, and yet
not be worth so much as one that is not only merchantable, but
on the brink of being better than merchantable. A personal
examination, therefore, is proper for making such discriminations in quality and value.
It is further urged against our construction, that a sufficient
force does not exist ini most custom-houses for all the appraisers to make personal examinations, or all -the assistant appraisers to do it. There are two answers to this. If officers enough
to perform these public duties do not exist, more should be authorized, or their duties to examine in person should be dispensed with by an act of Coigress. Again, the collector need
detail no more officprs to make the appraisal than can be spared,
or than the law imperatively demands. All we hold is, that
such as are detailed in a particular case should do their duty,
in the manner which their oaths require; and it would be a
novelty for courts to countenance one or more persons, if undertaking a duty in such a case, to be exonerated from it becaus; it was burdensome or difficult.

240

SUPREME

C.OURT.

Greely v. Thompson et al.

There is, too, a sufficient answer to another objection, that, if
a personal examination was required of every article, time
enough would not exist for the purpose. For the acts of Congress do not require every article in a package to be examined.
A fair selection of specimens or samples is made sufficient. (3
Stat. at Large, 735, § 15.)
The instruction by the court below on this point is, therefore,
the only one tolerated by the language of the acts of Congress
and the oaths of the appraisers, though a different usage may
have grown up at some ports, without intending any thing negligent or wrong.
The only remaining question is, whether the removal of one
of the. merchant appraisers, and the substitution of another, who
estimated the value, was not on the facts of this case irregular,
so as to make their appraisal invalid.
The court below instructed the jury it was so. We feel constrained, by the law and reason of the case, to concur in that
view. The person removed was one selected as a member of
an appellate tribunal, to revise the value estimated by the regular appraisers, and he was removed and another appointed, as
the record shows, not for any misconduct discovered, orfiny incompetency intervening, by act of God or otherwise, but merely because he wished time given to obtain more evidence from
England, which might justify a lower estimate.
Now, without saying what might be proper in case of a
strictly public officer, quasi judicial and misbehaving, as nothing was ruled on that point below, and indeed without holding
what might. be competent in case of an arbitrator or referee,
public or private, becoming corrupted or incapable, as the ruling
did .not apply to that case, we are satisfied that 4he allowance
of an appeal to merchant appraisers by the importer would be
nugatory, or a mockery, if a member of the tribunal can be removed by the collector or Secretary whenever his opinion appears not likely to accord with theirs on the matter submitted.
He is, as to that, a quasijudge, a "legislative referee." Rankin v. Hoyt, 4 Howard, 327.
And an interference with such a referee for such a cause
would conflict with all just notions of judicial independence, or
judicial purity, and when done and sanctioned as to a publireferee, it might shake confidence abroad as well as at home in
the administration of our revenue sy!tem, as connected. with
commercial imports. In all free countries, public sentiment is
much shocked by any interference with judicial duties, tending
to warp them. And more especially, if so made as to be likely
to influence a pending question in favor of those interfering,
and actually ending in the removal of a judicial incumbent

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

241

Grealy v. Thompson et aL

merely for an opinion expressed. in the course of the case which
was not agreeable.
Again, the merchant appraisers here can hardly be considered
public officers at all, in the ordinary acceptation of the term.
One of them was formerly selected by the importer alone.
Neither of them now holds a commission, nor are they selected
to discharge generally public duties of a certain character.
But they are mere umpires between the permanent appraisers and the importers, when disagreeing as to the value in
some particular case; and it is difficult to see how, when third
persons are interested in their decision, the other side, whether
represented by the collector or Secretary, could, without the
consent of those third persons, or without some grave public
ground beyond a mere difference of opinion, remove an umpire,
and thus attempt to change the award about to be made.
Though some very culpable cases of removals of public judicial officers occurred in England before her revolution, during
the arbitrary reign of the house of Stuart, and led for security
to a change in the tenure of their offices from the pleasure of
the king to good behaviour, yet nothing of the kind seems
since to be countenanced, here or there, for mere difference of
opinion. And the course pursued in the present instance was
probably the result of not adverting to the judicial character of
a merchant appraiser, or of a misapprehension as to the duty
and right to do the act, only for requesting delay to obtain
more evidence, rather than arising from any intentional abuse
of power.
The delay, asked for the benefit of the importers, was also to
prevent a penalty; and in such a case, when doubts exist, the
respondent is'to be favored. (7 Peters, 453; 1 Baldwin, C. .
317.) The removal, made to avoid this delay of further evidence
against the forfeiture, was likewise in the case of merchants and
manufacturers of .apparently high respectability, and without a
particle of evidence indicating any intent by them to defraud
the government.
Almost the whole system of appraisals is founded on te
idea, that fraud has been, or is likely to be, practised. And
while this court has never been backward in ferreting out and
punishing real frauds attempted on the revenue, yet, at the
same time,' where no dishonesty is pretended, but a disposition
appears in the importer to conform to the laws, he is entitled to
fil legal protection, else fair bommerce between us and the rest
of the world will be discouraged, and our national character
tarnished.
The government, too, could not suffer by the delay asked
here, as they, in the mean time, would hold the goods, unless
VOL. x.

21

242

SUPREME COURT.
Maxwell v. Griswold et al.

the increased duties on the highest appraisal, and the penalty,
were paid to them.
The judgment below is affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record f-om the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, and was argued by counsel. On consideratfon whereof, it is now here, ordered and adjudged by
this court, that'the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

HUGH MAXWELL, PLAniTIrF IN ERROR, v. NATHANIEL L. GRISWOLD,
GEORGE GRISWOLD, GEORGE W. GRAY, AND GEORGE GRISWOLD,

JUNIOR.
The points ruled in the preceding case of Greely v. Thompson and Forman adopted
and applied to this case also, so far as they are applicable.
Where the collector insisted upon either having the goods appraised at the value at
the time of shipment, the consequence of which would have been an addition of so
much to the invoice price as to subject the importer to a penalty; or to allow the
importer voluntarily to make the addition to tha invoice price and so escape the
penalty, and the importer chose the latter course, thi3 was not such a voluntary
payment of duties on his part as to debar him from bringing an action against the
collector for the recovery of the excess thus illegally exacted.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
Like the preceding case of Greely v. Thompson and Forman, it was an action brought by the defendants in error against
Maxwell, the collector at the port of New York, for the return
of duties paid under protest
In January, 1850, the defendants in error imported into New
York, in the ship Matilda, from Manilla, sundry bags of sugar
and bales of hemp. The goods were purchased in. March and
April, 1849, but not shipped until about the 24th of July, 1849,
wheri the market prices had risen very considerably. The assistant appraiser reported upon the value of the articles, meaning by the word value "the actual market value at the time of
shipment to the United States in the principal markets of the
country of produce."
The importers paid the duties under protests, one of which
was the following.

