586

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

a remark equally true in respect to every other nautical rule,
which the results of experience have shown enter so materially into the proper management of the vessel.
It has been insisted, that the schooner was in fault in not
carrying a light, so as to enable the vessels approaching to see
her at a greater distance. But all agree that it was a clear,
starlight night, and hence there could be no difficulty, with a
proper look-out, in seeing to a sufficient distance to enable
the steamer to make the proper movement to avoid her.
It is not usual for sailing vessels to carry lights on such a
night.
It is true, some of the witnesses on the part of the Neptune
speak of a black cloud in the eastern horizon, which obscured
the iiew from vessels going in that direction. But the allegation is not maintained by the evidence to an extent that would
justify us in attributing to it any material importance.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied the decree below is right,
and must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented from the opinion of the
court in this case, and also in that of Newton v. Stebbins.
For his opinion, see the conclusion of the last-mentioned case,
which follows the present.
Order.
This cause came. on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York, and was* argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs anddamages-at
the rate of six per centum per annuni.

ISAAC NEWTON, CLAIMIANT OF

STEADIBOAT NEW JERSEY,

APPELLANT,

v. JOHN H. STEBBINS.
Where a sailing vessel was descending the Hudson River with but a trifling wind,
and chiefly by the force of the current, and came into collision with a steamer
ascending the river, the question in the case was, whether or not the accident happened, notwithstanding every proper precautionary measure had been taken on
the part of the steamboat to pass the sloop in safety, in consequence of an improper movement of that vessel by the mismanagement and unskilfulness of the
persons in charge of her. If the sailing vessel kept her course, it was the duty of
the steamboat to avoid her. The evidence showing that the steamer did not take

DECEMBER TERM 1850.

587

Newton v. Stebbins.
proper precautionary measures to avoid the sloop while endeavoring to pass hr,
the responsibility of the collision must rest upon the steamer.
The steamer was in fault for not slackening her speed, on meeting a fleet of sailing
vessels in a narrow channel of-the river, she then-going at the rate of from eight to
ten knots the hour. She was also in fault, in not having a proper look-out at the
forward part of the vessel, there being no one bat the msa .t ae wheel on deck.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit.Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
Like the preceding case, it arose from a collision which took
place between a steamboat and a sailing vessel
The circumstances under which the collision took place, as
claimed to exist by the respective parties, are thus set forth in
the libel and answer. The libel was filed in November, 1845.
"To the Honorable Samuel R. Betts, Judge of the District
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York.
"The libel and complaint of.John H. Stebbins, of Coeyman§,
mariner, owner of the sloop Hamlet, whereof the libellant was
master, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, against the steambbat
New Jersey, whereof one Beebe now is orlate was master, her
engine, boiler, tackle, apparel, and furniture, now within tb.;
district, and also against all persons, lawfully intervening for
their interest therein, in a cause of collision, civil and maritime;
and thereupon the said John II Stebbins alleges and articulately propounds as follows :"1st. That some time in the month of October last the said
sloop Hamlet (whereof the -said libellant was master) was at
the port of Bristol on the Hudson River, and destined on a
voyage thence to the port of New York, with a cargo of
flagging and other stone on board; and wds at the time a
tight, stanch, and well-built vessel, of the burden of ninety
tons, or thereabouts, and was then completely rigged and sufficiently provided, and then had on board, and in her service, a
full and competent crew for the navigation of said sloop on
the voyage above mentioned.
"2d. That in the said month of October the said sloop, provided and manned as aforesaid, sailed from the port of Bristol
on her aforesaid voyage to the port of New York, and in the
prosecution of the said voyage, as he is informed and believes,
the said sloop proceeded at the rate of about four or five miles
per hour, until she arrived at a point on the Hudson River called
Blue Point; that at that point the wind failed, and the said
sloop then proceeded with the force of the current and very little wind about one or two'miles an hour; that on her arrival
at said point, and while the said vessel was within the juris-

588

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

diction of this court, the person in charge of the said sloop
observed the said steamboat coming up the river at the rate of
about twelve or fifteen miles per hour, and nearer to the east
shore of said river than the said sloop, and directed the man
at the helm to head the said sloop more to the west shore
of said river, which was done; that when said steamboat New
Jersey arrived within a short distance of the said sloop, she altered her course to the westward, and negligently and carelessly headed across the bdws of said vessel, and attempted to pass
to the westward of said sloop; in conoequence of which negligent conduct of those in charge of said steamboat, the said
steamboat struck the end of the said sloop's bowsprit, carryiiig
away about ten or twelve feet of the said bowsprit and the
stays attached thereto, forcing the bows of the said sloop round
so that she struck the sloop on the larboard bow, doing such
injury to the said sloop by said collision, that the sloop immediately sunk, with her said cargo.
"3d. That at the time the damage mentioned in the preceding article happened, it was impossible for the said sloop Hamlet to get out of the way of the said steamboat New Jersey, the
said sloop having little comparative way on, and being at the
time to the westward, and out of the course of the said steamboat, and there being room enough for the said steamboat to
have passed to the eastward of said sloop, as she might and
ought t9 have done. That if the persons having charge of the
said' steamboat New Jersey had taken proper precaution to
keep clear of the said sloop, which it was their duty to have
done, the damage.in the next preceding article set forth would
not have happened.
"4th. That the said sloop, at the time of the receiving of
the damage above mentioned, was a tight, stanch, and strong
vessel, and that the libellant then was, and now is, the true
and lawful owner of said sloop, her tackle, apparel, and furniture.
"5th. That by the collision aforesaid, and the consequent
sinking of said sloop, with her cargo, the libellant has sustained
damage to the amount of three thousand five hundred dollars.
"6th. That all and singular the premises are true, and within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States
and of this honorable court; in verification whereof, if denied,
the libellant prays leave to refer to pleadings and other proofs
to be by him exhibited in this cause.
" Werefore, the libellant prays, that process in due form of
law, according to the course of courts of admiralty, and of this
honorable court in cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, may issue against the said steamboat New Jersey, her

589

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Newton v. Stebbins.

engine, boilers, tackle, apparel, and furniture, wheresoever Vrie
same may be found; and that all persons having, or pretending
to have, any right, title, or interest therein may be cited to
appear and answer all and singular the.matters so articulately
propounded.; and that this honorable court would be pleased
to pronounce for the damages aforesaid, or for such other and
different relief to the libellant in the premises as shall to law
and justice appertain, and also to condemn the said steamboat,
her engine, tackle, appbrel, and furniture, and the persons intervening for their interest therein, in costs.
" JOHN
I

STEBBINS."

To this libel, Isaac Newton filed the following answer.
"January Term, 1846.
"To the Honorable Samuel R. Betts, Judge of the District
Court of the United States within and for the Southern
District of New York:
"And now Isaac Newton, intervening for his interest in the
steamboat New Jersey, appears before this honorable court
and for answer to the libel and complaint of John H. Stebbins
against the said steamboat New Jersey, her engine, boilers,
tackle, apparel, and furniture, and agains all persons lawfully
intervening for their intetest therein, alleges and articulately
propounds as follows: "1st. That this respondent was the owner of said steamboat, her boiler, engine &c., in October last, at the time of the
alleged collision of said sloop Hamlet, in the libel mentioned,
and the New Jersey, and before that time, and afterwards until
the sale of said steamboat to William B. Dodge and John S.
Moore, on or about the 19th day of November last; and that
since such sale by this respondent to said Dodge and Moore,
this respondent has been and still is bound to indemnify and
save the said Dodge and Moore harmless against any claim or
demand which the said libellant, or any other person, may
have against said steamboat, her boiler, engine, &c., by reason
of any such collision, and has been ever since such sale, and
still is, interested in said steamboat, her engine, tackle, apparel;
and furniture, as mortgagee for the purchase money.
"2d. This respondent also admits that the libellant was the
master of the said sloop Hamlet; but he says, on information
and belief, that said libellant was not in command on board
said sloop at the time of the collision in question, nor at any
time during her said trip or voyage. This respondent also admits that said sloop was at Bristol, on the Hudson, as alleged
in the first article of said libel, and destined on a trip or voyage
50
VOL. X.

590

SUPREME COURT
Newton v. Stebbins.

thence to New York, with a cargo of some sort on board, but
he is not informed, save from the libel, and therefore will leave
the said libellant to prove, of what her cargo consisted; and
this respondent denies, on information and belief, that said
sloop was, as alleged in said libel, tight, stanch, and well built;
and he also denies, on information and belief, that said sloop
was completely rigged and sufficiently provided; and especially
does he deny that she had on board, and in her service, a full
and complete crew for the navigation of said sloop on her
destined voyage; and he avers, as he is informed and believes,
that she was not sufficiently manned, that the master was not
on board of her,
and no competent person in charge of said
voyage.
sloop on said
" 3d. This respondent further says, that, as he is informed
and believes, on the afternoon previous to the collision in question, the New Jersey started from New York at or about five
o'clock, with a tow-boat of about two hundred tons burden,
bound for Hudson, and at the time of said collision, which
arose from running the sloop into the said steamboat, as hereinafter mentioned, the said steamboat was within about half
a mile from a point on the Hudson known as Blue Point, a
distance of about eighty miles from New York; that the time
of the collision in question was about two o'clock in the morning; that at-the time of collision, and a short time previous to
the collision, and for three or four miles before the sloop struck
the steamboat, the steamboat was on the west side of the river,
and westward of the course of the sloop, with her tow-boat on
her west side; that said steamboat had had a fair tide until a
little before the collision happened, but at the time of the collision it was slack water; that a short time previous to the
collision, and that at the time thereof, the wind was from the
westward and blowing a stiff breeze; that the steamer, a short
time previous to the collision, was slowed, and was stopped
about the time of the collision; that the steamboat did not
cross the bow of the sloop, nor the course the sloop was running at the time the sloop came in sight, and that the collision
arose from the short luffing of the sloop, through the fault
and wilfhlness, carelessness; mismanagement, or misdirection of
the person or persons in charge of the sloop, which the persons
in charge of the steamboat could not have foreseen nor guarded
against, whereby the, said sloop was run into the said steamboat by the person in charge of said sloop, and with so much
force and violence as to drive the bowsprit of the sloop into the
steamboat, and do a great damage to said steamboat; or that
the said collision arose otherwise from the fault, mismanagement, misdirection, or incompetency of the person or persons

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

591

Newton v. Stebbins.

in charge of the said sloop, and that the said collision happened
without any fault, misdirection, or mismanagement of the persons in charge of said steamboat. And this respondent further
answering says, that he is not informed of the rate at which
the said sloop was proceeding before and after their arrival off
Blue Point, but he has reason to believe, and does believe, that
the said sloop was proceeding much more 'rapidly through .the
water, both before and after their arrival off Blue Point, than as
aforesaid is stated in said lib-el; and he denies, on information
and belief, that the wind failed as said sloop arrived at the
point. And this respondent denies,' on information and belief,
that the said steamboat, with her tow-boat, at the time she
came in sight of the sloop, or at any time on her said trip or
voyage from New York, either did or could have proceeded at
the rate of near twelve or fifteen miles per hour, but she was
moving at a much slower rate, and very slow; and he likewise
denies, as he is informed and believes, that said steamboat was
at any time after 'her coming in sight of said sloop nearer to
the east shore of said river than said sloop; but whether 6r not
the person or any persons having charge of said sloop directed
the man at the helm thereof to head the sloop more to the west
shore of said river, and whether the same was done in manner
and form as alleged in said libel, this respondent is ignorant,
and would leave said libellant to prove the same; but he is informed and believes that as said steamboat, going up the river,
was passing said sloop to the west of said sloop, and said
sloop, going down the river, was passing to the east of said
steamboat, the. course of said sloop was suddenly altered
through the manifest fault and carelessness, mismanagement,
or misdirection of the persons in charge of said sloop, nd so
directed to the westward as to run her into said steamboat;
and this respondent further says, as he is informed and believes,
that as the said steamboat was passing said sloop to the westward, with her tow-boat in tow on her west side as aforesaid,
the said sloop being headed toward the eastward, before the
sudden change of direction of said sloop as aforesaid, he is informed and believes that said steamboat was directed farther,
and as far as possible, to the westward to keep clear of said
sloop, and that she was not directed westward so as to cross
the bow of said sloop; and that the said steamboat was not
negligently or carelessly, or otherwise, headed across the bows
of said vessel, nor was it attempted to pass said steamboat to
the westward across the bow of the sloop, or the course of the
sloop; and thio respondent denies, on information and belief,
that it was in consequence of any negligent conduct or fault
of those in charge of said steamboat that said steamboat struck

592

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

the end of said sloop's bowsprit, and says, as he is informed
and believes, that the allegation is more correct, as it is in accordance with the fact, to say, that the end of the bowsprit of
the sioop struck the steamboat, than that the steamboat struck
the end of the bowsprit of the sloop, which is not true, as this
respondent is informed and believes. And this respondent
admits that said sloop sunk at or soon: after the chllision; but
he says, as he is informed and believes, it was through the
weakness and insufficiency of the said sloop, and through the
carelessness and mismanagement and insufficiency of those
who had charge of her.
"4th. This respondent further says, that, as he is informed
and believes, it is not true, as alleged in the third article of
said libel, that it was impossible for said sloop Hamlet to get
out of the way of the said steamboat, for the reasons supposed
in that article, nor for any reason whatever; but, on the contrary thereof, this respondent is informed and believes that
said steamboat was pursuing her course, on the westerly side
of the river, as aforesaid, and that said collision was occasioned entirely by the fault, misdirection, mismanagement, or
incompetency of the persons having charge of the sloop, in
suddenly altering and varying her course as aforesaid, and in
not keeping on her course as the said sloop ought and might
have done, and fof which she had sufficient headway; or
otherwise through the fault, misconduct, mismanagement, or
incompetency of the person having charge of said sloop. And
he further says, that if the person or persons in charge of said
sloop had used proper precaution or reasonable skill or care,
as in duty bound to do, to avoid said collision, said collision
might and would not have happened. And this respondent
further says, as he is informed and believes, that every precaution was taken and effort made, and all reasonable care, skill,
and diligence' used, by the persons hating charge of said
steamboat, to avoid, such collision.
"5th. This respondent, on information and belief, denies
that said sloop, at the time 'ofsaid collision, was tight, stanch,
oi strong, but, on the contrary thereof, was old, weak, and insufficient; and this respondent says that he is not informed,
except from the libel, whether the said libellant wa3, at the
time of said collision, or since has been, the owner of the said
sloop, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and therefore does not
admit the same; but leaves him to prove the same as he may
be advised.
"6th. VWhether the said libellant has sustained damages to
the amount of $ 3,500, or to any amount, by the collision
aforesaid, and the sinking of said sloop with her cargo, this

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

593

Newton v. Stebbins.

respondent is not informed, save by said libel, and does not
admit the same, and leaves him to prove the same as he may
be advised; but this respondent insists, that neither said 9teamboat New Jersey, nor this respondent, is liable for any part of
such damage, if any there be.
"7th. That the said collision, as this respondent is informed
and believes, occurred within the body of the county of Ulster
or of Duchess, in the State of New York, and not within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of this maritime- cour,
and that therefore this honorable court has not jurisdiction,
and ought not to proceed to enforce the claim alleged in the
libel aforesaid against said steamboat, or against this respond.
ent intervening for his interest therein; and this respondent
claims the same benefit of this exception as if he had demurred
to said libel, or pleaded specially to the jurisdiction of this court.
"18th. That all and singular the premises are true; in verification whereof, if denied, the said respondent craves leave to
refer to the depositions and other proofs to be by him exhibited in this cause.
"Wherefore this respondent prays, that this honorable court
would be pleased to pronounce against the libel aforesaid, and
to condemn the libellant in costs, and otherwise right and
justice to administer in the premises.
"3. NE.WTroN."'
To this answer the libellant filed a general replication.
Twenty-five witnesses were examined, some of them being
persons who were on board of vessels very near the Hamlet at
the time of the collision, and others persons who were on board
of the steamboat. In order to show the contradictory nature
of the evidence, the following depositions are inserted.
For the libellant: "William Hallarbeck, sworn. Was pilot of Eliga. Wright;
first saw steamboat when a-little below Blue Point, at about
Barnegat, close in to east shore, and kept right along up east
shore to opposite Sands's Dock, and then sheered over northwest. Witness about one third across river from west shore
when steamboat came towards him heading about for him; came
within three lengths of sloop. Witness shook his light, and
she took a sheer west, cleared witness about as far off. Hamlet
was then half way between witness and shore, a little astern
of witness; steamboat kept her course west, and tried to pass
Hamlet's bow; saw them strike steamboat. Hit bowsprit of
Hamlet, and slewed her right round to westward; saw her
sink within a minute or two; wind was very light and baffling,
northeast and northwest, and evory way. Witness's boom504

594

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

at time, off east; was going three to four miles through water.
Witness a little above the White House, nearly opposite to it.
" Cross-examined.- Not quite a mile from White House, to
Blue Point three quarters mile. Witness about length ahead
of Hamlet, and she about half way between White House and
Blue Point, and about one third of a mile from witness; she had
no lights in iher
rigging;
saw her bowsprit; night was then lit up
n
g
g '
w'
good deal. Witness's
sloop
steered-- well, about abeam; was
going
four
miles
to
Hamlet's
three,
per for
hour;
steamboat
not
did had
collision;
stop
not
side;
did
west
toiw-boat on
observe vessels particularly after they struck and got clear;
could see hull of steamboat a mile a small flat between
White House and Blue Point, not extending one half length of
sloop into river.
" Thinks steamboat passed him at rate of ten or eleven
miles; does not, know that she stopped her wheels before
striking Hamlet; did not seem mor6 than a minute after passing before she struck Hamlet; was room for steamboat to pass
Eliza Wright on east side.
"Robert F. Osborn, sworn. Master of sloop Van Buren;
was coming down river night of collision; about half across
river from Blue Point, when first saw steamboat; she was
then on east 'shore, near Barnegat, one thitd from shore; was
then'coming directly up the river, as he judged; very soon
she altered so as to run more to west, and then again to about
northwest; was astern df Hamlet, and a little east of her,
about to end of her boom.
" Steamboat passed witness's bow; did not then know
Hamlet.
I" Steamboat was steering well into west when she struck
sloop; saw her strike; was then thirty or forty rods off; did
not, to witness's knowledge, stop her wheels before striking;
judged she was going nine or ten knots; blow slewed Hamlet
west; witness jibed over to clear steamboat, and kept away;
was about abreast of sloop when she sunk; steamboat was
close along side of her; mast was over stedmboat. Sloop
went down, head first. Witness thinks he was running about
two miles; wind north, directly down river, and light; had
kept close with Hamlet from Crumalbow.
"Cross-examined. - Thinks course of river about north and
south at that place. Witness's sloop minded her helm when
he kept away; believes steamboat backed her wheels after
collision; sloop sunk within two or three minutes; steamboat
lay some time after; barge of steamboat on larboard side; did
not see any light in rigging of Hamlet.
"Jonathan Reeve, sworn. Was pilot of Van Buren. Wit-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

505

Newton v. Stebbins.

ness was at helm; at time of collision, one quarter to one third
from western shore, across river, right after Hamlet thirty or
forty rods, perhaps, off; saw two vessels come together; should
think steamboat was going eight or ten knots, steering westnorthwest to northwest course.
" Hamlet heading directly down rivir; wind unsteady at
time; witness going about tWo knots; saw steamboat a mile
and a half off, and thought she was on east side, and going up
that side, as witness's sail shut her in; boom off east. Captain
Osborn called to witness she was crossing river, and she soon
opened to witness's view; did not observe that steamboat
stopped her wheels till she struck; turned sloop round; head
same way with steamboat; then thought' she backed her
wheels, and that started sloop a little backward, which rolled
over to windward then rolled back her mast towards steamboat, and sunk immediately; did not know sloop at time; had
to keep away to get from steamboat.
"Cross-examined.--.Does not think was length of sloop from
steamboat when passed her; witness did not alter course of
sloop before collision."
For the claimant :"9George Dobson, sworn. Second pilot of Buffalo; was
pilot of New Jersey night of collision; was at wheel at time of
collision, and from New York, except time of taking his tea;
saw Hamlet a mile or more ahead, she being most to west of
all the vessels; great many vessels coming down; made course
to clear her, as he had all the rest fron Clinton's Point up; had
plenty of room, as if she had kept her course he should have
had nearly one third of river; first she luffed, and witness
hauled more west to avoid her; she had been running straight
down the river, and was perhaps one third of a mile off when
she changed her direction; when she luffed she bore more for
steamboat; should have gone clear had she kept her course;
fearing she would not clear steamboat, slowed her, and hollowed to sloop to keep away; then stopped steamboat, and
hailed again to keep away, and saw man shove his helm down
(which would luff her up); it luffed her directly round; the instant witness saw him put his helm down, rang the bell twice
to back, and sloop came head into her, as nearly head on as he
could judge, might be a little glancing, and she ran against
steamboat; hailed with loud voice; thinks Would have cleared
without trouble if sloop had not luffed last time; after helm
was put down, nothing more could be done on New Jersey
than was done; her direction could not be changed, and could
aid in avoiding sloop only by backing.

596

SUPREME

COURT.

Newtoa v. Stebbins.
"Cross-examined.- That night went on board New Jersey;
been three or four years in People's line; Mr. Van Santvoord sent
witness to boat; does not know whether he is owner in line or
not; he is one of the principal managers; Drew another, and then
chief director; heard he was owner; witness hired to him as
runner, but good deal of time has been pilot; has also been captain; passed more vessels that night than he ever before saw on
river; first part of night very dark and bad, but had become more
clear at time of collision; nothing to call witness's attention particularly to Hamlet; does not recollect passing any vessels in ixa.
mediate vicinity of Hamlet; passed some below; didnot pass
ahy vessel close to eastern shore of Sands's Dock; was then one
third river off west shore; began, at Clinton Point to lay his
course gradually across river, so as to get on west side; wanted
to get to windward of vessels which had generally jibed; could
in such state generally run over to west shore; sloop nearer
the shlore when she struck than when she sunk; thinks she
sunk nearly one third of river off shore; -she was dragged off
by backing of New ersey, he thinks all of 200 feet or more,
before she went down; sloop luffed twice; second time came
dead up and direct into New Jersey; New Jersey backed twice,
once when sloop was sinking.
"Been on river seventeen or eighteen years pretty steady, in
all twenty-five years.
"lHasrun season as pilot, sometimes not on same boat."
In July, 1846, the cause came on to be tried in the Distict,
Court, when the following decree was pronounced "This cause having been heard on the pleadings and proofs,
and argued by the advocates for the respective parties, and due
deliberation being had in the premises, "It is now ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court, that
the libellant recover, in this action against the steamboat New
Jersey, her tackle, &c., the damages sustained by the sloop
Hamlet, and the cargo on board.
"And it is further ordered, that it be referred to one of the
commissioners of this court, to ascertain and compute the
amount of such damages, and to report thereon to this court
with all convenient speed.
"SAMUL R. BETTs."
On the 25th of September, 1846, the commissioner made
the following report: "In pursuance of a deuretal order, made in the above-enttied cause, on the first day of August instant, by which, among
other things, it was referred to the undersigned, one of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

597

Newton v. Stebbins.

commissioners of this court, to ascertain and compute the
amount of damage sustained by the sloop Hamlet, in her collision with the steamboat New Jersey, and the value of the
cargo on board:
" I, George W. Morton, the commissioner to whom the
above matter was referred, do report that I have been attended
by the proctors of the libellant and claimant, and have taken
and examined the testimony offered in support of the libellant's
claim, and the testimony offered by the claimant in opposition thereto, and do find that the sloop Hamlet, at the time of
the collision with the steamboat New Jersey, was worth the
sum of $ 2,800, and the cargo on board the sum of $ 528.35,
amounting in the whole to the sum of $ 3,328.35, being the
damages sustained by the sloop Hamlet and cargo, in her collision with the steamboat New Jersey.
"All which is respectfully submitted.
" GEORGE W. MORTON,

" September 25th, 1846."

U. S. Commissioner.

Exceptions were filed to this report, and on the 14th of October, 1846, a final decree was entered in the District Court,
reducing the damages to $ 2,403.70, which amount it was adjudged that the libellant should recover, with costs.
The claimant and libellant both entered an appeal from this
decree; but the libellant not perfecting his appeal, the cause
went up to the Circuit Court upon the appeal of the claimant
alone.
On the 10th of September, 1847, the cause was tried upon
this appeal in the Circuit Court, and on the 11th of November,
1847, the decree of the District Court was affirmed, with costs.
The claimant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Van &antvoord,for the appellant, and
Mr. Benedict, for the appellee.
The points made by .Ir. Van Santvoord, for the appellant,
were the following: I. To succeed, the libellant must establish to the satisfaction of the court, not only that the collision happened through
some negligence of the persons in charge of the steamboat,
but also that it happened without any fault of the persons in
charge of the sloop. Bulloch v. Steamboat Lamar, Circ. Ct.
U. S,, Georgia, 8 Law Rep. 275; Abbott on Shipping, Story &
Perkins's ed., p. 228, note (2); Parker v. Adams, 12 Metcalf,
415,417; Spencer v. The Utica and Schenectady Railroad Co.,
5 Barbour, 337, and cases cited therein.
And to establish the fact to the satisfaction of the court, that

598

SUPRE'ME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

the fault was not on the part of the persons intrusted with the
navigation of the sloop, the libellant must show it by evidence
leaving no reasonable doubt, as the burden of proof is upon
him. The Catherine, 2 Hagg. 145, 154; The Ligo, 2 Hagg.
356; Lane v. Crombie, 12 Pick. 177.
I. Section 1 of Title 10 of the Revised Statutes of New
York does not apply to the case of a sailing vessel and a
steamboat.
The fact of the omission by the legislature to provide for the
case of a sailing vessel and steamboat, approaching from opposite directions, is the highest evidence of their intention to
leave such a case to be regulated by the ordinary rules and
usages of navigation in such cases.
III. The case of The Friends, 1 Win. Rob. 478, cited by
the libellant below, does not apply to the case of a sailing vessel and steamboat approaching from opposite directions on the
Hudson River, - for the reason, that the decision. of that case
rests wholly upon the view taken by the judge who decided it,
of the construction and application to the case of the Trinity
rules, which are of no force here.
The case was one of great obstinacy and sharp practice;
steamer Menai
both pa ies persisting in their course -the
schooner
her
helm,
and
the The
schoonertotoport
starboard
the steamer
hailing the
true
of direction.
he change
helm, while
either might have
avoided the collision by a
rules considering the
Trinity
lthewas, Which was
the
most to blame? and the
question
court on therefore
the claim of the
schooner technically right pronounced against
to the right
keep
to
vessel
each
steamboat.
our coast,
on
IV. But if the e requiring
practice
be the most usual
as in the case
(Ihich would seem to
contrary,
the
to
reason
12) is
Unless there is some good
Portland, 1 Law Rep.
Steamboat
v.
Lowry
on appeal,
it is
a steamboat, each
and approaching
vessels
a sailing
the case ofcase
of two essel
applicable to
applicable oly to the
to
so near
measures
directions,
properwhen
fromof opposite
lineduty
each to take
a direct the
other itinbecomes
that a collision.
n
Friends, 1
avoid
cout,in the case of The
See the opinion of the
the assumption
Wm. Rob. 482, showidng that the cas~e goesa on
so
lne, and to
measures
direct
on
proper
approaching
were
both itvessels
that that
of each to take
duty
the
was
near
case where
avoid a collision.
insisted on apply to the
V. Nor does the rule tack (the steamer) is on a course so
other that,
the vessel on the larboard
vessels are nearing each
far to windward, as the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

599

Newton v. Stebbins.

if both persist in their course, the other will strike her on the
leeward side abaft the beam, or near the stern,-in which case
the vessel on the starboard tack should keep off. Report of
Benjamin Rich and others to the District Court of Massachusetts, 1 Law Reporter, 318.
Nor (afortiori) to the case where the vessel on the starboard
tack, if kept on her course, would pass at a safe distance to
windward of the other vessel.
VL The rule of navigation specially applicable to the case
of a steamboat approaching a sailing vessel, which requires
a steamboat to pass the sailink vessel either on the larboard
or starboard side of the sailing vessel, whichever is the best
method of proceeding to avoid a collision, under any given
circumstances, necessarily imposes upon the sailing vessel a
corresponding obligation to keep her course, and not to change
her direction as the steamboat approaches near her, across the
line of direction of the steamboat.
A little arithmetic will show, that a sailing vessel, proceeding at the rate of three miles or two miles an hour through the
water, or even less, can change her position from a point so far
out of the line of the direction of a steamer approaching her,
proceeding at an ordinary rate of speed, as to render a collision inevitable; and a collision thus occasioned would be justly
chargeable to the fault of the sailing vessel.
Three miles an hour is at the rate of 176 yards, or. 528 feet,
in two minutes; and two miles an hour, at the rate of 117
yards, or 351 feet, in two minutes.
As to the law and rules of navigation applicable to the case,
see the opinion of the District Judge in the case on appeal, of
which a copy is herewith furnished.
For further illustration, see also the opinion of the District
Judge of New York in the case of Stout v. The Steamboat
Isaac Newton, decided Dec. 23, 1848.
VII. In reference to the pleadings, the rule of pleadirig in
cases of tort is, that it is sufficient if part only of the allegations stated in the declaration or answer be proved, provided
that what is proved affords a ground for maintaining the action or defence, supposing it to have been correctly stated as
proved: it is quite enough in cases of tort, if the same ground
of action or defence is proved as laid in the declaration or
answer, although not to the extent there stated. 1 Phillips on
Evidence, 200, 205.
In this view, the allegation in the answer, that the steamboat was on the west side of the river for three or four miles
before the collision, is not required to be proved in its full extent. It is requisite to show only that the steamboat was on

600

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

the west sideof the river, and on a course to the westward of
the sloop, a sufficient time to give the sloop reasonable notice
of her direction to westward.
I Nor, in this view, is it necessary to prove that a stiff breeze
was blowing, provided there was sufficient wind to enable the
sloop to control her movements and change her direction.
Besides, the defence is not confined in the answer to the precise statement of the manner in which the collision happened.
VIII. In reference to the evidence, the appellant will insist,1. That the testimony of a competent witness is to be believed, until his statement is contradicted by other testimony or
evideijee, from controlling facts, entitled to greater confidence.
2. That the evident misapprehensions of witnesses are not
entitled to be considered-as evidence. In connection with this,
see Penny Cyclopedia, art. M31otion,
3. That when it shall be shown that witnesses from the
sloops, in applying the terms "north" or " n orthw est," " round
to westward," &c., have reference to the direction of the sloop
upon which the witness is placed (upon the assumption that
its direction is due south), and not to the true point of the compass or the course of the river, allowance should be made for
the deviation of the direction of the sloop, to ascertain the
effect of the testimony.
'IX. It is shown by a decided preponderance of testimony,
that the New Jersey,-going up the river, hauled gradually across
the river, from a joint on the east side, at or below Barnegat,
three miles and upwards below the sloop Hamlet, coming down
the river before the w ind; -that she had hauled over on to the
west side of the river, and within a third of the width of the
river from the west shore, at or about Sands's Dock, at least a
mile and a quarter below the place of the collision, and from
that point, proceeding up the river, made and kept a course
well in to the westviard, to clear the sloop to the westward
of the sloop, and on which- she would have cleared the sloop
to the westward, at a safe distance, but for the change of the
position and direction of the sloop, from her place to the eastward of the line of direction of the steamboat across the line
of direction of the steamboat, after seasonable notice to the
sloop of the direction of the steamboat and so shortly before
the collision as. to render the collision, by reason of the misdirection of the sloop, inevitable, by the exercis% of all ordinary
and reasonable means to avoid the collision, which were made
by the, persons in charge of the steamboat.
Thisstatement involves all that is essential for the claimant
to.establish, and something more.
X. There, is no -just ground- fox the imputation of negli-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

601

Newton v. Stebbins.

gence in the navigation of the steamboat to be found in the
testimony of the witnesses, of whom it can be affirmed with
any certainty that they saw the steamboat, either from her rate
of speed or her course in reference to other vessels, or from any
sudden and unusual course in crossing the river, or from any
attempt to cross the track of the sloop or run under her bows,
from any point to the eastward of the sloop, within any short
distance below the sloop, nor after the sloop came in sight, a
mile and upwards below the place of collision; all of which
errors are clearly to be traced to the mistake of the learned
District Judge in confounding 'two points of the river, which
led him to strike out part of the river in the reach in which
the collision happened, of a mile in extent, and to the reliance
of the learned District and Circuit Judges upon the statements of witnesses (Worden of the Illinois, and Betts of the
Exertion), of whom it cannot be affirmed with any certainty
that the steamboat whose course they describe was the New
Jersey.
XI. No blame is imputable to the steamboat in not having
a look-out down and forward. on the steamboat (which at best
would have been a useless precaution under the circumstances),
in reference to the collision, who could only have furnished the
pilot with information as to the position and course of the
sloop, which he had from his own observation, in good season.
The Woodrop Sims, 2 Dodson, 86.
XII. In any view of the case, there was negligence in the
navigation of the sloop,-after notice of the intended course of
the steamboat, as far below as Sands's Dock, to the westward,in heading the sloop first southwest, and then hard in west,
within a quarter of a mile of the steamboat, as stated by Bird,
the look-out on the sloop, and in not keeping away, whieh
ought to b, a bar to a recovery. In this connection, see the
case of Harley v. The Steamboat New Champion, decided in
the District Court of: New York, 3d April, 1848, 6 N. Y. Legal
Observer, 202, as to the respective liabilities and privileges of
steamboats and sailing vessels.
XIII. If, contrary to the views of the appellant's counsel, the
court should conclude, after examining the evidence, that there
was blamable conduct on the part of the steamboat as well as
on the part of the sloop, conducing to the collision, or if, after
a strict scrutiny, it is left by the evidence uncertain on which
side the blame lies, in the most unfavorable aspect of the law
of the case for the steamboat, the damages should be apportioned, and each side left to bear his own costs. Goldsmith,
Wells, and others, owners of the Schooner Oriana, v. The Bay
State, 6 N. Y. Legal Observer, 198, and cases and authorities
VOL. X.

51

602

SUPREME

COURT.

Newton v. Stebbins.

cited therein; Story on Bailments, ed. 1846, §§ 608, 609, and
note.
XIV. In reference to the amount of damiages. (This point
depended upon the evidence, which is not stated, and therefore
the point itself is omitted.)
The counsel for the libellant made the following points I. Steamers being of vast power and speed, and liable to inflict great injury if not carefully managed, and being also propelled against wind and tide by an overwhelming internal
agency, controllable by man, are bound to take every possible
precaution in. favor of vessels propelled by the uncertain and
uncontrollable external winds, tides, and currents. The Perth,
3 Hagg. 415, 416; The Leopard, Daveis, 197; The Scioto,
Daveis, 361; The Shannon, 2 Hagg. 175 ; The Friends, 1 Wm.
Rob. 478.
IL It is also the duty of the owners of steamers to make the
most safe and reliable preliminary arrangements, with a view
to the safety of other vessels, and especially are they bound to
employ skilful, discreet, and self-possessed pilots, and the want
of such is always negligence.
III, Sailing vessels are bound to presume that steamers approaching them have competent pilots, and that they will in
due time change their course,.and a sailing vessel is therefore
not bound to take any measures of escape; but if a steamer
neglects or violates her duty till the danger becomes imminent,
she will be liable for the consequences, even though the sailing
vessel may make any manceuvre which, in the distraction of
such a moment, may seem to her (no matter how falsely) calculated to prevent or mitigate the accident. The Leopard,
fDaveis, 198.
IV. In this case,.it is not disputed that the sloop Hamlet,
heavily laden with stone, with a light and baffling wind, at
slack water, was coming down the river-in the night, on the
west side of the river, close in shore; and that the steamboat
New Jersey was at the same time going up the river, at quick
speed, on the east side of the river, and that in eight minutes
th.ereafter the Hamlet was sunk by a collision with the stea-mer,
on the west shore, the Hamlet bearing all the time farther and
farther west, the steamer having in the mean time crosseI the
river, there more than half a mile wide.
V. The steamer was in charge of a pilot,-who was a mere
runner on the docks, a less than half-price pilot, picked up and
put in charge of the boat for the occasion, without skill, without experience, constitutionally destitute of presence of mind,
and unable to cope with circumstances of complication and
difficulty suddenly arising.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

603

Npwton v. Stebbins.

VI. In endeavoring to reconcile the testimony, and in considering all circumstances calculated to affect the weight of
evidence, it will be perceived that the libellant's account of the
transaction substantially reconciles all the testimony, and is
established by the concurring testimony of eleven independent
and impartial witnesses, who were on deck, awake, and observing the circumstances from different points, while the only testimony which can be called conflicting is from six witnesses,
who were all abed below and out of sight, except one, the awkward pilot, who was the cause of the accident, and one other,
who was occupied with the wh6el of another boat.
VII. The whole evidence shows that, nearly opposite Sands's
Dock, only a mile and a quarter from the place of collision, the
steamer, without any sufficient reason, commenced crossing
gradually to the western shore, directing her course for Blue
Point, till "ghe passed the sloops Illinois and Exertion, when
she bore further westward, till she came to the Temperance,
where she straightened up the river till she passed the Whit6
House, when she bore rapidly to the wesi, endeavoring to cross
the bows of the Hamlet, and in doing so ran on to her bowsprit and sunk her. Crossing the bow nearly at right angles,
the upward motion of her tow on the left side, and the downward force of the sloop on the right side, turned the head of
the steamer north, and carried the sloop partly round, so that
she lay across the river. See Libellant's lap.
VIII. During all this time the sloop was where she had a
right to be, and doing what she had a right to do, - on a course
which, primd facie, it was her right and her duty to keep; and
the mananvre (luffing) which she is said to have made was
one which she should make if she made any.
IX. The nearest and best course for the steamer was to continue up the eastern side of the river. -This was safe for all
parties; it was her probable course, and there was no reason
for her crossing -over, and her doing so with the river full of
vessels was a neglect of that attention and vigilance which are
due to the security of other vessels, and she did it at the peril
of all the consequences.
X Before the steamer passed the White House, and made
the last and fatal sheer westward, there was no prospect of
danger to the Harfilet. All the previous courses of the steamer
gave her room enough under the sloop's stern, but when she
sheered under her bows, the danger was imminent, and the
coili.ion inevitable. - With a light and baffling wind, and slack
water, she had no power in a minute and a half to do any
thing for her safety.
X1. On questions of fact in cases of damage, where the

SUPRE°ME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

District and Circuit Courts, after full hearing of the witnesses
and solemn argument, concur in a decree, the Supreme Court
will not reverse it on the mere notes of the same testimony,
unless a clear mistake or error be shown. The Sybil,*4 Wheat.
98; Cushman v. Ryan, 1 Story, 96, 97; Hobart v. Drogan, 10
Pet. 119; U. States v. 112 Casks of Sugar, 8 Pet. 278.
XII. This cause was decided in favor of the libellant in
1846, on a full and very expensive hearing and argument in
the District Court. That decree was affirmed in 1847, after
another expensive hearing in the Circuit Court, and in this
court no new light has been thrown on the subject. It is a
gross ease of dilatory and litigious resistance to a just claim,
and this court should affirm the decree- of the Circuit Court,
witli costs in the District Court, the Circuit Court, and the Supreme Court, and with ten per cent. damagesi under the seventeenth and twentieth. rules, from the time of the decree in the
District Court, and reasonable counsel fees. Rule 17, Rule 20;
The Appollon, 9 Wheat. 362; Canter v. American Ins. Co., 3
Pet 307 ; The Dundee, 2 Hagg. 140.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York.
The suit was commenced in the District Court in admiralty
against the steamboat New Jersey, to rec 6 ver damages arising
from a collision on the North River, in which the sloop Hamlet
was run down and sunk, in October, 1846.
The, libel charges that the Hamlet, a vessel laden with a
cargo of flagging stones, and, of ninety tons burden, was proceeding down the river for the port of New York,, and had
reached a place called Blue Point, on said river; that after
passing that point the wind failed, and the sloop proceeded
with the force of the current, and a trifling wind, at the rate
of from one to two miles the hour. That on her arrival at
that point, the person in charge of the sloop descried the New
Jersey coming up the river at the rate of twelve or fifteen miles
the hour, and nearer the eastern shore of said river than the
sloop; upon which he directed the man at the helm to head
her more to the west shore, which was done. That when
the steamboat arrived within a short distante of the said sloop,
she altered her course to the westward, and attempted to cross
the bows of the sloop so as to pass between her and the western shore, and in the act of passing, struck her bowsprit, ca-.
rying away some twelve feet of the forward part of the ves.
sel, in consequence of which she immediately filled and sunk.
That at the time of the collision it was impossible for ihe

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

G60

Newton v. Stebbins.

Hamlet to get out of the way of the steamboat, having comparatively little headway, and being near to the western shore;
and that there was room enough 'for the steamboat to have
passed east of her, along the eastern shore of the river.
The answer of the respondent is, that, for three or four miles
below the point where the collision happened, the New Jersey
was coming up the river along the western shore, and westward of the course of the sloop, with a tow on her larboard of some two hundred tons burden; that it was slack
water, and the wind fresh from the west; that she did not
cross the bows of the sloop, noi the course she was pursuing
at the time the Hamlet first appeared in sight. But that the
collision arose in consequence of the sudden lulfing of the
sloop, by. themismanagemeht of the persons in charge of her;
and that by reason of said improper manceuvres she ran her
bowsprit into the steamboat, thereby doing great damage
to her..
These are the allegations of the respective parties in the
libel and answer, as to the collision complained of. And the
first observation we have to make is, that, assuming -the position and course of the New Jersey to be according to the
statement in the answer, it by no means exonerates her from
responsibility, unless the other part of it is also maintained,
namely, that it happened in consequence of the false movement of the Hamlet at the time. For assuming that the
steamboat was coming up along the western shore, and wa&
pursuing that, course from the time she was first descried by
the hands on board the sloop, still the latter had a right to
persevere in her course down the river, notwvitfistanding the
position and course of the New Jersey; and the duty devolved
upon her, according to the established nautical rule, to take
the proper precautionary measures to avoid the danger.
The fact, therefore, that the New Jersey was ascending the
river on the western shore for some distance below, and had
not suddenly taken a sheer across from the eastern side after
having pursued it till within a short distance from the point
where the Hamlet was descending, is a matter of no great
importance.
The real question in the case is, whether or not the accident
happened, notwithstanding every proper precautionary measure
had been taken on the part of the steamboat to pass the sloop
in safety, in consequence of an improper movement of that
vessel by the mismanagement and unskilfulness of the person
in charge of her If it did, then the damage is attributable to
her own inattention and want of skill, and not to the steamboat. This roust o course depend upon the evidence,
51"

606

SUPREME COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.,

And on looking carefully through it on this point, on which,
it must be admitted, it is not entirely reconcilable, and after the
best consideration we have been able to give it, we feel bound
to say, that this allegation in the. answer is not maintained.
*On the contrary, the weight of the evidence is, that no substantial change in the course of the sloop; in descending the
river, took place, after the precautionary one of heading more
towards the western shore, when the New Jersey was first descried, some three or four miles below.
This' is the testimony of the two hands in charge of her at
the time, confirmed by that of the masters of vessels in the
vicinity; and who'witnessed the collision. The only contradictory evidence is to be found in the testimony of the pilot of the
New Jersey, and in-some loose conversations of the two hands
after the accident had occurred, which, as detailed, is very general and indefinite, and not- entitled to much consideration.
This conclusion is also strengthened by the concomitant circumstances. The sloop was heavily laden, and under little
headway, the wind being light and baffling, and it is difficult,
under such a state of facts, to believe that her course could
have been suddenly changed, by the action of the helm, to the
extent, and within the time, supposed by the pilot.
We think, therefore, that the collision arose from the fault of
the person in charge of the New Jersey, in not taking proper
precautionary measures to avoid the sloop while endeavoring
to pass her.
.We. cannot omit to remark, before leaving the case, that the
pilot of this vessel was greatly to blame in not having slackened her speed as he approached the fleet of river-craft which
was slowly descending this stretch of the riVer at the time it
opened to his view. The channel is about half a mile wide at
'this. point, and there were some seven or eight vessels coming
19wn, all within a reach of less than two miles, and, from the
state of the'wind, not in a condition to make effectual manceuvres with a"view to avoid immediate danger. And yet
the clear weight of the evidence is, that the steamboat centinued her speed, passing several of them, which narrowly escaped the danger, until she reached the 'sloop in question, at a
rate of from eight to ten knots the hour.
It is manifest to common sense, that this rate of speed, under the eircumstapces stated; exposed these vessels to unreasonable and.unnepessary peril; and we adopt the remark of
the court in the case of the Rose (2 Win. Rob. 3), "that it
may be a matter of convenience that steam-vessels should proceed with great rapidity, but the law will not'justify them in
proceedingwith such rapidity, if the property and lives of other
persons are thereby endangered."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

607

Newton v. Stebbins.

It is a mistake to suppose that a rigorous enforcement of the
necessity of adopting precautionary measures, by the persons
in charge of steamboats, to avoid damage to sailing vessels on
our rivers and internal waters, will have the effect to produce
carelessness and neglect on the part of the persons in charge
of the latter. The vast speed and power of the former, and
consequent serious damage to the latter in case of a collision,
will always be found a sufficient admonition to care and vigilance on their part. A collision usually results in the destruction of the sailing vessel, and, not unfrequently, in the loss of
the lives of persons on board.
We think, also, that the New Jersey was in fault for not
having a proper look-out at the time of the .collision. The
pilot at the wheel was the only one, as no other person appears to have been above or on deck. It is apparent from the
evidence, that, with a competent look-out, and slackened speed
of the steamboat, there could have been no great dif1culty in
passing this fleet of river-craft in safety. The disaster, in all
probability, happened from a neglect to observe these proper
precautionary measures.
We think the decree below right, and that it must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL, dissenting.
Had the cases just decided been, according.to my view, regularly within the cognizance of the District and Circuit Courts,
and therefore properly before this tribunal, upon the appeals
taken, I could have no objection to the disposition made of'
those cases. The evidence appears to place the delinquency,
or the wrong done, where this court has pr6nounced it to be;
and it can scarcely be doubted, that the rules which have
been prescribed for the government of vessels, propelled either
by sails or by steam, when crossing each other's tracks, will
conduce to the preservation of both life and property. My
dissent from the decision in these cases results from considerations much highenthan an~y that connect themselves with the
mere adjustment of private controversies. It is a deduction
from my understanding of the constitutional power of this
court, and of the courts whose decisions we have under review,
to adjudicate upon the rights of th6 parties, in the exercise of
that species of jurisdiction which has been, as to these cases,
asserted and sanctioned. That jurisdiction I feel constrained
to deny. I know that my opinions, relatively to the sources
and. the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction of the federal
courts, have Dot accorded with those of the majoritk of this.
court; but on these, as on all other subjects involving, the integrity of the Constitution (the only true foundation of every

608

SUPREME. COURT.
Newton v. Stebbins.

power in the federal government), I hold myself bound, with
respect to differencez of opinion, not to yield an acquiescence
which, in matters of minor importance, would be cheerfully
conceded. My own opinions relative to the admiralty jurisdiction vested by the Constitution in the courts of the United
States have been heretofore too fully declared to render their
repetition'here in detail either proper or necessary. I content
myself with a reference to them as expressed in the case of
The New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. The Merchant's
Bank, 6 Howard, 395, and in my concurrence with the opinion of Justice Woodbury in the case of Waring v. Clarke,
5 Howard, 467, and with reasserting the positions there maintained; viz. that the civil jurisdiction in admiralty of the courts
of the United States, in tort or in contract, (with the anomalous exceptions of seamen's wages aid hypothecations,) is limited to transactions occurring on the high seas, and embraces no
transaction occurring either on the land, or within the bays,
rivers, havens, ports, harbors, or other places within the body
or jurisdiction of any county, and that cases of seizure under
the revenue laws do not spring from any regular class or head
of admiralty powers. My conclusions, thus stated, are fortified
by the strong desire to preserve in fullest vigor that admirable
institution of our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, - whose elevating influence on the character eyen of the humblest man is perceived
in his consciousness that he forms a part, an important, nay,
an indispensable part, in the administration of the laws,-the
venerable trial by jury; and, in the next place, by my conviction of the duty incumbent on all to maintain, with directness
and in good faith, those distinctions and distributions with respect to the judicial power which the Constitution and laws
of the United States have ordained, -distributions which the
power now claimed and exerted appears to confound and overthrow. Thus, in the second section of the third article of the
Constitution, in a definition of the judicial power of the government, in which definition the admirafty jurisdiction is explicitly
comprised, it is declared that the judicial power shall extend
"to controversies between citizens of different States." This distribution of judicial power by the Constitution, Congress have
carried into execution by the eleventh section of the Judiciary
Act, and this court in a series of decisions has maintained. Can
it, then, comport with a just interpretation, either of the Constitution or of the act of Congress, or with the decisions of this
court made in conformity with both, that they should all be
annulled by a seeming evasion? Can it possibly be right thus
summarily to abrogate the jurisdiction of the State courts over
their own territory and their own citizens? If these things can

DECRMKER TERM,1850.

609

The United States v. IVAuteriye et al.

be done, it follows, of course,-that the trial by jury, and the
requisite as to citizenship of parties, 6rdained both by the Constitution and laws, may be abolished by the mere will of -persons interested, or by the fiat of a tribunal by which neither
eitizenship nor trial by jury is held in regard. It would be difficult to adduce a more striking example of the irregularities
here pointed out, than ig furnished by one of the cases now
before us, -that of Newton v. Stebbins. This is a case which
the evidence shows to have occurred between citizens of the
same.State, upon the narrow waters, and far within the interior
of the State; and"necessarily, therefore, within the body of a
county of the State. It presents within that locality an instance of simple tort, the proper subject of trespass or case at
common law; yet this case, without regard to locality or citizenship, is wrested from the tribunals of the State and the
common law modes of trial, and transferred to a tribunal
whose peculiar and appropriate jurisdiction, we are told by the
English authorities, attaches only *here there is no vicinage
from which the pais can be summoned. I am'. compelled,
therefore, to, deny to the admiralty, the constitutional authority
to take cognizance. of these. cases.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard oi the transcript of the rec.
ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decreee of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is 'hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages pt, the
rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, b. JEAN BAPTISTE D'AuTERIVE

AND

OTHERS, HEIRS AND REESENTATIVES OF THE LATE JEAN ANTOINE
BERNARD D'AuTERIvE.
Following out the principles applie& to the construction of treaties in the eases of
United States v. Reynes, and Davis v. The Police Jury of Concordia, in 8 Howard,
this court now decides that a grant of land in Louisiana, issued by the representative of the king of France in 1765, was void; the Province of Louisiana having
been ceded by the king of France to the king of Spain in 1762.
The title to the land described in this void grant was vested, therefore, in the king of
Spain, and remained in him until the treaty of St. Ildefonso. It then passed to
France, and by the treaty of Paris became vested in the United States.
None of the acts of Congress have confirmed this grant.
The act of 1805 (2 Stat. at Large, 324) required three things in order to effect a con-

