SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. The Steamship Galveston.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

EX

PARTE : IN THE MATTER OF HENRY NV. RHODES V. THE STEAMsHip GALVESTON, &c.- In Admiralty.

In order to sustain a motion to docket and dismiss a case under the forty-third rule
of this court, it is necessary to show, by the certificate of the clerk of the court
below, that the judgment or decree of that court was rendered thirty days before
the commencement of the tdrm of this court.
Hence, where the certificate of the clerk stated that a final judgment was pronounced at April term, 1850, it was not sufficient, because non constat that the
April term"might not have been prolonged until December, 1850.

MR. CoxE filed the following motion and certificate.

"A certificate being produced from the District Court of
Texas, by which it appears that at the April term, 1850, of
said court a final decree was rendered by said court in fallor
of the defendants "and respondents, and that an appeal from
said'decree was prayed and obtained by the libellants to the
Supreme Court of the United Stiites, - and it appearing that
the record in-said case has not been filed,, Mr. Coxe for said
respondants and defendants moves the court that the said
cause be docketed and dismissed with costs.
1"CoxE for Defendants and Respondents."
" United ,States District Court. - District of Texas.
"Henry W. Rhodes, Libellant, v. The Steamship Galreston,
her Tackle, Apparel, and Furniture, John R. Crane, MAaster.
Charles Morgan, Israel C. Harris, and Henry R. Morgan,
Claimants and Respondents. -In
Admiralty.
"I, James Love, Clerk of the United States District Court for
the District of Texas, do hereby certify, that at the April term,
1850, of said court, a final judgment or decree was rendered
by the court here in the above-entitled cause, in favor of the
defendants and respondents, and that the libellant prayed and
obtained an appeal from the said final decree of the said District Court to the Supreme Court of the United States.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand
[sEAL.] and affixed the seal of said court, this 27th day of
December, A.-D. 1850.
"JAMEs LovE, Clerk."

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

145

Rhodes v. The Steamship Galveston.

Air. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to docket and dismiss the case of
Henry W. Rhodes,, libellant, against the steamship Galveston,
and John B. Crane, master, and Charles Morgan and others,
respondents and claimants, in which it appears that a decree
was rendered in the. District Court of the United States for
the District of Texas against the libellant, and from which decree he prayed an appeal.
The motion is made in behalf of the respondents and claimants under the forty-third rule of this court; and in support of
the motion they produce the certificate under seal of the clerk
of the District Court, stating that at the April term, 1850, a
final decree was rendered in the above-mentioned case in favor
of the respondents and claimants; and that the libellant prayed
and obtained an appeal to this court. The certificate does not
state on what day the decree was made.
The rule referred to entitles a party, in a case like the present, to have it docketed and dismissed, where the decree was
rendered thirty days before the commencement of the term.of
this court, unless the appellant shall docket the case and file
the record within the first six days of the term. The record
has not yet been filed and the case docketed by the appellant.
But in order to entitle the appellees to docket and dismiss, they
must show by the certificate of the clerk that the decree was
rendered thirty days before the present term. The certificate
produced states only the term of the District Court at which
it was rendered, and not the day. And it often happens that
the term of a court continues by adjournments from time to
time for several rionths. For aught that appears in this certificate, the April term, 1850, of the District Court may have continued until the meeting of this court; and we are not aware
of any case that has been docketed and dismissed under this
rule, unless the day of the judgment or decree was stated in
the certificate. And as we have no evidence before us to show
how long the term of the District Court continued, or on
what day this decree was rendered, the motion to docket anddismiss is overruled.
Order.
On the motion of R. S. Coxe, Esq., to docket and dismiss,
under the forty-third rule of this court, the appeal in this case
from the District Court of the United States for the District
of Texas.
On consideration of this motion, it is now here ordered by
the Court, that the said motion be, and the same is hereby, overruled.
VOL. X.

13

