218

SUPREME COURT.
Paup et a.

v. Drew.

Mr. Justice CATRON.
I concur in the dissenting opinion just delivered 'by my
brother Grier.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
I dissent from the decision of the court in this case, and
entirely concur in the arguments and conclusions expressed in
the opinion delivered by my brother Grier.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the-transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the sail Supreme Court for further pro.
ceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this
court.

JOHN W. PAUl', JAMES TRIGG, AN D RICHARD PRYoR, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. THOMAS S. DREW, AS GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF A"
KANSAS, AND SUcCCESSOR OF ARCHIBALD YELL, DECEASED.
The decision of the court in the preceding case of Woodruf'v. Trapnall again affirmed.
But although the pledge of the State to receive the notes of the bank in payment of
all debts due to it in its own right was a contract -which it could not violate, yet
where the State sold lands which were held by it in trust for the benefit of a semiary, and the terms of sale were, that the debtor should pay in specie or its equivalent, such debtor was not at liberty to tender the notes of the bank in payment.
And this was true, although the money to be received from the debtor was intended
by the legislature to be put into the bank, and to constitute a part of its capital.
The fund belonged to the State only as a trustee, and therefore was not, within
the meaning of the charter, a debt due to the State.
By the terms of sale, also, to pay "in specie or its equivalent," the notes of the bank
were excluded.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas.
The same question was involved which was raised in the

preceding case of Woodruff v. Trapnall; namely, whether the
State of Arkansas could refuse to receive the notes of the Bank
of the State of Arkansas under the circumstances therein stated;
and also the additional question, whether she could refuse to
receive the notes in her character of trustee under the following
circumstances.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

219

Paup et al. v. Drew.

On the 2d of March, 1827, Congress passed an act (4
Stat. at Large, 235), entitled " An Act concerning a seminary of learning in the Territory of Arkansas," by which
two entire townships of land were directed to be set aside
and reserved from sale, out of the public lands within said
Territory, for the use and support of a university within said
Territory.
On the 23d of June, 1836, Congress passed another'act (5
Stat. at Large, 38), entitled " An Act supplementary to the
act entitled 'An Act for the admission of the State of Arkansas into the Union' and to prbvide for the due execution of
the laws of the United States within the same, and for other
purposes," by which the lands so reserved were vested in the
State of Arkansas.
On the 28th of December, 1840, the legislature of Arkansas
passed an act entitled " An Act to authorize the Governor to
dispose of the Seminary lands."
On the 13th of l'.ay, 1842, Archibald Yell, then Governor of
Arkansas, sold to John W. Paup the right to enter and locate
six hundred and forty acres of the above lands, and received
from him five bonds, payable in one, two, three, four, and five
years after date, in specie or its equivalent, with James Trigg
and Richard Pryor as sureties. The amount of the bonds was
$3,920.
In October, 1847, Thomas Drew, as Governor of the State,
and successor to Archibal.d Yell, brought a suit upon these
bonds in the Pulaski Circuit Court.
On the 21st of October, 1847, the defendants brought into
court the sum of $ 6,050 in notes of the Bank of the State of
Arkansas, and pleaded a tender of the same in discharge of
the debt. The plea further set forth the act incorporating the
bank as it is stated in the report of the preceding case of
Woodruff v. Trapnall.
On the 25th of October, 1847, the plaintiff's counsel demurred to this plea, setting forth, amongst other causes'of demurrer,
the following, viz.: "4th. That the proceeds of said bonds are part of a trust
fund committed to the State by Congress for special purposes,
over which the State has no power, except to collect and disburse the same in pursuance of the objects of the grant; and
the said State has no power to apply said funds to the payment
of her ordinary liabilities, nor is the State bound to accept in
payment of such bonds any depreciated bills, bank paper, or
issues, even though sbe may be ultimately liable to redeem such
depreciated bills, bank paper, or issues.
"5th. The said bonds sued on never constituted any part of

220

SUPREME COURT.
Paup et al. v. Drew.

the capital stock of said State Bank, nor were the issues of said
bank ever made receivable in payment of debts due the State in
a merely fiduciary capacity."
On the 23d of December, 1847, the Pulaski Circuit Court
sustained this demurrer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff in
the sum of $3,920, together with $ 2,199.44 damages, with
interest on said debt and damages at the rate of ten per cent.
per annum till p rid.
The case waf carried to the Stgpreme Court of the State
of Arkansas, upon a bill of exceptions, which court, on the
24th of July, 1848, affirmed the judgment of the Pulaski Circuit Court, as follows :-" This cause came on to be heard upon the transcript of the
record of the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, and was argued
by counsel; on consideration whereof, this court doth adjudge
and decide, that the act of the General Assembly of the State
of Arkansas, approved January 10, 1845, repealing the twentyeighth section' of the act of said General Assembly of said
State incorporating said bank of said State, is not a law impairing the obligation of any contract involved in this case, nor
contrary, in any wise, in regard to this case, to the Constitution of the United States, which was one of the questions in
issue, and necessary to be adjudicated in this case; and that
said State is in no wise bound by law to receive the bills
and notes of said. bank, issued before the passage of said act of
January 10, 1846, in payment of the debts due to. said State,
as laid in the declaration, which was one other question involved in, and necessary to, the adjudicatien of this case;
-wherefore there is no error in the proceedings and judgment
of said Circuit Court in this cause.
, is therefore considered by the court, that the judgment
of said Circuit Cour, in this cause rendered be, and the same
is hereby, in all things, affirmed, with costs. It is further considered, that said defendant recover of said plaintiffs, all his
costs in this court: in this . cause expended, end have execution

th. :eof."
From this judgment, a writ of error brought the case up to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and Mr.Reverdy -ohnson,
for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.Sebastian, for the defendant in eiror.
Being argued iri connection with the preceding case of
Woodruff v. Trapnall, the arguments were necessarily blended
together. So far as related to the peculiar circumstances of
this case, the counsel for the plaintiff in error contended that a

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

224

Paup et al. v., Drew.

State could be a trustee, and cited 2 Atk. 223; 1 Vern. 419,
428, 437; Hard. 465; 1 Ves. sen. 453; 3 Atk. 309; 2 Sch. &
Lef. 617; 1 Eden, 176; 1 W. Black. 121; 6 Price, 411; and
to show that the notes of the bank ought to be received, 6 Gill
& Johns. 364; 7 Gill & Johns. 460 ; 5 Peters, 641 ; 6 Howard,
329.
Ir. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Arkansas,
under the twenty-fifth section of the .Judiciary Act of 1789.
A judgment was rendered, in the Pulaski Circuit Court,
against the plaintiffs in error, on the 23d of December, 1847, for
six thousand one hundred and nineteen dollars and costs, on
bonds payable at different times, given for the purchase of a
part of certain lands granted to the State by Congress, for the
support of a seminary, and which lands were sold by the Governor, as the agent of the State, under the authority of the
General Assembly. The bonds were made payable and negotiable at the State Bank of Arkansas, "in specie or its equivalent."
The defendants pleaded a tender in the notes of the State
Bank of Arkansas, and relied upon the twenty-eighth section
of the charter of the bank, which provided "that the bills and
notes of said institution shall be received in all payments of
debts due to the State of Arkansas"; that the noteg of the
bank tendered were issued while this section was in full force,
and which constituted a contract to receive them in payment
of debts by the State, which the State could not repudiate, &c.
There was a demurrer to the plea, which was sustained by
the court. The case was submitted to a jury, whose verdict
was for the plaintiff, on which a judgment was entered. A
writ of error was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of Arkansas, on which the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
By the act of the 2d of March, 1827, the Secretary of the
Treasury was authorized to set apart and reserve from sale of
the public lands, within the Territory of Arkansas, a quantity of
land not exceeding two entire townships, for the use of a university, &c. And by the act of the 23d of June, 1836, it is
parovided, "that the two entire townships of land which, have
ready been located, by virtue of the above act, are hereby
vested in and confirmed to the General Assembly of the said
State, to be appropriated solely to the use of such seminary by
the General Assembly." Under the act of the State of the 28th
of December, 1840, these lands were sold by the Governor of
the State, and the bond, now in question were given on the
purchase of a part of them, as above stated.
19'

222

SUPREME COURT.
Paup et al. v. Drew.

The entire capital of the bank is owned by the State, and its
concerns are managed by the agents of the State. The directors of the principal bank and of the branches are elected by
the legislature of the State.
In the case of Woodruff v. Trapnall, decided at the present
term, this court held that the twenty-eighth section in the charter constituted a contract between the State dnd the holder of
the bills of the bank. That the pledge of the State to receive
the notes of the bank, in payment of debts, was a standing
guaranty, which embraced all the paper issued by the bank
until the guaranty was repealed. And that this construction
was founded upon the fact, thatthe bank belonged exclusively
to the State, was conducted by its officers, and for its benefit.
That the guaranty attached to the notes of the bank in circulation at the time of the repeal, and such notes the State was
bound to receive in payment of its debts. That in this respect
the obligation of the contract applied to a State equally as to
an individual. And that as to the binding force of a similar
guaranty by an' individual, there would seem to be no ground
for doubt. But that under this guaranty the State is bound to
receive the notes of the bank only in payment of debts in its
own right.
The lands sold did not belong to the State of Arkansas, but
were held by it in trust "to be appropriated solely for the use
of the Seminary." The money, of course, secured to be paid
by the purchaser, partook of the same character. The bonds
were made payable to the Governor or his successor in office.
And it appears, as stated in the plea, that the money to be received was intended, under the act of incorporation of the
bank, to constitute a part of its capital. The Governor acted
as the agent of the State in making the sale of the land, and
in collecting the money; but he could only represent a trust
interest The. manner in which the money was intended to be
appropriated can in no respect affect the question now under
consideration. In law, the money did not belong to the State,
in any other capacity than as trustee, and consequently the
debt was not due to the State in its own right. No court can
sanction the violation of a trust, but will always act on the
presumption that it will be faithfully executed. And this is
especially the case when the frust is vested in a State, which
isnot amenable to judicial process. To hold that the State of
Arkansas is bound, under the provision in the charter of the
bank, to receive its notes in payment for the Seminary lands,
would violate the trust, as it would greatly reduce the fund,
Should the money be invested by the State, and lost, it would
be responsible for it. No hazard incurred in the appropriation

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

223

Paup et al. v. Drew.

or use of this money could exonerate the State from faithfully
carrying out the object for which the fund was originally constituted.
The bonds were given payable "in specie or its equivalent."
This shows that it was the understanding of both parties, that
currency less valuable than specie should not be received in
payment of the bonds. If by a contract the State was bound
to receive the notes of the bank in paymert of its debts, by a
contract this obligation might be waived. And no waiver
could be more express than an obligation by the debtor to pay
in specie or its equivalent.
We are therefore of opinion, that, as this fund is a trust in
the hands of the State, it cannot, within the twenty-eighth section of the charter of the bank, be considered a debt due to
the State; and we think by the condition of the bonds to discharge them "in specie or its equivalent," the notes of the bank
are also excluded. On both these grounds, the contract set up
in the pleading not being impaired, we think the judgment of
the State court must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice DANIEL, Mr. Justice
NELSON, and Mr.Justice GRIER gave separate opinions,
as follows.
M. Justice DANIEL.
I concur in the conclusion adopted by the court in these
causes (Paup et al. v. Drew, and Trigg et al. v. Drew); but
whilst I do this I cannot claim to myself the argument upon
which that conclusion professes to be founded. The principles
and reasonings propounded in these cases, and in that of
Woodruff v. Trapnall, appear to me to place all three of the
cases essentially upon the same platform, and establish no valid
or sound distinction between them, but should, if those principles and reasonings be correct, have led to the same conclusion in them all.
Mr. Justice CATRON.
I concur with my brother Daniel.
Mr. Justice NELSON
I concur in the judgment of the court on the giound, first,
that the act of the legislature of the State of Arkansas, repealing the provision of a previous act, by which the bills of
the Bank of Arkansas were authorized to be taken in payment.
of the public dues and taxes, was constitutional and valid,
and the defendalt therefore bound to discharge his 6bligation

224

SUPREME COURT.
Trigg et aL Iv. Drew.

in the legal currency of the country; and, secondly, that, if
otherwise, the obligor in this case has expressly stipulated to
pay the debt in specie or its equivalent.
Mr. Justice GRIER.
I concur withmy brother Nelson.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of .Arkansas, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration vhereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six per
centum per annum.

JAMES TRIGG, RICHARD PRYOR, AND JOHN W. PAUP, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, v. THomrs S. DREW, As GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, AND SUCCESSOR OF AuCHIBALp YELL, DECEASED.
The decision in the preceding case of Paup et aL v. Drew again affirmed.

THIS case, like the two preceding, was brought up, by writ
of error, from the Supreme Court of the State of' Arkansas.
It was similar to the case of Paup et al. v. Drew, except that
Trigg was here the principal instead of.being the surety, and
the amount of the bonds was greater, because Trigg purchased
a larger amount of land. In every other respect, the cases
were identical, and therefore neither the statement nor arguments of counsel need be repeated. Trigg's debt was $ 6,860,
and the judgment against him for that sum, with $ 3,849.10
interest and costs, with interest on the debt and damages at
the rate of ten per cent. per annum, from the 23d of December,
1847, till paid.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is here under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, from the Supreme Court of Arkansas, on a
writ of error.
An action was commenced in the Pulaski Circuit Court, on
certain bonds given by the plaintiffs in error to Archibald Yell,
Governor of the State of Arkansas, and his successors in office,
to pay certain sums of money at the time specified, which

