402

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

act of the* State legislature void, as contrary to the Constitution of the- United States, from the mere fact that it divests
antecedent vested rights of property. 'The Constitution of the
United States does not prohibit the States from passing retrospective laws generally, but only ex post facto laws. Now it
has been solemnly settled by this court, that the phrase ex post
facto is not applicable to civil laws, but to penal and criminal
laws." For this position is cited the case of Calder v. Bull,
already mentioned; of Fletcher v. Peck, 5 Cranch, 138; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 266; and Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380. Now it must be .apparent that the act of
the Maryland legislature of December, 1841, simply ordering a
new trial of the inquisition, does rot fall within any definition
given of an ex postfacto law, and is not therefore assailable on
that account. We have already shown that this law impaired
the obligation of no contract, because at the time of its passage, and in virtue of any proceeding had under the charter of
the company, no contract between the company on the one
hand, and the State or the proprietors of the land on the other,
in reality existed. We therefore adjudge the act of the legisature of Maryland of December, 1841, and the proceedings
If the court of Baltimore County had in pursuance thereof, to
be constitutional and valid, and order that the judgment of the
said court be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Baltimore County Court, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Baltimore County Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

JOHN B.

BUTLER, LEVI REYNOLDS, JUNIOR, AND WILLIAM OVERFIELD,

LATE BOARD OF CANAL COMMISSIONERS OF PENNSYLVANIA, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE C6DxIONWEALTir OF PENNSYLVANIA.

In 1836, the State of Pennsylvania passed a law directing Canal Commissioners to
be appointed, annually, by the Governor, and that their term of office should commence on the 1st of February in every year.

The pay was four dollars per diem.

In April, 1843, certain persons being then in office as Commissioners, the legislature
passed another law, providing amongst other things that the per diem should be
,only three dollars, the reduction to take effect upon the passage of the law; and
that, in the following October, Commissioners should be elected by the people.

The Commissioners claimed the fall allowance during their entire year, upon the

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

403

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.
ground that the State had o right to pass a law impairing the obligation of a
-contract.
There was no contract between the State and the Commissioners, within the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.

THis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The object was to test the constitutionality of an act passed
by the legislature of Pennsylvania, on the 18th of April, 1843,
entitled "An Act t6 reduce the expenses and provide for the
election of the Board of Canal Commissioners." The allegation was, that the act was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States.
The plaintiffs in error were, on the 1st of February, 184,
severally appointed and commissioned by the Governor of
Pennsylvania to be Canal Commissioners for one year) by
separate commissions from the Governor, all of similar tenor
and date, of one of which the following is a copy: 14.PENNSYLVANrA,

SS.

"David R. Porter, Governor of the said Commonwealth,
to John B. Butler sends greeting:
ICWhereas, in and by an act of the General Assembly of
this Commonwealth, passed the 28th day of January, 1836,
the Governor is empowered and required, on or after the first
day of Februhxy, 1836, and annually thereafter, to appoint
three Canal Commissioners, and, in case of vacancy, to supply
the same by new appointments, whose. powers, duties, and
compensation shall be the-same as those of the (then) present
board, and shall commence on the first day of February, 1836,
and on the first day of February annually thereafter, and whose
term of service shall continue for one year:
"Now, therefore, be it known, that, having full confidence in
your integrity and ability, I, the said David R. Porter, Governor
of said Commonwealth, in pursuna, ce of the power and authority to me by law given, have, and by these presents do, appoint
you, the said John B. Butler, to be a Canal Commissioner for
the term of one year from the day of the date of these presents,
if you shall so long behave yourself well. Hereby giving and
granting to you, in conjunction with the other Commissioners,
the -Ights, powers, and emoluments of the said office, and
authorizing and requiring you to unite with the said Commissioners in the execution and performance of all the duties of a
Canal Commissioner, agreeably to the several laws of this
Commonwealth.
"Given under my hand and the great seal of the said Commonwealth, &c., the first day of February, A. D. 18432

404

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

This appointment was made in pursuance of tile act of Assembly -passed 6th April, 1830 (Pamphlet Laws, p. 218; Iiternal Improvement Laws, p. 65); and of the act of 28th January, 1836 (Pamphlet Laws, 23; Int. Imp. Laws, 145).
The first of these acts (ยง1) provides, " That on or before the
first Monday of June next, and annually thereafter, the Gov,ernor shall appoint three Canal Commissioners, and, in case of
vacancy, supply the same by new appointments, whose powers
and duties shall be the same as those of the present board, and
shall commence on the first Monday in June, and shall continue
in office for one year, and who shall receive, as a full compensation for their services and- expenses, the sum of four dollars
each per day," &c.
The second act provides, " That it shall be the duty of the
Governor, on or after the first day of February next (1836) and
annually thereafter, to appoint three Canal Commissioners, and
in case of vacancy supply the same by new appointments,
whose powers, duties, and compensation shall be the same as
the present board, and shall commence on the 1st of February
next, and whose term of service shall continue for one year,"
&c.
On the 18th day of April, 1843, the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act in the following words, to wit: "An Act to reduce the expenses and provide for the election
of the Board of Canal- Commissioners.
"ยง 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in General Assembly met, an, itis hereby enacted by the authority of the
same, That, at the next annual election, the qualified voters of
the several counties of this Commonwealth shall vote for three
persons as Canal Commissioners, who shall perform all the
duties now by law enjoined upon the Canal Commissioners of
this Commonwealth; the persons so elected shall decide by
drawing from a box ballots numbered one, two, and three,
which of them shall hold his office one, which to, and which.
three years; the Commissioner who shall draw the ballot numbered three shall hold his office three years; he who shall
draw the ballot numbered two shall hold his office two years;
and the other shall hold his office one year; on the second
Tuesday in October in each year thereafter, there shall be
elected one person as Canal Commissioner, who shall hold his
office for three years; the elections of Canal Commissioners
shall be conducted by the officers authorized by law to conduct
the general elections in the several election districts; a return
of the votes given for said office shall be made to.the Secretary

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

405

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania

of the Commonwealth, in the manner now provided for the
transmission of returns of elections of Representatives; the
Secretary of the Commonwealth, on receipt of all the returns,
shall notify the persons so elected, who shall enter upon the
duties of their office on the second Tuesday in January sucSeeding their election; if any vacancy shall occur in the said
Board of Canal Comimissioners by death, resignation, or otherwise, the Governor shall appoint a suitable person to supply
the vacancy until the next general election, when a person
shall be elected for the unexpired term of him whose death,
resignation, or removal shall have caused a vacancy; and that
the pay of the said Canal Commissioners, as wbl as the present
Canal Commissioners, from and after the passage of this act,
shall each be three dollars per day."
The remaining seofions are omitted, as relating to the subordinate officers.
At the annual election in October, 1843,,three gentlemen
were elected Canal Commissioners, who, on the 9th of January,
1844, assumed upon themselves the duties of the office to
which they had been elected.
The plaintiffs in error continued in the exercise of the duties
of the office until the said 9th day of January, 1844, and were
ready and willing to serve our the balance of the term for which
they were commissioned, but were then superseded by the persons elected in October 1843. pursuant to the said statute of
18th April, 1843.
On the 22d of March, 1$44, the Auditor-General and State
Treasurer settled the accounts of the plaintiffs in error, as late
Canal Commissioners, in Which they allowed them each $ 4
per day from 1st February, 1843, to 18th April, 1843, inclusive,
and $ 3 per day from 18th April, 1843, to 8th Januaryi 1844,
resulting in a balance due the Commonwealth of $1,071
From this settlement the plaintiffs in error appealed to the
Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County, pursuant to the
provisions of the act of Assembly.
The cause came on for trial in the Common Pleas of Dauphin County, on the 25th of October, 1847, when the foregoing
facts were given in evidence, when the court charged the jury
as follows :" The defendants were appointed Canal Commissioners for
the term of one year, commencing on the first day of February,
1843, at-which time their compensation was fixed by'law at
four dollars per day. On the 18th of April, 1843, the legislature, by an act entitled ' An Act to reduce the expenses, and
provide for the election of Canal Commissioners' (Pamphlet

406

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. rennsylvania

Laws of 1843, p. 337), reduced the pay of Canal Commissioners from four to three dollars per day. The Auditor-General
and State Treasurer settled the accounts of the Canal Commissioners in pursuance of this act. The Canal Commissioners contend that this act is unconstitutional, so far as it relates
to reducing their pay after their appointment to office; and
this is the only question that is presented in this case. The
court instruct the jury that the act in question is not unconstitutional; and, as there is no other dispute, they should find
for the Commonwealth. To this charge the defendants' counsel excepts; and it is filed at their request..
" N. B. ELDRED, Pres. Tu4,re."
The jury, under this charge, found a verdict in favor bf the
Commonwealth for $1,301.26, the amount stated to be due
from the plaintiffs in error by the Auditor-General and State
Treasurer, with interest accrued thereon.
The Commissioners carried th6 case to the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, which, on the 30th of June, 1848, affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Common -Pleas.
A writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr.X IlI Porter,for the plaintiffs in error,
and Miir. Alricks, for the defendant in error.
11r. Porter, for the plaintiffs in error, made the following

points :
That the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania erred in affirming
the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin
County,- in that State, at the suit of the defendant in error
against the plaintiffs in error, as the act of Assembly of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, passed upon the 18th day of
April, 1843, entitled " An Act to reduce the expenses and provide for the election of the Board of Canal Commissioners,"
was unconstitutional and void; because,1. The plaintiffs in error were severally commissioned, according to the constitution and laws of Pennsylvania, to
hold the office of Canal Commissioner for one year from 1st
February, 1843, when their compensation was fixed at ' 4 per
and they could not be legislated out of office, if at all,
day,
before 31st January, 1844, when their commissions and the
contintheywere
and therefore
would
offices
of their
tenures
day, and
last-mentioned
the expire,
until
in office
ned legally
time. entited to be paid, at the rate of $4 per day, up tot
2. That if they could be legislated out of office before 31st
January, 1844, their compensation, as fixed by law when they
entered upon the duties of the office, could not be changed
in office.
without their consent during their continuance

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

407

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

3. That the said act of Assembly, referred to in the charge
of the president of the Court of Common Pleas, and which the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania held to be constitutional and
binding on the plaintiffs, was a violation of the Constitution of
the United States, and transcended the powers of legislation
possessed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, in so far, at least,
as regarded the pay and tenure of office of the plaintiffs in error,
who were in office for a fixed term, and at a fixed compensation, at the time of its passage.
31tr. Porter contended that the acceptance, under the law of
1836, by the Commissioners, constituted a contract with the
State, and quoted largely from Paine's Dissertation on Government, Vol. I. p. 365, to show what species of laws created contracts. He then cited and commented on the following cases:
7 Watts & Serg. 127; 4 Barr, 49; 6 Serg. & Rawle, 322;
2 Rawle, 369; 5 Serg. & Rawle, 460; 3 Serg. & Rawle, 145.
In Mlarbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, the Supreme Court
of the United States held, that, "where the officer is not removable at the will'bf the executive, the appointment is not
revocable, and cannot be annulled. It has conferred legal rights,
which cannot be resumed." " The discretion of the executive
is to be exercised until the appointment has been made; but
having once made the appointment, his power over the office
is terminated in all cases, where by law the officer is not removable by him. The right to the office is then in the person.
appointed," &c.
"Mr. Alarbury, then, since his commission was signed by the
President and sealed by the Secretary of State, was appointed,
and as the law creating the office gave the officer a right to
hold for five years, independent, of the executive, the appointment was not revocable, but vested in the officer legal rights,
which are prbtected by the laws of the country."
Therefore, both on principle and precedent, we contend, 1. That the tenure of the defendants in the office could not
be determined before the expiration of the time limited in their
commissions, to wit, 1st February, 1844, and that they were
entitled to their pay up to that time;
2. That if their tenure could not be thus terminated, their
compensation could not be changed until it was so terminated.
without their consent; and hence,
3. The act of 1843, so far as it attempted to accomplish
that object, was unconstitutional.
And in reference to these poiuts, and to show that this construction of the Constitution and laws is reasonable, it may be
remarked: These Commissioners are not local officers. They are taken

408

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

from various parts of the State. In the present instance, one
is taken from Pittsburg, Alleghany County, at nearly the extreme west; one from Lewistown on the Juniata, about the
centre, and one from Monroe County, on the"Delaware, at the
extreme northeast of the Commonwealth. They are called
from their homes and of course have: made the arrangements
for their private business for a year, -from their contracts in
relation to which no law to be passed by the legislature could
absolve them. Yet it is urged that the legislature can alter the
contract, as to both tenure and compensation, into which the
Commonwealth has entered with them, when an individual
cannot do it. Fareira v. Sayres, 5 Watts & Serg. 210.
Is this carrying out the idea, that a republic is a government
of justice, in contradistinction to a despotism, which is said to
be, and is, a government of will?
There is also a class of cases which bear upon this question,
of the faith which a government is bound to observe in its contracts. It is the case of private corporations, in regard to
which it has been held, that the acts of assembly creating such
corporations create, when accepted by the corporators, a contract, from the bbligation of which the government cannot be
absolved, and the terms of which the government cannot alter,
but by consent. Dartmouth College v. Woodwardy 4 Wheat.
627; Lincoln and Kennebeck Bafik v. Richardson, 1 Greenl.
79; Monongahela Nay. Co. v. Coon, 6 Barr, 379; Terrett v.
Taylor, 9 Cranch, 52; Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1"; Wales v.
Stetson, 2 Mass. 146; 2 Kent's Com. 306; State v. Tombeckbee Bank, 2 Stew. 30; Nichols v. Bertram, 3 Pick. 342; Derby
Turnpike Co. v. Parks, 10 Conn. 522; Turnpike Co. v. Phillip,
2 Pa. Rep. 184; Pingry v. Washburn, 1 Aik. 264; and Ehrenzeller v. Union Canal Co., 1 Rawle, 189.
And this rule applies as well to powers implied as those expressed. People y. Manhattan Co., 9 Wendell, 351.
In Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87-148, the celebrated Yazoo
case, C. J. Marshall, at page 132, says: "The. legislature of
Georgia was a party to the transaction, and for a party to pro.
nounce its own deed invalid, whatever cause may be assigned
for its invalidity, must be considered as a mere act of power
which must find its vindication in a train of reasoning not
often heard in a court of justice." S. P. The People v. ?latt,
17 Johns. 195; Bowdoinham v. Richmond, 6 Greenl. 112.
Is not the case of a person appointed to office, entering upon
its duties, quitting his other pursuits, just as strong and powerful an illustration of the necessity of the State preserving its
faith in its contracts and stipulations with him, as it would be
in the case of a grant of land, or of corporate rights?

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

409

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

The case is one where the office is conferred for a fixed and
definite period, one year; the compensation fixed by law. The
attempt is to abridge the term and reduce the compensation.
Every sense of justice and propriety seems shocked at this attempt to execute a "mere act of power."

Mr. Alricks, for the defendant in ertor, made the following
points :-1st. That the office of Canal Commissioner is the creature
of the legislature, under the power given them as representalives of the people, in the eighth section of the sixth article of
the amended constitution of Pennsylvania, and in the absence
of any constitutional restraint it is defeasible and subordinate
to the will of the legislature. "All officers whose election or
appointment is not provided for in -this constitution shall be
elected or appointed as shall be directed by law." It is therefore respectfully contended, on behalf of the people, that the
manner in which the appointments were to be made, the term
of service and pay of the Canal Commissioners, were subjects
left unconditionally with the legislature. The power to create
and then abolish the office, to increase or diminish the salary,
to enlarge.or curtail the tenure, was placed absolutely and unreservedly in their province.
After illustrating this position -t some lengtb, Mr. Alricks
proceeded to show that this was not a case of contract. The
act of the legislature is a peremptory rule of action, prescribing
as law the course in which the executive must proceed. In it
we find the representatives of the people, in the due exercise of
the law-making power, directing the chief magistrate of the
Commonwealth to appoint Canal Commissioners, thus conferring on him the prerogative of appointment, subject to the implied reservation of all inherent power necessary to the administration of .the government. In the words of the chief justice
of this court in a like case, State of Maryland v. Baltimore and
Ohio Railroad Co., 3 Howard, 552, " The language of the
law is not the language of contract f but is evidently mandatory
and in the exercise of legislative power." "The statute is pro
tanto a repealing one, which offers no express compact to any
one, and such a compact is never to be implied." Per C.'J. Gibson, Monongahela Navigation Co. v. Coons, 6 Watts & Serg.
113. "The State is not presumed to have surrendered a public
franchise in the absence of an unequivocal intention so to do."
The Charles River Bridge v. The Warren Bridge, 11 Peters,
420. The present plaintiffs were forced to assume the untenable position just combated; but look in vain to the statute for
countenance.

VOL. x.

35

410

SUPREME

COURT.

Butler et a]. v. Pennsylvania.

2d. Services rendered by public officers, in obedience to their
appointments, have no affinity to contracts, nor do public laws,
nor commissions authorizing citizens to exercise particular offices, amount to contr.cts. In, affecting to treat them as such
consists the great error of The late Canal Board. Commissions
bear no analogy to contracts. There is no mutuality nor obligation on the appointees to accept, and if they do accept, they
are not bound to serve out their time, but they may dissolve
the relation ad libil.m.
A contract is defined to be "an agreement between two or
more persons, upon a sufficient consideration, to door not to do
a particular thing." There was no agreement on the part of
the present plaintiffs to serve for a year, nor was there any law
compelling them to serve longer than it was their pleasure, and
no penalty was incurred if they refused to accept. This, we
think, furnishes a triumphant answer to the labored and learned
argument which has been drawn from the supposed inconvelnience and hardship of the position of the present plaintiffs, whose
official ,ives were placed at the mercy of the legislature. The
premises are unsound. There was no hardship, because there
was no obligation on the part of any citizen to accept, or, after
accepting, to hold the office. They had power to take it up,
and had "power to lay it down." Whoever did accept were
bound or presumed to know that the law placed the office and
the emoluments absolutely at the will of the legislature. There
are certain penalties annexed to a refusal to serve in many of
the subordinate offices in Pennsylvania, and yet it has never
been supposed that the addition or annexation of a fine for not
serving prevented the legislature from regulating the fees of
those officers, -by the by, infinitely stronger cases for invoking
the exercise of the rule relied upon than is this case.
In the Commonwealth v. Bacon, 6 Serg. & Rawle, 322, this
question is determined in an able opinion, delivered by the late
Justice Duncan : - " These services, tendered by public officers,
do not, in this particular, partake of the nature of contracts,
nor have they the remotest affinity thereto. As to stipulated
allowance, the allowance, whether annual, per diem, or particular fees for particular services, depends on the will of the lawmakers. This has been the universal construction, and the
constitution puts this question at rest in the provision for the
salary of the Governor and judges ......
These provisions
are borrowed from the Constitution of the United States. It
is apparent that the compensation of the governor and these
judges is matter of constitutional provision; that of all other
officers is left open to the legislature. The allowance, the
compensation, the salary, the fees of all other officers, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

411

Butler et aL v. Pennsylvania.

members of the legislature, depend on the legislature, who
can and who dQ change them, from time to time, as they conceive just and right."
Commonwealth v. Mann, 5 Watts & Serg. 418: "The point
that it is a contract, or partakes of the nature of a contract, will
not bear the test of examination."
Barker v.. City of Pittsburg, 4 Barr, 51: "That there is no
contract, express or implied, for the permanence of a salary, is
shown by the constitutional piovision for the permanence of
the salaries of the Governor and judges as exceptions."
3d. All commissions (regardless of their form, or by whom
issued) contain, impliedly, the constitutional reservation, that
the people at any time have the right, through their representatives, to alter, reform, or abolish the office, as they may alter,
if they choose, the whole form of government. In our magnc,
charta it is proclaimed (2d section of the Bill of Rights, under
the 9th Article of the Constitution of Pennsylvania), that "all
power is inherent in the people, and all free governments are
founded on their authority, and instituted for their peace, safety,
and happiness; for the advancement of these ends they have at
all times an unalienable and indefeasible right to alter, reform,
or abolish their government, in such manner as they may think
proper." It has been well said, by one of the ablest judges of
the age, that "a constitution is not to receive a technical construction, like a common law instrument or a statue. It is to
be interpreted so as to carry out the great principles of the
gbvernment, not to defeat them." Per Gibson, C. J. in Commonwealth v. Clark, 7 Watts & Serg. 133.
The first section of the act of 1843, under which this controversy has arisen, ntitled "An Act to reduce the expenses and
provide for the election of the Board of Canal Commissioners,"
declares, "That, at the next annual election, the qualified voters
of the several counties of this Commonwealth shall vote for
three persons as Canal Commissioners, who shall perform all
the duties now enjoined by law on the Canal Commissioners of this Commonwealth ; ..... .vho shall enter upon the
duties of their office on the second Tuesday in January sucand that the pay of the said
ceeding their election ; .....
Canal Commissioners, as well as the present Canal Commisafter the passage of this'act, shall each be
sioners, from .and
day."
three dollars per
WVhether this act was politic or impolitic, certainly the legislature neither traiiscended their power,-nor violated any contract
made or authorized by them.
Al'icks then proceeded to comment on the Pennsylvania
rIr.
authorities of 6 Barr, 80; 10 Ib. 442.

412

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Penusylvauia.

The right to graduate the emoluments of office is an element
of sovereignty; and the reasoning of the late Chief Justice
Marshall, in the Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Peters, 514,
applies with equal force to the case under consideration.
The taxing power is of vital importance, and essential to the
existence of the government. " As the whole community is
interested in retaining it undiminished, that community has a
right to insist that its abandonment ought not to be presumed,
in a case in which the deliberate purpose of the State to abandon it does not appear."
There is a numerous class of cases to the same effect. The
Portland Bank v. Apthorp, 12 Mass. 252; 1 Hill, 616; 2 Hill,
353; 25 Wendell, 686; The State v. Franklin Bank, 10 Ohio,
91; State v. Mayhew, 2 Gill, 487. " In grants by the public, nothing passes by implication." United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 738; Jackson v. Lamphire, 3 Peters, 289. The
reasoning of his Honor, Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in the Charles
River Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Peters, 547, I will adopt as
the ablest argument that-can be presented to your Honors :
" The object and end of all government is to promote the
happiness and prosperity of the community by which it is
,established, and it can never be assumed that the government
intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for
which it was created. A state ought never to be presumed to
surrender this power, because, like the taxing power, the whole
community have an interest in preserving it undiminished," &c.
The office of 'Canal Commissioner was "created for the
purposes of government, and the officers clothed with certain
defined and limited powers, to enable them to perform the
pxblic duties which were confided to them by law." (See opinion of the Hon. C. J. Taney, State of Maryland v. Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company, 3 Howard, 550.) Whenever it
ceased to be the public interest, or the policy of government,
to confide the choice of Canal Commissioners to the executive,
it was the duty, as it was the right, of the legislature, to change
the mode of appointment, and there could be no cause for
complaint when they recommitted the selection to the people.
The law of 1843 is prospective in its operation, and leavds the
plaintiffs in error without an apology for their claim. The legislature -who passed it acted for the whole community, and if
they committed an error, it was the duty-of their successors, who
assembled annually, and were clothed with -ample power and
pristimed to be elected for the purpose of keeping the wheels
of government in working order, to correct that error. The act
of 1843 is the act of the people, who are the government, and
must prevail.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

413

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

The question raised in this case has been presented to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in several analogous cases,
and decided, in every instance, against the officer who took exception to the reduction of his salary. Those cases remain in
our books of reports as settled law. The constitutionality of
the act of 1,43 has also been directly ruled by the same court,
in a case cited here by both sides, (Commonwealth v. Mann,)
and which has not been questioned. The principle has been
ruled in the following cases.
Commonwealth v. Bacon, 6 Serg. & Rawle, 322. "An ordinance of the Councils, reducing the salary of the Mayor of
the.city of Philadelphia, after the commencement of his term
of service, is valid."
Barker v. The City of Pittsburg, 4 -Barr,49. "A.joint xesolution of the Select and Common Councils of the city of Pittsburg, abrogating the salary of a collector of toll, before the
expiration of th6 time for which he had been elected and given
bond, was held, in an action by the collector for the bplancc df
the annual salary, brought after the expiration of the term for
which he had been elected, not to be unconstitutional, and that
the plaintiff was without remedy:'
Commonwealth v. Mann, 5 Watts & Serg. 418. The case
of Commonwealth v. Bacon is referred to with approbation in
the opinion of the court.
Commonwealth v. Clark, 7 Watts & Serg. 127. " The act
of 18th April, 1843, authorizing the election of Canal Commissioners, is constitutional and valid."
Faithful legislation is often unavoidably harsh, but is not
consequently illegal. It is occasionally ruinous; such is the
case where private property is taken for public use; and yet
the right of the State to take it is undoubted. The maxim of
the law is, that a private mischief is to be endured, rather than
a public inconvenience. The issue here is on a question of
power; and by the force of great public necessity, the power
to regulate the office and the salary of the officer is vested in
the legislature and in the people. Examples are annually
occurring of the exercise of this power, in every State government in the Union. It is a power which, if the Commonwealth can part with, it cannot be presumed to have parted
with in the absence of conclusive proof of such an intention.
The exercise of this power is the axis on which the fabric of
our free political institutions revolves, and you cannot impair it
without jarring and overturning our republican form of government. It isan essential element of sovereignty, and I am
at a loss to understand how our political organization can be
maintained without it.
35 *

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

In construing a statute like the one under consideration, involving high political powers and sovereignty, the construction
should be most favorable to the public interests. It rests in the
plaintiffs in error to show that the legislature had the right to
surrender, and that they did surrender, their legislative power.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State
of Pennsylvania, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act of 1789, for the purpose of revising a judgment rendered
by the court above mentioned at the May term of that court,
in the year 1848, against the plaintiffs in error, in a cert in
-action of assumpsit instituted against those plaintiffs on behalf of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
By authority of a statute of Pennsylvania of the 28th of
January, 1836, the plaintiffs in error were by the Governor
of the State appointed to the place of Canal C0mmissioners;
and by the same statute, the appointment was directed to be
made annually on the 1st day of February, and the com.
pensation of the Commissioners regulated at four dollars per
diem each Under this law, the plaintiffs in error, in virtue
of an appointment of the 1st of February, 1843, ariepted and
took upon themselves the office and duties of Canal Colnmissioners. By a subsequent statute, .of the 18th of April, 1843,
tie appointment of Canal Commissioners was transferred
from the Governor to the people udpon election by the latter,
and the per diem allowance to be made to all the Commissioners was by this law reduced from four to three dollars, this
reduction to take effect from the passage of the act of April
18th, 1843, which as to the rest of its provisions went into
operation on the second Tuesday of January following its
passage, that is, on the second Tuesday of January in the year
1844. Upon a settlement of their account as Canal Commissioners, made before the Auditor-General of the State, the
plaintiffs in error, out of money of the State then in their
hands, claimed the right to retain compensation for their services at the rate of four dollars per diem, for the full term of
twelve months from the date of their appointment by the Governor; whilst for the State, on the other hand, it was refused
to allow that rate of compensation beyond the 18th of April,
1843, the period of time at which, by the new law, the emoluments of the appointment were changed. In consequence of
this difference, and of the refusal of the plaintiffs in. error to
pay over the balance appearing against them on the account
as stated by the Auditor-General, an action was instituted
against them in the name of the State, in the Court of Com-

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

415

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania

mon Pleas of Dauphin County, and a judgment obtained for
that balance. This judgment, having been carried by writ of
error before the Supreme Court, was there affirmed, and from
that tribunal, as the highest in the State, this cause is brought
hither for revision.
The grounds'on which this court is asked to interpose between the judgment on behalf of the State and the plaintifl
in error are these. That the appointment of these plaintiffs by
the Governor of Pennsylvania, under the law of January 28th,
1836, was a positive obligation or contract on the part of the
State to employ the plaintiffs for the entire period of one year,
at the stipulated rate of four dollars per diem; and that the
change in the tenure of office and in the rate of compensation
made by the law of April 18th, 1843, (within the space of one
year from the 1st of February, 1843,) was a violation of this
contract and therefore an infraction of the tenth section of the
first article of the Constitution of the United States. In order
to determine with accuracy whether this case is within tht
just scope of the constitutional provision which has thus been
invoked, it is proper carefully to consider the character and
relative positions of the parties to this controversy, and the
nature and objects of the transaction which it is sought to
draw within the influence of that provision.
The 'high conservative power of the federal government
here appealed to is one necessarily involving inquiries of the
most delicate character. The States of this Union, consistently
with their original sovereign capacity, could recognize no power to control either their rights or obligations, beyond their own
sense of duty or the dictates of natural or nationVl law. When,
therefore, they. have delegated to a common aibiter amongst
them the power to question or to countervail their own acts
or their own discretion in conceded instances, such instances
should fall within the fair and unequivocal limits of the concession inade. Accordingly it has been repeatedly said by this
court, that to pronounce a law of one of the sovereign States
of this Union to be a violation of the Constitution is a solemn
function, demanding the gravest and most deliberate consideration; and that a law of one of the States should never be
so denominated, if it can upon any other principle be correctly
explained. Indeed, it would seem that, if there could be any
course of proceeding more than all others calculated to excite
dissatisfaction, to awaken a natural jealousy on the part of the
States, and to estrange them from the federal government, it
would be the practice, for slight and insufficient causes, of calling on those States to justify, before tribunals in some sense
foreign to themselves, their a6ts of general legislation, And

416

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al v. Pennsylvania.-

the extreme of such an .abuse would appear to exist in the.
arraignment of their bontkol over officers and subordinates in
the regulation of their internal and exclusive polity; and over
the modes and extent in which that polity should be varied
to meet the exigencies of their peculiar condition. Such an
abuse would prevent all action in the State governments, or
refer the modes and details of their action to the tribunals
and authorities of the federal government. These surely could
never have been the legitimate purposes of the federal Constitution. The contracts designed to be protected by the tenth
section of the first article of that instrument are contracts by
which perfect rights,certaindefinite, fixed privaterights of property, are vested. These are clearly distinguishable from measures or engagements adopted or undertaken by the body politic
or State government for the benefit of all, and from the necessity
of the case, and according to universal understanding, to be
varied or discontinued as the public good shall require. The
selection of officers, who are nothing more than agents for the
effectuating of such public purposes, is matter of public convenience or necessity, and so too are the periods for the appointment of such agents; but neither the one nor the other of these
arrangements can constitute any obligation to continue such
agents, or to re-appoint them, after the measures which brought
them into being shall have been found useless, shall have been
fulfilled, or shall have been abrogated as even detrimental to
the well-being of the public. The promised compensation for
services actually performed and accepted, during the continuance of the particular agency, may undoubtedly be claimed,
both upon principles of compact and of equity; but to insist
beyond this on the perpetuation of a public policy either useless or detrimental, and upon a reward for acts neither desired
nor performed, would appear to be reconcilable with neither
common justice nor common sense. The establishment of
such a principle would arrest necessarily every thing like
progress or improvement in government; or if changes. should
be ventured upon, the government would have to become one
great pension establishment on which to quarter a host of sinecures. It would especially be difficult, if not impracticable, in
this view, ever to remodel the organic law of a state, as constitutional ordinances must be of higher authority and more
immutable than common legislative enactments, and there
could not exist conflicting constitutional ordinances under one
and the same system. It follows, then, upon principle, that, in
every perfect or competent government, there must exist a general power to enact and to repeal laws i and to create, and
change or discontinue, the agents designated for the execution

DECEMBER TERIM, 1850.

417

Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania

of those laws. Such a power is indispensable for the preservation of the body politic, and for the safety of the individuals
of the community. It is true, that this power, or the extent of
its exercise, may be controlled by the higher organic law or
constitution of the State, as is the case in some instances in
the State constitutions, and as is exemplified in the provision
of the federal Constitution relied on in this case by the plain.
tiffi in error, and in some other clauses of the same instrument;
but where no such restriction is imposed, the power must rest
in the discretion of the government alone. The constitution
of Pennsylvania contains no limit upon the discretion of the
legislature, either in the augmentation or diminution of salaries, with the exceptions of those of the Governor, the judges
of the Supreme Court, and the presidents of the several Courts
of Common Pleas. The salaries of these officers cannot, under
that constitution, be diminished during their continuance in
office. Those of all other officers in the State are dependent
upon legislative discretion. *We have already shown, that the
appointment to and the tenure of an office created for the
public use, and the regulation of the salary affixed to such an
office, do not fall within the meaning of the section of the Constitution relied on by the plaintiffs in error; do not come within the import of the term contracts, or, in other wordsi, the
vested, private personal rights thereby intended to be protected.
They are functions appropriate to that class of powers and
obligations .by which governments are enabled, and are called
upon, to fester and promote the general good; functions, therefore, which governments cannot be presumed to have surren.
dered, if indeed they can.under any circumstances be justified
in surrendering them. This doctrine is in strictest accordance
with the rulings of this court in many instances, from amongst
which may be cited its reasoning in the important and leading
case of The Charles River Bridge v. The Warren Bridge, in
11 Peters's Reports, and in the case of The State of Maryland
v. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, in 3 Howard's
Reports, - to which might be added other decisions upon
claims to monopoly, as ferry privileges, in restraint of legislative action for public improvement and accomodation. In illustration of the doctrine here laid down, may also be cited
the very elaborate opinion of the Supreme Court of New York
in the case of The People v. Morris, reported in 13 Wendell,
3%5 The precise question before us appears to have been one
of familiar practice in the State of Pennsylvania, so familiar,
indeed, and so long acquiesced in, as to render its agitation at
this day somewhat a subject of surprise; and the reasoning of
the Suprcme- Court upon it in the case of the Commonwealth

418

SUPREME COURT.
Butler et al. v. Pennsylvania.

v. Bacon, 6 Sergeant and Rawle, p. 322, is at once so clear
and compendious as to render it well worthy of quotation
here. "These services," says Duncan, Justice, in delivering the
opinion, " rendered by public officers, do not in this particular
partake of the nature of contracts, nor have-they the remotest
affinity thereto. As to a stipulated allowance, that allowance,
whether annual, per diem, or particular fees for particular services, depends on the will of the law-makers; and this, whether
it be the legislature of the State, or a municipal body empowered to make laws for the government of a corporation. This
has been the universal construction, and the constitution puts
this question at rest in the provision for the salor , of the Governor.and judges of the Supreme Court, and of thc presidents
of the Courts of Common Pleas. The Governor is to receive
at stated times, for his services, a compensation which shall
neither be increased nor diminished during the period for which
he shall have been elected. The judges and presidents shall at
stated times receive for their services an adequate compensation, to be fixed by law, which shall not be diminished during
their continuance in office. These provisions are borrowed
from the Constitution of the United States. It is apparent
that the compensation of the Governor and judges is a matter
of constitutional provision, - that of all other officers is left
open to the legislature. The allowances, the -compensation,
the salary, the fees of all other officers and members of the
legislature, depend on the legislature, who can and who do
change them, from time to time, as they conceive just and
right."
So in the case of the Commonwealth v. lann, 5 Watts
and Sergeant, p. 418, the court say, "that, if the salaries of
judges and their title to office could be put on tne ground of
contract., then a most grievous wrong has been done them by
the people, by the reduction of a tenure during good behavior
to a tenure for a term of years. The point that it is a contract, or partakes of the nature of a contract, will not bear the
test of examination." And again, in the case of Barker v.
The City of Pittsburg, the court declare it as the law, "That
there is no contract express or implied for the permanence of
a salary, is sho-&n by the, constitutional provision for the permanence of the salaries of the Governor and judges as exceptions." 4 Barr, Pa. State Reports, 51. We consider these
docisions of the State court as having correctly expounded
the law of the question involved in the case before us, as
being concurrent with the doctrines heretofore ruled and still
approved by this court,- concurrent, too, with the decision of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania now under review, which
decision we hereby adjudge and order to be affirmed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

419

Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles et al.

Mr. Justice McLEAN.
In this case, I think we have no jurisdiction. There was
no contract which could be impaired, within the provision of
the Constitution of the United States. This is clearly shown
in the opinion of the court. In such a case, I suppose the
proper entry would be, to dismiss the. writ of error. By the
affirmance of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, we take jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court an this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

THE WASHINGTON, ALEXANDRIA, AND GEORGETOWN STEAI PACKET
COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK E. SICKLES AND

TEUMAN CooR.
Where the declaration contained two counts; viz. the first upon a special contract that the plaintiffs had placed a machine for saving fuel on board of the
steamboat of the defendants, and were entitled to a certain portion of the savings;
the second upon a quantura rnermit; it was admissible to give in evidence by the
plaintiffs the experiments of practical engineers to show the value of the machine.
Evidence had previously been given, tending to prove the value in the mode
pointed out in the contract, and the evidence in question tended not to contradic
but to corroborate it Tt was therefore admissible under the first count, and clearly
so under the second.
On the Iart of the defendants, the evidence of the president of the steamboat company -'.. then given, denying the special contract alleged by the plaintiffs, and
affirming a totally different one, namely, that, if the owners of the boat could not
agree with the plaintiffs to purchase it, the latter were to take it away. The court
should have instructed the jury, that, if they believed this evidence, they should find
for the defendants.
The court below instructed the jury, that, if the president of the company, acting as
its general agent, made the special contract with the plaintiffs, the company were
bound by it, whether he communicated it to the company or not. This instruction was right. But the court erred in saying that the plaintiffs had a right to recover on their special count, if the machine was useful to the defendants, without
regarding the stipulatioan of that contract as laid and proved, and the determination of the plaintiffs to ,,dhere to it. Because, by the contract, the defendants are
to use the machine during the continuance of the patent right; and as no time is
pointed out for a settlement, a right of action did not accrue until the whole service had been performed.
Whether, if there had been a count in the declaration for the cost of the machine,
and the jury had believed that the defendants had agreed to pay it as soon as it
was earned, the plaintiffs might not recover ) that amount, or whether such a
construction could be put on the contract as proved, are questions not before the
court on this record, and upon which no opinion is expressed.

