DECEMBER

TERM, 1850.

311

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

accomplishment of an effect which he merely suffers, and which
is forced upon him by a power that he is wholly unable to resist or influence, and that it is equally paradoxical to declare,
that we elect and seek a sacrifice or a peril from which we are
most anxiously fleeing. The cases at nisi prius in the federal
courts, and in the courts of the States referred to, leave this
matter pretty much in equipoise, if indeed they do not incline
to the side of the question here maintained. We have Story
and Washington and Tilghman opposed to Kent and Gibson
and Kennedy; with this consideration attending the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, that they are the most
recent, and have been made upon an examination and review
of the cases which they have overruled. Repeating the assurance of entire deference entertained for the opinions of my
brethren, and of the sincerest diffidence of the conclusions of
my own mind, yet being unable to concur in those opinions, I
have no claim to share in their merits if they are right, and if
they are incorrect, my position with respect to them should be
equally understood.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southem District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordere& and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THoziAs HENDERSON AND THOMIAS CALLOWAY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, ,C.

THE STATE OF TENNESS.E.
If the defendant in an ejeetment suit ciaims a right to the possession of land derived

under a title which springs from a reservation in a treaty between the United

States and an Indian tribe, and a State court decides against the validity of such

title, this court has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act,
o0 review that de.idion.

But if such defendant merely sets up the title of the reservee as an outstanding title,
and thus prevents a recovery by the plaintiff, without showing in himself a connection with the title of the reservee, and then a State court decides against the de-

fendant in the ejectment, this court has no jurisdiction to review that decision.

In order to give jurisdiction to this rourt, the party must claim the right for himself,

and not for a third person, in whose title he has no interest.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Tennessee.
An action of ejectment was brought in the Circuit Court for

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

Monroe County by the lessee of the State of Tennessee, against
Richard Fen, for a tract of land at Toqua, with notice to R. Stapp,
W.'F. Brown, John Beatty, and Solomon Aikin, as tenants in
possession, indorsed, "Den, Lessee of the State, v. Fen, &c., to
Henderson and Calloway, issued 27th January, 1841." The
declaration and notice being returned by the sheriff as served
on the tenants in possession, Stapp, Brown,, Beatty, Aikin,
they appeared; and on the, application of Thomas Henderson
and Thomas H. Calloway, they were, "by leave of the court,
admitted to defend in the room and stead of the tenants sued,"
entered into the common rule, and pleaded not guilty.
The material facts of the case are, that the land in contro.
versy was a school section, and that the School Commissioners
had taken possession of and held it until a law was passed by
the legislature of Tennessee directing the school lands to be
sold. About that time one John Lowry, professedly as attorney and agent of Toqua Will, obtained possession of the land,
and retained it until about 1836, when the School Commissioners regained the possession, and retained the same until
1837 or 1838. Then Thomas Henderson, one of the plaintiffs
in error, got possession of the tract for the heirs of one Andrew
Miller, under which title it has since been held.
Andrew Miller, at the date of the Cherokee treaty of 1817,
was the head of an Indiai family, and resided in the Cherokee
nation, east of the Mississippi; about the 1st of March, 1818, he
settled and made improvements on the land in dispute; and on
the 24th of May, 1818, registered his name in the office of the
Cherokee agent for a reservation in right of his wife, and designated, on the books of said agent, this land as the location by
him selected for reservation. From that time until he was
killed (August, 1818), he, with his wife and part of his family,
resided on the land, claiming it as a.reservation, on which he
said he intended to live and die. A few days after his death,
his widow sent for John Black, and requested him to take
possession of the land and hold it for her and her children.
Black offered her $1,000 for her claim, which was refused.
Black was placed in possession in the fall of 1818 by Mrs. Miller and George Hicks and James Chisolen, tvo Cherokees who
had taken charge of Miller's estate. Two of Miller's children
lived with Black, were sent to school, and the expense paid
out of the profits of the land. Black held possession' for the
children of Miller, who remained with him till put off by the
School Commissioners in the spring of 1822. Afterwards,
Thomas Henderson got possession for the children of Andrew
Miller. The land was included in the cession made to the
United 'States by the Cherokee treaty of 1819.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

313

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

The court instructed the jury, that "although the ancestor,
Andrew Miller, registered his name for the place in dispute,
and took possession thereof in the spring of 1818, and died
upon the place in July or August of that year, and before the
treaty of 18l9, no title vested in him, and consequently none
could vest or descend to his heirs."
Verdict for plaintiffs. On appeal to the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Monroe was
affirmed. Thereupon the case is brought before this court by
writ of error, under the twenty-fifth section of the act of September 24, 1789.
The cause was argued by Mr. Bibb and Mr. Eaton, with
whom was 111r. Green, for the plaintiffs in error,. and Mr. Andrew Ervin- and 111r. 81tanton, for the defendants in error.
As the case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, only so
much of the arguments of counsel will be inserted as is applicable to the point on which the case turned.
.r Bibb, for the plaintiffs in error.
That part of the judge's charge to the jury is relied on to defeat the jurisdiction, wherein he said, "that it was admitted
that the defendants had not any title in themselves, but relied solely on an outstanding title in the heirs of Andrew
Miller."
This part of the judge's charge to the jury is excepted to,
and is as erroneous as the other member of his charge in exposition of the treaties. There is no such admission in the
record; no such admission was given in evidence; it is an unwarrantable assumption; it is repelled by what had been done
of record, by the court, and by the parties, and is contrary to
the testimony.
Henderson and Calloway were not the tenants on whom the
declaration was served, but were received and admitted by the
court to defend "in the room and stead of the tenants sued."
According to the principles which govern the action of ejectment, it was necessary that Henderson and Calloway should
show that there was a privity between them and the tenants
in possession, that there was a connection and -coincidence
between the possession held by the tenants and the rights and
interests of those admitted in their stead, so that there should
be no collusive change or shifting of the possession to the injury of a third party, who might thereby be put to an ejectment to recover the possession which his tenants had surrendered improperly; "because there is a great difference between
being plaintiff or defendant in ejectment." Fairclaim on dem.
VOL. X.
27

314

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

of Fowler v. Shamtitle, 3 Burr. 1290, 1294, 1295, 1300, 1301,
1302.
A mere stranger to the possession shall not be admitted.
Troublesome v. Estill, 1 Bibb, 128; Jackson v. McEvoy,
1 Caines, 151; Jackson v. Stiles, 10 Johns. 69.
Under the term landlord,the courts include every one from
whom the possession is derived, and who might sustain an injury by eviction; they will be admitted to defend. Crockett
v. Lashbrook, 5 Monroe, 539.
No person is admitted to defend in ejectment unless he be
tenant, and is, or has been, in possession, or receives the rent;
because it is an act of champerty for any person to interpose
and cover the possession with his title; and to make any person a defendant, who was not concerned in the possession of
the tenement, was a mischief at common law. Rumnington on
Ejectment, p. 0.
But, at common law, to admit a landlord to defend au ejectment is matter of right, for otherwise h6 might lose his possession by combination between the plaintiff and the tenant
in possession. Fenwick v. Gravenor, 7 Mod. 70; Underhill
v. Durham, 1 Salk. 256; Fairclaim on dem. of Fowler v.
Shamtitle, 3 Burr. 1301; Adams on Ejectment, 229, 230.
If a person should be admitted to defend, whose title is inconsistent with the possession of the tenant, the lessor of the
plaintiff may apply to the court, or to a judge at chambers,
and have the rule discharged, with costs. Adams on Ejectment, p. 232.
The objection should have been made when Henderson and
Calloway applied to be admitted to defend, if they had no
title in themselves and were strangers- to the possession. The
court admitted them; the lessor of the plaintiff, so far frbm denying their right to be admitted to defend, acquiesced, made
an agreement with them that they should admit the land in
the declaration described was 1a school section in Monroe
County" ; and also an agreement that they should be admitted under the order made by the court, in room of the tenants
in possession, upon giving security to abide the judgment, and
pay all costs that should be awarded.
The declaration was indorsed for notice to Henderson and
Calloway, showing that, at the institution of the action, they
were known to the attorney of the lessor of the plaintiff as the
landlords.
The charge of the judge to The jury, after the said Calloway
and Henderson had been so admitted to defend, ind so dealt
with, was illegal and erroneous, a surprise to the defendants, an
injustice and wrong at a time which left no remedy but by an

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

I5

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

exception to the charge given. to the jury, which remedy was
pursued.
The plaintiff in ejectment proved, that, in "1837 or 1838,
Thomas Henderson" got possession for the heirs of Andrew
The
Miller, under which title it has since been heldP
charge of the judge to the jury was in contradidtion to the
act of the court in admitting Henderson and Calloway to- defend, instead of the tenants in possession; the plaintiff and
the court were estopped by their own acts, by the record, by
the evidence, from assuming the position that Calloway and
Henderson had no title in themselves, but relied: solely on an
outstanding title in the heirs of Andrew Miller. If such had.
been their predicament, they could not, without violating the
established principles of law relating to actions of ejectment,
have been admitted by the court as defendants in the room
and stead of the tenants in possession.
This ipse dixit of the judge in his charge to the jury, so excepted to, and so unwarranted, cannot be taken by this court
as legal and veritable, so.as to defeat a revision of the final
judgment of the Supreme Court under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act of the United States.
A judge, by his charge to the jury, cannot make evidence,
cannot create an admission for a party, so as to bind him contrary to the facts, contrary to the record, contrary to the law.
Williams v. Norris, 12 Wheat. 119. When such a*charge is
excepted to, it is a proper subject for revision and reversal,
equally with any other error or mistake of fact or law committed by the'judge.
Putting this unwarranted dictum of the judge out of the
way, we come to the question of the jurisdiction of this court
to regxamine the final decision of the Supreme Court of Tennessee in this action of ejectment.
The twenty-fifth section of the act of Congress approved
24th September, 1789 (1 Stat. at Large, 85), provides,-"That. a final judgment or decree in the highest court of law
or equity of a State in which a decision in the suit could be
had, where is drawn in question the validity of a statiute
of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the grourd
of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws
of the United States, and the decision is in favor of such their
validity; or where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty or statute of, or commission held under, the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set
up or claimed by either party under such clause of said Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission,-may be regxamined,

316

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

and reversed or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United
States, upon a writ of error," &c. "But no other error shall
be assigned or regarded as a ground of reversal, in any such
case as aforesaid, than such as appears on the face of the record, and immediately respects the before-mentioned questions
of validity or construction of the said Contitution, treaties,
statutes, commissions, or authorities in dispute."
In this ejectment the plaintiff claimed, under a law of the
State, that the land was lawfully surveyed as of the public domain of the State, and that it was lawfully appropriated as &
school section, according to the plan of the surveyor of the
State for the Highwassee district; the defendants claimed unaer
-the treaties of the United States of 1817 and 1819, with the
Cherokee nation of Indians, authorizing reservations of 640
acres to the heads of Indian families who elected to become
citizens of the. United States, and under a reservatidn duly
taken by Andrew Miller, for himself and his family, in accordance with the.said treaties.
Upon the face of the record in this case it appears, that "the
principal question raised was, whether from the above facts
Miller's children had any interest in said land as a reservation
by virtue of the registration and residence of their father at
Toqua, the place in dispute"; and it farther appears that the
court instructed'the jury, "that although the ancestor, Andrew
Miller,, registered his name for the place in dispute, and took
possession" thereof in the spring of 1818, and died upon the
place in July or August of the same year, and before the treaty
of 1819, no title vested in him, Andrew Miller, and consequently none could est or descend to his heirs."
The case, stripped of the fictions used in actions of ejectment, is substantially a question between the commissioners
of the school fund of the State of Tennessee, claiming under
a law of that State, and the admitted defendants, Calloway
and Henderson, claiming and holding possession of the land
under the treaties of the United States; and the court gave a
construction of the treaties adversd to the right, title, privilege,
and possession claimed under those treaties. It is a conflict
of State law and State authority with the rights claimed
under the authority and treaties of the United States, and so
appears plainly and palpably upon the face of the record.
But to evade the jurisdiction of this court to reexamine
and reverse or affirm the final decision of the Supreme Court
of Tennessee, so plainly within the reason and exigencies of
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, in a case so palpably requiring the exercise of the jurisdictioif of the Supreme
Court of the United States, to give the true construction of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

317

Henderson et aL r. Tennessee.

these treaties of 1817 and 1819, and to maintain the supremacy of the laws o, the United States, it is here argued, that
Henderson and Qalloway are not in a predicament to prosecute this writ of error.
Do not the treaties protect a possessory right held under
them equally with the rights in fee simple? Is a defendant in
a possessory action bound to show that he is tenant in fee?
Shall a defendant in a possessory action, against whom the
plaintiff has obtained an erroneous judgment, be barred of a
writ of error, because on the trial he did not deduce to himself
a title in fee?
That the erroneous dictum, the unfounded assumption, the
gratuitous ipse dixit, of the judge, in his charge to the jury, is
no bar, cannot alter the fact or the law, need not be farther
argued.
The action of ejectment is a possessory action, invented by
the courts to try *possessorytitles, unembarrassed by the difficulties attendant upon real actions. The declaration is a fiction,
the plaintiffs name is fictitious, the defendant's name is fictitious, the lease is a fiction, the casual ejector's name is fictitious;
yet all these fictions have been regulated and moulded by courts
and by legislation into a system, governed by known and established principles, well adapted to the purposes of substantial
justice. The distinction between a real action founded upon a
right of property, 'anda possessory action founded upon a right
of possession, is well established, and the ejectment is confined
to cases in which the claimant has a right to the possession.
When the claimant has only a right of property, or a right of
action remaining to him, his entry upon the land would be
illegal, not sufficient to enable him to make a real valid lease,
and he could not maintain an ejeetment, for principles remain,
although the forms of proceeding are changed.
Blackstone, in his Commentaries (book 2, ch. 30, pp. 195 to
199), tells us of four several degrees requisite to form a complete title to lands ;-ist. The lowest and most imperfect degree
of title consists in the mere naked possession of the estate,
without any apparent right, or shadow of right, to continue
that possession; which is, however, primd facie evidence of a
legal title in the possessor, and it may, by length of time (and
negligence of him who hath the right), ripen into a perfect indefeasible title. '2d. The next step to a good and perfect title
is the right of possession. 3d. The mere right of propertyjus
proprietalis,without either possession or even the right of possession, where the estate of the owner is divested and "put to
a right." 4th. A complete title, "jus duplicaturn," or "droil
droit," where there is "juris et seisine conjunctio."
27*

318

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

As the action of ejectment is a possessory action, founded
on a right to the possession, and can be maintained by a right
to the possession even for a term of years, so it can be defended
by one having the actual possession. A tenant, under an unexpired lease from his landlord, may successfully defend an
action of ejectment against him by his landlord.
In the action of ejectment, the right of possession only is
tried, not the ultimate mere right of property; and the plaintiffs must show a right of entry. Taylor v. Hord, 1 Burr.
119; Troublesome v. Estill, 1 Bibb, 128; Adams on Ejectm.
10, 33, 247; Runnington on Ejectm. 21, 42.
The. party in possession is presumed to be the owner uiitil
the contrary is proved.: The possession of the defendant gives
him a right against every person who cannot show a good
right to possession,.-a good right to change the possession,
Roe on dem. Haldane v. Harvey, 4 Burr. 2487, 2488; 2 Black.
Comm. ch. 13, p. 196.
The lessor of the plaintiff and the tenants in possession, or
persons admitted to defend in place of the tenants in possession, "are parties,- and the only parties, to an ejectment." Aslih v. Parkin, 2 Burr. 667, 668.
The possession of the tenants sued, and "Thepossession of the
defendants, Calloway and Henderson, admitted in place and
stead of the tenants, is connected with, and knit to, the title of
Miller's children, growing out of the treaties of the United
States with the Cherokee nation of Indians; so the plaintiff
himself proved by his own witnesses. The record states, that
"the principal question raised was, whether, from the above
facts, Miller's children had any interest in said land, as a reservation, by virtue of the registration and residence of their father
at Toqua, the place in dispute" ; and the court gave instruction
to the jury containing a construction of the treaties adverse to
the right, title, and interest of Miller's children, and of the defendants in possession under the title growing out of the treaty.
To the opinion of the court, in admitting Henderson and
Calloway as defendants "in the roorq and stead 9f the tenants
sued," "to defend -in the room of the tenants in possession,"
the plaintiff took no bill of exception; he acquiesced and assented of record. It cannot now be alleged that the evidence
adduced by Calloway and Henderson, of their being landlords
to the tenants in possession, was insufficient to admit them to
defend in the room anid stead of the tenants upon whom the
declaration was served.,
That question cannot now be raised in this -court. It is not
now an open question. Henderson and -Callway are the defendants, against whom the plaintiff has taken his judgment

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

319

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.
for the possession and for the costs of suit. They had the
right to appeal, and did appeal, to the Supreme Court of Tennessee; they have the right, under the twenty-fifth section of
the Judiciary Act, to have the constructitn of the treaties, as
given in the Circuit Court of Monroe County, and as affirmed
by the Supreme Court of Tennessee, regxamined and reversed
or affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee, in affirming the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Monroe County, affirmed the construction of the treaties as set forth in the bill of exceptions.
The following cases, decided upon the jurisdiction of this
court, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, will
suffice to sustain the jurisdiction in this case. Craig v. The
State of Missouri, 4 Peters, 229; Worcester v. The State of
Georgia, 6 Peters, 515, 582, 583, 597; Crowell v. Randell, 10
Peters, 391 to 399.
In this case of Crowell v. Randell, fourteen previous decisions
of this court upon this twenty-fifth section are reviewed, and
the doctrine reaffirrhed, 1'that it is not necessary that thd question should appear on the record to have been raised, and the
decision made, in direct and positive terms, I ipsissimis verbis'
but it is sufficient if it appears by clear and necessary intendment, that the question must have been raised, and must have
been decided, in order to have induced the judgment."
The case of Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 344, has
been relied on as being adverse to the jurisdiction of this court, in
the case under consideration. Norwood's lessee claimed under
a grant from the State of Maryland, dated in Jund, 1800, founded upon a confiscation of the land called Brown's Adventure.
&v.i ngs, to defeat the action of Norwood's lessee, attempted to
set up, as an outstanding title, a patent of the year 1695, to
Thomas Brown, who conveyed to John Gadsby, who conveyed
to Aaron Rawlins, in 1703, who mortgaged in fee to Jonathan,
Scarth, by deed of 1706, with a proviso to be void upon payment
of X£ 800, with interest, on the 13th of May, 1709. This mortgage
t,;Scarth, Owings set up to show a title outstanding against
Norwood's lessee, contending that the mortgage to Scarth was
protected by the treaty of 1794, between the United States and
Great Britain, from confiscation, and was still a security for the
money to the representatives of 3carth, who were proved to be
still living, in England. But the Court of Appeals of Maryland
decided, that, at the expiration of the time for payment limited
in the deed to Scarthb, a complete legal estate vested in the mortgagee, Scarth, liable to confiscation; and was confiscated by
virtue of the act of Maryland of October session, 1780, ch: 45,
and vested in the State; and that the British treaty did not
affect the plaintiff's title.

320

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson :-t al. v. Tennessee.

Upon the writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the couTt decided that the casL of Scarth's representatives was not protected by the treaty, and that the right set up
by the plaintiff in error did not grow out of the treaty. And
most certainly that righf, so set up by Owings, originated more
than fourscore years before the treaty. Surely that case has
no similitude to'this. The explanation of Chief Justice Marshall (5 Cranch, 348) maintains the jurisdiction of this court
in the case now under consideration. A right in fee simple,
growing out of a treaty, is protected in whole, and in all its
parts and interests, which are holden or possessed, subordinate
to the estate in fee; and the Judiciary Act will.come in aid of
the protection, when the lowest grade of such interest shall be
drawn in question in the State courts, either directly or "ciniaentallyY" Such is the true effect of the decision in Owings v.
Norwood's Lessee; such is the true construction of the Constitution and the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Mr. .Ewing, contra.
This court cannot obtain jurisdiction by mere consent of
parties. It was the policy of the law to commit to this court
certain specified cases arising in the State courts. If the case
is within the Judiciary Act, jurisdiction follows. If not, no
matter what the parties may have agreed, or what they may
be-estopped from denying, or what the court below may have
permitted, or what it may'be estopped from denying, this court
has no jurisdiction of the matter. It might be true, then, as it
has been urged, that, after we had adinitted the plaintifi in
error to defend in the court below, we might be estopped from
denying that they had title in themselves, and did not rely
solely on an outstanding title in the heirs of Aiidrew Miller;
and yet neither the admission nor the estoppel would confer
jurisdiction on this court. This court will take notice of its
own jurisdiction. And no matter at what stage of the proceedings a want of jurisdiction may appear, or in what manner
it may appear, the court will act upon it, notwithstanding any
technical or other admissions ot the parties to the record.
By the statute of Tennessee, children cannot be concluded
unless they are brought before the court. Now here you would
conclude the children of Miller, though the facts do not show
any privity between the plaintiffs in error and the heirs of Miller. Henderson and Calloway set up an outstanding title in
the heirs of Miller, under the treaty, and attempt thus to give
jurisdiction to this court. And if this court entertain the case,
it determines the rights of the heirs of Miller under the treaty,
although they are not before the court. And if the rights of

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

321

Henderson et a!. v. Tennessee.

the heirs of Miller should ever hereafter be brought before this
court for adjudication, it would be held that, by the present decision, their rights are determined. 5 Cranch, 344.
JlMr. Stanton, on the same side.
Is there any proper proof of any such privity between the
plaintiffs in eri;.r and the heirs of Miller, as would enable the
former to set up the title of Miller's heirs as their own, and
thus bring it within the treaty? The bill of exceptions upon
its face shows that it was put in by consent, and was undoubtedly drawn up by the attorney, and signed by the judge,
as is the practice in Tennessee. The facts were not set down
precisely in order as they were proven.
The argument on the other side would lead us to the conclusion that it is the duty of this court "ampliare jurisdictionem"
We maintain precisely the reverse; and in this case especially, that the mere fact of the defendants below setting up an
outstanding title, out of themselves, without a claim in themselves under the treaty, cannot confer jarisdiction. The true
construction of the statute is, that the persons intended to be
benefited must have a direct interest under the statute or
treaty, and specially set up that interest in the State court.
Otherwise, the true holders of the title would have their rights
adjudicated, whefi they were not parties to the suit. 5 Cranch,
344; 12 Wheat. 117.
Inasmuch as the plaintiffs in error are only entitled to come
into this court, under the Judiciary Act, by virtue of the outstanding title in the heirs of Andrew Miller, they are entirely
precluded from the forum for want of privity with those heirs.
Mir. Eaton, in reply and conclusion.
Under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, the only
question is, not one of meurn and tuum, but whether the construction of a treaty or law of the United States is involved.
The eighth article of the treaty of 1817 gave a life estate to the
head of a family, dower to the widow, and remainder in fee to
the children. Andrew Miller was the.head of an Indian family,
and wa§ registered as such. The land claimed, it is true, was
not within that ceded by the treaty of 1817, but by that. of
1819. But we claim that the true construction of those treaties is, that the latter was but the continuation of the former.
And it is this construction of those treaties'which gives us a
standing in this court. It is not a mere outstanding title which
The bill of exceptions4. expressly states, that
we set up.
" Thomas Henderson (one of the-plaintiffs in error) got possession for the heirs of Andrew Miller, under which title it has

322

StPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

since been held." We hold under that title, then. And it is
our title under the heirs of Andrew Miller, and their title under
the treaties of 1817 and 1819, which is in fact one and the same
title, that is involved. The children of Miller were actually on
the land enjoying the rents until put off by the Scbool Commissioners. The statutes of the State of Tennessee override
the treaties of the United States.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question to be decided in this case is, whether the
court has jurisdiction.
The case is brought before us by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee. It appears by the
record, that the decision turned u.pon the title of Andrew Miller
to the lands in question, under the treaties of 1817 and 1819,
with the Cherokee nation. Andrew Miller was the head of an
Indian family when the first treaty was made, and it was insisted at the trial that the title to this land was in his heirs, by
virtue of the reservations contained in these treaties. The decision was against the validity of this title, and the question is,
whether the plaintiffs in error claimed under it. If they did not,
this court has no power to revise the judgment of the State
court.
It was an action of ejectment. The plaintiffs in error were
permitted by the court tQ appear as defendants. They were
not the tenants in possession when the suit was brought. The
process was served on other persons named in the proceedings,
and the record does not show in what character, or upon what
ground, the plaintiffs in error were permitted to appear and defend the suit.
Andrew Miller died in 1818, and the land in dispute was
held for his children until 1822, when the State took possession
of it, claiming title. The widow of Miller removed to the
Cherokee nation, in their new settlement on the west of the
Mississippi, soon after his death, and the children followed her
when the State took possession of the land; and they hatve all
remained there ever since. The right to this property appears
to have been continually in dispute sihce the treaties above
mentioned, and after the removal of Miller's children the
possession changed hands several times before this suit was
brought.
The bill of exceptions states that Henderson, one of the
plaintiffs in irror, got possession for the heirs of Andrew Miller
in 1837 or 1838, under which title it was held down to the
commencement of this suit. But it is not stated that he or
Calloway had any authority from the heirs of Andrew Miller.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

323

Henderson et aL v. Tennessee.

On the contrary, it is expressly stated that they set up no title
in themselves, but relied for their defence on an outstanding
title in tlie heirs of Andrew Miller.
Now, iM1
the language of ejectment law, an outstanding title
means a title in a third person, under which the tenant in possession does not claim. And as no one has a right to enter
upon the land and eject the tenant but the person holding the
legal titlc, if the tenant can show that the title was in a third
person it defeats the action, although the tenant sets up no
title in himself. This was the defence in the case before the
court. If they had been in possession under the heirs of Miller,
as tenants holding under their authority, then the title of the
heirs would have been the title of the tenants, and they could
have defended their possession, by showing title in themselves
derived from the heirs. For although the landlord may appear
and defend on account of his own interest, yet his appearance
is not necessary for the protection of the tenant. The tenant
may show the title of the landlord, and his own right derived
from him. And if the plaintiffs in error had made this defence,
they would evidently have claimed a right to the possession
under a treaty of the United States; and as the decision was
against the right, this court would have jurisdiction, and might
reverse the judgment if they deemed it erroneous. But they
claimed no right to the possession under this title. They set
it up as a title in a third person, not to show a right in themselves, but that the lessor of the plaintiff had none, and therefore had no right to enter upon them. They might have been
mere trespassers or intruders, without any authority- from the
legal owner, and yet this delence would have been a good one,
if the outstanding title was superior to that produced by the
lessor of the plaintiff.
The right to make this defence is not derived from the treaties, nor from any authority exercised under the general-government. It is given by the laws of the State, which provide
that the defendant in ejectment may set up titl6 in a stranger
in bar of the action. It is true, the title set up in this case was
claimed under a treaty. But to give jurisdiction to this court,
the party must claim the right for himself, and not for a third
person in whose title he has no interest. The case in 5 Cranch,
344, Owings v. Norwood's Lessee, is in point. And the same
doctrine was reaffirmed in Montgomery v. Hlernandez, 12
Wheat. 129; Fulton v. Mc'Affee, 16 Peters, 149; and Udell v.
Davidson, 7 Howard, 769.
The heirs of Miller appear to have no interest in this suit,
nor can their rights be.affected by the decision. The judgment
in this case is no obstacle to the assertion of their title in an-

SUPREME

COURT.

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

other suit, brought by themselves or any person claiming a
legal title under them. And in such a suit this court would.
have jurisdiction upon a writ. of error, whether the judgment
was in a Circuit Court of the United States or in a State
court.
But this writ of error must be dismissed for want of-jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented from the opinion delivered by the court.
My view of the present case is, that this tribunal has jurisdiction over it, and, also, that the judgment below ought to be
reversed.
In order to enable us to exercise jurisdiction in this class of
causes, it need only appear, that in the State court some
right or title set up under a treaty with the United States
was drawn in question and overruled. The title set up below
by the defendants seems very clearly to have been one of this
character. The record states that "it was proved by sundry
witnesses that Andrew Miller was the head of an Indian family; resided in the Cherokee nation east of the Mississippi at
the date of.the treaty of 1817, between the United States and
the Cherokee nation; that from the spring of 1818 till his death
in July or August of the same year, he resided on the land in
dispute, claiming the same as a reservation, where he said he
intended to live and die; and that the land in dispute was not
ceded by the treaty of 1817, but was by that of 1819." Now, on
such facts it is averred and admitted that the court instructed
the jury, " that although the ancestor, Andrew Miller, registered
his name for the place in dispute, an, took possession thereof
in the spring of 1818, and died upon the place in July or August of the same year, and before the treaty of 1819, no title
vested in him, Andrew Miller, and consequently none could vest
or descend to his heirs."
It is difficult to conceive how it is possible to say, that a title
under a treaty was not thus set up or drawn in question, and
was not overruled by the State court, so as to give to this court
jurisdiction to revise any error coqimitted. Such a title seems
to have been the only one interposed against a recovery, and
was the only one'decided on below, and was there explicitly
overruled.
The sole argument offered here to obviate this conclusion
does not appear to have been there presented or relied on. It
is, that, though Miller's title was there set up and overruled, it
was not set up as existing in the tenants, or as the title under
which they entered or claimed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.

325

Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

But the Judiciary Act, in order to give to this court jurisdiction under the twenty-fifth section, does not in terms require
that such title should have been entirely vested in the tenants.
It seems sufficient if it was drawn in question, or was set up,
and could legally be set up, in defence, and was overruled. (1
Stat. gt Large, 85.)
What is deawn in question in any case depends on the facts
and the law applicable to that particular case. Here the title
of -Miller's heirs under the treaty, I have already shown, was
certainly drawn in question, and as certainly was overruled by
the judge.
But it is argued, that the defendant must have had a right
under the United States to make the defence, or we have no
jurisdiction. That, however, is begging the question on the
merits. It seems quite sufficient to have him set up such a
right and to have it overruled.
Here, too, the court below seemed to concede, that Henderson possessed such a right under Mkliller's heirs; but decided
against him, on the ground that the right of Miller himself was
defective.
Again, the question of right is not the guide, but the question of claim, and the claim being overruled. Nor need the
claim be to the whole estate or interest. In such an"action as
this, the persons in possession may have, in themselves, no title
in fee, nor for life, nor even for years. It is sufficient if a mere.
tenancy at will, for or in behalf of those possessing a larger
estate, is claimed.
So it may be only a naked possession, if the legal estate is
shown to be in other persons than the plaintiff, the latter not
bein- authorized to disturb the possession of the tenant, unless
he has the legal estate. 4 Burr. 2484; 9 Wheaton, 515; Greenleaf's Lessee v. Birth, 6 Peters, 302.
Here, however, the defendants appear to have gone further,.
and to have made a claim in privity with the heirs, or set up a
right under Miller and the treaty, though not to the whole interest. In a just view of the record, therefore, they seem to
have brought themselves within what is now required, Pven by
the opinion of this court. Because, though the original defendants claimed no title in themselves, unless it was a tenancy
at will under Henderson and Calloway, .and hence, probably,
the latter were requested to defend, and did defend, yet it clearly appears on the record, that the latter set up rights for the
heirs of Miller, and relied in defence on the title of those heirs,
and the court did not overrule the propriety of such a mode of
defence, but the title itself of Millers heirs set up under the
Cherokee treaties.
VOL. x.

28

326

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et aI. v. Tennessee.

The title under the treaty was not only thug set up and
overruled, but it was set up by Henderson and Calloway,
claiming rights under it in privity under the heirs of Miller.
The widow of Miller, as early as 1818, is proved to have put
Black in actual possession of the land, "to hold it for her and
the heirs of Andrew Miller." And he, with two of the children,
remained in possession and cultivated the land till 1822. No
question can exist, that, ,if
Black was the defendant here, he
could rightfully protect himself under the Miller title. But it
is said that Henderson and Calloway were never, like him, put
into possession by the widow or the heirs, and never held it for
them with any privity by lease or otherwise. We think differently. Another portion of the record says expressly, after Black
had been expelled by the plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs by others,
between 1822 and 1837 or 1838, that "Thomas Henderson got
possession for the heirs of Andrew Miller, under which title it
has since been held."
During the three or four years which ensued before this action was instituted, it would therefore appear, not only that the
present defendants were in possession, in person or by others,
"for the heirs," which is the very expression used as to Black's
possession, but would naturally mean in one case, no less than
the other, with the privity or request of the heirs, and as
agents for them. But to remove all doubt as to this in respect
-to Henderson, who entered for the heirs of Miller, the record
adds, that under the Miller "title it has since been held."
Giving a fair construction to all the words in the record, and
to all the other facts stated, it is difficult to misunderstand this
language. The widow and heirs regarded the reservation as
valuable. She refused to sell their rights in it for $ 1,000 offered by Black. It was not abandoned as unworthy of attention; but Black was first put into possession with privity as
agent or tenant to them. And after he was expelled, Henderson, as another agent, seems not only to have regained the
possession for the heirs, but to have held it by their title since,
and probably as their agent or tenant, with like privity. The
notice to Henderson,4ikewise, to take on himself the defence in
this case, and his admission by the court to defend, confirm this
view. A third person, disconnected entirely with the title or
right of possession, would not usually be admitted. 10 Johns.
69 ; 1 Caines, 151 ; Fairclaim v,Shamtitle, 3 Burr. 1299, 1301.
He was doubtless admitted, then, from his connection with
Miller's title. Lord Holt says (Comb. 209), "No person is
admitted to defend in ejectment unless he be tenant, and is or
hath been in possession or receives the rent." Bac. Abr. Ejectment, B. 2. Runnington on Ejectment, 192, 199, 201, 209.

DECEMBER TERM, 1850.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

It is urged further in objection, that Miller's heirs are not
parties here. Neither is the owner of the fee a party in ejectment in any case where a lessee or agent under him makes a
sub-lease and is admitted to defend for his sub-lessee.
Looldng to the whole record, then,.these considerations seem
to dispose of the question of jurisdiction in favor of the original defendants. Bat the plaintiffs below rely on some detached
expressions in the record from which to infer a different result.
Such as the judge speaking of "an outstanding title" in Miller's heirs. Probably, as already explained from the whole
case, the judge meant, by the words "outstanding title," one
which did not exist in the plaintiffs, and one which, though
represented by, had not been conveyed to, the defendants by
any foicmal deed. Under that aspect, all is natural, and our
jurisdiction is unimpaired. Such a case would be entirely unlike that of-Oxwings v. Norwood's Lessee, 5 Cranch, 344. But
if he meant by outstanding title one which existed elsewhere,
but which the defendants did not set up, nor mean to avail
themselves of as a defence by their connection with it, he departs in all essentials from the rest of the record, and all the
proof in it, that Henderson entered for the heirs of Miller,
held it two or three years under their title, and set it up as his
defence.
My dissent rests on this view of the case, though it is by no
means certain, that, if a naked outstanding title were shown
merely to defeat the plaintiff, and not held under nor relied on
through any privity in defence, and it was examined by the
court below, when set up to defeat the action, we should not ex.
ercise jurisdiction tb revise the decision, if a treaty connected
with that title is there overruled; because the treaty is a part
of the defence there, as much as in other cases. It is relied on,
for exemption in the action as much as in other cases. The
title under a treaty is called in question -and decided against
as fully as in other cases. The dangers from such a defence
being overruled by a State court are as serious as in other
cases.
So a judgment of a State court is reversable here at all only
when in collision with defences offered under authority from
the United States. And here the State court not only overruled an authority so set up, but did it in favor of their own
State and of their own citizens, and against the valid ty e, a
claim in behalf of an Indian widow and Indian orphans. On
general principles, therefore, and with entire respect for the
courts of Tennessee, it would seem proper, that, if any case
should be open to revision by another tribunal, it ought to be
one of this character.

328

SUPREME COURT.
Henderson et al. v. Tennessee.

As it would be of no use to sustain jurisdiction here, unless
in favor of the validity of the title overruled, I would add a
few words as to the merits being with the Miller title. It must
be conceded, that the title of Miller's heirs ought to be upheld
against the plaintiffs, if it became perfected before his death;
or if it was so perfected afterwards as to operate or re'ate back
to a time before his death.
The judge below rested his ruling entirely on the position
that Miller, dying before the treaty of 1819, though after that
of 1817, had acquired no title to the land claimed. But he had
fulfilled all the requisites of the treaty of 1817, not afterwards
varied by that of 1819. He entered on the lands under the
treaty of 1817, which extended to territory afterwards, as well
as then, ceded. He improved them under it. He was the head
of an Indian family. He registered them under it. See Treaty,
art. 8 (7 Stat. at Large, 159). He resided on them under it.
And the only remaining requisite, the census, which had been
provided for by the first treaty, was dispensed with by the tieaty
of 1819 (7 Stat. at Large, 195). Though his death, then, had
intervened, his rights had commenced under the treaty of 1817,
and become perfected by it and by that of 1819, ceding the
territory and dispensing with the census. All, then, should
relate back to the period of his entry and registration.
It is very familiar law to have proceedings operate back to
:their commencement, and references need not be extended beyond the common cases of amendments in writs, records, and
returns, as well as titles to land confirmed or ratified where before partly completed.
Com. Dig. Confirmation; Vin. Abr.
Relation; 4 Kents Com. 450, note; Clary's Heiri v. Marshall's
Heirs, 5 B. fdonroe, 266; Landes v. Brant, post, 348; 12 Johns.
141; 3 Cowen, 76; 12 Missouri, 145.
As this court, in the .opinion ju t delivered, has not gone
into the consideration of 'the validity of the title of Miller's
beirs, I forbear further remarks upon it until brought before us
in some other action and form, more acceptable to a majority
of the members of this tribunal.
Justices McLEAN, WAYNE, and McKINIEY concurred
with Mr. Justice WOODBURY.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the' State of Tennessee, and
was. argued .by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be,
and the same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

