310"

31T OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

is nothing to indicate that it would have done so in the hands
of its owners, so that in fact they lost nothing. Indeed, it is
scarcely credible that they would have delayed so long to
demand possession of the road if in their opinion it could have
been operated at a profit.
The decree of the court below is, therefore,

Afi'med.

SENEY v. WABASH WESTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 26. Argued October 23, 24, 1893. -Decided

November 20,1893.

This case is not distinguishable in principle from United States Trust
Company v. Wabash Western Railway Company, ante, 287.

'THIs was also an intervening petition against Humphreys
and Tutt, receivers of the property of the Wabash, St. Louis
and Pacific Railway Company, and was instituted by Seney
as trustee in a mortgage covering what was known as the
"Clarinda branch" of the Wabash Railway, to recover a rental
equal to the interest at six per cent on $264,000 of bonds, from
August 1, 1884, to April 1, 1886, which bonds were secured
by a mortgage to Seney as trustee.
On July 15, 1879, the Clarinda and St. Louis Railroad Company, being the owner of a projected railway, eleven miles in
length, extendin& from Clarinda, Iowa, in a southerly direction
tb a point on the state line between Iowa and Missouri, leased
its road to the St. Louis, Kansas City and Northern Railway,
the owner of another road extending from that point on the
state line to Rosebury, Missouri. For the purpose of raising
the funds necessary to complete and equip that branch, the
lessee issued bonds to the amount of $264,000, interest payable
in February and August, and mortgaged both branches of he

SENEY v. WABASH WESTERN RAILWAY.

011

Statement of the Case.

line to Seney as trustee. The mortgage to Seney did not purport to convey to him any of the income or earnings of the
road. By way of further assurance, the Clarinda and St. Louis
Company executed to the same trustee a guaranty mortgage
conveying all its right, title, and interest in the road subject
only to the lease.
Upon the execution of this lease and these mortgages, which
formed a single transaction, the St. Louis, Kansas City and
Northern Railway took possession of the demised premises,
and with the proceeds of the bonds constructed and subsequently operated the Clarinda branch until lNovember 10,
1879, when it was consolidated with the Wabash Company
and subsequently became a part of the Wabash, St. Louis
and Pacific Company. This branch passed into the hands of
the receivers and became subject to the orders of May 27,
June 28, 1884, and April 16, 1885, referred to in -the previous
case.
Seney, the trustee, did not attempt possession of the premises
until March 22, 1886, when he filed his petition in the Wabash
case, reciting the defaults that had occurred in the payment of
interest upon the bonds secured by his mortgage, and praying
for the surrender of the road to a receiver to be appointed by
another court in a suit brought to foreclose his mortgage. On
April 6, 1886, the court ordered the surrender made. While
the Clarinda branch was in possession of the receivers, they
expended in necessary maintenance, operation, and taxes a large
sum in excess of the gross earnings therefrom. The master to
whom the case was referred was of the opinion that, under the
order of June 28, 1884, the receivers were only bound to pay
the interest on the Clarinda bonds after meeting such other
obligations as they had been directed to pay by the former
orders of the court; found that the petitioner had not brought
himself within the terms of that order; and recommended that
the petition be dismissed, which was subsequently done. 34=
Fed. Rep. 2a9; 38 Fed: Rep. 63. From this decree Seney
appealed to this court.
The case was argued with Nos. 51 and 57, ante, 287.

OCTOBER TER!I, 1893.
Syllabus.

Mr. Elward W. Sheldon and Mr. Theodore Sheldon for
appe6llant.
Mr. F. TF. Zehmann for appellee. Mr. Wells -f. Blodgett
aid Mr. Thomas H. 1ubbardfiled briefs for the same.
MR. JUSTICE Bioww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case differs from the preceding one in the facts that
rental to the amount of $1920 was paid to August 1, 1884,
instead of October 1, and possession of the road was ordered
to be surrendered to Seney as trnstee on April 6, 1886. No
complaint was made of unnecessary delay in giving up possession after application was made therefor. The case is not distinguishable in principle from the other, and the decree of the
court below dismissing the petition is, therefore,

STURM v. BOXER.
APPEAL F OM THE

cOIcUIT COURT OF THl

UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 14. Argued October 13,1893.-

Decided November 20, 1893.

In 1867 B. and S. entered into a contract which was evidenced by the following writings, signed by them respectively. (1) B. to S., dated September
18: " Enclosed please find otir bill of sundry arms, etc., amounting to
$39,887.60, for which amount please give us credit on consignment account. As mutually agreed, we consign these arms to your care, to be
shipped to Mlexico and to be sold there by you to the best advantage.
Should these arms not be disposed of at the whole amount charged, we
have to bear the loss. Should there be any profit realized over the
above amount of bill, such profit shall be equally divided between yourself and us. Also, it is understood that All these goods are shipped by
you free of any expenses to us, and that in -case all or any of them
should not be sold, they shall be returned to us free of all charges. As
you have insured these goods, as well as other merchandise, we should
be pleased to have the amount of $40,000 transferred to us. Please

