OCTOBER. TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Appellees.

212, and the case before us belongs to the same class of ex
I)arte proceedings; nor do the regulations of the Commissioner

of the General Land Office, whereby a party may be held to
prove his better claim to enter, oust the jurisdiction of the
courts of justice. We announce this to be the settled doctrine
of this court. See also Jlfonroe Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U. S.

47, 57, and cases cited.
The judgment of the court below was right, and it is,
therefore,
A4frmed.

BELKNAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90. Argued November 20, 21, 1893.-

Decided December 11, 1893.

Ordinarily a court has no power to grant a new trial at a term subsequent
to that at which the original judgment was rendered.
The Court of Claims, however, under Rev. Stat. ยง 1088, has power to grant
a new trial in such case on a motion on behalf of the United States, and
a mandate from this court does not affect that power.
When such a motion is made on behalf of the government on the ground that
its officers understood that there was an agreement that a case which had
been appealed to this court by the United States, and had been remanded
to that court by this court; on the ground that the appellants had not
entered it here, was to abide the result in another case appealed from the
Court of Claims by the United States and decided here in their favor, the
granting. of the motion by the Court of Claims must be taken by this
(ourt as conclusive on the question whether the evidence warranted the
action of that court, as that evidence is not preserved.
The payment to an Indian agent of the amount appropriated by Congress
for the payment of his salary being less than the amount fixed by general
law as the salary of the office, and his receipt of the sum paid "in full of
my pay for services for the period herein expressed;" is a full satisfaction of the claim.
United States v. Langston, 118 U. S. 389, explained and limited..

t'. George A. Ifing, (with whom was -Mr.Harvey palding
on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge, (with whom was
Mr. Charles C. Binney on the brief,) for appellees.

BELKNAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the. Court.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The history of this case is as follows: In 1882 the appellant
filed his petition in the Court of Claims, alleging that as a duly
appointed and commissioned United States Indian agent for a
series of years, he was entitled to a salary of $1800 per annum;
that he had only received a certain portion .of that amount,
and praying judgment for the balance. A trial was had before
the court, which, on March 19, 1883, filed its findings of fact,
and rendered judgment in his favor for the sum of $3400. At
the same time was tried the case of Charles -Mitchellv. United
States, and they were both argued as presenting, the same question of law, to wit, whether a public officer could "recover the
difference between the salary established by law. for the office
which he held and the amount paid to him in accordance with
the appropriations made by Congress." An appeal was taken
in each case by the United States. That in the .1Litchell case
was duly entered in this court, and was submitted on briefs on
March 30, 1883. On November 5 of that year this court rendered its decision in favor of the United States, reversing the
judgment of the court below. 109 U. S. 146.
The appeal in the present case was taken on June 14, 1883,
but was not entered iby the appellant at the October term following, as required by the rules of this court. Thereupon the
appellee caused the appeal to be docketed afid dismissed; and
on May 12, 1884, filed with the Court of Claims the mandate,
in which the following orders were set out:
"And whereas, in the present term of October, in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-three, the
said cause came on to be heard before the Supreme Court, and
it appearing that the appellant has failed to have its appeal
filed and docketed in conformity with the rules of this court:
it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that their
appeal from the Court of Claims be, and the same is hereby.,
docketed and dismissed.
"And it is further ordered that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Court of Claims. (May 5, 1884.)
"You, therefore, are hereby commanded that such proceed-

OCTOBER TERM,-1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ings be had in said cause as, according to right and justice
and the laws of the United States, ought to be had, the said

appeal notwithstanding."
On the 13th of May the United States, by the Attorney
General, filed a motion in the Court of Claims for a new trial
on the ground that wrong and injustice in the premise* had
been done to the United States. The reasons therefor, as
stated, were that the two-cases were heard, together; that in
both the judirment was for the plaintiff, and both cases'were
appealed to the Supreme Court; that the same questions of
law were tnvolvel in each case, and that the defendants understood that the appeal inthis case was to abide the decision-in
the case of Mitchell;.tbat, relying upon this understanding,
they took no further action in this case, and it was only in
conseqience of- such reliance that the transcript was not filed
by them in the Supreme Court, 'and the 6 pportunity thus given
to the appellant to have the case docketed and dismissed; that
by the Mitchell case the law has beern de~ided adversely to the
claim of petitioner, and, therefore, that wrong and injustice
would under the circumstances be done by permitting'the judgment to stand.
On the 2d of June, 1884, the Cotlrt of Claims -sustained
the, motion, and granted a new trial. Of this appellant complains. As the new trial was granted at a term subsequent
to that -at which the original judgment was -rendered, (the
tqrms of the Court of Claims beginning on the first Monday
in 'December in. each year, Rev. Stat. ยง 1052,) there would
ordinarily be no power in the court to grant .such new trial.
Coughlin v. Ditrict of Columbia, 106 U' S. 7; Brook. v.
.mailroad Company,- 102 U. S. 107. But there is in the
Revised Statutes - peculiar provision, applicable only to the
Court of Claims, which is as follows:
"SEo. 1088. The Court of Claims, at any time while any

claim is pending before'it, or on appeal from it, or within
two years next after the final disposition of such claim, May,
on motion on behalf of the United States, grant a new trial
and 'stay the payment, of any judgment therein, upon such
evidence, cumulative' or otherwise, as shall satisfy the cotfrt

BELKNAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

that any fraud, wrong, or injustice in the premises has been
done to the United States; but until an order is made staying
the payment of a judgment, the same shall be payable and
paid as now provided by law."
In order to give full effect to this statute the Court of
Claims must have power to grant a new trial at a term subsequent to that at which the judgment was rendered, for
it explicitly provides that it may be exercised at any time
within two years. This section has been before this court
in several cases, and in them its scope and effect considered
and determined.
United States v. Ayres, 9 Wall. 608;
United States v. Crusell, 12 Wall. 175; Ex parle ]?ussel, 13
Wall. 661; E parte United States, 16 Wall. 699
United
States v. Young, 94: U. S. 258; Young v. United States, 95
U. S. 641, 642, 643. That a mandate from this court does
not prevent the operation of this statute or take away the
power or interfere with the discretion of the Court of Claims
to grant a new trial was settled in Expar'te Russell, supra.
The testimony presented to the court in support of this
motion is not preserved. We must,. therefore, assume it to
have been sufficient to establish the facts stated in the motion,
and the only question for us to consider is as to the power
of the court, upon those facts, to order a new trial. Counsel
for appellant contend that they disclose nothing but a mere
mistake of law; or ignorance of the rules and practice of this
court, on the part of the officers of the government, and that
under Geenr v. ibert, 137 U. S. 615, such matters are
insufficient. But we do not so understand the record. No
case abides the decision of another case except by agreement
of the parties; and so, when it is stated that the defendants
understood that the appeal in this was tci abide the decision
in. the Mchkell case, what is meant is that they understood
that an agreement to that effect had been made. If such
an agreement had actually been made by the parties, and
then, in wilful disregard thereof, one party had taken the
steps disclosed here of docketing and dismissing the appeal,
a court would properly interfere to prevent the successful
consummation of such attempted wrong. Instead of charg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ing such an agreement, and a deliberate breach thereof by the
appellant, all that is claimed by the United States is that
there was on their part an understanding that there was such
an agreement, and that they acted in reliance upon such an
understanding. We are to assume that the testimony showed
that there were reasonable grounds for believing in the
existence of such an agreement, and for acting in reliance
thereupon. The defendants were guilty of no laches or
omissions, and the effect upon them is the same as if there
had been, in fact, an agreement and a wilful breach. That
being so, it would evidently be a wrong, an injustice to the
government, not to relieve it from the consequences of .such
a mistake of fact, and to continue in force a judgment which
ought not to have been rendered. We think that the Court
of Claims was authorized, upon the facts stated in this motion,
to grant a new trial.
It becomes, therefore, necessary to consider the facts as disclosed by the findipgs made upon the second trial and in connectionmwith the various provisions of the statutes. Section
2052 of the Revised Statutes contains this provision:
"The -President is authorized to appoint from time to time,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the following Indian agents:

.

.

.

Four for the tribes in California,

at an annual salary of eighteen hundred dollars each."
On February 4, 1876, appellant was commissioned by the
President as agent for the Indian's of the Tule IRiver Agency
in California. On filing his bond he received a letter enclosing his commission, in which it was stated that his "compensation remains at $1500 per annum." On the 5th of larch,
1880, he was reappointed, with a commission in like form.
Notice of this appointment was sent to him on the 15th of
M-arch by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and in the
letter Was this statement: "The salary of the office is $1000
per aiinum." The appellant discharged the duties of the
office from the time of his appointment, continuously, until
September 30, 1882, and received the salary appropriated by
Congress therefor, by the several appropriation acts during
that time, and his receipts for such compensation contain this

DELITAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

recital: "Being in full of our (my) pay for services for the
period herein expressed." Neither the appropriation law in
force when the Revised Statutes took effect, nor any of those
of the nine succeeding years, appropriated a salary of $1800
for the Tule River Agency. Such appropriations were as
follows:
"1873-74, act of February 14, 1873, (17 Stat. 437, c. 138,) $1500
1874-'75, act of June 22, 1874, (18 Stat. 146, c. 389,).. 1500
1875-'76, act of March 3, 1875, (18 Stat. 420, c. 132,).. 1500
1876-'77, act of August 15, 1876, (19 Stat. 176, c. 289). 1500
1877-'78, act of March 3, 1877, (19 Stat. 271, c. 101,).. 1500
1878"'79, act of May 27, 1878, (20 Stat. 63, c. 142,).... 1000
1879-'80, act of February 17, 1879, (20 Stat. 295, c. 87,) 1000
1880281, act of May 11, 1880, (21 Stat. 114, c. 85,)... 1000
1881-'82, act of March 3, 1881, (21 Stat. 485, c. 137,).. 1000
1882-:'83, act of May 17, 1882, (22 Stat. 68, c. 163,)... 1000"
Of these ten appropriation acts the first four made appropriations for only three agencies in California, (Hoopa Valley,
Round Valley, and Tule River;) the fifth made an appropriation for only two of these agencies, (Round Valley and
Tule River;) while the last five made appropriations for four
agencies, that of Hoopa Valley being restored and the Mission Agency being added, but the salary of the agent at this
Iasi point was at first fixed at $3000, and by the act of June
14, 1878, -20Stat. 115, 119, c. 191, reduced to $1300, at which
figure it remained under the other acts.
In all these ten acts the appropriations for the pay of the
other California agents, as well as the one at Tule River,
differ from the figure named in section 2052; in the first five
acts the other aplpropriations being at the same rate as that
allowed for Tule River, while in the last five the Round Valley agefit is paid $1500, the Mission agent $1300, and the
other two $1000.
Since this case was commenced we have had before us the
following cases in which a claim was made, on behalf of an
officer of the United States, of a .right to recover more than
VOL. CL--88

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the amount appropriated by Congress for his compensation by
reason of the existende of a statute prescribing a salary.
United States v. Fisher, 109 U. S. 143; United States v.
Mitchell, 109 U. S. 146; United States v. Langston, 118 U. S.
389; Wallace v. United States, 133 U. S. 180; aid Dunwoody v. United States, 143 U. S. 578.
In. one of these
cases, United States v. Iangston, we held that the act prescribing the salary controlled; in the others, that the appropriation acts were conclusive as to the amount the officer was
entitled to receive. The difference in result does
not, however,
show a variation in ruling. On the contrary, all the cases
have been decided in accordance with the general rule laid
down in United States v. Xitehel1 8u&ra: "The whole question depends on the intention of Congress as expressed in the
statutes."
In the -Langstoncase it appeared that the salary of the
minister to Hlayti was fixed by the :Revised Statutes at $7500,.
and that that sum was annually appropriated until the year
1883. .In the statutes of two of those years, to wit, 1879 and
1880, it was expressly provided that the appropriation should
be in full for the annual salary, and that all laws and parts of
laws in conflict with the provisions of the act should be repealed. In the years 1883, 1884, and 1885 there was simply
an appropriation of $5000 for the minister to Hayti. The
plaintiff held the office from September 28, 1877, until July
24, 1885. Until 1883 he was paid at the rate of $7500 per
annum, but for the remaining years he received only the
amount of the appropriation, to wit, $5000 per annum. And
this court held that there was nothing in the language of
these last appropriation acts which could be satisfactorily
construed as repealing the express language of the section
fixing the salary at $7500 per annum- a salary which had
been recognized by Congress for ten years in its appropriations,
and by language in some of the acts clearly declaring that to
be the salary attached to that office. Repeals by implication
are not favored, and. it was held that the mere failure to
appropriate the full salary was not, in and of itself alone,
sufficient to repeal the prior act. And yet the court conceded

BELKNAP v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

at the close of the opinion that "the case is not free from
difficulty."
While not questionitig at all the -angston case, we think
that it expresses the limit in that direction.
In this case there are several considerations whih tend to
show that appellant's right to compensation was not fixed by
2052, Revised Statutes. In the firsf place, the agency at
Tule River is not specifically named in the section, though
'doubtless it would come within its description. ' It had been
an agency existing before the revised Statutes, and never
had there been for it any appropriation over $1500. Congress,
in the ten appropriation acts passed after the Revised Statutes
and before the close of appellant's term of service, did not
recognize the salary of $1800 in respect to any one of the
agencies in California. It discriminated between them, giving
different salaries to different agencies, some of these being in
excess of any prescribed by ยง 2052. The fact of discrimination,
and the constant disregard of ยง 2052 in respect to all agencies,
indicates that the matter was present to the consideration of
Congress, and that in naming the various amounts during
these several years it was fixing the entire compensation
which it intended should be given. It was a legislative readjustment of salaries, for it is not to be believed that Congress
during all these years was simply appropriating a part of that
which it knew was due to its officers. A significant fact is,
too, that when it first appropriated for the Mission Agency,
pn May 27, 1878, it appropriated $3000, but on Tune 14, 1878,
within less than three weeks, it passed an act reducing the
salary to $1300. Still more significant is the fact that up to
1878 the appropriation for Indian agents was without individualizing the amounts for the separate agencies. Thus in the
act of August 15, 1876, 19 Stat. 176, c. 289, (and the other
statutes were similar,) we find the appropriation in these words:
"For pay of sixty-eight agents of Indian affairs, 't one thousand five hundred dollars each, except the one at Iowa, at
five hundred dollars, namely;" while from 1878 onward each
agency was named, and the pay attached to that agency
separately designated. Thus in the act of May 27, 1878, 20

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 64, c. 142, tb, appropriation commences in this way:
"For pay of seventy-four agents of Indian affairs at the
following named agencies, at the rates respectively indicated,
namely: At the Warm Springs agency, at one thousand
dollars; at the Klamath agency, at one thousand one hundred
dollars ;," and then follow in like manner the name of each
agency, and the salary attached thereto, several of the salaries
being in excess of those given by said section 2052. Evidently
this change grew out of section 4 of the appropriation act of
1876, 19 Stat. 200: "That hereafter the estimates for appropriations for the Indian service shall be presented in such
form as to show the amounts required for each of the 'agencies
in the several States or Territories, and for said States and
Territories respectively."
This act was passed August 15, 1876, and, apparently, there
was not sufficient time before the passage of the appropriation
act of 1877, March 3, 187,7, to satisfactorily prepare the estimates, and so the form of the legislation of Congress was not
changed until 1878. But when changed it was a change
indicating that each particular agency was called to the attention of. Congress, and the amount which should be paid
to the agent at that agency specifically determined. In this
connection it is well to note the language used in the appropriation acts to denote the purpose of the appropriation.
Thus, in the act of 1878, and subsequent statutes are similar,
it is that the "following sums be, and they are hereby, approfor the purpose of paying the current and
priated
contingent expenses of the Iidian Department;" and immediately thereafter follows the language which we have heretofore
quoted, "for pay of seventy-four agents . . . at the rates
respectively indicated, namely." 'This language carries a
strong implication that Congress was intending to pay the
current expenses in full, and intended that the sums named
for these Indian agents should be the total amount they should
be entitled to receive. When to these facts is added that the
plaintiff with his first commission received notice that the
salary was to be $1500, as had been for years theretofore
appropriated by Congress, and on reappointment that it was

WARD 'v.. COGHRAIN.
Statement of the Case.

$1000, and that during the years of his service he received the
appropriations and receipted for them as in full payment for
his services, we think it must be adjudged that he has received
all that of right and by law he is entitled to receive, and that
the judgment of the Court of Claims should, therefore, be
Affrmed.

WARD v. COCHRAT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 110. Argued and submitted November 23, 24, 1893.-Decided December 18, 1893.
An express order of court during the judgment term, continuing a cause
for the purpose of settling, allowing, signing, and filing a bill of exceptions, and the settlement and allowance and filing of the bill, during the
terms to which the continuance was made, takes the exceptions out of
the operation 6f the general rule that the power to reduce exceptions to
form and'have them signed and filed is, under ordinary circumstances,
confined to the term at which the judgment is rendered.
A bill of exceptions which, in so far as it relates to the charge, specifies
with distinctness the parts excepted to, and the legal propositions to
which exceptions are taken, is sufficient.
A defendant in ejectment who relies on adverse possession during the statutory period as a defence must show actual possession - not constiuctive
-and
an exclusive possession -not a possession in participation vith
the owner, or others.
When a special verdict is rendered, all the facts essential to entitle a party
to a judgment must be found.
A judgment rendered on a special verdict failing to find all the essential
facts is erroneous; and consequently a special verdict in an action of
ejectment, which finds that the grantor of the defendant entered into
possession of the land in controversy under a claim of ownership and
that he remained in the open, continued, notorious, and adverse possession
thereof for the period of sixteen years, when he sold and transferred the
same to the defendant, who remained in open, coantinuous, notorious, and
adverse possession of the same under claim of ownership down to the
present time, is defective in that it does not find that the adverse possession was actual and,exclusive.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought at the November

term, 1887, in the Circuit Court of- the United States for the

-

