KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
such 'a bill when it can serve no useful purpose, and simply
encumbers the record. Only so much of the testimony, or the
proceedings, as is necessary to present clearly the matters at
law excepted to should be preserved in a bill. of exceptions.
If counsel would pay more attention to this, they would often'
save this court much unnecessary labor, and their clients much
needless expense. Of course, in this case, as in all similar
cases, there remains an inquiry as to the scope and sufficiency
of any partisular objection or exception disclosed by the bill.
All that is meant by this ruling is that the objection or exception thus noted is before us- for consideration for whatever it
is worth. And, turning to the exception now under consideration, it is specific and direct to the one error of compelling
the defendant to be a witness against himself. It is not like
that in Railfoal Cornpany v. 7arnell, 98 U. S. 479, where
the exception ran to a whole page of the court's charge, nor
was it as in Hlannc v. _31aas, 122 U. S. 24, an objedtion without any exception to the court's ruling, but a distinct objection
to a specific matter presented, considered, and overruled, and
the ruling excepted to. It was, therefore, sufficient' to bring
to the consideration of this 'court the error alleged.
The judgment is reversed, and the case remandedfor a new
trial.
M . JUSTICE IARLAN did not hear the argument, nor take
part in the decision of this case.

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 83. Argued November 15, 1893. -Decided

December 4, 1S93.

The court of claims was not estopped by the recitals in the act of January
17, 1887, 24 Stat. 358, e. 21, referring this case to it, from considering the
question of the title of th6 claimants to the property whose value is
sought to be recovered.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
The commissioners appointed by the governments of the United States and
of Russia for the transfer of Alaska under the treaty of March 30, 187,
15 Stat. 539, had no power to vary the language of the treaty or to determine questions of title or ownership.
The building constructed by the .Russian-American Company in 1845 on
land *belonging to Russia became thereby, so far as disclosed by the
facts in this case, the property of the Russian government, and, being
transferred to the United States by the treaty of March 30, 1867, no
property or ownership in it remained in the Russian-American Company, which it could transfer to a private person adversely to the United
States.

THIS was a petition by John H. Kinkead and.Samuel Sussman, claiming to be the owners and lawfully possessed of a
-certain warehouse in Sitka, Alaska, for the rent of a part of
such warehouse at the rate of $200 per month, from December
15, 1868, to December 15, 1888, the date of the petition,
amounting to $48,000; and also the further sum of $69,300
for rent of another part of the same building from September
12, 1869, to December 15, 1888; together with the further sum
of $50;000 for the value of the building; the aggregate amount
of the claim being $167,300.
Petitioners claimed to have purchased the building from the
Russian-American Company, through Prince Maksoutoff, c.hief
factor,, for the sum of $3000 in gold.
A former petition for the same claim had been presented to.
the Court"of Claims and dismissed by it for want of jurisdiction, upon the ground that, as the title set up by the claimants
depended upon the construction of the treaty between the
United. States and the Emperor of Russia, the court was without jurisdiction over the same. 18 C. 'C1. 50-. Whereupon
claimants procured the passage of an act of Congress approved
January 17, 1887, referring their claim to the Court of Claims
for adjudication.
The petition under donsideration 'having" been heard, the
court made a finding of facts, the substance of which appears
in the opinion of this court, and entered a judgment dismissing
the petition upon the ground that Kinkead and Sussman had
no title to the property in question. From this judgment
petitioners appealed to this court.

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. George A. Zing and A&. Joseph K 2fCamrnmo, (with
whom was Air. John .Mllanon the brief,) for appellants.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Dodgefor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Petitioners' title to the building in question, which, they
claim to have bought of the Russian-American Company, a
Russian corporation, soon after ,the cession of Alaska to the
'United States, depends upon the construction to be given to
the treaty of March 30, 1867, between His .Majesty the
Emperor of Russia and the United States, 15 Stat. 539, the
correspondence and protocol-qonnected therewith, and the act
of Congress of January 17, 1887, referring this claim to the
Court of Claims for adjudication. Upon the hearing.in the
Court of Claims, the court found "that at the time Alaska was
ceded by Russia to the United:States there was standing on a
certain'lot adjacent to the public wharf in the town of Sitka
a building, constructed of hewn logs, 118 feet in length and
50 feet ift width. The land upon which this building stood
belonged to Russia, and was thus embraced in the cession to
the United States."
This building was erected in 1845 by the Russian-American
Company, at their own expense, and from thit time to the
date of the treaty had been used by said company as a warehouse for the storage of furs and other property, and for trading purposes.
By what authority from Russia this land was built upon and
occupied by said company, further than is shown in finding II,
(which relates solely to proceedings taken for the transfer of
the ceded territory,) "does not appear."
By the first article of the treaty the Emperor makes cession
of "all the territory and dominion now possessed by his said
Majesty on the continent of America, and in the adjacent
islands, the same being contained in the geographical limits
herein set forth, to wit:" (Boundaries.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The second article provided that "in the cession of the territory and dominion made by the preceding articles are ineluded the right of property in all public lots and squares,
vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications, barracks,
and other edifices which are not private individual property."
Article four provides for the appointment of an agent for
each government for the purpose of making and receiving formal delivery of the ceded territory, and "for doing any other
act which may be necessary in regard thereto." "But the
cession, with right of immediate possession, is nevertheless to
be deemed complete and absolute on the exchange of ratifications, without waiting for such formal delivery.'
Article six provides that "the cession of territory and
dominion herein made is hereby declared to be free and unencumbered by any reservations, privileges, franchises, grants,
or possessions, by any associated companies, whether corporate or incorporate, Russian or any other, or by any parties,
except merely private individual property holders."
It should be added in this connection, and as explanatory
of the sixth article of the treaty, that on March 23, 1867,
Mr. Seward, then Secretary of State of the United States,
addressed a letter to the Russian minister in which he stated:
"I must insist upon that clause in the sixth article of the
draft which declares the cession to be free and unencumbered
by any reservations, privileges, franchises, grants, or possession by any associated companies, whether corporate.or incorporate, Russian or any other, etc., and must regard it as an
ultimatum. With-the President's approval, howevdr, I will
add two hundred thousand dollars to the consideration money
on that account." To this letter the Russian minister made
reply that he believed himself "authorized to accede literally
to this request on the conditions indicated" in the note of the
Secretary.
In pursuance of the fourth article of the treaty the President appointed General Rousseau commissioner to receive the
formal transfer of the ceded territory, with instructions to
"enter into communication with Captain Pestchouroff, the
Russian commissioner, now here, and arrange with him with

KINKEAD v. UNITEID STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

regard to proceeding as soon as may be convenient to the territory, etc. . . . Pursuant to the stipulations of the treaty
that transfer will include all forts and military *posts and public buildings, such as the governor's house and those used
for government purposes, dock-yards, barracks, hospitals, and
schools, all public lands, and all ungranted lots of ground at
Sitka and Kodiak. Private dwellings and warehouses, blacksnliths', joiners', coopers', tanners', and other similar shops, icehouses, flour and saw-mills, and any small barracks on the
island are subject to the control of their owners, and are not
to be included in the transfer to the United States."
The commissioners were further instructed to draw up 4nd
sign full inventories, distinguishing -between the property to
be transferred to the United States and that to be retained -by
individuals; and were also instructed to furnish the proprietors
of individual property with a certificate of their right to hold
the same upon production of documentary or other proof of
ownership.
"As it is understood that the Russian-American Company
possess in that quarter large -stores of furs, provisions, and
other goods now at Sitka, Kodiak, and elsewhere on the main
land and on the island, it is proper that that company should
have a reasonable time to collect, sell, or export that property. For that purpose the company may leave in. the territory an agent or agents for the purpose of closing their
business."
In his report of his proceedings, General Rousseau stated:
"I found that by the charter of the Russian-American Company it had authority to vest in its employ~s, occupants of
land in the territory, the title thereto. This was on condition,
however, that the possessions of the Indians should not be
interfered with.
"Acting under this charter, the company from the first
caused dwellings to be erected for the use of its employ~s on
lots of ground set apart for the purpose. The title in fee to
such premises was often vested in the employ& in possession
when he had faithfully served out his term in the company,
or, having died before it ended, and having a widow or

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

children in the territory, the title was frequently vested in
them.
"Finding in its charter this authority of the company to
vest title to land in its employ~s, and that very many of the
dwellings erected by the company were occupied by employ~s
or their widows and children, who claimed the property in fee,
the commissioners called on the governor, Prince Maksoutoff,
to define and certify td the interest of each individual thus
occupying such dwellings and lots, in order that we might
distinguish between those who owned the property in fee and
those who claimed a less interest, and in compliance with your
instructions give certificates to the claimants accordingly.
"The inventories, respectively marked C and .D, (forming
part of the protocol,) which are forwarded with this report, will
show in part the action of the governor in the premises. For
the rest he gave a certificate stating the interest of each
occupant in the premises occupied, on the back of which the
commissioners placed their approval, and it was left to be delivered to the occupant.
"In order to be accurate and" prevent disputes hereafter
about the title to houses and lots we made a map of New
Archangel, (forwarded with this report,) on which every house
and dwelling in the town is located and numbered, and as
between the claimant and the United States the title defined
to it and settled in the inventories. This was thought necessary in order to give, in accordance with your instructions, to
each man of property who desired to dispose of it a certificate
of title.
"The town of New Archangel" (now Sitka) "w1as built in
the main by the Russian-American Company, and, except the
dwellings transferred by them to their employ6s and the public
buildings transferred to the United States, is owned by that
company still; yet it has but a possessory interest in the land,
as it only had permission to erect buildings upon it; for although it had authority to vest the title of lands in its employ~s
it had no power to vest such title in itself. The commissioners
hft the matter as they found it and the company in possession
of its buildings.

KIN3KEAD v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"All the buildings in anywise used for public purposes were
delivered to the United States commissioner, taken possession
of, and turned over to General Davis, as were also the public
archives of the territory, and in a spirit of liberality the wharf
and several valuable warehouses belonging to the RussianAmerican Company were included in the transfer by the
Russian commissioner. Both the wharf and the warehouses
1
were very much needed by our people
In a joint report of the commissioners, termed a protocol, it
was stated that there had been delivered to General Rousseau
"the forts and public buildings, including the governor's house,
dock-yards, block-houses, barracks, batteries, hospitals, wharves,
and schools in the. town of New Archangel, .an inventory
of which, marked 'A,' was attached. We gave certificates of
ownership to the individual owners of private houses and of
lots in fee simple in the town of New Archangel, as directed,
a list of whose names is presented in inventory marked C,
attached to and made part hereof. In inventory marked D,
attached to and made part hereof, are shown the houses and
buildings owned by private individuals in New Archangel,
the owners thereof having no title in fee to the lands on which
they are situated."
The Court of Claims found that "the property in dispute in
this suit is not included in inventory C, where are found -the
names of owners to whom the commissioners gave certificates
of title, but, in inventory D, which is a list of buildings the
owners of which have no title in fee to the land on which
they are situated." No owner of this building was named.
The court further found tha;t after the transfer "William S.
Dodge was appointed collector of customs at Sitka, and in
June or July, 1868, he was in possession and occupancy of the
northern part of the building described in the claimants' petition, which he used as a custom's warehouse. At the same time
and afterwards the claimant Sussman was in the occupancy
of another part of the building." This occupancy was continued by Dodge and his successors in the office of collector of
customs.
In 1869, it having been reported to the War Department

OCTOBER TER11, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that a very large part of the property which belonged to the
Russian Fur Company was enjoyed by persons claiming title
by purchase from that company after the cession of the terrtory, the Secretary of War directed the military commander
of the Department of Alaska to take possession of and retain
in his charge all posts, buildings, etc., which were not in fact
entitled to be considered individual property. In pursuance
of this order, the commanding general took possession of the
entire building in question, which has since been claimed and
occupied by the government.
Claimant Kinkead protested against this seizure, claiming
that the building had been designated as private property;
that it had been purchased of the Russian-American Coinpany, and that the title acquired was good, valid, and legal.
It further appeared that in December, 1868, Mr. Ketchum,
then collector of customs, assumed to lease from Sussman, as
agent for Louis Sloss, to whom the Russian Company had
given a deed, part of the warehouse in question at a monthly
rental of two hundred dollars. This lease, however, was
.promptly disapproved by the Secretary of the Treasury, who
advised him- that no building could be hired by him for any
purpose without the previous assent of the department.
It appeared that the territory of Alaska had, prior to its
cession to the United States, been occupied by a Russian corporation known as the Russian-American Company, a corporation largely engaged in fur trading. This company had
the privilege of making use of the public lands and erecting
buildings thereon. It had no right, however, of becoming the
owner of such lands, but did have the privilege of conveying
parcels of it in fee simple to its employ~s. Pursuant to this
privilege, it had made conveyance of certain of these lands to
its employ~s, upon which had been constructed the dwellings
erected by the company and occupied by such employ~s, their
widows or"children. Apparently, however, it had no right to
acquire for itself any title to the soil, and enjoyed nothing
more than the use of the land upon which its buildings were
situated, the dominion or right of property therein remaining
in the Russian government. The company appears to have

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

possessed not only the ordinary powers of a trading corporation, but certain governmental powers, which it -exercised
arbitrarily, if not despotically, over the entire territory. It
had a monopoly of the trade of the territory, and appears to
have been in fact a provincial government of the Russian
Empire.
As no question is made but that the land upon which this
building is situated belonged to the Russian government,- and.
that the building was erected in 1845 by permission of the
Emperor, for the use of this company in the storage and sale
of its furs and for other trading purposes, and was so constructed of heavy hewn logs as to be incapable of removal, no
good reason is apparent for excepting it from the ordinary
rule which attaches such buildings to the realty. The presumption is that buildings belong to the owner of the land on
which they stand as a part of the realty. Qaieuidplantatur
solo; solo cedit. "If one erects a permanent building, like a
dwelling-house, upon the landof another voluntarily and without any contract with the owner, it becomes a part of the
realty, and belongs to the owner of the soil." .tJadigan v.
.McCarthy,108 Mass. 376; Taylor on Land. & Ten., ยง 544.
It is true there is abundant authority for holding that build.ings may by agreement "of parties be erected upon land without becoming affixed thereto, and that neither the mode of
annexation nor the use thereof is conclusive as to the intention of the parties, although the presumption is that the building so erected becomes a part of the freehold. Wood v.
ewett, 8 Q. B. 913 ; 'ripen v. 2forrison., 13 Michigan, 23;
.Mott v. Palmer, 1 N. Y. 56-; Sudbury v. Jones, 8 Cush. 184;
tloward v. B.essenden, 14 Allen, 124.
The extrinsic evidence, however, in this case, so far from
showing an intention on the part of the Russian government
that this building should not pass under the treaty, evinces a
determination on the part of both governments that it should
so pass. Not only did the land belong to the Russian government, but the building was of a size and construction such as
to render it practically impossible of removal. The correspondence between the Secretary of State and the Russian

OOTO3ER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

minister with reference to the sixth article contemplates that
'there were "reservations" "and "Possessions" owned by associated companies, Russian or other, which were to pass under
the treaty,-and the sum of two hundied thousand dollars Was
.added to the consideration money to cover the cession of such
properties. Afore explicit words than those used in article six
to distinguish between the property of associated companies,
"corporate or incorporate, Russian or any other," and merely
"private individual property holders," could scarcely be chosen
to .express the determination of both countries that the cession should be free and unencumbered by any reservations,
privileges, franchises, grants, or possessions of incorporated
companies. The private property of individual holders was
evidently exempted from the cession for the reason that while
the Russian-American Company could not acquire title to the
real estate occupied by itself, it could confer such title upon
those of its employ~s who desired to make -homes for themselves in that territory. There can be no good reason'to
doubt that it was intended by this designation of private
individual property to include as within the cession not only,
all real property belonging to the government, but all buildings erected by its permission upon such property, except such
as belonged to individuals. Whether the Russian government
had the right to make this disposition of the property of the
Russian-American Company involves questions of Russian law
which. we are not compelled to pass upon. It is enough that
the Emperor assumed to deal in this way with the property of
his subjects. Inasmuch, 'however, as two hundred thousand
dollars were added to the price originally agreed upon, in
consideration of the cession of the property of associated
companies specified under the sixth article, and as the RussianAmerican Company app~ars to have been the only corporation existing in the territory to which the terms of this cession
could apply, we may safely assume that this amount was
intended to compensate it for its interest in the buildings
erected by it. Its charter had already expired in 1862, and
had not been renewed at the time of the cession. Its franchises had, therefore, been extinguished, and it-can hardly be

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.

49a"

Opinion of the Court.

assumed that the letter of Mir. Seward was intended to be
confined to such franchises.
It may be remarked in this connection that there is a manifest inconsistency in the positions assumed by the petitioners.
Their only right in this building is derived from a deed of the
land which confessedly belonged to the IRussian government.
Yet the whole theory of the petitioners' case rests upon the
assumption that the building was erected under such circumstances that it was not intended to become a part of the freehold. Consistency then would seem to require that the deed
should be of the building alone, whereas it is, in fact, a deed
of the land, and can only pass the building upon the theory
that the building was affixed to the land, a theory quite inconsistent with the petitioners' contention. If the building were
so constructed as to he removable, there would be some reason
for saying that it was not contemplated that it should become
a fixture, but the difficulty with petitioners' claim is that they
cannot assert title to the building without also asserting title
to the land.
It is insisted, however, that the contemporaneous. construction of the treaty by those who were authorized to .carry,it
into effect was such as to indicate that the property of the
Russian-American Company was not intended to pass. The
instructions of the government to General Rousseau were that
"the transfer will include the forts and military posts and
public buildings, etc., all public lands and all ungranted lots of
land, etc., while private dwellings and warehouses are subject
to the control of their owners and are -not included in the
transfer.

.

.

In order, however, that the said individual

proprietors may .retain their property as aforesaid," he was
authorized to give them a certificate of their right to hold the
same. The words "private dwellings," and "individual proprietors" used inthese instructions should be constru6d in connection with the treaty, which reserved only "private individual
property." Obviously it was beyond the power, even of the
Russian government itself, without a gross violation of the
treaty, to enlarge the exception of private individual property
so as to include all private property, whether owned by cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

porations or individuals. In his report of his proceedings,
General flousseau stated that the town was built mainly by the
Russian-American Company, and, "except the dwellings transferred by them to their employis and the public buildings
transferred to the United States, is owned by that company
still;" that "although it had authority to invest the title to
land in its employ~s, it had no authority to invest such title
in itself;" that "all the buildings in anywise used for public
purposes were delivered to the United States commissioner,
.

.

.

and in a spirit of liberality the wharf and several

valuable warehouses belonging to the Russian-American Company were included in the transfer." Whether this was one
of the warehouses included in the transfer does not clearly
appear, though. it was contained in inventory D, which showed
the houses and buildings owned by private individuals, the
owners having no title to the fee in the land. It is quite clear,
-however,that it was never intended to invest the commissioners
with judicial power to determine the title to property in
Sitka;.or to pass finally upon the question whether a particular building passed under the treaty or not. If, for instance,
the commissioners had inventoried a certain house as the
property of A, whenl in fact it was the property of 13, no one
would seriously claim that such act would transfer the property
from B to A. Or, if they had assumed to list the property of
an individual land owner as the property of the government or
the Russian-American Company, that it would in any manner
change the title to such property, or estop the real owner to
'assert his title thereto in a court of justice. So, if they
assumed to list the property of the Russian-American Company as "private individual property" within the language of
the treaty, it certainly would not operate to vest a good title
in any one who might see fit to purchase such property from
the Russian-American Company, even if he purchased upon the
faith or such inventory, as Sloss appears to have done in this
case. The truth is,, the powers of the commissioners were
simply ministerial, and the making of inventories simply a
matter of convenience, and a method of determining p2riba
.facie what property the government should appropriate 'to

KINKEAIi v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

itself for the time being, and what should be left to the individual proprietors. To treat this inventory as binding either
upon the government or individuals would be to acknowledge
that the commissioners were invested with judicial powers to
determine the title to property. Clearly they had no power
to depart from the-plain language of the treaty, and no power
to bind the government by an assumption that government
property was private property, and thus settle questions of
title or ownership. The weight that has been given to contemporaneous construction has never gone to the extent of
*holding that the title or ownership of property may be changed
by the action of executive officers appointed to.carry a-statute
or treaty into effect.
The case of Comegys v. Thase, 1 Pet. 193, relied upon by the
petitioners, is readily distinguishable from the case under consideration. In the treaty with Spain for the cession -of Florida,
the United States undertook to make satisfaction of certain
claims of Spanish subjects, and by article 11, to ascertain the
full amount and validity of those claims, a commission, to
consist of three-commissioners, was to be appointed "to receive,
examiie, anddecide upon .theamount and validity of all claims,"
etc. Such commissioners were to act under oath for the faithful discharge of their duties, and were authorized to hear an.d
exanine witnesses upon oath, and to receive all suitable testimony. In other words, they were invested with judicial power
to pass upon these claims, and their decision, within the scope
of this authority, was held to be conclusive and final. Said
Mr. Justice Story, (page 212): "The parties inust abide by it
as the decree of a competent tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction."
But even inthis case it was held that their authority did not
extend to the adjustment of all conflicting rights of different
citizens to the fund so awarded. The rights of the several
claimants to the fund were left to the ordinary course of judicial proceedings in the established courts of justice. Thf.
powers of the commissioners in this case were evidently of
a very different character from those delegated to General
Rousseau.
It is further coutended that the Court of Claims was es

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

topped to consider the question of title by the recitals in the
act of Congress of January 17, 1887, 24 Stat. 358, c. 21, referring this claim to that court, in which the building in question
is recognized as having been the property of the RussianAmerican Company. The act recites that "Whereas John
H. Kinkead, of Nhevada, and Samuel Sussman, of California,
did . . . purchase a certain building situated, etc.,
from the Russian-American CQmpany, the owner of said butilding; and
"Whereas said building had been declared by the protocol
of the transfer of Russian America to the United States to be
private property; and
"Whereas thereafter the collector of customs of the United
States did take from said Kinkead and Sussman a lease of a
portion of said building, and entered thereupon; and
"Whereas afterwards General Jefferson C. Davis did seize
the whole of said building, on the, ground that the same was
the property of the United States, notwithstanding the commissioner appointed to ascertain private property had certified
the same to be private property: . . .
"Therefore be it enacted, . . . that jurisdiction be, and
is hereby, confeired on the Court of Claims to hear the claims,
etc., . . . for the rent and value of certain buildings
alleged by them to have been acquired by virtue of
purchase from the Russian-American Compahy, upon the
.evidence already filed in said court, and such additional legid
evidence as may be hereafter presented on either side; arid if
said court shall find that said parties acquired a valid title to
said buildings respectively alleged to have been purchased by
them, said court shall award said parties a fair and reasonable
rent," etc.
In other words, the Court of Claims is required to find, first,
,whether the petitioners acquired a valid title; second, what
shall be deemed a fair and reasonable rent; third, a suitable
indemnity for the buildings themselves. Now, as the question
whether the petitioners had a valid title to these buildings
,depended, not upon the fact of purchase from the RussianAmerican Company, which was admitted in the first recital of

T( 9K AD v, UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the statute and never denied by any one, but upon the title of
the Russian-American Company, and its right to convey, which
had been called in question by the refusal of the Secretary of
the-Treasury to allow the petitioners' claim for rent, it is impossible that Congress could have intefided by the recital to
estop the Court of .Claims from passing upon the very question
referred to it for judicial determination. Petitioners assert
that the whole object of the act was to permit the Court of
.Claims to pass upon the reasonableness of the rent and thb
value of the building. This theory, .however, is not only
wholly inconsistent with the enacting words, but with the
position assumed by the officers of the government prior
to the enactment in question. Indeed, there had been no _dispute between the parties as to the amount of the rent; but
there had been a seizure of the property by a military officer
of the United States under express directions of.the Secretary
of War, and a total repudiation by the Secretary of the Treasury of the act of Ketchum, collector of customs, in assuming
to lease this building, and a denial of -any claim for rent. In
the face 6f these proceedings it is wholly iniprobable that Congress should have admitted the ownership of the RussianAmerican Company, which was the question upon which the
liability of the government wholly depended. Petitioilers
insist that the Court of Claims should have accepted the preamble as a correct recital of the fact, and should have determined, first; whether the petitioners had acquired the building
in controversy by virtue of purchase from the Russian-American Company; and, second, 'whether the petitioners had acquired a valid title to said building. The fact that Kinkead
and Sussman bad purchased the building was as distinctly set
forth in the first recital as that the Russian-American Company was the owner, and if it were unnecessary .for it to
determine one question it was equally so to determine the
other.
It is well settled, however, that a mere recital in an act
whether of fact dr of law, is not conclusive unless it bo clear
that the legislature intended that the recital should be accepted
as a fact in the case. Endlich on Statutes, ยง 375. It was
VOL. CLT-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

stated by the court in Branson v. WVirth, 17 Wall. 32, 44, that
"whilst the recital of public acts are regarded as evidence of
the facts recited, it is otherwise, as we have seen, with reference to private acts. They ate not evidence except against
the parties who procure them."
We are referred, however, to the case of the United States
v. Jordan, 113 U. S. 418, as sustaining a contrary doctrine.
In this case an act of Congress provided "that the Secretary
of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, -authorized and directed
to remit, refund, and pay back, out of any moneys in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the following-named
citizens of Tennessee:

.

.

.

the amount of taxes assessed

upon and collected from the said named persons, contrary to
the provisions of the regulations issued by the Secretary of
the Treasury," etc. Jordan was one of the parties named in
the act. The Secretary of the Treasury having construed the
act to mean only that such sums should be refunded as were
collected from the persons named contrary to the provisions of
the regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury, this
court held that the-statute did not admit of that interpretation,
nor leave open any question for the court or for the accounting officers of the Treasury, except the identity of the claimants with the persons named in it. "Although the act," sAid
Mr.. Justice Blatclhford,-" speaks of the sums as being 'the
amount'of taxes assessed upon and collected from the said
named persons, contrary to the provisions of the rpgulations'
named, there is no indication of any intention to submit to
.any one the determination of the question whether the taxes
in any' case were collected contrary to the provisions of such
regulations, or of .the quiestion how those provisions are to be
construed."
It needs no argument to show that there is a wide digtinc.tion between an act directing a particular thing to be done,
and an act reciting the existence of a certain fact which had
long been a matter of dispute, and which the Court of Claims
was authorized by the act to pass upon and determine.
Counsel have also seen fit to lay before us the report of a
Senate committee accompanying the bill, which afterwards

K1IKEA1_

v. UNITED STATES.

Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

became the act of January 17, 1887, which report was in favor
of the justice of the claim. In accordance with this repoit
the committee submitted a bill conferring jurisdiction up~n
the Court of Claims to hear this claim upon the evidence
already filed and such additional legal evidence as might fe
presented, and directing said court to award a fair and reasonable rent, etc. The bill, however, was amended upon the floor
of the Senate by inserting the words, "if said court shall find
that said parties acquired a valid title to said buildings respectively alleged to have been purchased by them," thus
evincing a clear intention on the part of the Senate to require
the petitioners to satisfy the court of the validity of their title
to the builditig. We think it clear there is nothing in the
recital of the act which even throws a doubt upon the intention of Congress to require the court to h satisfied of this
fact.
The truth is that the whole case of the claimants depends.
upon the question whether the government.was bound by the
proceedings of the commissioners in the execution of the treaty.
As we have already expressed the opinion that they possessed
no power to vary the language of the treaty or to determine
questions of title or ownership, it results that theii action was
not binding upon the government.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,

MM.

FREL,

JUSTIcE

S0AS,. with whom concurred Mm.

JusTIcE

dissenting.

In the case of the United States v. Perceman,'7 JPet. 51, 86,
Chief Justice Marshall said:
"It may not be unworthy of remark that it is' very unusual,
even in cases of conquest, for the conqueror to do more than
to displace the sovereign and assume dominion over the country. The modern usage of nations, which has become law,
would be violated; that sense of justice and of right which is
acknowledged and felt by the whole civilized world would be
outraged, if private property should be generally confiscated

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Shias, Field, JJ.

and private rights annulled. The people change their allegiance; their relation to their ancient sovereign is dissolved;
but their relations to each other and their rights of property
remain undisturbed. If this be the modern rule, even in cases
of conquest, who can doubt its application to the case of an
amicable cession of territory?"
Upon this view of the subject it might be justly expected
tHat when, in 1867, a treaty for the cession of the dominions
of Russia in America was concluded between the United
States and the Emperor of Russia, the rights of private property would remain undisturbed. Nor would that just expectation be disappointed; for, on reading the treaty, we find
explicit provisions, preserving and excluding from the operation of the cession private property. It, however, appears that
portions of the ceded territory had been occupied by an association or company known as the Russian-American Company,
and which seems to have claimed and exercised an almost
despotic control over the sparse population, whether native or
Russian, and also to have been possessed, by grant from the
-Russian government, of certain franchises and privileges, the
precise nature and extent of which are not disclosed. Aware
of the existence of this company, and apparently fearful lest
troublesome contentions as to such special privileges and franchises might afterwards arise, the government of the United
States insisted on the insertion in the treaty of an explicit
article, providing that the cession of territory and dominion
should be declared to be free and unincumbered by any reservations, privileges, franchises, grants, or possessions by any
associated companies, whether corporate or incorporate, Russian or any other, or 'by any parties except merely private
individual property holders.
Th6 fourth article of the treaty provided that the Emperor
of Russia should appoint an agent or agents for the purpose
of formally delivering to a similar agent or agents, appointed
on behalf of the United States, the territory, dominion, property, dependencies, and appurtenances which were ceded, and
for doing any other act which might be necessary in regard
thereto.

KINKEAD v. UNITE]D STATES.
Dissenting Opiniou: Shiras, Field, JJ.

Subsequently, and in pursuance of the fourth article of the
treaty, the Russian government appointed Alexis Pestchourbff,
and the United States appointed General Lovell H. Rousseau,
as their respective commissioners, and these commissioners
proceeded to fulfil the duties of their appointment under instructions from their respective governments. The instructions
from the government of the United States were as follows:
"Pursuant to the stipulations of the treaty, that transfer
will include all forts and military posts and public buildings,
such as the governor's house and those used for governmental
purposes, dock-yards, barracks, hospitals, and schools; all
public lands, and all ungranted lots of land at Sitka and
Kodiak.
Private dwellings and Warehouses, blacksmiths',
joiners', coopers', tanners', and other similar shops, ice-houses,
flour and saw-mills, and any small barracks on the islands, are
subject to the control of their owners, and are not to be
included in the transfer to the United States."
The instructions to Captain Pestchouroff from the Russian
government were as follows:
"3. All the forts and military posts will be delivered at once
to the American military forces that may follow the United
States commissioner.
"4. The public buildings, such as the governor's house, the
buildings used for government purposes, dock-yards, barracks,
hospitals,' schools, public grounds, and all free lots at Sitka and
Kodiak, will be delivered by Captain Pestchouroff to the
American commissioner as soon as practicable.
"5. All the houses and stores forming private property will
remain to be disposed of by their proprietors. To this same
category belong smiths', joiners', coopers', tanners', and other
similar shops, as well as ice-houses, saw and flour mills, and
any small barracks that may exist on the islands.
(H. R. Ex. Doc. 1o. 177, 40th Cong. 2d Sess. p. 19.)
The commissioners proceeded to fulfil the duties imposed
upon them, and on October 26, 1867, signed a protocol orstatement of their action. It thereby appears that there was
delivered to General Rousseau, for the United States, the government archives, papers, and documents relating to the terri.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, XT,

tory and dominion therein named; also the forts and public
buildings, including the governor's house, dock-yards, blockhouses, barracks, batteries, hospital, wharves, and schools in
the town of New Archangel, an inventory whereof, marked
"A," was attached to the protocol. It further appears that
an inventory, marked " B," was attached, describing the church
buildings, etc., left in the hands of the Greco-Russian Church;
and that an inventory, marked "C," was attached, giving a
list of certain lots and houses held in fee simple by persons
named; and an inventory, marked "D," was likewise attached,
showing the houses and buildings owned by private individuals
in New Archangel, the owners thereof having no title in fee
to the land on which the buildings were situated.
The building in question in this -case was speoified.in inven.
tory " D"
as private _Property.
Subsequently, on October 28, 1868, the Russian-American
Company, by Prince Maksoutoff, its chief administrator, (who
-had assisted the Russian commissioner in making the delivery
and inventory of the property under the treaty,) sold and conveyed the property in question to Louis Sloss, describing it as
"that piece or parcel of land situate near and adjoining to the
public wharf of said city, upon which iserected building No. 1,
and described as a warehouse in the map and inventory ID,'
attached to and made a part of the protocol of the transfer of
said territory to the United States by Russia., and therein
declared to be private property." The title of Louis Sloss, by
deed of October 28, 1868, was declared to have been taken
and held by him for and on account of John H. Kiinkead and
Samuel Sussman.
After the transfer, William S. Dodge was appointed collector.
of customs at Sitka, and in June or July, 1868, he was in ihe
possession and occupancy of the northern part of the building
described in the claimants' petition, which he used as a customs
warehouse. At the same time and afterwards the claimant
Sussman was in the occupancy of another part of the building.
Dodge continued so to occupy the northern part of the building
until about the 1st of December, 1868, when he turned it over
to Hiram Ketchum, Jr., his successor in the office of collector,

XINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, 'Field, JJ.

who continued in the same occupancy till March 4, 1869, when
he resigned the office and turned the warehouse over to Samuel
Falconer, the deputy collector of the.port.
Before and after the last named date, General Jefferson 0.
Davis, United States Army, was at Sitka in command of the
department of Alaska.
On the 26th of February, 1869, there was sent to him from
the War Department the following order:
"It having been reported to this department that a very
large portion of the property which belonged to the Russian
Fur Company in Alaska is now enjoyed by persons claiming
title under a purchase from Prince Maksoutoff since the cession
of that territory to the United States, the Secretary of War
directs that you take possession of and retain in your charge
all posts, buildings, etc., which are not in fact entitled to be
considered individual property."
In pursuance of this order,, General Davis, on the 2d of
June, 1869, authorized Falconer to take possession of and use
the whole building for government purposes pertaining to, the
Treasury Department, except the three lower -rooms of it situated on the southeast side of the lower passageway, which
rooms were reserved by General Davis for the storage of army
stores, and were, in the month of September following, placed
under the control of the quartermaster's department of the
army.
From that time to the present the whole building has remained in the possession and use of the government, Falconer
continuing in the occupancy of the part of it so assigned to
him until August, 1869, when he turned it over to William
Kapus, who had been appointed collector of the port.
On June 2, 1869, the claimants protested in writing to
General Davis against his action in taking possession of -said
building, alleging that the building had been designated as
private property by the commissioners appointed by the governments of Russia and the United States; that it had been
purchased of Prince Maksoutoff, chief factor of the RussianAmerican Company; and that the title acquired through that
purchase was good, valid, and legal.

OCTOBER TER-f, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

Failing to get redress from the agents and officers of the
-United States, Kinkead and Sussman brought an action in
the Court of Claims for use and occupation of the premises,
which suit was by that court dismissed for a supposed want of
jurisdiction. Finkead v. United States, 18 C. Cls. 504.
Thereafter Congress passed the following act. (act ofJanuary 17, 1887, 24: Stat. 358, c. 21.)
"An act referring to the Court of Claims for adjudication
the claims of John H. Kinkead, Samuel Sussman, and
Charles 0. Wood.
"Whereas John H. Kinkead, of Nevada, and Samuel Sussman, of California, did, on the twenty-eighth day of October,
.ighteen hundred and sixty-eight, purchase a certain building
situate on lot known as number one on the official plat of the
town of Sitka, in the Territory of Alaska, from the RussianAmerican Company, the owner of said building; and
"Whereas said building had been declared by the protocol
of the transfer of. Russian America to -the United States to be
private property ; and
," Whereas thereafter the collector of customs of the United
States did take from said Kinkead and Sussman a lease of a
portion of said building and entered thereupon; and
".Whereas afterward General Jefferson C. Davis did seize
the whole of said building, on the ground that the same was
the property of the United, States, notwithstanding the commissioners appointed to ascertain private property had certified
the same to be private property; and
"Whereas afterward Said Kinkead and Sussman did present their petition to the United States Court of Claims claiming rent for the said building; and
"Whereas said court did, on the eleventh day of June,
eighteen hundred and eighty-three, dismiss said claim for
want of jurisdiction only; and
"Whereas Charles 0. Wood, of Ohio, did in like manner
purchase a certain other building situate on lot known as
number twenty-four from said Russian-American Company,

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

and did in like manner present his petition to the Court of
Claims for rent of the same, the same having been in like
manner seized for the use of the United States. notwithstanding the same had been certified to be private property; and
"Whereas said Court of Claims did in like manner dismiss
the claim of said Wood for want of jurisdiction only: Therefore
"Be it enacted by the en,ate and House of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
jurisdiction be, and is hereby, conferred on the Court of
Claims to hear the claims of John H. Kinkead and Samuel
Sussman and Charles 0. Wood for the rent and value of certain buildings in the town of Sitka, in the Territory of Alaska,
alleged by them to have been acquired by virtue of purchase
from the iRussian-American Company, upon the evidence already flied in said court and such additional legal evidence as
may.be hereafter presented on either side; and if said court shall
find that said parties acquired a valid title to said buildings
respectively alleged to have been purchased by them, said court
shall award to said parties a fair and reasonable rent for the
use of the said buildings for the time (if any) the same have
been occupied by the United States, and also a suitable indemnity for said buildings themselves, and the receipt of such
rent and indemnity shall thereafter bar any further claiin by
said parties for the use of said buildings or for the value
thereof; and before receiving the same all of said parties
shall execute a relkase to the United States for all right, title
and interest whatsoever in and to the said property, and any
defence, set-off, or counter-claim may be pleaded by the
United States as defendants as in cases within the general
jurisdiction of the court, and either party shall have the
same right of appeal as in such cases.
"Approved January 17, 1887."
The claimants thereupon filed in the Court of Claims their
petition claiming, under the terms of the special act, "a fair
and reasonable rent for the use of said buildings for the time,

506

-OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

if any, the same had been occupied by the United States, and
also a suitable indemnity for the buildings themselves."
That court, on May 13, 1889, decreed that the claimants'
petition should be dismissed, and from that judgment the
appeal before us was brought.
It was contended, in the court below, on behalf of the
claimants, that, under the terms of the act, it was not open
for the court to determine whether the claimants were precluded by the treaty from maintaining their, claim, but that,
as the act, in its recitals, declared that the Russian-Ameridan
Company was the owner of said building, the court's inquiry
was restricted to finding whether the claimhnts had acquired
a valid title to the buildings alleged to have been purchased
by them, and to fixing a fair and reasonable rent for the time
the same had been occupied ty th6 United States, and also a
suitable indemnity for the buildings themselves; and it was
also contended that, even if the act of Congress allowed the
Court of Claims to inquire into the- meaning and effect of
the treaty, yet that the claimants were, taking into view the
treaty, the protocol and the act of Congress, entitled to
recover.
The Court of Claims decided both contentions against the
claimants. It held that, notwithstanding the terms of the
act, the court had a right to interpret the terms of the treaty,
and having found, as it did, that, under the terms of the
treaty, the building in question had become the property of
the United States, it further held that there- was nothing in
the acts of the commissioners characterizing the building as
private property, or in the act of Congress, referring the
matter to this court, which created or conferred any right or
title in the building to the claimants.
To sustain their contention that the act of Congress, referring their claim to the. Court of Claims, did not leave any
question for the court as to the meaning and effect of the
treaty, the claimants cite the case of 'United States v. .Tordan,
113 U. S. 418, 422. There an act of Congress provided for
the refunding to persons named therein of the amount of taxes
assessed upon and collected from them contrary to the provis-

XINKEAD v. IUNITED STAIES.
Dissenting Opinion: Shihas, Field, JJ.

ions of the regulations therein mentioned, and it was held that
there was no discretion vested in the Court of Claims to determine whether the sum awarded to the suitor was or was not
the amount of a tax assessed contrary to the provisions of such
regulations. This court said, through Mr. Justice Blatchford,
"the Court of Claims held thit the statute did not
leave bp.en any question for the court,

.

.

.

except the

identity of the claimants with the persons named in it; and
that its language, taken together, was too clear to admit of
doubt that Congress undertook, as it had a right to db, to
determine not only what partienlar citizens of Tennessee by
name should have relief, but also the exact amount which
should be paid to each one of them. We concur in this view.
Although the act speaks of the sums as being 'the
amount of taxes assessed upon and collected from the said
named persons contrary to the provisions of the regulations,'
named, there is no indication of any intention to submit to
any one the determination of the question whether the taxes
in any case were collected contrary to the provisions of such
regulations, or of the question how those provisions are to be
construed. On the contrary, the clear import of the statute
is that Congress itself determines that the amounts named
were collected contrary-to the provisions of the regulations."
Claimants likewise cite the case of Dadgren v. UnitedStates,
16 C. C1. 30, 50, where the Court of Claims, through Judge J.
C. B. Davis, construing an act of Congress which had referred
a claim to that court, said that "where the government has a
special defence to a claim, and the facts constituting the defence are well known.to Congress, it is unreasonable to suppose that Congress would refer the claim to this court with
the intent that the special defence should be set up and the
claim defeated thereby."
It is to be observed that in the case of the act which was
the subject of construction in United States v. Jordan,the docisive language was in the enacting parr of the statute, whereas
in the statute now before us it is in the preamble. Still, itmust be conceded that the language relied upon, although in
the preamble, is in absolute and not in conditional terms. The

OCTODEtA TERI,. 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

Russian-American Company is spoken of as "the owner of
said building." The only uncertainty or contingency appears
ifi the language of the enacting clause, wherein it is provided
that "if the court shall find that said parties acquired a valid
title to said building alleged to have been _purchased by them,
the court shall award," etc. It was further contended on
behalf of the complainants t.hat'the action of the international
commissioners, in distinguishing between public properAy
which should pass to the United States and private property
which should not be disturbed, is to be regarded as an act of
a diplomatic and -political character, and which it was not
competent for Congress to xefer to the Court of Claims for
review or reexamination. To sustain the proposition that the
decisions of international commissions, rendered within the
scope of their authority, are final and exclusive, a number of
authorities are cited in the brief for the appellants, among
others the leading case of Comegys v..Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, 212.
That case arose out of the treaty whereby Spain ceded Florida
to the United States, and wherein commissioners were invested
with power and authority to receive, examine, and decide
--gpon the amount and validity of asserted claims upon Spain
for damages and injuries. This court held, per Story, J., that
the- decision of the commissioners within the scope of their
authority was final and conclusive; that the parties must
abide by it as the decree of a competent tribunal of exclusive
jurisdiction. The court held, likewise, that though the finding
of the amount and right to receive was final, yet the jurisdiction of the commissioners did not extend to determining any
disputes that might arise as to the subsequent ownership of
such claims. "The validity and amount of the claim being
once ascertained by their award, the fund might well be permitted to pass into the hands of any claimant; and his own
rights, as well as those of all others who asserted a title to the
.und, be left to the ordinary course of judicial proceedings in
the established courts, where redress could be administered
according to the nature and extent of the rights or equities of
all- the parties."
Applying the reasoning of that and of kindred cases to the

KINIKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

present, it is argued that the finding of the commissioners of
Russia and the United States was final as to the status of the
properties passed upon by them as public or private, that being
the purpose for which they were appointed; that it was competent for Congress to refer the dispute that subsequently
arose between the United States and the claimants to the
Court of Claims; but that the court, in passing upon the case,
could not go back of the action of the commissioners, and
retry the question under what category, public or private, the
property in question was to be regarded.
The court below did not accept the claimants' propositions,
but held that it was open to it, under the terms of the act
referring the claim to it, to disregard the preamble of the act
itself, to-go back of the pction of the international commissioners, and to decide for itself the meaning and effect of the
treaty.
These rulings of the court cannot, in my opinion, be sustained. In the first place, as it seems to me, we must get at
the intention of Congress in passing the act referring the
claim to the Court of Claims, by bringing into view the history
of the claim. In a general way, it certainly cannot be denied
that the treaty, in its terms, preserved private property rights.
Nor can it be denied that the commissioners were appointed to
distingnish public from private property, and to make a finding thereof. It is also mid putable that the commissioners
excluded the building in dispute out of the class of public
property, and included it in the class of private property.
And it is admitted thatCongress, having been made aware
that the claimants had been turned out of the court on an
alleged want of jurisdiction, removed that obstacle, and
directed the court to hear the claims of Kinkead- and Sussman,
and if it should find that they had acquired a valid title to
said building, alleged to have been purchased by them, then
to award a fair and reasonable rent for its use, and a suitable
indemnity for the building itself. I-do not feel constrained
to hold that the mere recital in the act that the RussianAmerican Company were the owners of the building at the
time the claimants purchased it from them, of itself concludes

OCTOBER TERMT,

1893.

Dissenting Oiinion: Sliras, Field, JJ.

the court from finding otherwise. But I think that, reading
the statute in the light of all the facts in the case, it is highly
improbable that Congress intended to supersede the action of
the international commission, and to submit the treaty to the
court for its construction, and I think that the language of
the preamble is entitled to be considered, in connection with
the other facts of the case, to enable us to give a fair and
reasonable construction to this remedial statute.
The conclusion, then, in my judgment, is, that Congress
intended that the Court of Claims should inquire whether
these claimants had validly derived their title from the
Russian-American Company, and, if so, what was a fair
rent for the use of the building, and what a suitable indemnity for the building itself.
But, in the second place, if I am wrong in this view, and
if the Court of Claims had a right to go back of the language
of the statute and of the action of the international commissioners, I think the court erred in their interpretation of
the treaty.
In the first article the treaty provides that the Emperor of
Russia should cede bo the United States "all the territory and
dominion now possessed by his majesty on the continent of
America." The second article provides that "in the cession
of territory and dominion made by the preceding article are
included the right of property in all public lots and squares,
vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications, barracks,
and other edifices which are not private individual property."
The view of the court below was, that by the terms "private
individual property" was meant property owned by an individual as distinguished from a company or corporation, and
the court thought that it -was aided in this view by the provisions of the sixth article, which declared that "the cession of
territory and dominidn herein made is hereby declared to be
free and unincumbered by any reservations, privileges, franchises, grants, or possessions by any associated companies,
whether corporate or incorporate, Russian or'any other, or by
any parties, except merely privatb individual property holders."
The origin of this sixth article was in the claims and pre-

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Shiras, Field, JJ.

tences of the Russian-American Company, which had exercised
a despotic control over these dominions, and the evident pur-

pose of the sixth article, as is plain. from the communication
of' Secretary Seward to the Russian Minister, was to prevent
any territorial or political -or corporate privileges from being
subsequently asserted. It was clearly not intended to include
or affect private property as such.
If this were a controversy between private parties, in a
court where only municipal law is administered, ike a court
of common pleas, it may be that the narrow view put on this
treaty by the court belowv might properly prevail. But when
we consider that we are dealing with an international instrument, transferring territorial dominion from one sovereign to
another, a broader and more liberal construction should be put
on the language used. Ilauenstein v. Lyn/aam, 100 U. S. 483;
Head-Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580. Viewed in this light, I
think that the treaty meant to distinguish public property, of
the various kinds enumerated, from property held by individual persons or by companies composed of individuals for
private uses and purposes. Such was the view taken by the
commissioners, and, as I think, by Congress, and their interpretation ought to be respected and adopted by the courts.
Even when corporations are dissolved by writs of sbbe
facias or decrees in equity, at the suit of the sovereign, their
moneys and property not essential to the exercise of their
franchises are not forfeited, but are left to the ownership of
the stockholders. In construing the treaty as a mere municipal regulation, and as an act of forfeiture, I think the court
below grievously erred.
Upon the whole, I am of opinion that the judgment of the
court below was erroneous, and should be reversed, and that
the record should be remanded with directions to proceed, under
the provisions of the act of January 17, 1887, to examine
whether the claimants have lawfully derived title from the
Russian-American Company, and, if so, to award them a fair
rent for the use and suitable indemnity for the loss of the
building owned by theft.
AT-R. JusTmE FIrD

concurs in this dissent.

