HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

371

Syllabus.

HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD

COAL AND

IRON

COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
Wo. 29.

Argued October 27, 30, 1893. -Decided

November 20, 1893.

The trustee of a mortgage upon the real estate of an Alabama corporation
commenced a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the foreclosure of the mortgage. In his bill he set up that some stockholders
were liable for unpaid assessments on iheir stock, and; while asking for
a foreclosure of the mortgage and sale of the property, he prayed that
other credit6rs of the corporation might be permitted to intervene and
become parties, and have their claims adjudicated, and that a full administration be had of the estate. About three months after the commencement of that suit, a contract creditor, who had not reduced his claim to
judgment, filed his bill in equity in the same court, suing for his' own
benefit and that of all creditors who should become parties, asking to
have the mortgage declared void, to have the property sold, and the proceeds applied to the payment of the debts of the creditors, parties to the
suit, and for a liquidation. The plaintiff in the second suit did not intervene in the foreclosure suit. In due course a decree was entered 'in the
foreclosure suit for the sale of the property. The court-then entered a
decree dismissing the~creditor's bill upon the merits. Held, That this
was error, and that the bill should have been dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Simple contract creditors of a corporation, whose claims have not been
reduced to judgment, and who have no express lien on its property,'bave
no standing in a Federal court of equity, to obtain the seizure of their
debtor's property, and its application to the payment of their debts.
This rule is not affected by the fact that a statute of the State in which the
property is situated, and in which the suit is brought, authorizes such a
proceeding in the courts of the State, because the line of demarcation
between equitable and legal remedies in the Federal courts -cannot be
obliterated by state legislation.
This rule is not affected by the fact that when such a suit is brought in a
Federal court, another suit is pending there for the foreclosure of a
mortgage upon the property of the corporation.'
In such cage the defence that the rights of the plaintiff at law should-have
been exhausted before commencing proceedings in equity is a defence
which must be made in Umine, and, if not so made, the court of equity is
not necessarily ousted of jurisdiction.
Neither the insolvency of a corporation, nor the execution of an illegal

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
trust deed, nor the failure to collect in full all stock subscriptions, nor
all together give to a simple contract creditor of the corporation any
lien on its property, or charge any direct trust thereon.
Case v. Beauregard, 101 U. S. 688, Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56 and Terry
v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, distinguished; and shown not to conflict with
the subsequent cases of Wabash, St. Louis & -PacificR.ilway v. Ham, 114
U. S. 587; Fogg v. Blair, 133 U. S. 584; and Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S.
319.

When a corporation becomes insolvent, the equitable interest of the stockholders in the property and their conditional liability to creditors, place
the property in a condition of trust, first, for creditors, and then for
stockholders; but this is rather a trust in tht. administration of the
assets after possession by a court of equity, than a trust, attaching to
the property, as such, for the direct benefit of either creditor or stockholder.

TnE facts in this case were as follows: The Brierfield Coal
and Iron Company was incorporated under the laws of Alabama, May 4, 1882. On September 1, 1882, a conveyance
was made by the company to Preston B. Plumb, as trustee, to
secure an issue of $500,000 in bonds. On July 25, 1S87, the
trustee Plumb, requested a further conveyance and assurance,
pursuant to a covenant in the deed of September, 1882, which
further conveyance was executed by the company on July 29,
1887. On August I he demanded the surrender of all the
company's property to him, as trustee. This was done, and
he placed John G. Murray in charge to control and manage
it. On August 3 he filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama, against the
company, joining as defendants certain stockholders, bondholders, and creditors, though not the plaintiffs in the present
suit. That bill set out the organization of the corporation,
the stockholders, with the amounts of stock subscribed, and
the amounts paid upon such stock, and alleged that the subscribers were liable for the unpaid subscriptions, but that the
-assistance of the court was .necessary for the assessment of
such sums. It also set out the issue of the bonds, and their
present owhers so far as known, a default in the payment of
the interest due thereon, the property and indebtedness of
the 6ompany, the unsecured indebtedness being alleged to
amount to about $200,000. The bill further averred that up

HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

373

Statement of the Case.

to that time the chief industry of the company bad been the
manufacturing of cut nails from iron; that owing to overproduction in the country this business had become unprofitable
to the company, and that it was desired to change the industry from the manufacture of nails to the production of pig
iron, and that it had purchased property with a view to carrying on that industry; that it did not have money enough to
successfully carry it on. The bill also alleged that the trustee
had taken possession, as authorized by the deed of trust; that
he could not carry on the business of the company without
obtaining money on the credit of the property; and prayed
the direction of the court as to whether he should be permitted to borrow such money, and issue certificates of indebtedness therefor. It asked that all creditors of the corporation
and claimants against the estate be permitted to make themselves parties and have their claims adjudicated; that.a full
administration be had of the estate, and, if need be, a foreclosure and sale. Subsequently, Plumb resigned as trustee,
and W. L. Chambers was substituted in his place. Proceedings were had in that case, which resulted, on July 8, 1889, in
a decree for the foreclosure of the trust deed and a sale of the
property. Nearly three months after the commencement of
the Plumb suit, and on October 28, 1887, these appellants, as
plaintiffs, fied a bill in the same court, making the coal-company and sundry stock and bondholders, together with the
trustee Plumb, parties defendant. The plaintiffs were unsecured creditors of the company, having claims contracted in
1886 and 1887, four or five years after the issue of the bonds
and execution of the trust deed, who sued on behalf of themselves and al other creditors of the coal and iron company,
who were willing to come in and contribute to the expenses
of the suit. After setting forth their claims, they alleged that
the conveyance to Plumb, as trustee, was absolutely void;
that a large amount was still due on the stock; they asked to
have a receiver appointed, and the property sold 'in satisfaction of their claims; and that such receiver have authority to
collebt the unpaid stock subscriptions, to be also applied in
satisfaction of their claims. They alleged the pendency of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

the suit brought by Plumb as trustee, but did not-ask to intervene therein. After the decree of foreclosure and sale in the
Plumb case, and on July 21, 1889, a final decree was entered
dismissing this bill. From such decree of dismissal plaintiffs
appealed to this court.
-Yr. Alexander T. Zondon for appellants.
This bill was filed on the well-established principle that the
assets of a corporation, including unpaid stock subscriptions,
are a trust fund for the benefit of corporate creditors, upon
which they have a lien in equity, and that the directors have
no power to waste or dispose of this trust fund.
This doctrine was said by Mr. Justice Miller, for this court,
in iSawyer v. Hoag, 17 Wall. 610, 620, to be then of modern
date. It has since been so often reiterated and affirmed in
this court that I shall content myself with -quoting it from the
opinion in Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. "56, 60, and the citation
of a few of the authorities.
In this ease Mr. Justice Swayne, for this court, states the
rule with great force and clearness. He says: "The capital
stock of an incorporated company is a fund set apart for the
payment of its debts. It is a sUbstitute for the personal liability which subsists in private copartnerships. When debts
are incurred, a contract arises with the creditors that it shall
not be withdrawn or applied, otherwise than upon their demands, until such demands are satisfied. The creditors have
a lien upon it in equity. If diverted, they may-follow it as
far as it can be traced, and subject it to the payment' of their
olaims, except as against holders who have taken it bona fide
for a valuable consideration and without notice. It is publicly
pledged to those who deal with the corporation, for their
security. Unpaid stock is as much a part of- this pledge, and
as much a part of the assets of the company, as the cash
which -has been paid in upon it. Creditors have the same
right to look to it as to anything else, and the same right to
insist upon its payment as upon the payment of any other
debt due to the company. As regards creditors, there is no

ROLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

375

Argument for Appellants.

distinction between such a demand and any other asset which
may form a part of the property and effects of the corporation." See also Upton,v. Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45; Scovill v.
Thayer, 105 U. S. 143, 150; Handley v. Stutz, 139 U. S. 417,
427; Fogg v. Blair, 139 U. S. 118.
This doctrine is fully recognized in Alabama. Bank of St.
Mfary's v. St. John, 25 Alabama, 566; Smith v. luckabee, 53
Alabama, 191; Montgomery & IWrest Point Raili'oad v.
Branch, 59 Alabama, 139.
Where a corporation has wrongfully disposed of its assets
or is wdsting them, or is insolvent, or where there has been a
-practical dissolution, a creditor at large of the corporation
may maintain a bill to enforce his lien upon the assets and
have a receiver appointed to protect the trust fund. Bank of
St. -Mary's v. St. John, 25 Alabama, 566; Conro v. Gray, 4
How. Pr. 166; Fisk v. Union Paci.ic Railroad, 10 Blatchford, 518; St. Louis & Sandoval Coal Co. v. Bdwards, 103
llinois,: 472; Evans v. Coventry, .5 De G., 3M. & G. 911;
XYearns v. Leaf, 1 Hem. & Mill. 681; Be State Fire Ins. Co.,
2 Hem. & Mill. 457; San~ger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56; Terr-y v.
Tubman, 92 U. S. 156; Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628;
.Mellen v. Molin6 Iron Works, 131 U. S. 352.
The learned counsel for appellees insist that there is no
equity shown in the bill, and apart from the merits, tho Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to entertain the bill, because.the
complainants were creditors at large and failed to allege
the exhaustion of legal remedies; and he relies upon Talor
v. Bowker, 111 U. S. 110; Scott v. Neely, 140 U. S. 106;
National Tube Works v. Ballow, 146 U. S. 517.
Since that brief was filed decisions have been handed down
in this court in the cases of Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S. 451, and
Swan Land & Cattle 'omTpany v. Frank, 148 U.. S. 603 ; and
I presume Tnese cases will be relied upon, so I shall consider
them all and endeavor to state as clearly as I can, what I conceive to be the distinction between them and the case at-bar.
The distinction between all these cases and the one at bar,
in my judgment, rests on the following propositions, which are
sustained by the highest authority:

OCTOBER TERVE, 1893.
Argument for Appellants.

1. The capital stock and assets of a corporation constitute
a trust fund pledged for the benefit of creditors, which neither
the officers nor stockholders can divert or waste. 2 Story
Eq. Jur. § 1252; TFood v. Dasmmer, 3 Mason, 308; 8dwyer v.
Hoag, 17 Wall. 610; Sanger v. 7 pton, 91 U. S. 56; Upton, v.
Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45; Scovill v. Thayer, 105 U. S. 143;
2 Mor. on Corp. § 780 et seq.
This principle, which was first declared in TFood v. Dummer,
supra, has long been recognized in this State, as elsewhere,
and repeatedly affirmed. Bank of St. lary's v. St. John, 25
Alabama, 566; 87ith v. Euckabee, 53 Alabama, 191; Montgome2-y & West Point Railroad v. Branch, 59 Alabama, 139;
.Rlyton Land Co. v. Birmingharn Co., 92 Alabama, 407.
2. Following this principle, the lien of creditors on this
trust fund is recognized in equity and the authorities are
numerous that a corporate creditor, without judgment, may
come into a court of equity, upon the insol, ency or dissolution
of the corporation, to protect this trust fund, thus pledged,
from waste or diversion and enforce his lien. 2 MYor. on
Corp. §8 '97, 798; 2 Story Eq. § 1252a; Perry on Trusts,
§ 242 i Bank of St. fary's v. St. Joohn, 25 Alabama, 566, 618;
Conro v. Gray, 4 How. Pr. 166; St. Louis & Sandoral Coal Co.
v- Edwards, 103 Illinois, 4712; Evans v. Coventry, 5 De G., If.
& G. 911; -earns v. Leaf, 1l
em. & Mill. 681; Re State Fire
ins. Co., 2 Hem. & Mill. 457 ; Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 60;
Beach on Receivers, 416.
3. This right of the creditors at large of a corporation to
proceed in equity is in strict analogy to the right of a creditor
of a partnership, and is based upon the same principle of
equity. Mr. Morawetz, after declaring "the rule as stated in
reference to corporate creditors, says: "Similar equitable relief
will for the same reasons be granted to creditors of a limited
partnership, or of a joint stock company whose capital has
been equitably pledged as a fund for the security of creditors."
2 Mor. on Corp. § 798.
In
olt v. Banproft, 30 Alabama, 193, 204, the right of
a partnership crelitor to come into equity without first
exhausting his legal remedies is expressly decided. In Case

HOL L INS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

377

Argument for, Appellants.

v. Beauregar, 101 U. S. 688, 691, a creditor at large of
a partnership filed a bill to subject firm assets to his debt;
on the bearing his bill was dismissed. He then filed a second
bill for the same cause of action, alleging, in addition to
the matters set forth in the former bill, the recovery of
a judgment, the issue of an execution and return of null
bona. It was held that the former decree was as res
acjudicata a bar to the second suit. The case necessarily
involved the determination of the question whether on the
first bill the creditor could have had relief or not, and the
court sustained the proposition that he could. In the opinion
of the court, Mr. Justice Strong discusses learnedly and
at length the reason of the rule requiring the creditors to
exhaust their legal remedies before seeking the aid of a court
of equity. He says: "But, without pursuing this subject
farther, it may be said that whenever a creditor has a trust
in his favor, or a lien upon the property for the debt due
him, he may go into equity without exhausting legal processes
or remedies. Tappan v. Evans, 11 N. H. 311; H~olt v.
Bancroft, 30 Alabama 193. Indeed, in those cases in which
it has been held that obtaining, a judgment and issuing an
execution is necessary before a court of equity can be asked
to set aside fraudulent dispositions of a debtor's property,
the reason given is that a general creditor has no lien. And
when such bills have been sustained without a judgment at
law, it has been to enable the creditor to obtain a lien either
by judgment or execution. But when the bill asserts a lien
or a trust, and shows it can be made available by aid of
a cbancellor, it obviously makes a case for his interference."
The trust and lien being thus established, the jurisdiction
of the court of equity to entertain a bill filed by a cred:tor
at large to protect and subject the trust fund follows.
The debts of the complainants are admitted. The first
section of the answer of the corporation is as follows: "That
this defendant neither admits nor denies that it is indebted
to the complainants in the amounts as alleged in said bill
of complaint, but believes such indebtedness to be as therein
set forth."

OCTOBER TERt, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

An admitted debt will not alone entitle a party to invqke
the aid of a court *of equity, as all the cases show, but if the
debt be admitted, and there is a lien or equity- over which
a court of equity exercises jurisdiction, then relief will be
afforded, whether there be an exhaustion of legal remedies
-ornot, wherever the bill shows on its face that any proceedings in the law court would necessarily be fruitless, as is said
in Case v. Beauregard, slqra. The principle for which
I contend is expressly declared by the House of Lords in
Evans v. Coventry, 5 De -., M. & G. 911; and by this
court in Mellen v. Moline Iron Vork,,, 131 U. S. 352, 357.
Sage v. Memnphis & Little Rock Railroad, 125 U. S. 361,
3.67, is-also in strict analogy.
In this connectioft I also refer to the cases in this court in
which it has been held that objection- to the equity of the
plaintiff's claim mkust be taken by demurrer or is waived:
Farley v. Kitson; 120 U. S. 303, 316; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 14: Pet. 210, 258, 262.
And if the objection to the jurisdiction is on the ground
that the plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law, it must be
taken at the earliest moment, and if the defendant answers
and submits to the jurisdiction of the court, it is too late for
him to object that the plaintiff has a plain and adequate
remedy at law. Reynes v. Dumont, 130 U. S. 354, p95 ; KII'bournv. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505, 514.
_Yr. Daniel S.
lants.

T roy

filed a printed argument for appel-

_Mr. William- F. -Yattingly for the Brierfield Coal & Iron
Company and Thomas'J. Peter, appellees.
Mr. JUSTmE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs were simple- contract creditors of the company; their claims had not been reduced to judgment, and
they hadeno express lien by- mortgage, trust deed, or other-

HOLLIUS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRO1 CO.

379

Opinion of the Court.

wise. It is the'settled law of this court that such creditors
cannot come into a court of equity to obtain the seizure of the
property of their debtor, and its application to the satisfactio'
of their claims; and this, notwithstanding a statute of the
State may authorize such, a proceeding in the courts of the
State. The line of demarcation between equitable and legal
remedies in the Federal courts cannot be obliterated by state
legislation. Scott v. 3teely, 140 U. S. 106; Cates v; Allen, 149
U. S. 451. Nor is it otherwise in case the debtor is a corporation, and an unpaid stock subscription is sought to be reached.
_Vational Tube Works Company v. Ballou, 146 U. S. 517;
Swan .and & Cattle Company v. Frank, 148 U. S, 603,
612. Nor is this rule changed by the fact that the suit is
•brought in a court in which at the time is pending another
suit for the foreclosure of a mortgage or trust deed upon the
property of the debtor. Doubtless in such foreclosure suit the
simple contract creditor can intervene, and if he has any equities in respect to the property, whether prior or subsequent to
those of the plaintiff, can secure their determination and protection; and here, by the express language of the bill filed by
the trustee, all claimants and creditors were invited to present
their claims and have them adjudi6ated. These plaintiffs did
not intervene, though, as shown by the allegations of their
bill, they knew of the existence of the foreclosure 'suit;
neither did they apply for a consolidation of the two suits.
On the contrary, the whole drift and .scope of their suit was
adverse to that brought by the trustee, and in antagonism to
the rights claimed by him. They obviously intended, to keep.
away from that suit, and maintain, if possible, an independent
proceeding to have the property of the debtor applied to the
satisfaction of their claims: But this, as has been decided in
the cases cited, cannot be done. The excuse suggested, that
the rule which forbids in a suit to foreclose a mortgage the
litigation of a title adverse to that of the mortgagor prevented
them from intervening, is not sound. Their rights, like those
of the trustee and the bondholders, were derived from. the
corporation defendant. Each claimed under it, and- the validity and amount of such claims were matters properly and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ordinarily considered and determined in a foreclosure suit. It
is true the corporation might admit the validity of any or all
of the claims, and then the validity could only be a subject of
inquiry as between the claimants for the purpose of determining the matter of priority, but to that extent, at least, both
validity and amount are always open to contest and determination.
It is urged, however, that this court has sustained the validity of proceedings and decrees in suits of this nature, in which
it appeared that the plaintiffs had not exhausted their remedies at law, and the cases of Sage v. iMenpis & -LittleBook
Railroad,125 U. S. 361, and _3fellen v. -3foline]ron; Wo'kes, 131
U. S. 352, are cited as illustrations. But passing by other
matters disclosed by the facts of those cases, it will be noticed
that in neither of them was the objection made at the outset,
and when action on the part of the court was invoked. Defences existing in equity suits may be waived, just as they may
in law actions, and when waived, the cases stand as though the
objection never existed. Given a suit in which there is jurisdiction of the parties, in a matter within the general scope of
the jurisdiction of courts of equity, and a decree rendered will
be binding, although it may be apparent that defences existed
which, if presented, would have resulted in a decree of dismissal. Take the present case as an illustration: Suppose the
corporation and other defendants had made no defence, and,
without expressly consenting, had made no objection to the
appointment of a receiver, and the subsequent distribution of
the' assets of the corporation among its creditors; it cannot be
doubted that a final decree, providing for a settlement of the
affairs of the corporation and a distribution among creditors
could not have been challenged on the ground of a want of
jurisdiction in the court, and that notwithstanding it appeared
upon the face of the bill that the plaintiffs were simple contract creditors; because the administration of the assets of an
insolvent corporation is within the functions of a court of
equity, and the parties being before the court, it has power to
proceed with such administration. If there was a defence existing to the bills as framed, an objection to the right of these

HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRIN[ CO.

381

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs to proceed on the ground that their legal remedies
had not been exhansted, it was a defence and objection which
must be made in limrine, and does not of itself oust the court
of jurisdiction. This doctrine has been recognized not merely
in the cases cited, but also in those of 1eynes v. Dunont, 130
U. S. 354; ifilbourn v. Sunderiand,130 U. S. 505; Brown, v.
Lake Superior Iron Co., 134 U. S. 530. *None of these cases
question the proposition that if the objection is seasonablypresented it will be effective.
But. it is earnestly insisted that.it has been held by this court,
in Case v. Beauregard,101 U. S. 688, that whenever a creditor
has a trust in his favor, or a lien upon property for a debtdue him, he may go into equity without exhausting his legal
remedies; that it has also frequently been affirmed that the
capital stock and assets of a corporation constitute a trust
fund for the benefit of its creditors, which neither the officers
nor stockholders can divert or waste, and several cases are
91 U. S. 56, in
Z5jpton,
them that of .Sanger v.
cited, among
which perhaps the proposition is asserted in the most direct
and emphatic language, and Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628,
636, in which Chief Justice Waite made these observations:
"Ordinarily, a creditor must put his demand into judgment
against his debtor and exhaust his remedies at law before he
can proceed in equity to subject choses in action to its payment. To this rule, however, there are some exceptions; and
we are not prepared to say that a creditor of a dissolved corporation may not, under certain circmnstances, claim to be
exempted from its operation. If he can, however, it is upon
the ground that the assets of the corporation constitute a trust
fund which will be administered by a court of equity in the
absence of a trustee the principle being that equity will not
permit a trust to fail for want of a trustee."
While it is true language has been frequently used to the
-effect that the assets of a corporation are a trust fund held
by a corporation for the benefit of creditors, this has not been
to convey the idea that there is a direct and express trust
attached to the property. As said in 2 Poineroy's Equity Jurisprudence, § 1046, they "are not in any true and complete

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sense trusts, and can only be called so by way of analogy or
metaphor."
To the same effect are decisions of this court. The case of
Grahan- v. Railroad Company, 102 U. S. 148, was an action
by a subsequent creditor to subject certain property, alleged
to have been wrongfully conveyed by the corporation debtor,
to the satisfaction of his judgment. And the very proposition
here presented was then considered, and in respect to it, the
.court, by Mr. Justice Bradley, said (p. 160): "It is contended, however, by the appellant that a corporation debtor
does not stand on the same footing as an individual debtor;
that, whilst the latter has supreme dominion over his own
property, a corporation is a mere trustee, holding its property
for the benefit of its stockholders and creditors; and that if it
fail to pursue its rights against third persons, whether arising
out of fraud or otherwise, it is a breach of trust, and creditors
may come into equity to compel an enforcement of the corporate duty. This, as we understand, is the substance of the
position taken.
"We do not concur in this view. It is at war with the
notions which we derive from the English law with regard to
the natme of corporate bodies. A orporation is a distinct
entity. Its affairs are necessarily .managed by officers 'and
agents, it is true; but, in law, it is as distinct a being as an
individual is, and is entitled to hold property (if not contrary
to its charter) as absolutely as an individual can hold it. Its
estate is the same, its interest is the same, its possession is the
same. Its stockholders may call the officers to account, and
may prevent any malversation of funds, or fraudulent disposal
of property on their part. But that is done in -the exercise of
their corporate rights, not adverse to the corporate interests,
but coincident with them.
"When a corporation becomes insolvent, it is so far civilly
(lead that its property may be administered as a trust fund for
the-benefit of its stockholders and creditors. A court of equity,
at the instance of the proper parties, will then make those funds
trust funds, which, in other circumstances, are as much the absolute property of the corporation as any man's property is his."

HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

383

Opinion of the Court.

With reference to the suggestion in this last paragraph, it
may be observed that the court does not attempt to determine
who are proper parties to maintain a suit for the administrationi of the assets of an insolvent corporation. All that it
decides is, that when a court of equity does take into its possession the assets of an insolvent corporation, it will administer
them on, the theory that they in equity belong to the creditors
and stockholders rather than to the corporation itself. In.
other words, and that is the idea which underlies all these
expressions in reference to " trust " in connection with the
property of a corporation, the corporation is an entity, distinct from its stockholders as from its creditors. Solvent, it
holds its property as any individual holds .his, free from the
touch of a creditor who has acquired no lien; free also from
the touch of a stockholder who, though equitably interested
in, has no legal right to, the property. Becoming insolvent,
the equitable interest of the stockholders in the property,
together with their conditional liability to the creditors, places
the property in a condition of trust, first, for the creditors,
-and then for the stockholders. Whatever of trust there is
arises from the peculiar and diverse equitable rights of the
stockholddrs as against the 'corporation in' its property and
their conditional liability to its creditors. It is rather a trust
in the administration of the assets after possession by a court
of equity than a trust attaching to the property, as such, for
the direct benefit of either creditor or stockholder.
-A gain, in the case of the Wabask,- St. zouis & Paci,
Railway v. Bam, 114 U. S. 587, it appeared that four railway
corporations, owing debts, were consolidated under authority
of law, and, by the terms of the consolidation agreement, the
new corporation was to protect the debts of the old. Subsequently, the new corporation executed a mortgage on all its
property, and in a cpntest between the mortgagees and the
unsecured creditors of one of the constitueit companies, the
court held that the lien of th mortgagees was prior. In
-respect to this, Mr. Justice Gray (p. 594) thus stated the
law: 'It was contended that the property of the Toledo
and Wabash Railvay Company was a trust fund for all

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

its creditors, and that upon the consolidation the Toledo,
Wabash and Western Railway Company took the property
of the Toledo and Wabash Railway Company charged with
thd payment of all its debts. The property of a corporation
is doubtless a trust fund for the payment of its debts, in the
sense, that when the corporation is lawfully dissolved and all
its business wound up, or when it is insolvent, all its creditors
are entitled in equity to have their debts paid out of the corporate property before any distribution thereof among the
stockholders. It is also true, in the case of a corporation, as
in that of a natural person, that any conveyance of property
of the debtor, without authority of law, and in fraud of existing creditors, is void as against them."
The case of .Foggv. Blair, 138 U. S. 53:, 541, presented a
similar question, and this court, by Mr. Justice Field, observed:
"We do not question the general doctrine invoked by the
appellant, that the property of a railroad company is a trust
fund for the payment of its debts, but do not perceive any
place for its application here. That doctrine only means that
the property must first be appropriated to the payment of the
debts- of the company, before any 'portion of it can be distributed to the stockholders; it does not mean that the property is so affected by the indebtedness of the company that it
cannot be sold, transferred, or mortgaged to boia f#de purchasers for a valuable consideration, except subject to the
liability of being appropriated to pay that indebtedness. Such
a doctrine has no existence."
In the case of Hfawkins v. Glenn, 131- U. S. 319, 332, which
wa an action brought by the trustee of a corporation against
certain of its stockholders to recover unpaid subscriptions, and
in which the defence of the statute of limitations was pleaded,
Chief Justice Fuller referred to this matter in these words:
"Unpaid subscriptions are assets, but have frequently been
treated by courts of equity as if impressed with a 'trust sub
modo, upon the -view that, the corporation being insolvent,
the existence of creditors subjects these liabilities to the rules
applicable to funds to be accounted for as held in trust, and
that, therefore, statutes of limitation do not commence to run

HOLLINS v. BRIERFIELD COAL & IRON CO.

385

Opinion of the Court.

in respect to them until the retention of the money has become adverse by a r'efusal to pay upon due requisition:"
These cases negative the idea of any direct trust or lien
attaching to the property of a corporation in favor of its
creditors, and at the same time are entirely consistent with
those cases in which the assets of a corporation are spoken of
as a trust fund; using the term in the sense that we have said
it was used.
The same idea of equitable lien and trust exists to some
extent in the case of partnership property. Whenever, a
partnership becoming insolvent, a court of equity takes possession of its property, it recognizes the fact that in equity the
partnership creditors have a right to payment out of those.
funds in preference to individual creditors, as.well as superior
to any claims of the partners themselves. And the partnership property is, therefore, sometimes said, not inaptly, to be
held in trust for the partnership creditors, or, that they have
an equitable lien on such property. Yet, all that is meant by.
such expressions is the existence of an equjitable right which
will be enforced whenever a court of equity, at the instance of
a proper party and in a proper- proceeding, hag taken possession of the assets. It is never understood that there is a
specific lien, or a direct trust.
A party may deal with a corporation in respect to its property in the same manner as with an individual owner, andwith no greater danger of being held to have received into his.
possession property burdened with a trust or lien. The officers of a corporation act in a fiduciary capacity in respect to
its property in their hands, and may be .called to an account for
fraud or sometimes even mere mismanagement in respect
thereto; but as between itself and its creditors the corporation
is simply a debtor, and does not hold its property in trust, or
subject to a lien in their favor, in any other sense than does
an individual debtor. That is certainly the general rule, and
if there be any exceptions thereto they are not presented by
any of the fapts in this case. Neither the insolvency of the
corporation, nor the execution of an illegal trust deed, nor the
failure to collect in full all stock subscriptions, nor, all toVOL. CL-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

gether, gave to these simple contract creditors any lien upon
the property of the corporation, nor -charged any direct trust
thereon.
With respect to the propriety of the decree of dismissal in
this suit after the entry of the decree of foreclosure in the
trustee suit, the case of Stout v. .ye, 103 U. S. 66, is conclusive.
Indeed, that case is conclusive of every question in this, except
such as arise from the fact that the debtor is a corporation
rather than an individual. , It appeared that, pending a foreclosure suit, fT.W. and J. 0. Stout obtained a judgment
against the mortgagor on an unsecured claim. They thereupon instituted a suit, making both mortgagee and mortgagor
parties defendant, to set aside the mortgage as illegal; or, if
not illegal, to have its amount reduced by certain payments of
usurious interest. While this tuit was pending the foreclosure
suit passed into decree, the Stouts having never been made
parties or entered an appearance in that suit. Thereupon
their suit was dismissed, and such dismissal was held by this
court proper, on the ground that the Stouts,. being simple contract creditors at the time the foreclosure suit was commenced,
were not only unnecessary but improper parties. "If they
had been made parties when the suit was begun, they could
have done nothing by way of defence to the action until they
had acquired some specific interest in the mortgaged property.
As creditors at large they Wiere powerless in respect to the
foreclosure proceedings, but when they obtained their judgm6nt, not before, they were in a position to contest in all
legitimate ways the validity and extent of the superior lien
which the bank asserted on the property, in which, by the
judgment, they had acquired a specific interest." And on the
further ground that the mortgagor represented in the foreclosure suit not merely himself, 'but all parties who, like the
Stouts, acquired any interest in the property since the commencement of ,that suit.
- So here these plaintiffs were simple contract creditors when
the trustee's suit was commenced. That suit passed to decree of
foreclosure, and up to that time these plaintiffs had acquired
no specific lien upon the property: They entered no appear-

MAGIN v. KARILE.
Opinion of the Court.

ance in that suit; did not intervene or claim any rights in the
property, and they were represented in that suit by the corporation, the party under whom both they and the trustee
claimed. A decree of dismissal was, therefore, proper. It
appears in the record as a decree upon the merits. It should
have been for want of jurisdiction, and to that extent the
decree as entered will be modified. The appellants will be
charged with all the costs in the case.
.Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTicE BRowN and MR. JUSTICE J-CsoN dissented.

MAGIN v. KARLE.
MAGIN v. LEHMAN.
APPEALS FROM

1HE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 84, 85. Argued November 15,16, 1893.--Decided November 27, 1893.

Letters patent 248,646, granted to Charles Gordon, October 25, 1881, for
"an improved apparatus for cooling and drawing beer" are void for
want of patentable novelty, and the invention patented was anticipated.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. John R. Bennett, (with whom was .X.
on the brief,) for appellant.

George B. Seden,

Mr. Josiah Sullivan for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the court.

These two causes present the same questions on the same state
of facts. They were heard in the lower court and in this
court as practically one case, and will therefore be considered

