OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Citation for Appellee.

HEDGES v. DIXON COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASK.
No. 62. Submitted Nov-ember 2, 1593.-Decided November 13,1893.

Hfolders Df municipal bonds, issued by a county in excess of its authority,
cannot, by an ofler to surrenaer and cancel so much of such bonds as
may, upon Inquiry, be found to exceed the limiit authorized by lawr, invest a court 6f equity with jurisdiction to ascertain the amount of such
excess, and to declare the residue of such bonds valid and enforce the
payment thereof against the County.
Where a contract is void at law for-want of power to make it, a court of
equity has no jurisdiction to enforce it, or, in the absence of fraud, accident, or mistake to so modify it as to make it legal, and then enforce it.

Decree dismissing the bill.
The case is stated in the opinion.

IN EQUITY.

pealed.

Complainant ap-

. J. k.21. Woolworth and .Mr. C. L. W-right, for appellants,
cited: New Orleans v. -Clark,95 U. S. 644; Pine Grove v.
.Tascott, 19 Wall. 666; Queensbury v. Culver, 19 Wall. 83;
M11arsh v. .Fulton 6ouity, 10 Wall. 676; 4ouisiana v.. Mood,
102 U. S. 294; Read v. Plattsmouth, 107 U. S. 568; Jeferson
County v. People, 5 Nebraska, 127; Clark v. Saline County,
9 N~ebraska 516; Turner v. lMoodson County, 27 Kansas, 314;
Johnson v. Stark County, 24 Illinois, 75; Quincy v. lVrfId,
25 Illinois, 317; S. C. 79 Am. Dec. 30; Bt iscoe v. Allison, 43
Illinois, 291;. State v. Allen, 43 Illinois, 456; Allen v. Peoria.
&c. Railroad,441 Illinois, 85; Mix v. People, 72 Illinois, 211;
Stockdale v. Wayland, 47 Michigan, 226; .Stna Ins. Co. v.
Lyc 6'
County, 44 Fed. Rep. 329; Francisv. H=oward County,
50 Fed.. Rep. 44; Daviess County v. Dickinson, 117 U. S. 657.
-Mr.John, M2.Thurston, for appellee, cited Dixon County v.
Field, 1ll U. S. 83.

HEDGES v. DIXON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.
MR.

JUSTIoE

JAcKSoN delivered the opinion of the court.

-The question presented by the record in this case is whether
parties holding the greater part of a series of bonds issued by
a county in excess of the limit fixed by the constitution of the
State, and which for that reason are not enforceable at law,
can invoke the aid of a court of equity to afford them relief
by first ascertaining the extent of such excess, or settling the
amount of bonds which the county could lawfully have issued,
and then proceeding to scale down the issue to the limit thus
ascertained, and to declare such excess only to be void, and
thereupon decree the residue of such bonds good and valid,
and enforce payment of such residue, with interest, against the
county; or, in other words, can the holders of bonds issued by
a county in excess. of its authority, by an offer to surrender
and cancel so much of such bonds as may upon inquiry be
found to exceed the limit authorized by law, invest a court of!
equity with jurisdiction, not only to ascertain the amount of
such excess, but to declare the residue of such bonds valid and
enforce the payment thereof against the county ?
The appellants, being the holders of nearly the entire issue
of $87,000 in bonds of the county of Dixon, which were by
that county issued and donated to the Covington, Columbus
and Black Hills Railroad Company, January 1, 1876,-filed'
their bill in May, 1888, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Nebraska, setting forth, among other
things, that by a vote of the electors of the county, held on
December 27, 1875, the bonds in question were authorized to
be issued to the railroad company that they became the
holders thereof, relying upon recitals contained, therein, and
the certificates endorsed thereon, and believing them to be
binding and valid obligations of the 'cQunty; that, when the
interest coupons matured, payment was refused by the county
officials, who alleged that the bonds were invalid, beca'use they
exceeded 'in amount ten per cent of the assessed valuation of
the property of the county at the time of their issuance. The
bill further alleges that complainants had offered to surrender
up foi cancellation such amounts of the bonds as exceeded ten

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

per cefit of the assessed valuation of the property of the
county, each holder surrendering his proportionate share of
such excess; that this offer was refused by the county, which
complainants insist cured any infirmity in the bonds, and that
tile county was equitably bound to recognize as valid the
residue thereof, because it and its citizens had received in the
aonstruction of the railroad, which the bonds were issued to
promote, all the cons'deration that was intended to be secured
thereby. The prayer of the bill was that an account might be
taken to ascertain the excess of the issue over ten per cent of
the assessed valuation of.the property.of the county; that such
excess might be distriblted among the holders of the bonds,
or be applied to reduce the amount Qf each bond ratably-so as
to bring the entire issue within the limit authorized by law;
that the residue might b e declared good and valid, and that
the county might be decreed to pay the same, with interest,
at the rate of ten per cent from January 1, 1876, to the date
of the decree.
The county demurred to the bill, on the ground that the
complainants had not, in and by their bill, stated such a case
as to entitle them to the relief sought. This dei,%rrer was
sustained by the court, and the defects being of such a character that they could not be remedied by amendment, a decree
was entered dismissing the bill. 37 Fed. Rep. 304. Froni
that decree the,. present appeal is prosecuted.
The bonds in question were made payable to the Covington,
Columbus and Black Hills. Railroad' Company, or bearer, and
were put in circulation by that company witlrits indorsement
thereon guaranteeing to the holders the payment of the prin-:
cipal and interest of the bonds, according to the tenor thereof,
-at the place where, and as the samae became due and payable.
The only consideration received by the county in the transac.tion was the-incidental benefit deiived from the construction
of the railroad - the proceeds of the bonds, When negotiated,
being received 'directly by the railroad company. - The theory,
of the bill is that'the bonds are void only to the extent that
they exceed ten per cent of the assessed valuation of the
property of the county at the time of their issuance, and upon

HEDGES v. DIXON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the abatement of that excess the holders are entitled to hhve
the residue thereof - which the county could have lawfdlly
issued - treated as valid, because of the incidental benefits
derived from the construction of the road which was sought to
be secured by the donation of bonds.
The complainants by their bill, and exhibits thereto, have
presented the same state of facts which were considered in,
Dixon County v. Field, 111 .U. S. 83, where the b6nds in
question were directly involved, and were held by this court
to be void because they exceeded in the aggregate the sum of
ten per cent of the assessed valuation of the property of the
county at the time of their issue. This decision was based
upon section 2, Art. XII. of the constitution of the State of
Nebraska, which provides as follows:
iNo city, county, town, precinct, municipality, or other subdivision of the State, shall ever make donations to any railroad
or other work of internal improvement, unless a proposition
so to do shall have been first submitted to the qualified electors
thereof, at an election by authority of law: Pi'ovided, That
such donations of a county, with the donations of such subdivisions, in the aggregate, shall not exceed ten per cent of the
assessed valuation of such county."
While the complainants concede that the issue of bonds was
in excess of what the county was authorized to donate under
this provision of the constitution, and for that reason were
invalid at law, they insist that a promise tQ pay so much
thereof as could have been lawfully is..ued should be implied
and enforced against the county, under the principle applied in
Zouisiana v. Wood, 102 U. S. 294-, and in Read v. Plattsgnouth, 107 U. S. 568. Those cases are clearly distinguishable
from the present. In Louisiana v. 1Voodirby the act of the
city, the bonds bore a false date which apparently made them
obligatory and binding; they were sold by the city and purchased by the holder in good faith, and the money paid therefor went directly into the city's treasury. This court held
that the city was in the market as a borrower and received
the money in that character, notwithstanding the transaction
assumed the form of a sale of her securities, which being

18d

OOTOt3ER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

defectively executed a suit could not be maintained thereon,
and'that the holder was entitled to recover the money paid,
with interest thereon from the time the obligation of the city
to pay was denied.
In Read v. Plattsmouththe bonds were issued by a city for
the' purpose of raising money wherewith to construct a high
school building within her limits. The bonds were sold and
the proceeds applied to that purpose. The legislature subsequently legalized the proceedings of the city in the premises,
but this act of the legislature was passed after the constitution
of the State went into'effect, declaring that the "legislature
shall pass no special act conferring corporate powers," and
that "no bill shall contain more than one subject, which shall
be clearly ekpressed in its title." A purchaser of the bonds
for value without notice of any infirmity in their issue brought
suit to recover the amount of the coupons then due and unpaid. It was -held that as, by force of the transaction, the city
vas bound to refund the moneys paid it in consideration of
its void bonds, and as the at by confirming them merely
recognizes the existence of that obligation and provides a
medium for enforcing it according to the original intention of
the parties, no new corporate powers were thereby conferred.
In this case, as in Zouisiana v. 'Wood, the city got the full
pecuniary consideration for the bonds, and applied the money
to the very purpose for which they were issued; and upon
well-settled principles, if the securities given for the money so
obtained proved invalid or defective for any reason, there was
a clear legal, as well as moral, obligation to refund the money
which had been so advanced to and received by the city. The
circumstances and conditions .which gave the holders of the
bonds an equitable right in those cases to recover from the
municipality the money which the bonds represented, do not
exist in the case under consideration, where the county received no part of the proceeds of the bonds, and no direct
money benefit, but merely derived an incidental advantage
arising from the construction of the railroad, upon which
advantage it would be impossible for the court to place a
pecuniary estimate, or to say that it would be eqiahI to such

HEDGES v. D1IX01

COUNTY.

Opinion of the Court.

portion of the bonds in questidn as the county could lawfully
have issued.
Moreover, by the provisions of the constitution of the State
of Nebraska, and by the express terms of the proposition submitted to the vote of the people of Dixon County, the bonds in
question were issued as a donation to the railroad company,
and, being intended as a donation, it cannot properly be said
that the purchasers of these bonds from the railroad company
paid any consideration therefor to the county so as to raise any
equity as against it, for the amount represented by the bonds,
or any part thereof. Any equitable demand which might
under the circumstances have existed against the county, on
the theory of consideration received, was in favor of the railroad company which constructed the railroad, and thereby
conferred all the incidental benefits which the county derived
from the transaction.' If any equitable claim arises in favor of
the holders of the bonds it must be against the railroad company, from whom the bonds were purchased, and by whom
their payment was guaranteed, as that company was The
recipient of the legal consideration realized upon ,the negotiation of the bonds.
Again, the constitution of the State having prescribed the
amount which the county might donate to a railroad company,
that provision operated as an absolute limitation upon the power
of the county to exceed that amount, and it is well settled that
no recitals in the bonds, or endorsed thereon, could estop the
county from setting up their invalidity, based upon a want of
constitutional authority to issue the same. Recitals in bonds
issued under legislative authority ma- estop the municipality
from disputing their authority as against a bonafide holder for
value, but when the municipal bonds are issued in violation of
a constitutional provision, no such estoppel can arise by reason
of any recitals contaiied in the bonds. Lake County v. Rollins, 130 U. S. 662; Lake County v. Grah1am, 130 U. S. 674;
Sutlif v. lake County Commissioners, 147 U. S. 230.
But aside from this view of the subject the bill proceeds
upon the false assumption that the bonds in question were
partly valid and partly void, and that the case is brought

OCTOBEIA TERI, -1893.
Opinion of, the Court.

within the principle announced in Davless County v. Dick-nson, 11-7 U. S. 657. In that case, under authority conferred
by statute, the county voted a subscription of $250,000 to a
railroad company, which was made, and, by order of the
county court, bonds of the county to that amount were ordered
to be sold and disposed of by a committee, for the purpose of
paying such subscription. The officers of the county, without
authority, executed and issued bonds in the amount of $300,000.
The bonds, as they were delivered, were separately numbered
and entered upon the county register. The court held that
the power to issue bonds was limited to $250,000, and that the
bonds issued in excess of that amount were unlawful and void.
It was further held that bonds to the amount authorized-, which
were first issued and delivered, were valid and entitled to payment. In that ease there was a clear and well-defined line
between the legal and illegal issues, which enabled the court
to declare invalid such of the bonds as exceeded the amount
authorized, and to hold that the illegal excess did not vitiate
the bonds which were authorized and legally issued. There
was no scaling of the entire issue in that case so as to bring it
within the limits of the county's authority. The $250,000,
which the court pronounced valid, had been expressly authorized by the county, and the bonds for that amount were readily
separated from the $50,000 excess which had not been authorized. It did not, therefore, involve any investigation on the
part. of the court to ascertain what the county could lawfully
issue, but was merely the identification of the bonds which
it intended to issue. Again, the amount of the bonds issued
was not based upon the assessed valuation of. the property of
the county, but was limited to the amount which the people
of the county, by an election duly helil, had determihed should
be issued. There is a radical difference in these respects
between that case and the one under consideration.
What the county authorized and carried into execution in
the present case, both by the vote and by the donation, was
one entire transaction, and if it shauld be so reformed as to
curtail the entire issue of bonds to such an amount as was
within the constitutional limits of the county to donate, it

HEDGES v. DIXON COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

would be something different from that which was voted by
the county, and carried into effect by the issue of the bonds.
This would involve the making of a different donation from
what the county voted and intended to make to the railroad
company.
It is urged that the vote and the issue of the bonds constituted a contract between the railroad company and the county,
and that the bonds issued in pursuance thereof should be scaled,
as'sought by the bill, to bring the contract within the authority
of the county; that as the county intended to make a valid
donation, such reduction of the amount of the issue, which the
complainants offer to make, should be sandtioned by the court,
and the residue declared valid. But the difficulty in the way
of this suggestion is that, treating the transaction as a contract,
it is not within the power of a court of equity to change its
terms and provisions. Besides, it is not shown that the county
would have voted a different amount from what was issued, or
that it intended to issue a less amount. It is too well settled
to need citation of authorities that a court of equity, in the
absence of fraud, accident or mistake, cannot change the terms
of a. contract.
Again, if a right to the equitable relief -sought by the coinplainants could be worked out on the theory of a contract
between the county and the. railroad 'company, it would: be
necessary to establish that such contract actually existed and
was valid. In the present case, however, the county had no'
authority to vote the donation. In Reineman v. Covington,
Columbus -& Blacke ills Railroad,7 Nebraska, 310, where an
excessive issue of bonds had been voted by the county in aid
of internal improvements, it was held by the Supreme Court of
Nebraska that the vote was simply a void act, and conferred
no authority on the county officials to issue the bonds of the
county, either to the amount voted or for any amount. It was
urged in that case, as in this, that even if it should be held that
the proposition submitted to the electors was in excess of the
amount authorized to be voted, still to the extent that the
county could have lawfully voted and issued such bonds, they
should be treated as constituting a contract between the county

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and the railroad company, and to that extent he upheld. The
Supreme Court of the State declined to accede to this view
of the subject, and ruled that "the proposition submitted to
th.e electors was an entirety and indivisible. It exceeded the
statutory limit, and was therefore wholly unauthorized. The
election was simply a void act, conferring no authority whatever upon the county commissioners to issue bonds of the
county in any amount whatever."
Several state decisions have been cited in support- of the
bill. Johnson v. County. of Stark, 241 Illinois, 75; City of
Q dincy v. lfarfield, 25 Illinois, 317; Briscoe v. Allison, 43
Illinois, 291; State v. Allen, 43 Illinois, 456; Stockdale v. WayBut they mostly
-land School District, 47 Michigan, 226.
relate to taxes imposed beyond authority and stand upon a
different doctrine from that involved in the present case. We
do not, however, deem it necessary to review them, for if they
can be construed to support a bill like the one under consideration, we think they are not founded upon correct principles,
and are not in harmony with the decisions of this court.
In Buchanan v. Litc4/ield, 102 U. S.278, bonds were issued
by the city of Litchfield under a~thority of a statute of Illinois
and an ordinance of the city, for the construction of a systei.
of water works for the use of the municipality. Neither the
6tatute nor the ordinance contained any reference to the provisions of the constitution prohibiting any county, city, township, or school district from becoming indebted in any manner,
or for any purpose, to an 'amount, including existing indebtedness, in the aggregate exceeding five per cent of the taxable
property therein. The ordinance of the city made no reference
to or mention of the indebtedness of the city, although at
that time it exceeded the constitutional limit. A Zona fide
holder of the bonds brought suit upon the unpaid poupons
thereto attached, and it was held that they were void and
could not be recovered. 'In this case 'the city was directly
benefited by the issue of the bonds, which were negotiated
for the sole purpose of erecting a system of public works.
The holders of the bonds thereafter sought relief by a bill in
equity against the city of Litchfield to enforce the payment

HEDGES v. DIXON COUNTY.,
Opinion of the Court.

of the money loaned, or which the city had received upon the
issue of the bonds, and used in the construction of its public
works. The question of their right to recover 6n the equitable
consideration came before this court in Zitehfeld v. Ballou,
114 U. S. 190, and it was held that a provision in a'state
constitution that a municipal corporation sldil not become.
indebted in any manner, or for any purpose, to an amount
exceeding five per cent of its taxable property therein, forbids
implied as well as express liability for the amount or amounts
received on bonds issued contrary to such provision, and that
a court of equity could not afford relief in such a ease either
on an express or implied obligation ; that the transaction being
invalid at law; was equally invalid in equity. This conclusion
was reached after a full review of the authorities on the question, and the court denied the relief sought.
In zEtn Life Insurance Co. v. .2lliddleport, 1241 U. S. 534,
the town-of Aliddleport made an appropriatiou to a railroad
company, to be raised by tax on the property of the town,
ahd bonds of the town for a sum large enough to include
interest and discount for which they could be sold and delivered were issued to the railroad company, by whom they were
put in circulation. These bonds were declared void, and the
insurance company, as a purchaser and holder, for value and
without notice, of a portion thereof, sought by a proceeding
in equity to be subrogated to the right of the railroad company
to enforce payment of the amount of the appropriation voted
by the town ; but it was held that the purchase of these bonds
by the holder was no payment of the appropriation voted by
the town, and that the holder was not entitled to claim the
benefit of such appropriation; nor that the advantages conferred by the railroad company upon the town inured to thebenefit of the holder, or constituted the basis of a consideration on which it could claim to be paid the sum appropriated
for the railroad company. The proposition contended for in
that case by the complainant was that by its purchase of the
bonds, which were supposed to represent the benefit conferred
upon the town by the appropriation to the railroad company,
it became entitled in equity to claim the payment of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

amount.represented by the bonds on the basis, of the original
consideration. This contention was not sustained, 'and the
complainant was denied the equitable relief sought.
The principle running through these decisions controls the
case under consideration, and clearly establishes that the complainants are not entitled to the relief they seek. The fact
that the complainants have no remedy at law, arising from
the invalidity of the bonds, confers no jurisdiction upon a
court of equity to afford them relief, The established rule,
although not of universal application, is that equity follows
the law, or, as stated in .Magniac v. Thomson, 15 How.281,
299, "that wherever the rights -or the situation of parties are
clearly defined and established by law, equity has no power
to change or unsettle those rights or that situation, but in all
such instances the maxim equitas sequitur legera is strictly
applicable."
Where a contract is void at law for want of power to make
it,
a court of equity has no jurisdiction to enforce such contract,
or, in the absence of fraud, accident, or mistake to so modify
it as to make it legal and then enforce it. Courts of equity
can no more disregard statutory and constitutional requirements and provisions than can courts of law. They are bound
by positive provisions of a statute equally with courts of law,
and where the transaction, or the contract, is declared void
because not in compliance with e.press statutory or constitutional provision, a court of equity cannot interpose to give
validity to such transaction or contract, or any part thereof.
These general propositions clearly establish that the present
bill cannot be sustained, and our conclusion, therefore, is that
theve was no error in the judgment of the court below in
dismissing the bill, and that judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN
case.

dissented from the conclusion in this

