*ELLIOTT -v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE &c. RAILWAY. 2-45
Statement of the Case.

South Dakota qith instructions to remand the case to the
.proper court of Moody County, and to direct the verdict
and judgment to be set aside and a new trialgranted.
AIR. JUSTICE

BREWER dissented.

ELLIOTT v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST.
PAUL RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF
No.71. Argued November 6, 7,1893.-

THE TERRITORY OF DAKOTA.
Decided November 20,1893.

Though questions of negligence and contributory negligence are, ordinarily, questions of fact to be passed upon by a jury, yet, when the undisputed evidence is so conclusive that the court would be compelled to set
aside a verdict returned in opposition to it, it may withdraw the case
from the consideration of the jury, and direct a verdict.

THIs case was commenced in the District Court of Clay
County, Dakota Territory, on August 31, 1886, by the plaintiff in error, Biddena Elliott, widow of John Elliott, deceased,
against the railway company to recover damages on account
of the death of John Elliott, alleged to have been caused by
the negligence of the defendant and its employ~s.
The defendant answered, a trial was had at the September
term, 1886, and the plaintiff recovered a verdict for seven
thousand dollars. Judgment having been entered thereon,
the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which reversed the judgment and remanded the case for a
new trial. 5 Dakota, 523.
The case was again tried, though apparently in the District
Court of Minnehaha County, at the April term, 1889, upon
the same evidence that was presented on the first trial., A
verdict was directed in favor of the defendant, and judgment
entered thereon. YPlaintiff appealed to the Supreme Court,
which, on
ay 31, 1889, affirmed the judgment. Thereupon
a writ of error was sued out from this court.

OCTOBER TERMIT, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.r.

.elvin

Grigsby for plaintiff in error.

.Mr. Hema i. Field, (with whom were M3t. oAn TV. Cary
and Mr. Robert B. Tpipp on the brief,) for defendant in error.

Mr. JUSTICE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

-

The question in this case is as to the liability of the company for the death of John Elliott. The company made three
defences. One, that it was guilty of no negligence; second,
that if there were any negligence, it was that of a fellowervant; and, thuid, that Elliott .was guilty of contributory
negligence. The Supreme Court of the Territory, in its opinion filed when the case was first in that court, considered the
last two defences as sustained, and, because thereof, reversed
the judgment in favor of the plaintiff. All of them have been
presented and fully argued in this court, but as we consider
the third sufficient, it is unnecessary to notice the first two.
We are of opinion that the deceased was guilty of contributory
negligence, such as to bar any recovery. It is true that questions of negligence and contributory negligence are, ordinarily,
questions of fact to be passed upon by a jury; yet, when the
undisputed evidence is so conclusive that the court would be
compelled to set aside a verdict returned in opposition to it,
it may withdraw the case 'from tlie consideration of the jury,
and direct a verdict. Railthud Co. v. -ioustor, 95 U. S. 697?;
Sciofteld v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Pad Railroad, 114
U. S. 615; Delaware, Lackawanna &c. Railroad Co. v. Converse, 139 U. S. 469; Aerkfetz v. l-lnnuphreys, 145 U. S. 418.
What, then, are the facts concerning the 4ccident ? It took
place at a station called Meckling, a hamlet of two or three
houses, and of so little importance that at the time the company had no station agent there. The main track of the defendant's road ran eastward and westward in a straight line,
and the ground was .level. On the north side. of this track
wa a siding, 728 feet in length from switch to switch, and
distant from the main track at the maximum 16 feet. This

ELLIOTT v. CHICAGO, 'MILWNAUKEE &c. RAILWAY. 217
Opinion of the Court.

siding was the only extra track at the place. About 100 feet
east from the west switch was the depot, on the south of the
track, and some 10 feet therefrom. Two hundred feet east of.
that was a small car house, 16 feet from the track.- These
were the only buildings on the depot grounds. No cars were
standing on the track or siding. The day was clear, and there
was nothing to prevent the deceased -from seeibg all that was
going on. He was foreman of a section gang, and-had been
working on this track for 10 or more years. In expectation
of a coming freight train, his men had placed their hand car
on the siding. The train was due at 8.25 A.M., but was, perhaps, five or ten minutes late. It came from the west, and at
this station made a double flying switch. This was accomplished by uncoupling the train at two places, thus breaking it
into three sections. The first section, consisting of the engine
and 18 cars, moved along the main track; but before the balance of the train reached the switch, (its speed having been
checked by brakes,) that was turned so that two cars (constituting the second section, and-under the control of a brakeman)
passed on to the siding; the rear section, having been still
further checked by brakes, the switch was reset, so that it
passed on to the main track, following the first section. The
rear section- consisted of a flat car, a box car, a caboose, and
an empty passenger coach, and was under the care of the conductor and one brakeman. As the second section was thrown
by the flying switch on the siding, two of the men started
to push the hand car towards the east, so as not to be struck
by the approaching freight cars. The deceased, at the time
the first section passed the car house, was standing some 16
feet west thereof, and four or five feet from the track, talking
with one of his men. After a short conversation, the latter
started towards the depot, while the deceased walked eastward
along the track until he had passed a few feet beyond the car
house, when he started hastily toward the siding. His attention had itpparently been called by the approach of the two
cars on the siding to the hand car, for he made some call to
the men who were pushing that hand car. He crossed the
main track diagonally, his face turned eastward. The rear

948

OCTOBEI

TERAM, 1893.

Opinion of the Court.

sectioi, coming along from the west, struck and crushed him.
This rear section, when it passed the depot, was moving
slowly, not faster than a walk, as one of the witnesses testified.
That it was moving quite slowly is evident from the fact that
it came to a stop after two cars and the caboose had passed
over the body of the deceased, and this though no especial effort
was made to check them after the deceased had been struck,
the conductor and brakeman on that section being unaware of
theaccident. When he started to cross the track this approaching section was not to exceed 25 or 30 feet from him.
It thus appears that the deceased, an experienced railroad
man, on a bright morning, and with nothing to obstruct his
vision, starts along and across a railroad track, with which he
was entirely familiar, with cars approaching and only 25 or 30
feet away, and before he gets across that track is overtaken
by those cars and killed. IBut one explanation of his conduct
is possible, and that is. that he went upon the track without
looking to see whether any train was -coining. Such omission
has been again and again, both as to travellers on the highway
and employ6s on the road affirmed to be negligence. The
track itself, as it seems necessary to iterate and reiterate, is
itself a warning. It is a place of danger. It can never be
assumed that cars are not approaching on a track, or that
there is no danger therefrom. It may be, as is urged, that his
motive was to assist in getting the hand car out of the-way of
'the section moving on the siding. But whatever his motive,
the'fact remains that he stepped on the track in front of an
approaching train, without looking, or taking any precautions
for his own safety.
This is nc a case in which one, placed in a position of
danger through the negligence of the company, confused by
his' surroundings, makes perhaps a mistake in choice as to the
way of escape, and is caught in an accident. Foi here the
deceased was in no danger. He was standing in a place of
safety on the south of the main track. JTe went int- a place
of danger from a place of safety, and went in without taking
the ordinary precautions .imperatively required of all who
place themselves in a similar position of danger.

UNITED STATES v. ROI)GEr.S.
Statement of the Case.

The trial court was righlt in holding that he was guilty of
contributory negligence. So, without considering the other
questions presented in the record, the judgment. will .be
affirmed.
As since the decision by the Supreme Court of the Territory
that Territory has been admitted into the Union as the two
States of North Dakota and South Dakota, and as the counties of the trial are in the State of South Dakota, the mandate
will go to the Supreme Court of that State.

Affirned.

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE EASTERN DISTRIT
OF MIIIIGAN.
No. 30. Submitted April 21, IS1.

- Decided November 20,1893.

The term "high seas," as used in the provision in Rev. Stat., ยง 5346, that
"every person who, upon the high seas, or in any arm of the sea, or in
any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay, within the admiralty jurisdiction of
the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of any particular Stale, on
board any vessel belonging in Whole or part to the United States, or any
citizen thereof, with a dangerous weapon, or with intent to perpetrate
any felony, commits an assault upon another shall 1)e punished," etc., is
applicable to the open, unenclosed waters of the Great Lakes, between
which the Detroit River is a connecting stream.
The courts of the United States have jurisdiction, under that section of the
Revised Statutes, to try a person for an assault with a dangerous weapon,
committed on a vessel belonging to a citizen of the United States, when
such vessel is in the Detroit River, out of the jurisdiction of any particular
State, and within the territorial limits of the )ominion of Canada.
The limitation of jurisdiction by the qualification that the offences punishable
are committed on vessels in any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven,
creek, basin, or bay " without the jurisdiction of any particular State,"
which means without the jurisdiction of any State of the Union, does not
apply to vessels on the "high seas" of the lakes, but only to vessels on
the waters designated as connecting with then ; and so far as vessels on
those seas are concerned, there is no limitation named to the authority
of the United States.

IN February, 1888, the defendant, Robert S. Rodgers and
others, were indicted in the District Court of the United States

