OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

the Beckwith grate, except that, being adapted for burning
coal, it is cast in two pieces, while the Beckwith grate is cast
in one piece. This does not involve patentable invention.
Our conclusions are, that as to the first patent it was anticipated by prior patents, and is void for want of invention in
not describing how wide the flange should be in order to
accomplish the desired result. As to the second patent, it is
void because the bolting or riveting together of sections of a
stove wp3 well known at the time of the invention, and the use
of lugs with holes perforated through them was anticipated
in other stoves and furnaces manufactured many years prior
to the date of the patent. As to the third patent, it is void
because the claims in it were clearly anticipated, and because
it involves no invention to cast in one piece an article which
has formerly been cast in two pieces and put together, nor to
make the shape of the grate correspond with that of the firepot.
Our opinion is that the judgment of the court below dismissing the bill should be
.Affrmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument, and

took no part in the decision.

CAREY v. HOUSTON AND TEXAS CENTRAL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL. FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 912.

STATES

FOR-

Subm*tted October 21, 1893.-Decided November 13,1893.

Oral argumnent is not allowed on motions to dismiss appeals, or writs of
error.
On motion to dismiss or affirm it is only necessary to print so much of the
record as will enable the court to act understandingly without referring
to the transcript.

CAREY v. HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

ll

Statement of the Case.
In order to bring an appeal from the judgment of a Circuit Court taken
since the Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826, c. 617, went into
effect, within the first of the six classes of cases specified in ยง 5,of that
act, viz., "in any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue,"
the jfrisdiction of fle Circuit Court below must have been in issue in
the case, and must have been decided against the appellants, and tie
question of jurisdiction must have been certified; but the court does not
uow say that the absence of a formal certificate would necessarily be
fatal.
The fifth gection of that act does not authorize a direct appeal to this court
in a suit upon a question involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
over another suit previously determined in the same court.
A bill in equity to impeach and set aside a decree of foreclosure of a railroad
mortgage, on the ground of fraud, and to prevent the consummation of a
scheme for reorganization, is a scparat6 and distinct case from the foreclosure suit, and no question of jurisdiction over that suit, or over tile
renditioh of the decree passed therein, can be availed of to sustain an
appeal to this court from a decree of a Circuit Court under the provisions df the first class of the six cases specified in ยง 5 of the act of March
3, 1801.
In order to hold an appeal from a judgment or decree of a Circuit GotIrt to
this court to be maintainable under the fourth class of said section- 5, viz.,
"any case that involves the construction or application of the Constitu"
tion of the United States," the construction or application of the Constitution must be involved as controlling, althQugh on the, appeal all other
questions might be open to determination.

STEPHEN W. CAREY, a citizen of New ,Tersey, and several
other persons, citizens of New York and Great Britain respectively, who sued as stockholders of the Houston and Texas
Central Railway Company in their own behalf and in behalf
of others similarly situated, filed their bill, December 23,
1889' and an amended bill, March 3, 1890, i~n the 'Circuit
Court of the United States fol' the Eastern District of Texas,
against the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company
(No. 1), the Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company,
(No. 2), the Central Trust Company of the city of New York,
and the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company, corporations
organized under the laws of New York, and a number of
other corporations and individuals, citizens of Kentucky,

Texas, New York, -and Louisiana, seeking to vacate and set
aside, upon the ground of collusion and fraud, and want of
jurisdiction, a decree of foreclosure and sale entered by that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

court on May 4, 1S88, in certain suits pending therein and
consolidated as one suit, to foreclose certain mortgages upon
the property of that company, and to enjoin and restrain the
defendants from. carrying out a certain plan of reorganization,
and issuing any stock or securities of the new company incorporated pursuant to such plan.
The amended bill alleged that the Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company between July 1, 1866, and April 1, 1881,
executed seven mortgages or deeds of trust to different trustees as security for bonds issued by it, and averred that, prior
to 1883, the defendant Huntington, who, with his associates,
controlled the Southern Development Company a corporation
of California, formed a syndicate with his associates for the
purpose of acquiring in his own interest and that of the
Southern Development Company the control of the Houston
and Texas Central Railway Company, and that, having obtained
such control, the rights of the holders of the stock should be
effectually shut out and barred, and the absolute control be
acquired by the syndicate, so that the railway might be run
solely in its interest and that of the Southern Pacific Company.
The bill then set up in detail certain proceedings alleged to be
fraudulent and collusive, which culminated in the decree complained of anld a sale thereunder, and proceeded:
"Complainants further allege that, as they are advised and
believe and charge, the said decree was and is absolutely
invalid and void and beyond the power of the court to grant;
that there was no foundation for said decree or jurisdiction in
the court to award it, and that the same was entered by consent and agreement, and without any investigation or adjudication by the court, but was the result of agrecmeiit simply,
and was procured, as complainants allege on information and
belief, by collusion and fraud on the part of said Huntington
and his associates and the directors and officers of said Houston
and Texas Central Railway Company, and was and is a part
of the scheme to acquire possession of said railway in the
interest of said Huntington and the said Southern Pacific
Company, without regard to the rights or interests of the
holders of the stock of said company No. 1, and in direct dis-

CAREY v. HO USTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

173

Statement of the Case.

regard of the provisions and terms of the mortgages; that
the defences interposed that the principal of the mortgages
had not become due and that the said railway could not be
sold without a sale first of the lands and the other defences
interposed vere substantially abandon.ed and withdrawn as
part of the said wrongful and fraudulent scheme herein
referred to; that the said defences Were never submitted to
the court for adjudication or determination, nor was evidence
heard or offered to sustain the same, but the decree was the
result of the agreement which the bondholders had made
with the said Southern Pacific Company and Central Trust
Co-pany, and the rights of the stockholders were not considered or protected by any of the parties to the record in said
cause, nor submitted to the court for adjudication or investigation, nor were the stockholders in any way advised or permitted
to be informed of the transaction herein complained of.
"Complainants further allege that, as they are advised and
believe, the said decree is void for the further reason that
there was and is in the said decree no finding by the court
fixing the amount due from the Houston and Texas Central
1railway Company (No. 1) under said several mortgages' at
and prior to the recording of the said decree, and fixing the
amount which the said company was required to pay to redeem its franchises, property, and rights from the lien of the
said mortgages, nor was there nor' has there been any judicial
inquiry into that matter, and that the said decree contradicts
the provisions of the several mortgages set up in the bills asking foreclosure, and is non-judicial and void.'
Further averments followed in relation to the organization.
of the Houston and Texas Central 1Vailroad Company, designated as No. 2, for the purpose of operating the raihoad acquired at the sale, and the intention to issue mortgage bonds'
and place them upon the market etc.
The prayer of the bill was that the decree rendered by the
court below on May 4, '1888, in the consolidated cause, be
vacated and set aside, and adjudged and decreed to be fraudulent, collusive, illegal, and void, and that complainants be
permitted to intervene and become parties defendant in said

174

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

suit, and to be heard and defend the same; that the sale of
the railroad and lands of the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company, No. 1, under said decree be vacated and set
aside, and the said railway and lands be restored to the possession of the receivers appointed by the court; that the defendants be enjoined temporarily and perpetually from executing,
delivering, or recording any mortgage upon the property o.f
the company referred to in said decree, and from issuing,
alienating, or parting with any shares -of stock of the new or
reorganized Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company,
"No. 2, or any bonds secured by mortgage upon any property
claimed to be possessed by said company, or any stock or
bonds issued or intended to be issued pursuant to said reorganization agreement, and for further relief.
The defendants answered, denying the allegations upon
which complainants sought to impeach the decree in the foreclosure proceedings against the Houston and Texas Central
Railway Company, and in respect of the other transactions
.referred to in the bill, and asserted the regularity, integrity,
and good faith of all the proceedings therein assailed. iReplications were filed, and evidence was taken on both sides. An
injfinctionpendente lite-was moved for and denied. 45 Fed.
Rep. 438.
March 15, 1892, the cause was set down for final hearing on
the pleadings and proofs, and on November 16, 1892, the Circuit Court entered a final decree dismissing the bill as to all
the defendants. the opinion of the court will'be found in 52
Fed. Rep. 671. On December 3, 1892, complainants prayed
two appeals from this decree, one to this court and one to the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Judicial Circuit, which
appeals were severally allowed. Citations were signed and
appeal bonds duly approved and filed, together with an assignment of errors on each appeal.
No question as to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was
certified to this court by that court for decision, nor was any
application made to the Circuit Court for such certificate so
far as appeared from the record.
. motion to dismiss the appeal having been made by appelo

CAREY v. HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRALJ RAILWAY.

.75

Argument against the Moti6n.

lees, appellants objected that the extracts from the record
printed by appellees in support of their motibn were insufficient for its proper decision, and moved for a postponement of
the consideration of the motion and to be allowed to make
oral argument.
-Mr. J. Hfubley Ashton, .Mr. Charles H. Tweed, and .r.
Adrian ff Joline for the motion to dismiss.
Mr. Jeij'erson Ckandler and

.fr.

A. J Dittenhoefer,opposing.

I. The extracts from the record, fifed by the appellees in
support of their motion, show*upon their face thatvital portions have been omitted essential to be considered by the court
in the determination of the merits of -the motion. Where
the papers upon a motion to dismiss an appeal do not contain
the record proper and essential for the consideration of such
motion, it will not be entertained. NSational Bank v. Insurance CJo., 100 U. S. 43; Crane Iron Co. v. Moagland, 108
U. S. 5; Vaterville v. Van BSyke, 115 U. S. 290.
II. If the court determines to entertain the motion to dismiss the appeal upon the extracts from the record, we respectfully submit that that motion cannot prevail.
The question of jurisdiction of the court below is in issue,
and is the issue which was decided by the court below against
the appellants, and to review which this appeal was taken and
allowed. The bill herein was filed to review (in the only way
permissible by equity procedure) the jurisdiction of the court
to grant a decree under which appellants were divested of
their property. The bill directly tendered the issue of the
want of jurisdiction in the court to' grant the decree attacked.
It was claimed, and, as we contend, proven, that the court
acted without jurisdiction; that there was not the requisite
diversity of citizenship in the parties to the foreclosure suit,
as appears on the face of the record; that the decree entered
was a consent decree, and not the result of judicial procedure;
that no evidence whatever as to the issues raised was taken and
no hearing had, and by the terms thereof the mortgages which

OCTOBER TER-,

1893.

Argument against the Motion.

were foreclosed were violated, disregarded and overridden, the
pleadings in the suit were contradicted, and, as appears from
the face of this so-called record and decree, over five million
dollars were directed to be paid, not due in any event, and
over twenty-one million dollars of debt directed to be paid
years before it matured.
The bill herein was aimed at the jurisdiction of the court
below to do this. The appellees joined issue with us on this
question of jurisdiction by denying that there was want of
power in the court to do what it did do.
A bill of review, or a bill in the nature of a bill of review,
whose object is to arrest or reverse judicial proceedings for an
abuse of judicial power or for defects therein and want of
conformity to law by the court in taking such proceedings,
or for want of jurisdiction in the court to entertain and
carry on proceedings appearing on the face of them to be
attacked, puts in issue the grounds of attack made upon such
proceedings set up in the bill of review, or bill in the nature
of a bill of review such a bill is a continuation of the proceedings attacked. Willamette Iron Bridge Co. v. Hath, 125
U. S. 1; rippendof v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276 ; Dewey v. ]est
Fairmont Coal Co., 123 U. S. 329; Johnson, v. C'ristian,
125 U.-S. 64:2; Paofiec Railroad v. 3fissouri Pa4ie Railway, 111 U. S. 505.
Such a bill is essentially a writ of error, as its object is to
procure an examination and alteration or reversal of the decree
made upon the former bill. It may be brought for errors of
law appearing upon the face of the decree. It is ground for
a bill of review that the decree was not warranted by the
allegations in the bill. Goodhue v. Churchman, 1 Barb. Oh.
596. For the purpose of examining all errors of law on
the face of the decree, the bills, answers, and other proceedings are as much a part of the record before the court as the
decree itself, for it is only by compaison with the former that
the correctness of the latter can be ascertained. Dexter v.
Arnold, 5 Mason, 303; 1follingsworth v. XicDonald, 2 I. & J.
230; Mebb v. Pell, 3 Paige, 368; Whiting v. Bank of the
United States, 13 Pet. 6. And as, in a proceeding to review

CAREY v. HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

177

Argument against the Motion.

-a judgment for error of law, when the judgment is reversed
an alppeal from such .judgment .of reversal lies, ifeeyfer y.
Force, 86 Indiana, 81, so an appeal from a judgment on a bill
of review will lie wherever an appeal in the.original case which
it is sought to have reviewed will lie. Zkebag' v. Corydon, 80
Indiana, 95.
III. The appellants contend, and, as we claim, the record
shows, that they have been deprived of their property without
due process of law. The decree attacked was placed upon
file by the unlawful consent of the directors of the defendant
railway company, and in violation of their trust. The directors
had no power or jurisdiction to change the terms of the mortgages involved in the foreclosure proceedings, either by consenting to a decree of foreclosure or by any other action of
the board collectively or individually. The record shows that
the entire procedure resulting in this so-called decgee was nonjudicial and. without due process of law, and the application
of the Constitution is directly involved in this appeal, as appears
from the record certified to this court.
IV. There was no jurisdiction in the court below to precipitate the payments of the. contracts of the'defendant company
in advance of their maturity on the ground of the insolvency.
of the said company.
V. The case has been properly certified to this court and
the issue of jurisdiction duly certified.
The form of the certificate in this case is the 'one, we are
advised, that has been adopted in the various Circuits in transmitting records to this court under the act of 1891, including
cases where the appeal or writ of error, is taken to bring up
the questions of jurisdiction. The appeal having been taken
and allowed, it becomes the duty of the court below, through
its clerk, to certify the record, and by the act of 1891, the
6ourt is required only to certify the record showing the issue
of jurisdiction. When, therefore, that record is sent to this
court with the certificate attached, presumably the court has
followed the directions of the act, and has certified what, was
deemed necessary to review the decision upon the issue of
jurisdiction.
VOL. CL-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument against the Motion.

In the case of )lclish v. Rof,141 U. S. 661, cited up6n the
appellee's brief, the record was certified in the form the record
is in this case. In that case it appears also that counsel especially requested the court to make a specific certificate certifying the question of the jurisdiction involved for review by this
court. That was denied, and then a writ of error was sued out
in the ordinary way, and the record certified as in this case.
The assignment of errors presented to the learned trial
judge below, upon which the application for the allowance of
this appeal was made, sets forth that the issue of jurisdiction,
as well as the application of the Constitution of the United
States, was sought to be reviewed by this court on the appeal
intended.to be taken, and the appeal was allowed by the trial
judge, and, as part of the record, the assignment of errors
was certified by him through the clerk of the court.
But the improper certification of the record-assuming
there be an imperfection -presents no reason for dismissing
the appeal. The right tb appeal to this court under section
5 of the act of 1891 is absolute where the jurisdiction of the
court is in issue, or in any case that involves the application
of the Constitution of the United States. The right being
absolute, and the appeal having been taken and allowed, it
cannot be dismissed because the clerk -or court below has not
properly certified the record. If the record is not complete,
or if the certificate be not in proper form, the remedy is to
correct the record or certificate, not to dismiss an appeal which
has been. properly taken, and to which the appellant is entitled
as a matter of right. United States v. Adais, 6 Wall. 101.I
VI. The assertion of appellees that an appeal is now pending in the Circuit Court of Appeals is no ground for dismissing
an appeal properly taken to this court.
Appellant's counsel have inquired of every Circuit Cou't of
Appeals in the United States to learn the practice under the
circumstances involved in -this case, and find no uniform rule.
yet established in respect of it.
'It is respectfully submitted, therefore, that, under any view
that may be taken of the case, the 'appeal herein ought not to
be dismissed on this ground,

CAREY v. HOUSTON & TEXAS OENTRX.L RAILWAY.

179

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHmi' JUsTICE F'LLR, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Oral argument is not allowed on motions to dismiss appeals
or writs of error, and we perceive no reason
us. making an
before for

in the case
exception to the general rule

On motioft to dismiss or affirm'it is only necessary to print
so much of the record as will enable the court to act understandingly without reference'to the transdript. W]al8ton v.
_3evin, 128 IT. S. 578. A1ppellees have- printed the original
and amended bills; the answers and replications; the opiniofi
of .the circuit judge in disposing of the case; the final decree;
the two appea and proceedings thereon ; and the assignments
of eri'ors in both courts. This was quite sufficient for the purposes of the motion.,
The Judiciary Act of March 3, 1891, in distributing the.
appellate jurisdiction of the national judicial systeni between
-the Supreme Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals therein
established, designated the classes of cases in respect of whiel
each of these courts was to have final jurisdiction, (the judgments of the latter being subject to the supervisory power of
this court through the writ of certiorarias provided,) and the
act has uniformly been so construed and applied as to promote
its general and manifest purpose of lessening the burden of litigation in this court. The fifth section of the act specifies six
classes of cases in which appeals or writs of error may be taken
directly to this court, of which we are only concerned with
the first and fourth, which include those cases "in which the
jurisdiction of the court is in issue; in such cases the-question
of-jurisdiction alone shall be certified to the Supreme Court
from the court below for decision;" aud "any case that
involves the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States."
In order to briing this appeal within the first of these classes,
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court must have been in issu6
in this case, and, as appeals or writs of error lie here only
from final judgments. or decrees, must have been decided
againsf appellants; and the question of jurisdiction must have

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

been certified. We do not now say that the absence of a
formal certificate would be fatal, but it is required by the
statute, and its absence might have controlling weight where
the alleged issue is not distinctly defined. This record contains no such certificate, nor was it applied for, nor does it
appear that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was in issue.
Appellants by filing their bill invoked the jurisdiction of the
court below over the entire case, the defendants did not contest that jurisdiction, and the court adjudicated accordingly.
This is conceded, but it is contended that the question of jurisdiction was in issue because the bill attacked the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court over the foreclosure suit, or its jurisdiction to, make the decree of foreclosure aiid sale of -May 4,
1888, passed in that suit. But the fifth section of the act of
March 3, 1891, does not authorizea direct-appeal to this court
in a suit .upon a question involving the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over another suit previously determined in the
saute court. It is the jurisdiction of the court below over the
particular case in which the appeal from the decree therein is
prosecuted, that, being in issue and decided against the party
raising it and duly certified, justifies such appeal directly to
this court. This suit to impeach the decree of May 4, 1888,
and to prevent the consummation of the alleged plan of reorganization, was a separate and distinct case, so far as this
inquiry is concerned, from the suit to foreclose the mortgages
on the railroad property; and no question of jurisdiction over
ihe foreclosure suit or the rendition of the decree passed
therein can be availed of to sustain the present appeal from
the decree in this proceeding.
. The collusion and fraud charged in the institution and conduct of the prior litigation, and iii the procurement of the
decree against the railway company, and in the other transac-"
tions in respect of which relief was sought against the defendants, seem to form. the gravamen of the case; but whether
the bill be treated as a bill of review, an original bill of the
same nature, or an original bill on the ground of fraud, it -was
a distinct proceeding in which the moving parties were shifted,
and the fact that it put in issue the jurisdiction in the proceed-

CAREY v. HOUSTON.& TEXAS CENTRAL RAILWAY.

181

Opinion of the Court.

ings it assailed would not change the appeal from this, into
an appeal from the prior decree.
In order to hold this appeal maintainable as within the
second of the above-named classes, (the fourth class in tjie
enuinqration of the statute,) the construction or application of
the Constitution of the United States must be involved as controlling, although on appeal or error all other questions would
be open to determination, if inquiry were not rendered unnecessary by the ruling on that arising under the Constitution.
IIorner v. Un ted States, 143 U. S. 570.
The bill before us refers to no provision of the Constitution
upon which complainants relied to invoke the action of the
court in vindication of their supposed rights, or which was
presented to be construed or applied by the court. No question upon such construction or application was raised between
the parties upon the record, or determined by the decree of
the Circuit Court.
It is Argued that -the record shows that complainants had
been deprived of their property without due process of law,
by means of the decree attacked, but because the bill alleged
irregularities, errors, and jurisdictional defects in the foreclosure proceedings, and fraud in respect thereof and in the subsequent transactions, which might have enabled the railroad
company upon a direct appeal to have avoided the decree of
.sale, or which, if sustained on this bill, might have justified
the Circuit Court in setting aside that decree, it does pot follow
that the construction or application of the Constitution. of the
United 'States was involved in the case in the sense of the
statute. In passing upon the validity of that decree the Circuit Court decided no question of the construction or the application of the Constitution, and, as we have said, no such
question was raised for its consideration. Our conclusion is
that the motion to dismiss the appeal must be sustained.
Appeal dismissed.

