OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ing this -deposit, have ratified the arrangement made by their
attorney as to the sale which the sheriff was making, and if
they desired a resale of the property they should have directed
it.' They cannot repudiate the action of their agent and att6rney and treat the sheriff as having made a complete sale,
when in fact he had not. When the money and horses were
tendered to their attorney, 1 e declined both. But they took
the money, while declining to receive the horses, and failed to
give any instructions to the sheriff as to further sale or otherwise: They assume to.treat this as a completed sale to Kier,
when in fact it was not, and when they have ratified what the
sheriff did in respect thereto in obedience to the instructions
of their agent and attorney by taking the deposit made by
Kier.
The judgment must be reversed, and the case remanded for
a new trial. As since it was brought to this court the Territory of Montana has been admitted as a State, and as no question of a Federal nature is presented, the case will be remanded to the Supreme Court of the State.
Revered.
The CHIEF JUsTICE did not hear the argument -or take part
in the decision of this case.

MILLER'S EXECUTORS v. SWANN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAM[A.
No. 362.

Submitted October 23, 1893. -Decided

Npvember 6, 1893.

In this case the writ of error was dismissed because the judgment below
rested upon a construction by the state court of a statute of the State,
which was sufficiently broad to sustain the judgment.

Tnis case came to this court on error from the Supreme
Court of the State of Alabama. On the 3d of June, 1856,
Congress made a grant of public lands to the State of Ala-

MILLER'S. EXECUTORS v. SVAN.
Statement of the Case.

bama to aid in the construction of certain railroads. 11 Stat.
17, c. 41.

This grant was renewed and extended by an act of

April 10, 1869.

16 Sta.t. 45, c. 24.

By a joint resolution of

the legislature of the State of Alabama, approved January 30,
1858, Acts 1857-1858,- p. 430, certain railroad companies were
made the beneficiaries of this grant. The Alabama and Chattanooga Raihoad Company was formed by a consolidation,
under the authority of the State, of two of these companies,
and became thereby one of such beneficiaries. On February
11, 1870, an act was passed, Acts 1S69-1870, No. 101, pp. 89
to 92, loaning two millions of dollars of the bonds, of the
State to this company, and providing for the execution of a
mortgage by the company on all its property, including the
land grant, to secure this loan. The bonds were delivered to
the company, and on March 2, 1870, the mortgage called for
by the last-named act was executed. Thereafter, the railroad
company defaulting in the payment of its obligations to the
State, was thrown: into bankruptcy, and its property, including thii land grant, was, on judicial sale, after proper proceedings in the District Court of the United States, purchased
by the State in satisfaction of such obligations. The title thus
acquired the defendamts in error hold under a conveyance
from the State made by virtue of what is called the "debt
settlement"1 act of the general assembly, Acts 1875-1876, No.
38, pp. 130, 149, and they were proceeding to enforce their
right to the lands in controversy in this suit by an action of
ejectment.
The title of the plaintiffs in error arose in this way: Joab
Bagley claimed to have purchased the lands in controversy
from the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company under
two contracts, of date respectively September 13, 1870, and
January 24, 187i, with one Daniel J. Duffy, its agent. 'There
was some dispute in the "testimony as to whether Duffy was
duly authorized to act as the agent of the company, and also
whether the company ever in fact receivec! the money paid by
Bagley; but for the purposes of this suit it may. be assumed
that Duffy was authorized to sell, and that the company received the moneys. No conveyance, however, was made by

OCTOBER TERiVM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the company to Bagley. This suit was commenced in July,
1884, by D. B. Miller, who claimed under sundry mesne con-veyances from Bagley, in the Chancery Court of Jefferson
County, Alabama, against John Swann and John A. Billups,
trustees, and others, the object of -which was to enforce the
specific performance of the'two contracts of September 13,
1870, and January 2-, 1871, and to enjoin the further prosecution of the action of ejectment. On the 20th of June, 1885,
the chancellor entered a decree in favor of the complainant,
which decree was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State.
82 Alabama, 530. An amended bill having been filed, the
case was again submitted to the chancellor, who, on Novem-.
ber 12, 1888, entered a decree dismissing the complainants'
bill, which decree was affirmed by the Supreme Court on the
2d of May, 1890. 88 Alabama. Subsequently to thb coinmencement of this suit, Miller died, and the suit was revived
in the names of his executor and heirs. The two original
trustees have also died, and Frank Y. Anderson and W. J.
Cameron have been substituted as their successors.
.ZMr.

'llis.P]helanfor plaintiffs in error.

.Mr.
J. A. I. Smith for defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE BREWEP.R

delivered the opinion of the court.

It is contended by defendants in error that, whatever questions may be found in the case, the -decision of the Supreme
Court of Alabama was upon a question not of a Federal character, and one broad enough to sustain the judgment, and,
therefore, that this court has no jurisdiction, and should dismiss the case. Hale v. Akers, 132 U. S.554:; Hopkins v..3a
Lure, 133 U. S.380; Blount v. Walker, 134: U. S. 607 - Wood
Mowing & Reaping Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S.293; hIenderson
Bridge Co. v. Henderson City, 141 U. S: 679; The Delaware
City &c. Navigation Co. v. Reybold, 142 U. S.636.
As the mortgage to the State was executed some months
before the contracts with Bagley, the title held by the State
of Alabama under the bankruptcy proceedings would prima

MILLER'S EXECUTORS v. SWANN.
Opinion of the Court.

faoie be paramount to that acquired by Bagley. WHIson v.
Boyce, 92 U. S. 320. To avoid this, it was contended that,
under the act of February 11,. 1870, and the mortgage of
Mfarch 2, 1870, the railroad company, the mortgagor, was
given the right to sell these lands; and the question which
was considered and determined by the Supreme Court of the
State, and the vital question, was whether the act and mortgage gave such authority . The act of February, 1870, provided that "the said Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad
Company shall have the privilege and right of selling said
lands or any part thereof in accordance with the adts of Congress granting the same." The mortgage contained the same
provision. In respect to this, the Supreme Court of the State
thus expressed itself: "This reservation was incorporated in
the mortgage, and its construction, as applied to the facts of
the case, is the controlling question for us to decide. The
power retained by the mortgagor was not an unlimited power
to sell. It was a power to sell only in accordaiace with the
terms and conditions of the act of Congress making the grant,
which, we have said in a former-decision, was 'a law as well
as a grant.' If these terms and conditions were followed,
then the lien of the mortgage was by agreement to, be released. If they were not followed as to the mode -or time
prescribed or otherwise, then the contract of the parties is
that the lien of the mortgage is to remain unaffected. Compliance with the essential requirements of the act of Congress
became thus a condition precedent to -the divestiture of title
out of the State as mortgagee. This, we repeat, *as the
'express contract between the parties. It is sufficiently shown
in the former opinion in this case that the attempt to sell to
Bagley was in direct violation of the terms of the law of Congress, and, therefore, necessarily also in violation of the agreement of the parties to the mortgage, which was based on that
law. Swann v. Ailler, 82 Alabama, 530. The lien of the
mortgage for this reason remained undischarged. This we
understand to be the natural and just construction of the
mortgage agreement and of the act of the Alabama General
Assembly, approved February, 1870, above cited."

.136

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 4: of the act of Congress of June, 1856, is as follows:
"S Ec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the lands hereby
granted to said State shall be disposed of by said State only
in manner following, that is to say: That a quantity of land,
not exceeding one hundred and twenty sections for each of
said roadk, and included within a continuous length of twenty
miles of each of said roads, may be sold; and when the governor of said State shall certify to the Secretary of the Interior that any twenty continuous miles of any of said rdads is
completed, then another quantity of land hereby granted, not
to exceed one hundred and twenty sections for each of said
roads, having twenty continuous miles completed as aforesaid,
and included within a continuous length of twenty miles of
each of such roads, may be sold; and so, from time to time,
-until said roads are completed; and if any of said roads is.
not completed within ten years, no further sale shall be made,
and the lands unsold shall revert to the United States."
These lands confessedly were not part of the .first one hundred and twenty sections, which the State might sell prior
to the construction of any portion of the road, and there is
no pretence that at the time of 'these contracts of Bagley's
any certificate had been made by the governor of the State
to the Secretary of the Interior, as provided in -the act. The
Supreine Court, in its first opinion, held that, under the act
of 1870 and the reservation in the mortgage, the railroad
company had absolutely no power to sell until the making of
that certificate; and that any attempted sale made prior
thereto was a nullity, not voidable, but absolutely void. Now,
whether that was a correct construction or not of the act of
1870 and the reservation of the mortgage, is a purely local
question, and involves nothing of a Federal character. The
question is not what rights passed to the State under the
acts of Congress, but what authority the railroad company
had under the statute of the State. The construction of such
a statute is a matter for the state court, and its determination
thereof is binding on this court. The fact that the state
statute and the mortgage refer to certain acts of Congress as
prescribing the rule and measure of the rights granted by the

MILLER'S EXECUTORS v. SWANN.
Opinion of the Court.

State, does not make the determination of such rights a Federal question. A State may prescribe the procedure in the
Federal courts as the rule of practice in its own tribunals; jt
may authorize the disposal of its own lands in. accordance
with the provisions for the sale of the public lands of the
United States; and in such cases an examination may be
necessary of the acts of Congress, the rules of the Federal
courts, and the practices of the Land Department, and yet
the questions for decision would not be of a Federal character.
The inquiry along Federal lines is only incidental to a determination of the local question of what the State has required
and prescribed. The matter decided is one of state rule ,and
practice. The facts by which that state rule and practice
are determined may be of a Federal origin.
We see nothing in .the cases of St. Louis &e. Railway Co.
v. .MlGee, 115 U. S. 469, and Doe v. Larmore, 116 U. S. 198,
conflicting with these views, or throwing any light on this
question. These cases involved simply a consideration of the
effect to be given to the later act of Congress, in respect t6
the rights of the State in the lands, and held that the later
act was not to be considered as a new and independent grant,
but simply as an extension of time.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that as the construction of the
statute of 1870 and following mortgage presented no question
of a Federal nature - as upon that construction the Supreme
Court decided the cdse - and as such question is sufficiently
broad to sustain the judgment, the case must be
.Dismissed.

