OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

achievement of the desired result in its widest form, unlimited
by specific details. If this claim can be sustained, in the light
of the previous inventions, it can only be done by restricting
it narrowly to the particular devices described, and under such
a construction the machines of defendants cannot be deemed
to infringe.
None of the defendants are shown to have ever made, sold,
or used a machine containing a binding arm and twister, or
any equivalent device, adjustable with reference to the binding machine in which they are mounted, or with reference to
the platform on which the binding takes place, or with reference to the bundles of grain in position to be bound. In the defendants' machines the binding arm and knot-tying mechanism
are permanently secured in a fixed position and incapable of
adjustment by being moved to and fro in the machine. When
th.binding machine itself is moved so as to adjust it to the
middle of the stalks to be bound, the binding arm and tying
mechanism, by virtue of their permahent attachment to the
frame of the machine, are necessarily moved with it, but they
cannot be adjusted in it.
Our examination of these cases has brought us to the conclusion reached by the court below, and its decrees, dismissing
the severa bills of complaint, Are, therefore,
.Afl 'med.

UNITED STATES v. BAIRD.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMs.
No. 963. Submitted October 20,1893.-

Decided October 30, 1893.

A marshal of the United States is not entitled to commissions on disbursements for the support of a penitentiary, made under Rev. Stat. ยง 1892.

This was a petition by the marshal of the United States for
the Territory of Idaho for fees earned in executing warrants
of commitment of certain prisoners to the penitentiary at
Bois6 City, and also for commissions upon disbursements for

'UNITED STATES v. BAIRD.
Opinion of the Court.

the support of such penitentiary.

In connection with the

latter claim the court made the following findings of fact:

"IV. He also, as such marshal, disbursed the sum of fiftyfour thousand four hundred and twenty dollars and fifteen
cents, ($541,420.15,) funds of the United States, for the use of
the penitentiary of said Territory. For such penitentiary
disbursements he claimed a commission at the rate of two
per cent, amounting to one thousand and eighty-eight dollars
and forty cents, ($1088.40,) and his account for the same was
likewise approved by said District Court for the First District
of Idaho.
"'V.The only reason why no commission was allowed him
on such disbursements appears to have been that he was
allowed compensation for the services required by section
1893 in the government of such penitentiary, which said compensation was fixed by the Attorney General in accordance
with said section at the rate of one thousand two hundred
dollars ($1200) a year."
Upon this finding the court rendered judgment in his
favor upon the last item for $1088.40, and the United States
appealed.
Air. Assistant Attorney General .Dodge and -M'. Mkares C.
Binney for appellants.
_Mr. George A. Zing for appellee.
IMn. JusTicn- BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Plaintiff having withdrawn the claim for mileage in executing warrants of commitment in consequence of the ruling of
this court in United 8tates v. Tanner, 147 U. S. 661, it only
remains to consider his claim for commissions for disbursements
for the support of the penitentiary.
This-claim is based upon the general fee bill, Rev. Stat. ยง'
829, which allows to the marshal "for disbursing money to
jurors and witnesses, and for other expenses, two per centum."

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The practice has been to make this allowance for all disbursements made by the marshal in his official capacity.
Bat by Rev. Stat. ยง 1892, another anomalous and extraordinary duty is imposed upon certain territorial marshals, of
caringfor and controlling "any penitentiary which has been,
or may hereafter be, erected by the United States in an
organized Territory," and by section 1893 it is provided as
follows: "The Attorney General of the United States shall
prescribe all needful rules and regulations for the government
of such penitentiary, and the marshal having charge thereof
shall cause them to be duly and faithfully executed and
obeyed, and the reasonable compensation of the marshal and
of his deputies for their services under such regulations shall
be fixed by the Attorney General." The compensation of the
commissioner for these services was fixed by the Attorney
General at $1200 per annum.
It is evident from this statement that petitioner held practically two distinct offices, namely, marshal of the Territory, for
which- he received the fees of the office, and also keeper or
warden of the territorial penitentiary, for which he received
a.compensation of $1200 per year. There was no necessary
connection between these two offices. If the custody of the
penitentiary had been by law assigned to a different person,
,with a salaried compensation, it would never be claimed that
he would-be entitled to a commission for 'the money expended
for its support. The case is not altered by the fact that the
marshal was assigned to this duty. The very language of
section 829 indicates that the marshal's commission extends
only to disbursements "to jurors and witnesses, and for other
expenses," to the definition of which other expenses the rule
of ejusdem generis applies.
Upon the other hand, if "the reasonable compensation of
the marshal and of his deputies for their services under such
regulations" "for the government of such penitentiary" did
not extend to his services in paying the bills of the penitentiary, it is difficult to see what is meant by the statute. The
duties of the marshal are those of supervision, of hiring guards,
feeding and clothing prisoners, and supplying the prison with

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

fuel, lights, and furniture, and paying for the same, and it is
impossible to make a distinction between these classes of services. Payment is a necessary incident*to hiring and purchasing, and one is as much a service under the regulations for the
government of the penitentiary as the other.
The judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case r'emanded with directions to dismiss
the petition.

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 789. Submitted Octuber 20, 1893.

Decided October 30, 1893.

When the tendency of testimony offered in a criminal case is to throw
light upon a particular fact, or to explain the conduct of a particular
person, there is a certain discretion on the part of the trial judge which
a court of errors will not interfere with, unless it manifestly appears
that the testimony has no legitimate bearing upon the question at issue,
and is calculated to prejudice the accused in the minds of the jurors.
When a necessity arises for a resort to circunstantial evidence in a criminal trial, objections on the ground of relevancy are not favored, as the
effect of circumstantial facts depends upon their connection with each
other, and considerable latitude is allowed on the question of motive.
The fact that such testimony also has a tendency to show that the defendant
was guilty of the alleged offence is not sufficient reason for its exclusion,
if otherwise competent.
Acting on these principles, the court sustains the ruling of the court below
admitting testimony stated at length in the opinion, to show a motive for
the alleged murder.
An exception to the denial of a motion for a new trial on the ground that
the verdict was not supported by the evidence is untenable under repeated
rulings of this court.

THIs was a writ of error upon the conviction of the plaintiff
in error for the murder of Charles Palmer, on July 25, 1889,
in Blue County, Indian Territory. Nelson Moore, defendant's
brother, was indicted with him, but was not tried.

