JACOBS v. GEORGE.
Syllabus.

possession thereof until 1888.

The statute of limitations,

therefore, does not constitute any bar to the complainant's
right to maintain the bill. But aside from this, the appellant
stands in the same position now that he did in the former suit,
when it was decreed that he had no right, title, or interest in
the property. If, since that decree, he has enclosed a part of
the land, cut wood from it, or cultivated it, he would be
treated and considered as holding it in subordination to the
title of Morton and his privy in estate, until lie gave notice
that his holding was adverse, and in the assertion of actual
ownership in himself. In his position he could not have asserted adverse possession after the decree against him, without
bringing express notice to Morton or his vendees that he was
claiming adversely. Without such notice the length of time
intervening between the decree and the institution of the
present suit would give him no better right than he previously
possessed; and his holding possession would, under the authorities, be treated as in subordination to the title of the real
owner. This is a well established rule. Jackson v. Bowen, 1
Wend. 341; Burhans v. Van, Zandt, 7 Barb. 91; Pionan v.
.Meyer', 84 Indiana, 390 ; Jefery v. "itJi.sh,45 Michigan, 59;
Jackson v. Sternbergh, 1 Johns. Cas. 153; Doyle v. .ellen, 15
R. I. 523; Zeller's Lessee v. Ekert, 4 How. 289.
We are of opinion that the decree below was clearly correct,
and should be
Affirmed.

JACOBS v. GEORGE.
APPEAL FROM

THE SUPREM1E

COURT OF

THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. S7. SubmittedNovember 20, 1893.--- Decided November 27, 1893.

When an appeal is allowed in open court, and perfected during the term at
which the decree or judgment appealed from was rendered, no citation
is necessary.
When an appeal is allowed at the term of the decree or judgment, but is
not perfected until after the term, a citation is necessary to bring in the
parties; but if the appeal be docketed here at the next ensuing term, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
the record reaches the clerk's hands seasonably for that term, and legal
excuse exists for lack of docketing, a citation may be issued, by leave
of this court, although the time for taking the appeal has elapsed.
When an appeal is allowed at a term. subsequent to that of the decree 6r
judgment appealed from, a citation ig necessary; but it may be issued,
properly returnable even after the expiration of the time for taking the
appeal, if"the allowance of the appeal were made before.
A citation is one of the necessary elements of an appeal taken after the
term, and if it be not issued and served before the end of the next
ensuing term of this court, and be not waived, the appeal becomes
inoperative.
THjE

case is stated in the opinion.

X r. W. I. Barnes for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
THE CaEIF JUSTICE:

Judgment in this case was rendered

by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona, January
19, 1889, that the judgment of the court below under review
by that court be reversed and the complaint dismissed with
costs.
January 13, 1890, being one of the days of the next regular
term of the court, an appeal was prayed to this court, the
appeal was allowed January 14, 1890, conditioned on giving
bond, and certain findings of the Supreme Court were filed
that day. January 21, 1890, the required bond was approved
and filed, and the record was filed here, March 14, 1890, at
October term, 1889. No citation was issued and served, nor
has any appearance for appellee been entered,. nor is any
waiver of citation shown.
It must be regarded as settled that: (1) Where an appeal is
allowed in open court, and perfected during the term at which
the decree or'judgment appealed from was rendered, no citation is necessary; (2) Where the appeal is allowed at the term
of 'the decree or judgment, but not perfected until after the
term, a citation is necessary to bring in the parties; but if
the appeal be docketed here at our next ensuing term, or the
record reaches the clerk's hands seasonably for that term, and
legal excuse exists for lack of docketing, a citation may be
issued by leave of this court, although the time for taking the

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
Statement of the Case.

appeal has elapsed; (3) Where the appeal is allowed-at a term
subsequent to that of the decree or judgment, a citation is
necessary, but may be issued properly return*able, even after
the expiration of the time for faking the appeal, if the allowance of the appeal were before; (4) But a citation is one of
the necessary elements of an appeal taken after the term, and
if it is not issued and served before the end of the next ensuing
term of this court, and not waived, the appeal becomes inoperative. Hewitt v. Filbert,116 U. S. 142; Richardson v. Green,
130 U. S. 104; Evans v. State Bank, 134 U. S. 330 ; Green v.
Elbert, 137 U. S. 615.
Appeal dismissed.

SALTONSTALL v. BIRTWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 116. Argued November 24, 1893. -Decided

December 4,1893.

Findings of fact in an action brought to recover duties on importations
paid under protest, which do not show what the collector charged the
plaintiff, nor sufficiently describe the articles imported, and a record
which fails to show under what provisions of the tariff act the parties
claimed respectively, leave this court unable to direct judgment -for
either party.
In such case the opinion of the court below cannot be resorted to to help
the findings out.

Tis was an action to recover duties paid under protest on
importations made in 1888. The first count of the plaintiff's
declaration was on an account annexed as follows:
"BOSTON, July 3, 1888.
"Leverett Saltonstall, collector, etc., to Joseph -Birtwell, Dr.
".Feb. 29, 1888., To excess of duty paid on 432 pieces
of manufactures of iron entered ex-steamship Jan
Breydel, Feb. 27, 1888 .......................... $1800
"Mch. 14, 1888. To excess of duty paid on 4 pieces of
manufactures of iron entered ex-steamship Petre de
75"
Connick, Mch. 14, 188 _.......................
VOL. cL--27

