POWELL v. BRUNSWICK COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

POWELL ,?. BRUNSWICK COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMXE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.
No. 898. Submitted November 20, 1893.-Decided December 4,1893..

This court must determine for itself whether it has jurisdiction under Rev.
Stat. ยง 709, to review the judgment of a state court; and the certificate
of the presiding judge of the State that a state of case exists for the
interposition of this court cannot, of itself, confer jurisdiction upon it
to reexamine a judgment of that court.
It is essential to the maintenance of the jurisdiction over the judgment of
the state court upon the ground of erroneous decision -as to the validity
of a state statute or a right under the Constitution of the United States,
that it should appear from the record that the validity of such statute
was drawn in question, as repuguant to the Constitution, and that the
decision sustained its validity, or that the right was specially set up or
claimed, and denied.
It is well settled, that the construction put 'upon a state statute by the
highest court of the State will generally be followed by this court, unless
it conflicts with the constitution, or a Federal statute, or a general rule
of commercial law.
Applying these rules it was held that the construction put by the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia in Taylor v. Supervisors, 86
Virginia, 506 upon the provision in the charter of the Atlantic and Danville Railway Company considered in this suit, leaves no Federal question for this court.

Monow to dismiss. This was a bill of complaint filed by
R. S. Powell and fourteen others, resident citizens and taxpayers of the county of Brunswick, -suing on behalf qf themselves and all other citizens and taxpayers of the county,
making thiemselves parties, March 26, 1889, in the CircuitCourt of the county of Brunswick, in the State of Virginia,
against the board of stupervisors of .that county and the
Atlantic and Danville Railway Company, to enjoin the disposition of certain bonds of the county, theretofore issued to
the company; the doing of any act by means whereof the
county, might become bound as a subsciiber to the capital
stock of the company; and to adjudge *allthe proceedings 'of
every kind whereby it had been attempted to bind the county
as such subscriber to be irregular, null, and void.
vor. cL--28

OCTOBER TERMK, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

'Under an act of the general assembly of Virginia, approved
April 21, 1882, the Atlantic and Danville Railway Company
was chartered and authorized to construct a line of road from
a point on the James River, in Surry County, by a designated
route to the city of Danville, and it was provided that certain
designated counties (including the county of Brunswick) along
the proposed road might subscribe to the capital stock of the
company. At a general election held on the fourth Thursday,
being the 24th day of May, 1883, the question of subscription
was submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of the county,
under an order of the county court, "in accordance with the
provisions of sections 62 and 63, chapter 61, Code of Virginia,
1873," and return having been made by the judges of election
to the court, commissioners were appointed to canvass with
the clerk -the ballots and report thereon.
'The board discharged this duty, canvassed the ballots,
reported the result, and further reported "1that three-fifths of
the qualified voters of the county voting upon the question
were in favor of subscription, and that said three-fifths includes
a majority of the votes cast by freeholders at the election and
a majority of the registered voters of the county." This
report was returned to the office of the county clerk and
admitted to record June 13, 1883.
By an act of the general assembly of Virginia of January
15, 1875' (Sess. Laws Va. 1874, 1875, p. 29, c. 37,) it was
provided that whenever the sense of the qnalified voters of any
county should be taken on the question of whether. the board
of supervisors should subscribe to the stock of any internal
improvement company, the returns of such elections or the
decision of the voters should be subject to the inquiry, determination, and judgment of the county court upon*the.written
complaint of fifteen or more of the qualified voters of the
county -of an undue election or false return, to be filed within
thirty days after the election, and the court to proceed upon
the merits and to determine concerning the same according
to the constitution and laws of the State. Such a complaint
-was filed in reference to this vote, June 21; amended; and as
amended quashed on June 27, 1883, and on the same day the

POWELL"'v. BRUNSWICK' COUNTY.
Statement of the Case.

county court ordered the board of supervisors to meet July 3,
1883, to carry the wishes of the voters into effect. The meeting was accordingly held on that' day and subscription made
to' the amount of thirty-five hundred dollars per mile for every
mile of main line constructed within the county, to be paid in
dounty bonds, payable twenty-five years after date, with
interest at six per cent.
Bonds to the amount of seventeen thousand five hundred
dollars were issued and delivered to the company January 21,
1889, and application was made in March, 1889, for additional
bonds when the complainants filed the bill in. question, alleging,
therein that a large number of the -voters of the county were
induced to vote for the subscription by false and fraudulent
representations made oft behalf of the company; that there
were gross frauds and irregularities in conducting the election*
and making the returns, induced by the fraudulent acts of the
company, and participated in by the officers of election; that"
the company was never duly organized and was incapable of
making a contract of subscription; that the act incorporating
the company was void because in conflict with certain provisions of the state'congtitution; and averring the illegality of
the subscription on other grounds in respect of the charter, I
amendments thereto, and proceedings thereunder.
The defendant company demurred, and also answered,
denying all the allegations of the bill, and alleging the final
disposition of most of them adversely to complainants in
.Taylor v. Suervisors, 86 Virginia, 506.
The cause having come on for hearing resulted in a decree
dismissing the bill. An appeal was taken, to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State, allowed on petition duly presented, and the ddcree of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
Appellants thereupon applied to the president of the' Court of
Appeals for a writ of error to this court, whioh was allowed,
together with a 'certificate "that the Federal questions presented by the assignment of errors in the foregoing peition
were duly raised by the assignment of errors made and argued
by the petitioners inthe said Supreme Court of Appeals, (the
said Supreme Court of Appeals being the highest court'of law

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

or equity in Virginia in which a decision can be had in said
suit,) and that a decision of the said Federal 'questions was
necessary to the determination of said suit and [they] were
aetually decided by the said Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia." The opinion of that court is set forth in the record
and is reported in 88 Virginia, TOT.
The ninth and tenth sections of the act under which the
defendant company was incorporated are as follows:
"9. The following counties through which the said railway
shall be constructed, to wit: Brunswick, Greensville, Meeklenrburg, Surry and Sussex, are hereby authorized to subscribe,
according to the forms prescribed by the Code of Virginia of
eighteen hundred and seventy-three, to the capital stock of
the said Atlantic and Danville Railway Companiy, to an
amount not exceeding thirty-five hundred dollars per mile, for
each and every mile of railroad the said company may construct within the limits of the said counties respectively;
provided that no part of said subscription made by any of the
said counties shall be due or payable until it shall be certified
that one mile or more of the said railroad shall have been
graded, and the track laid thereon in accordance with the
provisions 'ofthe tenth section of this act.
"10. That it shall be the duty of the county courts of the
several counties named in the preceding section of this act,
at the request of the said railway company, or the board of
supervisors of any of the said counties, to appoint a commissioner, who, after the commencement of the work of construction in the county, by the said company, shall report to
the county court, upon each court day, the number of miles
of railroad which the said company has graded and laid the
track thereon. Said report shall be certified at once to the
board of supervisors of the county, and thereupon the said
board of supervisors shall issue or cause to be issued and
deliver to the said railway company, bonds of the county,
bearing interest not exceeding six per centum per annum, of
such denominations as the said railway company may desire,
in payment for said subscription for every mile of railroad
which, by said report, appears to be graded, and to have the

POWELL v. BRUNSWICK COUNTY.
Statcnicut of the Case.

track substantially laid thereon. The compensation of said
commissioners shall be fixed by the courts appoibting the
same, and shall be paid by the Atlantic and Danville Railway Company." Sess. Laws Va.1881, 1882, c. 95, pp. 468,
469.
Section 62 of chapter 61 of the Code of Virginia of 1873,
applying to "subscriptions by counties, cities, and towns to
works of internal improvements," reads thus:
." The county court of any county, or the common council,
or board of trustees, of any city or town, or. township board
of any township, in this Commonwealth, may make an order
requiring the sheriff or sergeant, and commissioners of election, at the next general election for state, city, town or
county, or township officers, or at any other time, not less
than thirty days from the date of said order, which shall be
designated therein, to open a poll, and take the sense of the
qualified voters, on the question, whether the board of supervisors, council, 6r board of trustees, or township board, shall
subscribe to the stock of any internal imprdvement company,
named in the order, which has been incorporated by the
general assembly. The said order shall state the maximum
amount proposed to be subscribed, which shall in no case
exceed one-fifth of the total capital stock of said company, or
an amount, the interest upon which, at the rate authoxized by
the council, or board of trustees, of any city or town, or board
of supervisors of any county, or township board of any township, shall not require the imposition of an annual tax in
excess of twenty cents on the one hundred dollars: provided,
That the bonds issued by any county, city or town, or township, subscribed to any internal improvement company, shall
be received by such company at their par value."
As to counties, by section 63 commissioners of elections, "if
there be none otherwise legally appointed," were to be designated to open polls and conduct the election as provided by
law in other elections, and the votes for and against subscription were to be counted and return made to the judge of
the county court, and the ballots deposited with the clerk of
that court, and the clerk and citizens appointed by the judge

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

were constituted a board whose duty it was to canvass the
ballots and make report as prescribed.
By section 64, if it appeared from the report that threefifths of the qualified voters of the county, voting upon
the question, were in favor of subscription, and that said
three-fifths included a majority of the votes cast by free-holders at such election, and a majority of the registered
voters of the county, the county court was directed to enter of
record an order requiring the supervisors of the county "to
attend on a day and at a place named in the order, to carry
out the wishes of the voters, as expressed at said election."
Under section 65 the board of supervisors were to determine
what amount of the capital stock, not exceeding the maximum, should be subscribed for on behalf of the county, to
enter the amount onrecord, and to appoint an agent or agents
to make the subscription; which subscription should be paid
in such instalments as agreed upon by the board or called for
-by the company.
By section 66 it was provided that:
"For the purpose of paying the quotas on said stock, or the
said instalments, as they may be called for, as fall due, the
board of supervisors . . . shall have power to appoint an
agent or agents to negotiate a loan or loans, and to issue
bonds to secure the payment of the same, for and in the name
of said county, . . . which may be either registered or
coupon, as may be prescribed; and when the levy is made,
in said county, . . . a tax shall be levied on all
to pay
property, liable to state tax in such county,
.the amount of such subscription or of such loan, and interest
thereon, -or to pay the interest on the bonds so issued, and to
create a sinking fund to redeem the principal thereof, as the
authority ordering the levy or tax may. deem necessary or
proper; and from year to year said levy or assessment shall
be made until the debt and interest dre paid.' But such levy
or assessment for a year shall not exceed one-tenth of the
whole amount of such- subscription, with the interest thereon."
Code Virginia,. 1873, pp. 593, 594, 595.
Chapter VIII of the code treated, of general -and special

POWELL v. BRUNSWICK COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

elections and the conduct and notice thereof. General elections were to be held throughout the State on the fourth Thursday in May and on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
November in each year.
. r. Richard Walker and .Xr1.
motion.

Richard B. Davis for the

.Mr. E. P. Buford opposing.
MR.

CH

F JusTiCE FuLLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The determination of the jurisdiction of this court to review
the judgment of a state court under section seven hundred and
nine of the Revised Statutes necessarily devolves upon the
court itself, and, while the certificate of the presiding judge of
the state court as to the existence of the state of case upon
which our interposition may be successfully invoked is .always
regarded with respedt, it cannot confer jurisdiction upon this
court to reexamine the judgment below. Lawler v. Walker,
14: How. 149; Railway Company v. Rock, 4 Wall. 477; Parmelee v. Lawrence, 11 Wall. 36; Caperton v. Bowyer, 14 Wall.
216; Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327; Gross v. United States
.Mortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477; Felix v. Scharaweber, 125 U. S.
54; Roby v. Golehour, 146 U. S. 153.
In Parmeleev. Lawrence,Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking for the
court, said: "We will add, if this court should entertain jurisdiction upon a certificate alone in the absence of any evidence
of the question in the record, then the Supreme Court of the
State can give the jurisdiction in every ease where the question is made by counsel in the argument. The office of the
certificate, as it respects the Federal question, is to make more
certain and specific what is too general and indefinite in the
record, but is incompetent to originate the question within the
true construction of the 25th section."
As many times reiterated, it is essential to the maintenance
of jurisdiction upon the ground of erroneous decision as-to the
validity of a state statute or a right under the Constitution of
the United.States, that it should appear from the record that

-OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion o

the Court.

the validity of such statute was drawn in question as vepugnant to the Constitution and that the decisionL sustained its
validity, or that the right was specially set up or claimed and
denied. If it appear from the recora by clear and necessary
intendment that the Federal question must have been directly
involved so that the state court could not have given judgment
without deciding it, that will be sufficient; but resort cannot
be had to the expedient of importing into the record the legislation of the State as judicially known to its courts, and holding
the validity of such legislation to 'have been drawn in question,
and a decision necessarily rendered thereon, in arriving at conclusions upon the matters actually presented and considered.
A definite issue as to th6 validity of the statute or the possession -of the right must be distinctly deducible from the
record before the state court can be held to have disposed of
such a Federal question by its decision.
The bill of complaint in this case nowhere claimed relief by
reasbn of any right, title, privilege, or immunity under the
Constitution of the United States, or because of the violation
by the proceedings in reference to the subscription of any provision of that Constitution, nor did the petition in error to the
Court of Appeals suggest any Federal question, but in a supplemental brief, filed in that court, it was nrged that by section nine of the charter of the railway company the designated
counties were authorized to subscribe "according to the forms
.prescribed by the Code of Virginia of eighteen hundred and
seventy-three ;" that these "forms" 'were set forth in sections
62, 63, and 61 of chapter 61 of that code; and that by subscription thereunder the property owners of the county would
be .deprived of their property "without due process of
'law," in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, for want of
provision in those sections requiring notice of the election to
be given t6 the voters. The argument seems to have been
that those sections of the code must be read into section nine;
that a vaid subscription' could not be made without a vote
hiad as therein prescribed; and that, irrespective of whether
the vote was taken at a general election or upon notice of the
special matter actually given, as notice was not provided for,

POWELL v. BRUNSWICK COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the sections were void and no subscription could be made
at all.
The difficulty with this contention is that the Supreme
Court of Appeals has otherwise construed section 9 of the
railroad charter.
In Taylor v. Supervisors, 86 *Virginia, 506, 510, which was
the case of a bill filed by the citizens of Greensville County,
one of the counties designated in the ninth section, to contest
the validity of the subscription of that county, the point was
raised and pressed that section 62 was included in the "forms"
referred to in the ninth section, but the court decided to the
contrary, and, speaking through Hinton, J., said: "The provisions of sec. 62, ch. 61, Code 1873, seem to have been mainly,
designed to give to the people a definite idea of what is proposed to be done in behalf of the county, and to fix a limit
beyond which generally the power to subscribe shall not be
exercised. These objects, however, the legislature has evidently seen fit to acbomplish, so far as they were practicable,
by the provisions of this charter, and we must hold, therefore,
that that section of the code has no application to the case.
But what, then, are the 'forms prescribed' by the Code of
1873, which the charter directs shall be observed in making
this subscription? Why, manifestly, the forms given in sections
65 and 66, ch. 61, Code under the heading 'If subscriptions be
voted for, how it is to be made,' etc. In other words, the
forms prescribed by the Code of 1873, according to which the
subscription is to be made, are those which are to be observed
in making the subscription after the voters have declared at the
polls that the subscription shall be made." That decision was
approved and followed in the case under consideration, the
court saying: "The case of Taylor v. Te Board of Supervisors of Greensville County, supra, was a controversy arising
concerning this same railroad in its construction through the
county of Greensville; the identical questions raised here were
raised there as to the irregularities of the organization and the
subscription of that county, and especially the excess of the
subscription in the aggregate, when computing it at the sum
of $3500 per mile, as compared to the provisions of the general

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

law, as set forth in section 62 of chapter 61 of the Code of 1873.
But Judge Hinton sufficiently disposes of this objection and
apparent .difficulty by pointing out that the proceedings here
were by virtue of a special act of assembly upon this very
subject, passed not only subsequently to the code, but enacted
to govern this particular case. The questions raised as to the
election are considered and disposed of there, and furnish reasons satisfactory as to this case."
The Fourteenth Amendment was not referred to by the
court, and although the conclusion of the opinion, that "on all
other questions we are of opinion to affirm the decree appealed
from," is broad enough to cover the objection that the statute
was in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, we
presume that allusion to the subject was thought unnecessary
in view of the settled construction of the railroad charter to
the contrary of that upon which the supposed conflict depended.
As to that construction, we perceive no reason for declining
to accept it in accordance with the general rule applicable to
the decisions of the highest court of a State in reference to the
laws of the State. Gormley v. Clark, 134 U. S.338, 348.
Writ of error di&misserl.

HICKS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE cIRcurr CQURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 971. subm~itted. November 16, 1893.-

Decided November 27, 1893.

H.was indicted jointly with R. for the murder of C. Before the day of
trial R. was killed, whereupon H. was tried separately. It was clearly
proved at the trial that H. did not kill C.nor take any part in the physical struggle which resulted in his death at the hands of R. There was
evidence tending to show that by his language and gestures H. abetted
R., but this evidence was given by persons who stood at some distance
from the scene of the crime. H. denied having used such language, or
any language with an intent to participate in the murder, and insisted
that what he had said had been said under the apprehension that R., who

