CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATE,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

UNITED STATES v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE

RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

"o.3. Argued Octobbr 10, 1893.- Decided October 23,1893.
After the expiration of the time limited by the act of June 8, 1872, 17 Stat.
339, c. 354, for the completion of its road'to Santa F6, if not before that
time, the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company was entitled to
claim the benefit of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 15], upon
complying with its conditions.
The act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 482, c. 151, granting a right of way to
railroads through the public lands, and authorizing them to take therefrom timber or other materials necessary for the construction of their
roadways, station buildings, depots, machine-shops, sidetracks, turnouts, water stations, etc., permits a railway company to use the timber
or material so taken on portions of its line remote from the place from
which it is taken.
In its ordinary acceptation and enlarged sense, the term "railroad" includes
all structures which are necessary and-essential to its operation.
While it is well settled that public grants are to be construed strictly as
against the grantees, they are not to be so construed as to defeat the
intent of the legislature, or to withhold what is given.
General'legislation, offering advantages in the public lands to individuals or
corporations as an inducement to the accomplishment of enterprises of a
quasi public character through undeveloped public domain should receive
a more liberal construction than is given 'to an ordinary private grant.
VOL. CL-I

1

OCTOBER TERMr, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
It is not decided that the act of March 3, 1870J, gave a right to take timber
from the public domain for making rolling stock; nor what structure,
if any, not enumerated in that act would constitute necessary, essential,
or constituent parts of a railroad.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Y-r. Solicitor General, with whom was -Mr. IFilliamn A.
.Mauryon the brief, for plaintiffs in error cited: Railway Co.
v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463; United States v. Burlington & 21[issou1ri River Railroad, 98 U. S. 334; United States v. cha)lin, 31 Fed. Rep. 890; Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railwa4
v. United States, 92 U. S. 733; Slidell v. Grandjean, 111
U. S. 412; Dun ue & Pacific Railroad v. Litchfield, 23
I-ow. 66; Charles River Bridge v. Warren. Bridge, 11 Pet.
420; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514; Fertilizing
Co. v. Hyde Park,97 U. S. 659; Oregon Railway & NTavigation Co. v. Oregonian Railway Co., 130 U. S. 1; Portland,
Saco & Portsmouth Railroadv. Saco, 60 -Maine, 196; Stevens
v. Er'ie Railway, 6 C. E. Green, (21 N. J. Eq.,) 259.
Mr. Edward 0. Wolcott, (with whom was -Mr. Joel F.
Vaile on the brief,) for defendant in error, cited: United States
v. Denver & . Rio Grande Railway, 31 Fed. Rep. 886; Edwards9 v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206; Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall.
72; United States v. -Moore, 95 U. S. 760; Brown v. United
States, 113 U. S. 568; United States v. Bank of NSorth Carolina, 6 Pet. 26 ; United States v. Chaplin, 31 Fed. Rep. 890
Henderson'sLessee v. Long, Cooke, (Tenn.,) 128; Courtrightv.
Cedar Rapids &c. Railroad, 35 Iowa, 386; United States v.
Burlington &c. Railroad, 98 U. S. 334; Oother v. Midland
Railway, 2 Phillips Oh. 469; Lake Superior &c. Railroadv.
United States, 93 U. S. 442 ; Baltimore v. Baltimore & Ohio
Railroad,21 Maryland, 50; Missouri, Kansas c. Railroad
v. Eansas Pacific Railroad,97 U. S. 491.
AIR. JUsTICE XAcnsox delivered the opinion of the court.
The record in this case presents for our consideration and
determination the following questions: First, is the defendant,

UNITED STATES .v. DENVER &c. RAILWAY.

3

Opinion of*the Court.

a railway company, duly chartered and organized in 1870-under
the laws of the Territory of Colorado, for the purpose of locating, constructing, and operating an extensive system of railway and telegraph lines, entitled to the benefits of the act of
Congress -approved March 3 1815, 18 Stat. 482, c. 15s, entitled "An act granting to railroads the right of way through
the public lands of the United States;" and, second, if so entitled, is the defendant authorized or permitted, under a proper
construction of said act, to take from the public lands adjacent
to the line of the railroad,%timber or other material necessary
for the construction of its roadway, station buildings, depots,
machine shops, side tracks, turnouts, water stations, &c., and.
use the same on portions of its line remote from the place
from which such timber oi material may be taken; or does the
act limit the railroad company to timber or other material
found in the vicinity of the place where the work of construction is going on
These questions, constituting the matters in controversy
between the parties, arise in this way: The plaintiffs in error,
who were the plaintiffs below, brought their suit against the
defendant in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado, to recover the value of timber alleged to
have been taken by the defendant from the public domain
between October 1, 1882, and November 1, 1883. The defendant, by its answer, interposed a general denial of the allegations of the complaint, and for a further defence justified the
taking of the timber under the special act of Congress approved June 8, 1872, 17 Stat. 339, c. 354, and, under the general
act of March 3, 1875.. The case was tried upon the following
agreed statement of facts:
"1. The timber sued for in said action was cut by William
A. Eckerly & Company, as agents for the Denver and Rio
Grande Railway Company, and delivered to said railway
conipany."2. That the' attached statement correctly shows the kinds
and amounts of timber so cut and delivered, and also shows
the time of cutting, the purposes for which it was cut and
used, and the prices paid for cutting and delivering the same.

OCTOBER TERM; 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"3. The said timber was cut in iMontrose County, Colorado,
and near the town of IMontrose, and upon public, unoccupied,
and unentered lands of the UnitedStates.
"4. That the lands from which the timber was cut were
along and near and adjacent to the line of railway of said
company.
"5. That the portion of the line of railway through said
county of Montrose, and in the vicinity of said town of Montrose, was not constructed or completed until after June 8,
1882, and that on'June 8, 1882, said line of railway was
only constructed and completed as far westward as Cebolla,
in Gunnison County, Colorado.
"6. That said company had not completed its line of railway to Santa F6 on June 8, 1882, nor has it ever so completed it.
"I. That of the timber cut as aforesaid, a part was used on
portions of the line of railway out to Grand Junction, constructed and completed after June 8, 1882, and for the purposes of construction of railway, erection of section and depot
houses, snow-sheds, fences, &c.
"And a part was shipped by the Denver and Rio Grande
Railway for similar purposes to the Denver an.d Rio Grande
Western Railway, to be used in the Territory of Utah, as
shown in the attached statement, and $1000 worth was used
for repairs on portions of road completed prior to June 8,
1882.
"8. That as to all of its line of railway constructed after
June 8, 1882, the said company strictly complied withall the
requirements of the act of Congress approved March 3d, 1875,
entitled, ' An act granting railroads the right of way through
the public lands of the United States.'"
On this agreed statement of facts there were submitted to
the court for decision several legal propositions and questions,
vhich were not, however, separately considered and passed
upon, and need not be here specially noticed. The case made
by the facts agreed upoii was intended to be a test case to
obtain a definite and positive adjudication by the court of tihe
rights of-the railway company wvith regard to cutting timber

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. RAIlLWALY.
Opinion of the Court.

from public lands under the provisions of the two acts which
have been referred to.
The District Court entered judgment for the plaintiffs for
$2-,926.25, the agreed value of the timnber takeu. From this
judgment the defendant took its writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Colorado, which
modified the judgment of the District Court by charging the
defendant first, with the sum of $1000, as the value of the
timber used for repairs on that portion of the road east of
Cebolla, Colorado, which had been completed prior to June 8,
1882; and for the further sum of $1229.45, as the value of the
timber shipped by the defendant to the Denver and Rio
Grande Western Railway Company to be used in the Territory
of Utah ; but as to the rest of the timber used on portions of
the road west of Montrose, out to Grand Junction, for the
purpose of constructing the defendant's railway, erecting
bridges, section houses, depots, bunk houses; stock yards,
water tanks, &c., held that the defendant was not liable
therefor, and to that extent reversed the judgment of the
District Court. The plaintiffs prosecute the present writ of
error to review and reverse this judgment of the Circuit
Court. The defendant has sued out no cross writ of error,
and concedes its liability for the timber with which it has
been charged by the judgment of the Circuit Court.
If the defendant is not entitled to the benefits of the act of
March 3, 1875, or if that act, properly construed, does not
permit or allow the defendant to use timber taken from adjacent lands except for the construction of adjacent portions of
its line of rQad and structures connected therewith, then the
judgment of the Circuit Court is erroneous. If, however, the
defendant can rightfully claim the benefits of the act of
March 3, 1875, and if that act authorizes it to take'from the
public lands adjacent to its line of road timber necessary for
the construction of its railway, and use the same at points
distant from the place at which the timber was taken, then
the judgment below should be affirmed.
By the act of Congress approved June 8, 1872, "the right
of way over the public domain, one. hundred feet in width on

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinfon of the Court.

each side of the track, together with such public lands adjacent
thereto as may be needed for depots, shops, and other buildings for railway purposes, and for yard room and side tracks,
not exceeding twenty acres at any.one station, and not more
than one station in every ten miles [6f the road] and the right
to take from the public lands adjacent thereto stone, timber,
earth, water, and other material required for the construction
and repair of its railway and telegraphic line," was granted
and confirmed unto the defendant in error, its successors, and
assigns. Attached to this grant was a proviso "that said
company shall complete its railway to a point on the Rio
Grande as far south as Santa F6 within five. years of the
passage of this act, and shall complete fifty miles additional
south of said point in each year thereafter, and in default
thereof the rights and privileges herein granted shall be rendered null and void so far as 9'espects the ufniskedportion of
said road."
By the general act of 1875 it was enacted:
"SEC. 1. That the right of way throfigh the public lands of
the United States is hereby granted to any railroad company
duly organized under the laws of any State or TerritorT,
except the District of Columbia, or by the Congress of the
United States, which shall have filed with the Secretary of the
Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due proofs
of its organization under the same, to the dxtent of. one hundred feet on each side of the central line of said road; also
the right to take from the public lands adjacent to the line of
said road material, earth, stone, and timber necessary for the
construction of said railroad; also ground adjacent to such
right of way for station buildings, depots, machine shops, side
tracks, turnouts, and water stations, not to exceed in amount
twenty acres for each station, to the extent of one station for
each ten miles of its road."
By the fourth section of this act it was declared:
"SEc. 4. That any railroa& company desiring to secure the
benefits of this act, shall within twyelve months after the location-of any section of twenty miles of.its road, if the same be
upon surveyed lands, and if upon unsurveyed lands, within

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. llITLWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

twelve months after the survey thereof by the United States,
lile with the register of the land office for the district where
such land is located a profile of its road; and upon approval
thereof by the Secretary of the Interior the same shall be not .d
upon the. plats in said office; and thereafter all such lands over
which such right of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject to such right of way: Provi'd,That if any section of
said'road shall not be completed within five years after the
location of said section, the rights herein granted shall be forfeited as to any such uncompleted section of said road."
As shown by the agreed statement of facts, the railway
company on June 8, 1882, had completed its line westward
only as far as Cebolla, Colorado, and has never completed it
to Santa F6. The right of the railway company; under the
special act of 1872, to take timber west of Cebolla for the
-construction of its line accordingly terminated on June 8, 1882.
The timber in controversy was taken after that date from the
vicinity of M[ontrose, lontrose County, Colorado, some fortyfive miles west of Cebolla, and is justifiable, on the part of the
defendant, only under the act of March 3, 1875 - if it is
entitled to the benefits of that act.
It is urged on behalf of the plaintiffs in error that the
defendant, having accepted the special grant of, a right of way,
and the right to take limber, made to it by the act of June 8,
1872, and this being a subsisting grant at the time of the passage of the act of March 3' 1875, it cannot rightfully claim the
benefits of the latter act. It is said that the two grants could
not properly coexist, and that the later act should not be construed as including the defendant railway company, because
the special act of 1872 was more beneficial, in the fact that it
conferred upon the railway company, and its successors, the
right to take timber both for construction and repairs, and
that the defendant, having elected to take the benefits of that
grant, cannot escape the conditions attached to it, nor claim
the benefits of the act of 1875, passed while the defendant
was enjoying the special benefits conferred upon it by the act
of 1872.
We cannot accede to the correctness of this proposition.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The general and special acts are in no way inconsistent with
eaeh other. The general nature and purpose of the act of 1875
Were manifestly to promote the building of railroads through
the immense public domain remaining unsettled and undeveloped at the time of its passage. It was not a mere bounty
for the benefit of the railroads that might accept its provisions,, but was legislation intended to promote the interests of
the government in opening to settlement, and in enhancing
the value of those public lands through or near which such
railroads might be constructed. To induce the investment of
capital in the construction of railroads through the public
domain, Congress had previously granted special rights, such
as were conferred upon the defendant by the act of 1872; but,
by this act of 1875, a general offer was made to any and all
railroad companies of so much of the public domain as might
be necessary for right of way, and ground adjacent thereto,
for station buildings, depots, machine shops, side tracks, turnouts, and water stations, with the right to take timber from
the public lands adjacent to such road for the construction of
the railway, provided such railway company should comply
with the provisions of section four of the act. This general
offer was not limited or restricted as to the time within which
the offer should be accepted, nor in respect to the company or
companies who should be entitled to the benefits thereof upon
complying with the provisions of the act. Its terms are sufficiently broad and general to include the defendant, who, by
the agreed statement of facts, asserted and claimed the benefits
thereof as to all that, portion of its line of railway constructed
after June 8, 1882, *vhen its rights under the act of June 8,
1872, terminated so far as respected its unfinished line west-of
Cebolla. No railway company could claim the benefits of the
act of 1875 until it had accepted its provisions and complied
with the conditions - required by the fourth section thereof.
Upon such compliance, and not before, the benefits intended
to be conferred by the act would attach. It does not appear
from the record or from the agreed statement of facts at what
date the defendant accepted the provisions of the act of 1875,
and complied with the conditions upon which it was entitled

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. RAILWAY.
Opinion of the Court.

to the benefits thereof. But whether such compliance oft the
part of the railway company was before or after June 8, 1882,
it sufficiently appears that it only claimed and asserted the
benefits under that act after its rights under the act of 1872 had
terminated, so far as concerns the unfinished portion of its
line; for by the eighth paragraph of the agreed statement of
facts it isadmitted 11that as to all of its railway constructed
after June 8, 1882, that said company strictly complied with
all the requirements of the act of Congress, approved March
3, 1875, entitled 'An act granting railroads the right of way
through the public lands of the United States."'
Now, the act of 1875 remaining in force as a general law
and.as a general offer to any railway company, the defendant
clearly had a right after June 8, 1882, if it did not have before,
to claim the benefits of that act. That act was not merely a
legislative offer of benefits, but operated as a law of the government and remained in full force and effect, not only while
the defendant was enjoying the benefits of the act of 1872, but
subsequently, after its rights under that special act had expired:
Under these circumstances it cannot be properly said that the
railway company is either claiming or asserting rights conferred by, or coexisting under, both the special grant and the
general law; for thebenefits of the latter, whether accepted
before or after the rights conferred by the special act of 1872
had ceased or terminated, were not actually asserted or put in
practical use until after June 8, 1882, and then only in respect
to unfinished portions of the line not covered by the act of
1872.
No reason is perceived why the defendant, after its rights
under the special act had terminated, should not be permitted
to take the benefits of the general law of 1875, so far as it
related to the construction of its line west of Cebolla, and
built after June 8, 1882, when its right to take material for
construction ceased under the act of 1872.
Upon what principle does the enjoyment by the defendant
of the rights and benefits conferred by the earlier special act
preclude or estop it from accepting the benefits offered by the
later general act after the special rights and privileges had

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

terminated ? We know of .1) such principle.

There is noth-

ing in the case of Railway Co. v. Alling, 99 U. S. 463, cited
on behalf of plaintiffs in error, inconsistent with this view of
the subject. In that case the Denver Company (the defendant
in error here) had in 1871 and 1872 merely made a preliminary
survey of its line through the Grand Caion of the Arkansas,
but bad postponed the actual location and final appr6priation
of its roadway through that defile until April, 1878, at which
date it was subject to the provisions of the act of 1875, (the
second section of which conferred upon other roads the right,
upon certain terms and conditions, to use its track or roadway
through such defiles,) for the reason that after -the passage of
' that act the Denver Company had accepted the benefit of the
atct of Al arch 3, 1877, extending the time for the completion
of its road to Santa F6, which extension the court assumed
would hardly have been given by Congress except subject to
the conditions contained in the act of 1875. Being subject
to the provisions of the law, as contained in the second section
of the act of 1875, while in the exercise of its rights under the
act of 1872, as amended by the act of 1877, in no way prevented the railway company from complying with its conditions and securing the benefits conferred by the first section
of the act of 1875. We are, therefore, of opinion that the
defendant in error was clearly entitled, after June 8, 1882, if
not before, to the benefits of the act of 1875, upon complying,
as it did, with the conditions of that act.
But it is urged that, even if the defendant is entitled to the
benefits of the act of 1875, it is not. permitted to tak6 timber
from. the public domain and ship it for use in the construction
of its railror '1 at points distant from the place at which the
timber was taken, but is limited to the taking and use of
timber in the vicinity, or adjacent to the place, where the
work of construction is going, on; and that it is not entitled
to take timber for the erection of depots, section houses,
bunk houses, stock yards, water tanks, &c. This presents the
question as to where, or at what place, and for what purposes
the iailway company xnay rightfully use. timber, or other
material, taken from the public lands adjacent to the line of

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. RAILWAY.

11

Opinion of the Court.

its road. By the express terms of the act, the timber or other
material which it is entitled to take must be taken from public
lands "adjacent" to the line of the road, and must not be
merely suitable but "necessary for the construction of the
railroad." By 'the agreed statement of facts it is admitted
that the timber in question was taken from the public, unoccupied, unentered lands of the United States, which were
located along, near, and adjacent to the line of the defendant's
road. INo question, therefore, can be raised as to the proper
locality from which it was taken. Was the defendant, under
a proper construction of the act, limited and restricted in the
use of such timber for purposes of construction to points or
places on the line of the road adjacent to the locality from
which the timber was taken? While the act does limit the
railway company in respect to the place or locality frbm which
timber or other material may be taken, by confining the right
to public lands adjacent to the line of the road, it does not, by
either express terms, or by any fair or necessary implication,'
place any limitation as to the place at which such timber may
be used. The license to take timber is not, by the language
of the act, limited to what is necessary for the construction of
such portion of the road as is adjacent to the place from
which the timber is taken, but extends to the construction of
the entire "railroad.'" The right is given to use material
"necessary for the construction of said railroad." This language treats the railroad as an entirety, in the construction
of which it was the purpose of Congress to aid by c6nferring
upon any railway company, entitled to the benefits of the abt,
the right to take timber necessary for such construction from
the public lands adjacent to-the line of the road. This intention would be narrowed, if not defeated, if it .were held that
the timber, which the railway company had the right to take
for use in the construction of its line, could be rightfully used
only upon such portions of the line as might be contiguous to
the place from which the timber was taken. If Congress had
intended to impose any such restriction upon the use of timber
or other material taken from adjacent public lands, it should
have been so expressed. No rule of interpretation requires

OCTOBER, TERM', 1893.
Opilin of the Court.

this court to so construe the act as to confine the use of timber
that may be taken from a proper place for the purpose of construction to any particular or defined portion of the railroad.
To do this would require the court to read into the statute
the same language, as to the place of use, which is found in
the statute as to the place of taking. In other words, it
would require the court to interpolate into the statute the
provision that the place at which the timber shall be used shall
be "contiguous, adjoining, or adjacent" to the place from
which it is taken. The place of use is not, by the language
of the statute, qualified, restricted, or defined, except to the
extent of the construction of the railroad as such, and it is
not to be inferred from the restriction or limitation imposed
-as to the place from which it may be rightfully taken that it
is to be used only adjacent to such place.
As to the purposes for which the material may be used, it
must be borne in mind that the benefits intended to be conferred by the act are not confined or limited to the roadbed,
or roadway, as the foundation upon which the superstructure
is to rest, but are extended to the "railroad," as a completed
or perfected structure.
In addition to the -right of way and the right to take timber
for the purposes of this completed or entire structure, called
the "railroad," there is granted by the.act "also ground adjacent to such right of way for station buildings, depots, machine
shops, side tracks, turnouts, and water tanks, not to exceed in.
amount twenty acres for each station, to the extent of one
station for each ten miles of its road." By this provision,
these structures, which are necessary appurtenances to all railroads, may fairly be regarded as parts or portions of the .'ail,road,whose construction it was the purpose of Congress to
aid. In its ordinary acceptation and enlarged sense the term
Tailroad fairly includes all structures which are necessary and
essential to its operation. As already stated, it was not the
intention of Congress to aid in the mere construction of the
roadbed, or roadway, but to aid in the construction of the railroad as such, which term has a far more extended signification
than the mere track, or roadway. If the language of the act

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. RAILWAY.

13

Opinion of the Court.

had shown an intention to aid merely in the construction of
the roadbed, or roadway, it is clear that such structures as
station houses, &c., would not have been included; but when
the ground is given on which to erect such structures in and
by the same act which confers the right of way, and also gives
the right to take from adjacent public lands timber necessary
for the construction of the railroadas such, it may be reasonably claimed that timber necessary for that construction may
be used or applied in the erection of the structures constituting an essential part or portion of the railroad. It is no forced
interpretation to hold that the right to take timber was intended to aid in the erection of structures without which the
railroad would have been practically useless.
It could hardly be questioned that a grant of power to construct a railroad would include the right to erect necessary
structures, such as station houses, water tanks, &c., as essential
and constituent parts thereof. This being so, it is difficult to
understand why the grant of a right to take timber for the
construction of a railroad should not equally extend to and include the same structures, constituting, as they do, necessary
and indispensable appendages thereto.
Again; exemption from taxation is construed with greater
strictness in favor of the State than grants of public property
or rights, for the reason that taxation is more essential to the
existence of government than bwnership and possession of
public property. Yet it has been held in several well-considered
cases that where a railroad is exempt from taxation, such exemption extends to structures like those in question. Thus in
the case of the Lehigh Ooal and NMavigation Co. v. .Nortkampton County, 8 W. & S. 334, it was held that as an incorporated
canal was not taxable, not only the bed, berm-bank, and towpath of the canal, but the lock-houses and collectors' houses
were also exempt, these being considered constituent parts of
the canal or necessarily incident thereto. So in Railroad Co.
v. Berks County, 6 Penn. St. 70,' it was held that as the railroad was exempt from taxation, water-stations and depots, including the 6ffices and places to hold cars, &c., beingnecessary
and indispensable to the construction and use of the road, were

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

within the exemption, while warehouses and coal lots, intended
for the mere convenience of the road, were not so exempt.
The principle of these cases is followed and illustrated in the
case of State v. Commissioners of ilansfedd, 3 Zabr., (23'N. J.
Law,) 510, and in the case of Worcester v. Tester Railroad,
4 Met. (Mass.) 561.
It is undoubtedly, as urged by the plaintiffs in error, the
well-settled rule of this court that public grants are construed
strictly against the grantees, but they are not to be so construed as to defeat the intent of the legislature, or to withhold
what is given either expressly or by necessary or fair implication. In Winona & St. Peter Bailroad v. Barney, 113 U. S.
618, 625, Mr. Justice Field, speaking for the court, thus states
the rule upon this subject: "The acts making the grants
are to receive such a construction as will carry out the intent
of Congress, however difficult it might be to give full effect
to the language used if the grants were by instruments of private conveyance. 'To ascertain that intent we must look to
the condition of the country when the acts were passed, as
well as to the purposes declared on their face, and read all
parts of them togeth'er."
Looking to the condition of the country, and the purposes
intended to be accomplished by the act, this language of the
court furnishes the proper rule of construction of the act of
1875. When an act, operating as a general law, and manifesting clearly the intention of Congress to secure public advantages, or to subserve the public interests and welfare by
means of benefits .more or, less valuable, offers to individuals
or to corporations as an inducement to undertake and accomplish great and expensive enterprises or works of aquasipublic
character in or through an immense and undeveloped public
domain, such legislation stands -upon a somewhat differenf
footing from merely a private grant, and should receive at
the hands of the court a more liberal construction in favor of
the purposes for which it was enacted. Bradley v. 3iYw York
& NAew- Haven Railroad, 21 Connecticut, 294; Pierce on
Railroads, 491.
This is the rule, we think, properly applicable to the con-

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c. RAILWAY.

i5

Opinion of the. Court.

struction of the act of 1875, rathek than the more strict rule of
construction adopted in the case of purely private grants; and
in view of this character of the adt, we are of opinion that the
benefits intended for the construction of the railroad in permitting the us6 of timber or other material, should be extended
to and include the stkuctures mentioned in the act as a part of
such railroad.
It appears from'the certificate attached to the agreed statement of facts that a small portion of the timber taken by
the defendant, amounting to $150.15, was used in or about
"cars." .The defendant was not charged by the judgment of
the court below with this item, for the reason, as we assume,
that these cars were not emlloyed in the transportation of
traffic, but were of such character as hand-cars employed in
the work of construction. In affirming the judgment of the
court below as to this item, this court does not mean to be
understood as holding that the defendant, under the act of
1875, has the right to use timber taken from the public lands
for the purpose of constructing rolling stock or equipiment
employed in its transportation business. Neither are, we
called upon in this case to determine what other structures if
any, besides those enumerated in the first section-of the act of
1875, would constitute necessary, essential, or constituent parts
of the railroad.
Our conclusion is that there is no error in the judgment
below, and that it should be
Affirmed.

