ROOT v. WOILWORTH.
Syllabus.

without due process of law. The p6tition does not proceed on
any such theory, but entirely on the ground of want of jurisdiction in the prior case over the subject-matter and overthe person
of petitioner, in respect of inquiry into which the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court was sought. If, in the opinion of that court,
the restraining order had been absolutely void, or the petitioner were not bound by it, he would have been discharged,
not because he would otherwise be deprived of'due process,
but because of the invalidity of the proceedings for want of
jurisdiction. The opinion of the Circuit Court was that jurisdiction in the prior suit and proceedings existed, and the discharge was refused, but an appeal from that judgment directly
to this court would not, therefore, lie on the ground that the
application of the Constitution was involved as a consequence
of an alleged erroneous determination of the questions actually
put in issue by the petitioner.
Appeal dismised.

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
APPEAL

FROM[ THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 77. Argued and submitted November 10, 1893.-Decided November 27, 1893.

In 1870, M., a citizen of Indiana, filed a bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska against R., a citizen
of Nebraska, io establish his right to real estate near Omaha, to which
R. set up title. Each claimed under a judicial sale against PT Al. obtained a decree in 1872, establishing his title, and directing R. to convey
to him, or, in default of that, authorizing the appointment of a master
to make the conveyance. R. refused to make the conveyance,.and it was
made by a master to Al. under the decree. The entire interest of Al. came
by mesne conveyances to W., a citizen of Nebraska. M. reentered upou
the premises, and set up the title wuich had been declared invalid in the
decree of 1872. W. thereupon filedT in the same court an ancillary bill,
praying that R. be restrained from asserting his pretended title and from
occupying the premises; -that he might be decreed to have no interest in
the lauds; that a iv:rit'of possession issue, commanding the marshal
summarily to remove R., his tenants and agents from the premises, and
YOL. CL-26

OCTOBER TERII, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
that R. be perpetually enjoined from setting up his claims. R. demurred
on the ground of want of jurisdiction by reason of both parties being
citizens of the same State. The demurrer was overruled, the defendant
answered, and upon the pleadings and proofs a decree was entered for
plaintiff, in conformity with the prayer in the bill Held,
(1) That the bill was clearly a supplemental and ancillary bill, such as
the court had jurisdiction to entertain, irrespective of the citizenship of the parties;
(2) That the original decree not only under'took to remove the cloud on
M's title, but it included and carried with it the right to possession of the preinis.es, and that right passed to W as privy in
estate;
(3) That certain facts set up as to an alleged transfer by M. of his interest to a citizen of Nebraska before filing his bill could not be
availed of collaterally aftcr~such a lapse of time, and with no excuse for the delay;
(4) That the property claimed could be fully identified;
(5) That until R. should give notice that his holding was adverse to W.,
the latter was entitled to treat it as a holding in subordination to
the title of the real owner under the decree of 1872.

TE appellee, as .a privy in interest and estate, filed the
bill in this case Tor the purpose of carrying into execution
a former decree of the court, rendered in 1873, against the
appellant in favor of Oliver P. Morton, by which the latter's
right and title to a certain parcel of land was settled and
established, and to which title and interest the appellee
thereafter succeeded.
The proceedings in which the original decree was rendered
were begun in 1870 in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Nebraska by Oliver P. Morton, in a suit
against Allen Root, the appellant, to establish his right to
certain premises near the city of Omaha, and to have the
claim which Root asserted thereto declared a cloud upon
his title. Both parties claimed the land- under judicial sales
previously had against one Roswell G. Pierce. The decree
established the-superiority of Morton's title, and ordered that
Root should execute a conveyance of the premises to him
within a designated time, and upon his failure so to do
a special master, appointed for that purpose, was invested
with the authority and directed to make such conveyance.
Root did not appeal from this decree,- which remains in full

ROOT v. WOOLW.OI1TH.
Statement of the Case.

force and unannulled or reversed, but he refused to make
the conveyance, and the special master thereupon, by deed,
transferred the property to Morton.
Thereafter, in June, 1873, Morton conveyed an undivided
half interest in the premises to James Woolworth, the
appelle, and the other half interest to his biot1her, William
S. T. Morton. Upon the death of the latter his executors,
under power and authority conferred by his will, transferred
to Woolworth the other half interest in the premises. Being
thus invested with the entire title, and Root having reentered
or resumed possession of the premises, Woolworth filed the
present bill against him, in the same court,, to carry into
effectual execution the decree which had been rendered
against Root in Morton's favor.
In his bill, after reciting the proceedings under which
Morton originally acquired title to the premises, the suit
under which that title was established as against Root, and
the conveyance to Morton under the decree of the court,
Woolworth set forth his acquisition of the title, and ,alleged
'that he had laid th6 property out into 'streets, bl6cks, 'and
lots, and made it an addition to the city of Omaha; that he.
had sold several of those lots, and that he had paid the taxes
on all of the property since 1873; that he had remained
in.
undisturbed possession from 1873 up to within a short
time before the filing of the bill, at which time Root had
assumed to take possession of "the premises, or a portion
thereof, by building a- fence around* the same and a house
thereon, and in exercising other acts of alleged ownership
over the prqperty.
The bill further alleged that in reentering upon the
premises Root claimed no rights .therein br title thereto,
except such as were asserted by him in opposition to 'Morton's
right and title in the original suit; that his'object in retaking
pdssession was'to inducb parties to accept leases und.er him,
and thereby drive the complainant to a multiplicity of actions
to recover possession and restablish his rights to the
premises, and it was averred that, "in order to carry the
decree of this court made on the 8th of May, 183, into

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

execution and give to your orator the full benefit thereof
it is necessary that it shall be supplemented by an order
of injunction hereinafter prayed, and unless such injunction
b6 allowed to your orator such decree will be ineffective and
your orator will be subjected to a multiplicity of suits in
order to recover possession of the said premises from the
parties to whom said defendant will lease the -same. If left
to himself, not only will the said defendant subject your
orator to numerous actions for the recovery of the possession
of said premises from many parties whom the said defendant
will induce to enter upon the same, but, as your orator is
ififormed and believes, the said defendant threatens to, and
unless restrained by the order and injunction of your honors
will, institute divers actions in respect of the title of the said
premises and thereby vex, annoy, and harass your orator."
The bill further alleged that in the sheriff's dbed to Morton,
under the original judicial proceedings agaihst Pierce, the
premises were described as follows: "All that piece of Jand
beginning at the northwest corner of section twenty-eight,
thence south eight chains and five links; thence-south eightyfive degrees twenty chains and two links; thence north nine
chains- and twenty links; thence west twentychains to the
place of beginning, all being in township fifteen, range thirteen east of the sixth principal- meridian, in said county of
Douglas," which presented an apparent obscurity or defect in
the fact that the word east was omitted in the second call
after the words "eighty-five," and that the defendant claimed
that this defect was so radical as to afford no identification of
the premises, and rendered the decree void; but the complainant averred that the sufficiency of that description was considered in the suit of Morton against ]Root, and that it was there
held that the omission was no substantial defect, such as prevented the title from passing and vesting in Morton.
The prayer of the bill was that the defendant be, by order
and injunction of the court, enjoined and restkained from asserting any f'ight, title, or interest in the said premises, and
from occupying the same or any part thereof, or leasing or
pretending to- lease, or admitting under any pretence what-

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
Statement of the Case.

ever, any party, -save the complainant, into the said premises,
or upon the same, and from making any verbal or written
contract, deed, lease, or conveyance, affecting the said premises, or th6 possession thereof, or the title thereto, and from
excluding the complainant from said ppemises, or any part
thereof, or preventing him from taking sole and exclusive possession of the same; and that by decree it might be declared
that the said defendant has not, and never had, any interest.
whatever in the said landsi as had been already declared and
adjudged in the former decreer; and that a writ of possession
issue out of the court directed to the marshal, commanding
him bummarily to remove the defendant, his tenants, and
agents therefrom; and that the injunction as prayed for
might be made perpetual.
To this bill the defendant Root demurred for .the 'reason
that the court had no jurisdiction, because both complainantand defendant were citizens of the same State; because the
bill was a, proceeding in a court of equity in the nature of an
ejectment bill, ,Ind because the complainant had a speedy and
adequate remedy at law. The demurrer was overruled, the
court basing its -action upon the ground that the bill was ancillary or supplemental to the original cause- of -Morton v.
Root, and was, therefore, not open to the objections taken:
against it.
Root then answered the bill, setting up the same defences
interposed by him in the case of -Morton v. Root, and further
alleged that the decree in that case was void because Morton
and his attorney had practised a fraud upon the court in concealing the fact, that in 1869, prior to the institution of that
suit, Oliver P. Morton had transferred and conveyed the premises in question to his brother, William S. T. Morton, which
conveyance had been duly recorded in Douglas C6ufity, Ne,
braska, so that Oliver P. Morton had no title when he instituted his original suit, nor when the decree was rendered
against defendant.
The answer further set up that the premises weie so defectively described in the sheriff's deed to Morton, under the
latter's attachment proceedings against Pierce, as to render

OCTOBER -TERAI, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

the same ineffectual and inoperative to vest title to the premises in controversy. The defendant also claimed that he had
been in open and adverse possession of the premises since May
-1,1869, and that the complainant's riglits were, therefore,
barred by the statute of liiitations. He further alleged that.
the depree in the suit of Mort6n against Root was one simply.
to remove a cloud upon the title Atnd not to establish or confer
anly right of possession.
Upon pleadings and proofs, the ircuit Court rendered a
decree in appellee's favor, in conformity. with the prayer of
his bill. 40 Fed. Rep..T23. 'From that decree the present
appeal was prosecuted.
-lM. Upton 2. Young and Mr.George JF Covell, for appellant, submitted on their brief, in which they contended:
I. There is a defebt in the jurisdiction of the Cieuit Court,
which is apparent on the face of the bill. Equity will not
entertain a bill solely for purposes tht could be accomplished
by an, action in ejectment. ITipp v. Babin, 19 How* 271;
Lewis v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466 ; Ellis v. Ddvis, 109 U. S. 485;'
Zlillian .v."Lbbinghaus, 110 U. S. 568; United States v. Wilson,
118 U. S. 86;'Speigle v. 3leredith, 4:Bissell, 120.
II.The Circuit Court of the'United States has no jurisdiction of a suit between parties who are citizens of the same
State. Van Antweip v . ihlbrd,8 Blatchf6rd, 285; Livingston. Van, Ingen, 1 Paine, 45 ; lerserole v. Union Paper
Collc

Co., 6 Blatch ford, 356.

III. That the bill cannot be sustained against the defendant
as a bill of peace, is fully established by the following points
and authorities. I'n regard to bills of peace between single
adverse claimants, it may now be regarded as, settled that,.
unless the title has been established at law, except where the
rule has been changed by statute, the court will not interrere.
.3 Pomeroy's Eq. Jur. §,1394. Possession as well as an estab.
lished legal title is necessary to the maintenance of a bill' of
peace of this class. 3 Pomneroy's Eq. Jhr. §g 1394, 1396;
Oirton v. Siaith, 18 Hlow. 263.

That this action cannot be maintained as. a suit. to quiet

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
Argument for Appellant.

the plaintiff's title, and to declare that the defendant has not
and never had any interest whatever in the lands described
in complainant's bill, is evident from the well-known rule that
jurisdiction is only exercised by courts of equity when the
estate or interest to be protected is equitable in its nature, or
when the remedies at law are inadequate where the estate or
interest is legal.
Whether or not the jurisdiction will be exercised depends
upon the fact that the estate or interest to be protected is equitable in its nature, or that the remedies at law are inadequate,
where the estate or interest is legal - a party being hift to his
legal remedy where his estate or interest is legal in its nature,
and full and complete justice can thereby be done. .De Witt
v. Hfays, 2 California, 463; .. 0. 56 Am. Dec. 352; HTinchley
v. G reaney, 118 Mass. 595.
The remedy by injunction to yield up or quit possession of
land, and the writ of possession to summarily .remove a
defendant from land, are writs which are only granted by,
and issued out of courts of equity, in aid of a decree in chancery, where there has been a foreclosure of equity of redemption, and a sale of mortgaged premises been decreed, and the
defendant or any person who has come into possession under
him, pending the suit, refuses to deliver up the possession, on
demand, to the purchaser under the decree.
The principle may be stated in its broadest generality, that
in cases where the primary right, interest, or estate, to be
maintained, protected, or redressed, is a legal one, and a court
of law can do as complete justice to the matter in controversy
both with respect to the relief granted and to the modes of procedure by which such relief is conferred, as could be done by
a court of equity, equity will not interfere even with those
peculiar remedies which are administered by it alone, such
as injunction, cancellation, and the like, much less with
those remedies which are administered both by it and the
law, and which, therefore, belong to the concurrent jurisdiction. Southampton Dock Co. v. Southampton &c. LlaroO,'
Board, L. R. 11 Eq. 251. And the same doctrine applies
under the reformed system of procedure. Jyle v. F'ost, 29

OCTOBEB. TERM, 1893.
Argument for Appellant.

Indiana, 382. See also, sustaining the general principle as
stated above, Gr'and Chute v. Winegar, 15 Wall. 373; .'nsurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616; fi pp v..Babli , 19 ]How. 271.
IV. The court is without jurisdiction to hear and determine the merits of this case, because both parties are citizens
of the State of Nebraska, as alleged in the bill ; -because
complainant Shows by his bill that his remedy isat law, by
ejectment instead of in equity; - because complainant has not
made such -a case by his bill as would authorize the court to
hear and determine the same, as a court of equity, even though
complainant and defendant were citizens of different States.
V. We contend that, as no steps were ever taken by
Morton, under judicial proceedings, or otherwise, to disturb the
actual possession of Allen Root, the statute of Jimitations- was
neither suspended nor interrupted.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, in case of Mkabcry v.
Dollarkide, 98 Missouri, 198, held that a judgment in ejectment, not followed by any writ, nor by taking possession
under it, does not suspend the statute of limitations.
The Supreme Court of Kentucky, in the case of Simith v.
Btornback-, 4 Littell, 232, Jaeld that a- judgment in ejectment,
never executed, and under which possession has never been
demandedi does not stop the running of the statute of limitations. The case of Morton, v. Root was a void proceeding
resulting in May, 1873, in a void' decree to remove a cloud
from Morton's supposed title, with which he had parted before his bill was filed, and a title which he did not have when
the final decree was rendered. There was nothing in the
decree that contemplated disturbing the continuity of Root's
possession. In Smith v. Tr'abue, 1 McLean, 87, it was held
that a judgment in an action of ejectment against a defendant,
who holds adtersely, does not of itself suspend the statute of
limitations. To do this there must be a change of possession.
The following cases support the qame view: Dol v. Reynolds,
.2TAlabama, 354; Jackson v. Haviland, 13 Johns. 229.
1 The decree quieting the title in Morton would not break the
continuity of Root's possession, nor stop the running. of the
stafute of limitations.

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

VI. Waiving, then, all other questions, we regard the
adverse possession of this defendant, and those under whom
he claims, as conclusive upon the rights of the plaintiff. In
the case of Ellis v. .zurray, 28 Mississippi, 129, under the
third section of the act of limitations, passed in 1844, it was
held that "actual adverse possession for ten years vests a full
and complete title to the land in possession; and a party having had such possession might sue for the recovery of it at
any time within the period limited in the first section, without
further evidence of his title than that he had had ten years in.
actual adverse possession; that it was intended to secure a
right of property by the possession of ten years." See also
Beaupland v. .keKeen, 28 Penn. St. 124; S. . 70 Am. Dec.
115; IHoey v. Furman, 1 Penn. St. 295; S. . 44 Am. Dec.
134; lTebbs v. tEynes, 9 B. Mon. 388 ; S. '. 50 Am. Dec. 515;
Clement v. Perry, 34 Iowa, 564; Clark v. Potter, 32 Ohio
St. 49; HSoyes v. Dyer, 25 Maine, 468; Spear v. Ralph, 14
Vermont, 400.
VII. Oliver P. Morton by his deed on the 19th day of
August, 1869, conveyed the property in controversy to William S. T. Morton. Said deed was a valid one under the laws
of Indiana, where no witnesses were required, and being valid
where made was valid under the laws of Nebraskd. Green v.
Gross, 12 Nebraska, 117, 123.
Oliver P. Morton had no title at any time during the pendency of his suit against Allen Root; the court, therefore, was
without jurisdiction to render its decree of May 8, 1873. The
decree in that case having been obtained on the representation
that Morton was the owner of the property, was a fraud upon
the court, and the decree being fraudulent can be defended
against by Root in this suit. See .Mfarshall v. Afe Gee, 33 Hun,
354.
.A&. Burton N. Harrison, (with whom was M. Jarnes"L.
Woolworth on the brief,) for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERm, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not necessary to notice or consider separately the
numerous assignents of error presented by the appellant.
They may be reduced to the following propositions: (1) That
the court had no jurisdiction to entertain the bill, because it
is in the nature of an. ejectment bill, and that there is a full
and adequate remedy at law ; (2) that there was fraud on the
part of Nforton and his attorney in obtaining the former
decree of 1873 by concealing the fact that Morton, before
the beginning of his suit against defendant, had transferred
the premises to his brother, William S. T. Morton ; (3) that
there was such defective description of the premises, in the
Mortoa suit and the original decree, as rendered that decree
inoperative to vest the title of the land in controversy; and
(4)the defendant's adverse possession of the property.
In support of the assignments of error covered by the first
,proposition, it is urged on behalf of appellant that the suit
should be treated and regarded as an ejectment bill to recover
the possession of real estate, such as d court of equity cannot
entertain in favor of a party holding a legal title like that
which the complainant asserts. It is undoubtedly true that
a court of equity will not ordinarily entertain a bill solely
for the purpose of establishing the title of a party to real
estate, or for the recovery of possession thereof, as these
objects can generally be accomplished by zn action of ejectment at law. flipp v. Babin, 19 fHow. 271; Lewis v. Cocks,
23 Wall. 466; Ellis v. Davis, 100 U. S. 485 ; Killia. v. ETZ.bingkcaus, 110 U. S. 568; Fussell v. Gregg, 113 U. S. 550,
554.
If the bill in the present case could be properly considered
as an ejectment bill, the objection taken thereto by the defendafit would be fatal to the proceeding; but instead of
being a bill of this character it is clearly a supplemental and
ancillary bill; such as the court had jurisdiction to entertain.
Slhields v. Thomas, 18 119w. 253, 262; Thow2pson v. -Maxwell,
95 U. S. 391, 399; Story's Eq. Plead. §§ 335, 338, 339, 429.
It is well settled that a court of equity has jurisdiction to
carry into effect its own orders, decrees, and judgments, which
remain unreversed, when the subject-matter and the parties

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

are the same in both proceedings. The general rule upon the
subject is*
thus stated in Story's Equity Pleading, (9th ed.,)
338:
"A supplemental bill may also be filed; as well after as
before a decree; and the bill, if after a decree, may be either
in aid of the decree, that it may be carried fully into execution; or that proper directions mhay be given upon some
matter omitted in the original bill, or not put In issue by it, or
by the defence made to it; or to bring forward parties beforethe-court, or it may be used to impeach the decree, which is
the peculiar case of a supplemental bill, in the nature of a bill
of review, of which .we shall treat hereafter.. But where a
supplemental bill is brought in aid of a decree, it is merely to
carry out and to give fuller effect to that decree, and not to
obtain relief of a different kind on a different principle; the
latter being the province of a supplementary bill in the nature
of a bill of review, which cannot be filed without the leave of
the court."
Under this principle Morton could undoubtedly have brought
the bill to carry into effect the decree rendered in his favor
against Root, and it is equally clear that his assignee, or privy
in estate, has a right to the same relief that Morton could
have asserted. On this subject it is stated in Story's Equity
Pleading, § 429: "Sometimes such a bill is exhibited by a
person who was not a party, or who does not claim under any
party to the original decree; but who claims in a similar
interest, or who is unable to entertain the determination of his
own rights, till the decree is carried into execution. Or it
may be brought by or against any person clahmn,.g as assignee
oa party to the decree." -The appellee in the pltesent case
occupies that position, and he should not, any more than
Morton, to whose rights he has succeeded, be put to the necqssity of ifstituting an original or independent suit against Root,
and relitigate the same questions which were involved in the
former proceeding.
The jurisdiction of courts of dquity to interfere and effectuate their own decrees by injunctions or writs of assistance in
order to avoid the relitigation of questions once settled be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tween the same parties, is well settled. Story's Eq. Jur.
§ 959; Eershaw v. Thompson, 4 Johns. Oh. 609, 612; Schenck
v. Conover, 13 N. J. Eq. (2 Beasley) 220;, B f ra's case, 13
N. H. 14; Shep erd v. Towgood, Tur. & Ras. 379; Davis v.
BlucT, 6 Beav. 393. In .Kershaw v-. Thompson, the authorities are fully reviewed by Chancellor Kent, and need not be
reexamined here.
It is said, however, on behalf of the appellant, that the
original decree only undertook to remove the cloud upon. the
title, and did not deal with the subject of possession of
the premises, and that the present bill, in seeking to have
possession delivered up, proposes to deal with what was not
concluded by the former decree. This is manifestly a misconception of the force of the original decree, which established
and concluded Morton's title as against any claim of the
appellant, and thereby necessarily included and carried with
it the right of possession to the premises as effectually as if
the defendant had himself conveyed the same. The decree in
its legal effectr and operation entitled Morton to the possession
of the -property, and that right passed to the appellee as privy
in estate.
In Jfontgomeryg v. Tutt, 11 California,' 190, there was a
decree of ale, which did not require or provide for the delivery of possession of the premises to the purchaser. Subsequently the defendant refused to surrender lossession, and
a wriL of assistance was sought by the purchaser to place him
in possession of the premises under the inaster's deed. Field,
J'., delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"The power of the court to 'issue the judicial writ, or to
make the order and enforce the same by a writ of assistance,
rests upon the obvious principle t-hat the power of the court to
afford a remedy must be coextensive with its jurisdiction over
the subject-matter. 'Where the court possesses jurisdiction to
make a decree,.it possesses the power to enforce its execution.
It is true that in the present case the decree does not contain a
direction that the possession of the premises be delivered
to the purchaser. It is usual to insert a clause to that effect,
-but it is not essential. It is necessarily implied in the direc-

ROOT v. WOOLWORTH.4

-413

Opinion of the Court.

tion for the sale and execution of a deed. The title held
by the mortgagor passes under the decree to the purchaser
upon the consummation of the sale by the master's or sheriff's
deed. As against all the parties to the suit, the title is gone;
and, as the right to the possession, as against them; follows
the title, it would be a useless and vexatious course to require
the purchaser to obtain such possession by another suit. Such
is not the eourse of procedure adopted by a court of equity.
When that court adjudges a title to either real or personal
property, to be in one as against another, it enforces its
judgment by giving the enjoyment of the right to the party
in whose favor it has been decided."
The principle thus laid down is directly applicable to the
present case-.
The bill being ancillary to the original proceeding of Morton against Root, and -supplementary to the decree rendered
therein, can be. maintained without reference to the citizenship or residence of the parties. There is conisequently no
force in the objection that the court below had no jurisdiction
in this case because the appellee and the appellant were both
citizens .of Nebraska. !-riypendofv. Iyde, 110 U. $. 276;
PaciA Railroadv. .Missoitri Pacific Railway, 111 U. S. 505.
It is next contended on the part of the appellant that the
decree sought to be carried into execution is void because
there- was fraud .on the part of Morton in concealing from
the court the fact that he had transferred the premises in
August, 1869, to his brother, William S. T. Morton. That
conveyance, as set up in the answer, was duly recorded in
the register's office of Douglas County prior to the filing
of Morton's bill against the appellant. It is not shown in
the answer why the appellant did not avail himself in the
former trial of this transfer .of which he had constructive
notice. Nor does it appear from any averments in the
answer, or from the proofs, that his rights were in any w'ay
prejudiced or affected thereby. He was not prevented by
that transfer from exhibiting fully his- own case, or setting
up his superior title to the premises, which was the subject-.
inatter of the'contest belween 'Morton and himselft

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
the record reaches the clerk's hands seasonably for that term, and legal
excuse exists for lack of docketing, a citation may be issued, by leave
of-this court, although the time for taking the appeal has elapsed.
When an appeal is allowed at a term, subsequent to that of the decree 6r
judgment appealed from, a citation ig necessary; but it may be issued,
properly returnable even after the expiration of the time for taking the
appeal, if"the allowance of the appeal were made before.
A citation is one of the necessary elements of an appeal taken after the
term, and if it be not issued and served before the end of the next
ensuing term of this court, and be not waived, the appeal becomes
inoperative.

T.E case is stated in the opinion.
Air. W.

. Barnes for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

Judgment in this case was rendered

by the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona, January
19, 1889, that the judgment of the court below under review
by that court be reversed and the complaint dismissed with
costs.
January 13, 1890, being onj. of the days of the next regular
term of the court, an appeal was prayed to this court, the
appeal was allowed January 14, 1890, conditioned on giving
bond, and certain findings of the Supreme Court were filed
that day. January 21, 1890, the required bond was approved
and filed, and the record was filed here, March 141, 1890, at
October term, 1889. No citation was issued and served, nor
has any appearance for appellee been entered,, nor is any
waiver of citation shown.
It must be regarded as settled that: (1) Where an appeal is
allowed in open court, and perfected during the term at which
the decree or'judgment appealed from was rendered, no citation is necessary ; (2) Where the.appeal is allowed at the term
of *the decree or judgment, but not perfected until after the
term, a citation is necessary to bring in the parties; but if
the appeal be docketed here at our next ensuing term, or the
record reaches the clerk's hands seasonably for that term, and
legal excuse exists for lack of docketing, a citation may be
issued by leave of this court, although the time for taking the

JACOBS v. GEORGE.
Syllabus.

possession thereof until 1888.

The statute of limitations,

therefore, does not constitute any bar to the complainant's
right to maintain the bill. But aside from this, the appellant
stands in the same position now that he did in the former suit,
when it was decreed that he had no right, title, or interest in
the property. If, since that decree, he has enclosed a part of
the land, cut wood from it, or cultivated it, he would be
treated and considered as holding it in subordination to the
title of Morton and his privy in estate, until lie gave notice
that his holding was adverse, and in the assertion of actual
ownership in himself. In his position he could not have asserted adverse possession after the decree against him, without
bringing express notice to Morton or his vendees that he was
claiming adversely. Without such notice the length of time
intervening between the decree and the institution of the
present suit would give him no better right than he previously
possessed; and his holding possession would, under the authorities, be treated as in subordination to the title of the real
owner. This is a well established rule. Jackson v. Bowen, 1
Wend. 341; Burhans v. Van, Zandt, 7 Barb. 91; Pionan v.
.Meyer', 84 Indiana, 390 ; Jefery v. "itJi.sh,45 Michigan, 59;
Jackson v. Sternbergh, 1 Johns. Cas. 153; Doyle v. .ellen, 15
R. I. 523; Zeller's Lessee v. Ekert, 4 How. 289.
We are of opinion that the decree below was clearly correct,
and should be
Affirmed.

JACOBS v. GEORGE.
APPEAL FROM

THE SUPREM1E

COURT OF

THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. S7. SubmittedNovember 20, 1893.--- Decided November 27, 1893.

When an appeal is allowed in open court, and perfected during the term at
which the decree or judgment appealed from was rendered, no citation
is necessary.
When an appeal is allowed at the term of the decree or judgment, but is
not perfected until after the term, a citation is necessary to bring in the
parties; but if the appeal be docketed here at the next ensuing term, or

