62

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

untenable under the repeated rulings of this court. Crumyton
v. United States, 138 IT. S. 361, 365; Wilson v. Everett, 139
U. S. 616, 621; Van Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Xg. Co., 142
U. S. 128, 134.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, and the
judgment is, therefore,
Affli med.

COLLINS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR FROM THE CIRCUIT *COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKAINSAS.
No. 821.

Submitted October 19, 1893.- Decided October 30, 1893.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, it appeared that the deceased
in a drunken fit assaulted the brother of the defendant, that the defendant, who was dancing, left the dance, went in search of his pistol,
returned with it and shot the offender, and that after going away, he
returned a few minutes later, put the pistol close to the head of the
deceased and fired a second time. The court below instructed the jury,
in substance, that, if the defendant in a moment of passion, aroused by
the wrongful treatment of his brother, and without any previous preparation, did the shooting, the offence would be manslaughter; but if he prepared himself to kill, and had a previous purpose to do so, then the mere
fact of passion would not reduce the crime below murder. Held, that
there was no error in this instruction.

THE plaintiff in error was convicted in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Arkansas of the
crime of murder, and sentenced to be hung. The circumstances
of the homicide were substantially these: On the evening of
July 17, 1891, there was a dance at the Valley House in Fort
Gibson. 'A half brother of the defendant, named Walter Shannon, a boy about twelve years of age, was tending a soda-pop
or confectionery stand in the room where the dance was going
on. The deceased, Randle Lovely, who was quite drunk, took
a bottle.of soda-pop, drank it, and refused to pay for it. Some
words passed between him and the boy, which resulted in his
plapping the boy with his open hand. The boy turned to run

COLLINS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

away, and the deceased followed. Seeing the controversy,
the defendant left his place in the dance, went after his pistol,
took it out of the pocket of one Turner, with whom, he had
left it, came near to the deceased, and without a word shot
him. The wounded man sank to the floor. The defendant
turned and walked away, but in a few minutes returned, and,
seeing Lovely lying on the floor, said: "I have pretty near
killed him; I might as well finish him," put his pistol close to
the head of the deceased and fired a second time. After that
he turned around and walked off, and fled from Fort Gibson.
The deceased was about thirty years of age, and the defendant eighteen.
The burden of the defence was that the homicide was manslaughter rather than murder. In the course of his charge,
the judge instructed the jury as follows: "In order to give
the party the right to claim that his act is manslaughtei there
must be a condition of hasty passion. That is one condition
that alone cannot reduce the man's crime, because there is
passion. It is sometimes hasty when a man slays in the most
mnurderous way ; there is a brutal passion, a wicked passion;
the man's mind is abnormal; it is not natural; it is not in
that placid condition where he contemplates the rights of
others and observes these rights, but it is in a condition of fury.
He frequently creates that condition by the use of stimulants,
nerves himself up for the very purpose. When he does it,
it won't do to say that the mind is in a condition of passion
that will put a party in such an attitude that he is guilty alone
of manslaughter. No; that act of passion must generate from
some wrongful act being done by the party who is slain at
the time that he does it, or so soon thereafter as that there
was no time for the passion of the party to cool. That is
what it means, and the offence is mitigated because of the
wrongful act of the other party, who is committing that act
at the time of slaying. Now, as I have already told you substantially, if the other party is doing a wrongful act at the
time he is slain-and when I speak of a wrongful act I speak
of one that would not give the party the right to defend, to
the death, and the slapping of the boy in this case, or the coil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

troversy he had with his brother, would not do that, because
if violence of that character was done the defendant it wouldn't
give him the right to slay, nor would it give him the right to
slay him when it was used on his brother, though he has the
same right as affecting his brother as affecting himself, because
he has a right to defend his brother in any case where his life
is imperilled, and use the same violence as he would in his
own case. But suppose that during the time that condition
existed, and the doing of the act has a tendency to infuriate
the mind of the party, if he then, without previous preparation, or without preparation at that time, should take the life
of the deceased, that would be manslaughter."
To this instruction the defendant excepted, and this exception is the only matter here relied upon by the plaintiff in
error.
.M. A. H. Garland, for plaintiff in error, cited State v.
Fitzsimmofs, 63 Iowa, 656; State v. Abarr, 39 Iowa, 185;
Irley v. State, 32 Georgia, 496; State v. Davis, 1 Houst. Or.
Cas. (Del.) 13; Stewart v. State, 78 Alabama, 436.
.Mr. Solicitor General for defendants in error.
M . JUSTICE BnEWn.R, after stating the case, delivered th .
opinion of the court.
The facts of this case presented a proper question for the
-consideration of the jury, as to whether the homicide was
murder or manslaughter. The instruction challenged did not,
when taken in connection with the other parts of the charge,
present the law inaccurately; for theretofore the judge had
charged, substantially, that premeditation was necessary to
the crime of murder; and also, quoting from some authority,
that "voluntary manslaughter is the unlawful killing of another without malice, upon sudden quarrel, or in the heat of
passion;" and, further, that "the law kindly appreciating
the infirmities of human nature, extentuates the offence committed, and mercifully hesitates to put on the same footing

UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.'
Statement of the Case.

of guilt the cool, deliberate act, and the result of hasty
passion." In the language complained of, he goes on to say
that mere passion does not reduce the crime from murder to
manslaughter, for it may be a passion voluntarily created for
the purpose of homicide; but it must spring from some
wrongful act of the party slain at the time of the homicide,
or so near theretofore as to give no tiihe for passion to cool.
Applying the rule to the facts in evidence, the instruction
was that, if the defendaftt in a moment of passion, aroused by
the wrongful treatment of his brother and without any previous preparation, did the shooting, the offence would be
manslaughter and not murder; but as is immediately thereafter added, if he prepared himself to kill, and had a previous
purpose to do so, then the mere fact of passion would not
reduce the crime below murder.
We see nothing in this of which the defendant can properly
complain, and as this is the only matter called to our attention, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
Ajflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROMI THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 951.

Submitted October 20, 1893.-Decided October 30, 1893.

A commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States is not entitled,
under Rev. Stat. ยง 847, to compensation for hearing charges made by
complaining witnesses against persons charged with violations of the
laws of the United States, and holding examinations of such complaining
,witnesses and any other witnesses produced by them in support of their
allegation, and deciding whether a warrant should not issue upon the
complaint made.
Although such services are of a judicial nature, and may be required by the
laws of the State in which they are rendered, they cannot be charged
against the United States in the absence of a provision by Congress for
their payment.

Tis was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
in favor of the claimant and against the United States. The
VOL. CL-5

