OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

TURNER v. SAWYER.
APPEAL FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF TkE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 70. Submitted November 6,1893.-Decided December 11, 1893.
In. a suit in equity to have T. declared a trustee, for the use of S., of an
interest in a mine, and to compel a conveyance of the same to S., T. set
up two sources of independent title in himself: (1) the purchase of a
portion of the interest at an execution sale under a judgment In a suit in
which process was not served upon S., no appearance entered for him,
no judgment entered against him, and in which he was never in court;
(2) proceedings under Rev. Stat. § 2324 by T. against S. as an alleged "coowner" of the mine to compel him to contribute to the payment of the
annual labor on the mine for the year 1884, by which proceeding it was
claimed that the interest of S. in the mine became forfeited to T. At
the time when the labor was done for which contribution was demanded,
S. had not received the deed for his interest, and the sheriff's deed to T.
of the interest which he claimed was not delivered until March, 1885.
Held,
(1) That T. acquired no interest in the share of S. in the mine by the
sheriff's deed;
(2) That T. was not a coiwner in the mine with S. during the year 1884,
within the meaning of the statute, which, as it provides for the
forfeiture of the rights of a co~wner, should be construed
strictly.
By the laws of Colorado, title to land sold under execution remains in the
judgment debtor till the deed is executed.
Cotenants stand in a relation of mutual trust and confidence towards each
other, and a purchase by one of an outstanding title or incumbrance, for
his own benefit, inures to the benefit of all, and when acquired, is held
by him in trust for the true owner.
The general rule laid down in Garland v. Wynn, 20 How. 6, following in
principle Comegys v. Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, 212, and maintained in lonr'oe
Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U. S. 47, 57, that where several parties set up
conflicting claims to property, with which a special tribunal may deal, as
between one party and the government, regardless of the rights of
others, the latter may come into the ordinary courts of justice, and litigate their conflicting claims, is announced to be the settled doctrine of
this court.

Tnis was a bill in equity filed by the appellee Sawyer
against Robert Turner, George E. YC lelland, and J. S.

TURNER v. SAWYER.
Statement of the Case.

Allison, the purpos6 of which was to have the defendant
Turner declared a trustee for the use of the plaintiff of an
undivided five-eighths interest' in what was known as the
"Wallace lode," which had been previously patented by the
government to Turner, and to compel a conveyance of
the same to the plaintiff.
The case was submitted upon an agreed statement of facts,
which was substantially as follows: The Wallace lode, so
called, was discovered and located by John Clark on September 20, 1878. On August 12, 1882, Clark conveyed an
undivided three-fourths of this lode to Amos Sawyer and
Marcus Finch. On May 1, 1882, Clark conveyed the other
one-fourth interest to William Hunter, but the deed was
never recorded, the parties supposing it to be lost, and on
October 25 he made another deed to Hunter, which contained
a recital that it was made to supply the place of the other.
On October 26, 1882, Amos Sawyer and Marcus Finch reconveyed the undivided one-half of the lode to John Clark. On
January 8, 1883, Marcus Finch conveyed an undivided oneeighth to Alice E. Finch. On March 16, 1883, Clark and
Hunter conveyed three-fourths of the Wallace lode to Amos
Sawyer and John S. Sanderson.
At this time, then, the lode was owned as follows: Amos
Sawyer, one-half or four-eighths; John S. Sanderson, threeeighths; Alice E. Finch, one-eighth.
It so remained from March 16, 1883, to January 12, 1885,
when Amos Sawyer assumed to convey his undivided onehalf interest to Alfred A. K. Sawyer, who also became
possessed of the one-eighth interest of Alice E. Finch,
November 3, 1886.
The controversy arose over a lien filed August 14, 1883,
by one John F. Teal for annual labor done upon the lode
at the request of John S. Sanderson and Amos Sawyer. Teal
claimed a lien for the sum of $148.10, and filed notice thereof
in the recorder's office of Clear Creek County. One Charles
Christianson also filed a similar notice, claiming a lien for
8227.95. On January 12, 1884, Teal instituted a suit in the
county court of Clear Creek County to enforce his lien, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

made John S. Sanderson, Marcus Finch, P. F. Smith, andSawyer defendants as the owners thereof. There was no
service upon Sawyer, and he was not in court. On June 2,
1884, Teal proceeded to sell the interest of John S. Sanderson,
Marcus Finch, and P. F. Smith to pay the amount of his
decree, at which sale A. K. White became the purchaser,
took his certificate of purchase from the sheriff, and sold and
assigned it to Turner, who obtained a sheriff's deed on March
3, 1885. This deed purported to convey the whole Wallace
lode. Christianson instituted a suit against the same defendants, as .in the Teal suit, which was pending at the time,
to enforce his lien against the same.
On April 24, 1885, Turner, who had done the annual labor
on the claim for the year 1884, before he obtained a sheriff's
deed, published a forfeiture notice against the appellee
Sawyer- under Rev. Stat. § 2324, but no forfeiture notice was
published against Alice E. Finch, who still owned an undivided
one-eighth of the lode, nor against Amos Sawyer, who owned
one-half of the lode during the year 1884, and until January
19, 1885, as above stated. Appellant Turner declined an
offer made January 18, 1885, to pay fiveeighths of the $100
for the annual labor of 1884 on behalf of Alice E. Finch and
Amos Sawyer, on the ground that the records showed only
Sanderson and Sawyer as having any remaining interest. On
October 27, 1885, Turner filed in the office of the clerk and
recorder of Clear Creek County an affidavit that Alfred A. K.
Sawyer, the appellee, had wholly failed to comply with the
demands contained in the forfeiture notice. Subsequently,
.and about November 1, Turner instituted proceedings in the
'United States land office at. Central City, Colorado, for the
purpose of procuring a patent for the lode in his own name,
and on April 13, 1886, a receiver's receipt was issued to him
by the receiver of the land office, acknowledging payment
in full for the entire lode, and on April 20 he conveyed an
undivided one-fourth interest to George E. McClelland by
deed recorded December 6, 1886, and another undivided
one-quarter to J. S. 'Allison by deed recorded May 19, 1886.
On Maroh 17, 1887, the appellee Sawyer filed this bill, charg-

TURI.ER v. SAWYER.
ArgumiLent for Appellants.

ing the patent to have been procured by the appellant Turner
by false and fraudulent representations as to ownership, and
praying that the title to an undivided five-eighths of the lode
be deemed to belong to the appellee, and that Turner convey
the same to him.
Upon the hearing in the court below, it was found that, at,
the time Turner applied for -the patent and received the receipt
therefor, he was not the legal owner of an undivided fiveeighths of such lode, and ,it
was decreed that he convey the
same to the appellee Sawyer, and the other defendants were
enjoined from interfering.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court by Turner and McClelland.
A. L C. Rockwell and Mr.A.D. Bullis for appellants.
When the entry was made in the Land Office, Sawyer had.
no interest in the Wallace lode.
Neither the complainant nor his grantors having filed an
adverse claim to Turner's application for a patent, their rights
became extinguished on the issuing and delivery of the patent
to Turner.'
Section 2324 of the Revised Statutes says:" "Upon the
failure of any one of several cobwners to contribute his proportion of the expenditures required hereby, the coi wners
who have performed the labor or made the improvements inay
give such delinquent coibwners personal notice in writing or
notice by publication."
Amos Sawyer was complainant's immediate grantor and
coiwner in the Wallace lode with Sanderson when Turner
did the annual labor in 1884.
It must be taken as a fact that Turner was there in support of and not in hostility to the -rights of complainant or
Sanderson in that lode, and while it may be urged with
more or less force, that as between the judgment debtor, Sanderson, and Turner, the assignee of the judgment creditor,
the latter had no legal right to the ground until after the
expiration of the time of redemption, yet Sawyer cannot com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argulment for Apiellants.

plain at what Turner did. It must be -immaterial to him
whether Sanderson or Turner did the annual labor for 1884;
that was a charge upon the property which had to be met or
else the title became forfeited, and the lode subject to be
relocated on the first day of the succeeding year.
It is as incumbent upon one cotenant to antagonize his cotenant's application for patent as though no such relation
existed. Upon that point we are sustained by the express
provision of the law, as well as the construction of it by the
Land Department of the government Rev. Stat. §§ 2324,
2325; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; Bissell v. Foss,
114 U. S. 252; Smiley v. Dixon, 1 Penn. 439; Henshaw v.
Bissell, 18 Wall. 255.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office held that, as
no evidence had been submitted showing- in what manner the
notice of forfeiture was served upon the delinquent cowners,
or that the delinquent cobwners did not in the required time
pay their proportionate share of the annual expenditures, the
company must show, before issue of patent, the manner of
serving the notice and that the delinquent cobwners did not
pay their said proportion.
The learned Secretary said: "Section 23241 of Rev. Stat.
must be construed in connection with section 2325. Both have
reference to the possessory title of an applicant for patent and
the .modeof acquiring patent; the latter providing that if no
adverse claim is filed during the period of publication, it shall
be assumed that none exists. It would, therefore, seem immatei'ial, after proceedings 'under section 2325, whethdr or not
the requirements of section 2324 are complied with to the
extent named in your decision; because, if parties have not
been properly notified, or have paid their share of assessment
work, they must still file their adverse claim under the proceedings contemplated in section 2324. They waive their
r.ights byfailure tojile such claim, and upon such failure the
law not only assumes that no such claim exists, but if the
antecedent publication and attendant proceedings have been
regular, all that might be set up by suit, in court has been
adjudicated in favor of the applicant."

TURNER v. SAWYER.

583

Opinion of the Court.

This decision is borne out by the reason upon which the
law is based. It is, that everybody having adverse interests
to the applicant must antagonize his claim, or their rights will
be gone. Roberts v. Thorn, 25 Texas, 728; Frentz v. Elotsch,
28 Wisconsin, 312; JD'iglitv.Sperr', 20 Wisconsin, 331 ; Britti
v. Handy, 20 Arkansas, 381; llfatthews v. Bliss, 22 Pick. 48.
.X)'. Frederick D. Xfc enney, Mr. Edward Lane, and Xr'.
Sidney H. Dent for appellee.
Mn. JusTioE BRowx, after stating the case, delivered the,
opinion of the court.
The real question in this ease is whether the title to the
half interest 'Which Amos Sawyer assumed to convey to the
appellee, Alfred A. K. Sawyer, January 12, 1885, was obtained
by Turner through the proceedings taken by Teal in the enforcement of-his lien for labor done upon this lode, or by the
forfeiture notice published for the annual labor done in
1884.
(1) It is evident that nothing can be claimed by virtue
of the suit begun by Teal, January 12, 1884, against John S.
Sawyer, as
Sanderson, Marcus Finch, P. F. Smith, and since
there
was no
the owners of such lode, to enforce his lieh,
service upon Sawyer, no appearance entered for him, and he
was never in court. Judgment was rendered in this suit
against Sanderson, Smith, and Finch, the last two of whom
appear to -have had no interest in the property. Whether.
such proceedings were effective as against Sanderson, it is
unnecessary to inquire. N-ot only was Sawyer not served in
the suit, but in the execution sale no pretence was made of
the sale of any interests except those of Sanderson, Smith, and
Finch, which were struckoff to A. K. White, and were subsequently sold by -him, to Turner, to whom the sheriff's deed
was given March 3, 1885.
(2) It remains then to consider whether Turner ,:cquired
such interest by the publication of his forfeiture notice against

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

Sawyer for the annual labor of 1884. This notice was as
follows:
"To A. A. K. Sawyer, residence unknown:
"You are hereby notified that I have performed the annual
labor required by law for the year 1884 upon the Wallace
lode, situated in Cascade mining distict, Clear Creek County,
Colorado, and. that unless within the time prescribed by law
you pay your proportionate amount of said expenditure your
interest in said lode will be forfeited to me under the pro.visions of section 2324 of the- Revised Statutes of -the United
'States.
"ROERT

TUxER."

This notice was published pursuant to Rev. Stat. § 2324,
which enacts, that "upon the failure of any one of several
coowners to contribute his proportion of the expenditures
required hereby, the cobwners who have performed the labor
or made the improvements may,. at the expiration of the year,
give such delinquent cobwner personal notice in writing or
notice by publication in the newspaper published nearest the
claim, for at least once a week for ninety days, and if at the
expiration of ninety days after such notice in writing or by
-publicatiQn such delinquent should fail or refuse to contribute
,his proportion of the expenditure required by this section, his
interest inthe claim shall become the property of his cobwners,
who have made the required expenditures."
It will be observed that the right to give this notice of a
claim for contribution is limited to a co~wner who has performed the labor. Turner was not a cobwner with Sawyer
at any time during 1884, as Alfred A. K. Sawyer did not receive his deed from Amos Sawyer until January' 12, 1885, and
Turner did not receive his-deed from the sheriff until March 3,
1885. He did, however, hold an inchoate title by virtue of
White's purchase at the execution sale of June 2, 1884, and
the subsequent assignment, August 25, 1884, of the sheriff's
certificate to him. He appears also to have obtained the
assignment of certain other judgments which had been re-

TURETR v. SAWYER.
Opinion of the Court.

covered by William Hunter against Sanderson and Smith.
These judgments were assigned to him August 27, 1884, sales
made under them January 12, 1885, and certificates of sale
issued to Turner, who thus became the purchaser under these
judgments. N-either of these, however, made him a cobwner
during the year 1884: within the meaning of the statute, which,
providing as it does for the forfeiture of the rights of a co5wner, should be strictly construed. Indeed, by the laws of
Colorado title to land sold under execution remains -in the.
judgment debtor until the deed is executed. Hayes v. N3 .Y
.Aining Co., 2 Colorado, 273, 277; L-Tfey v. C7apman, 9 Colorado, 301; -Manningv. Strehlow, 11 Colorado, 451, 457.
This accords with cases from other States, which hold that
the estate of the defendant in execution is not divested by a
seizure and sale of his lands, but'only by a payment of the
purchase money and delivery'of a deed. The sheriff's certificate is necessary as.written evidence to satisfy the statute of
frauds and to identify the holder as the .person ultimately
entitled to the deed, but it does not pass the title to the land
nor constitute the purchaser the owner thereof. Catlin v.
Jackson, 8 Johns. 520 ; Gorhamv. Wing, 10 Michigan, 486, 493;
G-reen v. Burke, 23 Wend. 490, 498; Hawley v. Cramer, 4
Cow. .717, 725.
It seems, however, that Turner, soon after the making. and
filing by him of an affidavit of non-payment by Sawyer of his
alleged proportion of his claim for labor, instituted proceedings in the land office at Central City for the purpose of
procuring a patent for this lode to be issued to himself alone,
and prosecuted such proceedings so far as to obtain on April
13, 1886, a receiver's receipt so called, issued from the land
office and delivered to him. This receipt was recorded in the
recorder's office of Clear Creek County, Colorado, and on
April 20, Turner conveyed to appellants Allison and McClelland
each an undivided one-quarter interest in the lode. Whether
he procured such receiveres receipt by fraudulent and false
representations, as charged in the bill, it is unnecessary to
determine.. It is clear, to put upon it the construction most
favorable to him, that he acted under a misapprehensioi of

OCTOBER TERM, 1.893.
Opinion of the Court.

his legal righ.s. There is nothing in the record showing that
he ever became possessed of Sawyer's interest in the lode.
Assuming that, under the proceedings in the Teal suit, he had
acquired the legal title to Sanderson's interest, he became
merely a tenant in common with Sawyer, and his subsequent
acquisition of the legal title from the land office inured to the
benefit of his cotenants as well as himself. It is well settled
that cotenants stand in a certain relation to each other of
mutual trust and confidence; that neither will be .permitted
to act in hostility to the other in reference to the jcint estate;
and that a distinct title acquired by one will inure to the
benefit of all. A relaxation of this rule has been sometimes
admitted in certain cases of tenants in common who claim
under different conveyances and through different grantors.
However that may be, such cases have no application to the
one under consideration, wherein a tenant in common proceeds
surreptitiously, in disregard of the rights of his cotenants, to
acquire a title to which he must have known, if he had made
a careful examination of the facts, he had no shadow of right.
We think the general rule, as stated in Bissell v. Foss, 114:
U. S.252, 259, should apply; that "such a purchase" (of an
outstanding title or incumbrance upon the joint estate for the
benefit of one tenant in common) "inures to the benefit of all,
because there is an obligation between them, arising from their
joint claim and community of interest; that one of them shall
not affect the claim to the prejudice of the others. Rothwell
v. Dewees, 2 Black, 613; 'Fan _-orne v. PTonda, 5 Johns.
Oh. 388; Lloyd v. Lynch; 28 Penn. St. 419; Downer V. Smith,
38 Vermont, 464."
A title thus acquired, the patentee holds in trust for the
true owner, and this court has repeatedly held that a bill in
equity will lie to enforce such trust. Johnson v. Towsley, .13
Wall. 72; i3foore v.Robbins, 96 U. S.530; i}arquez v. Frissie,
101 U. S. 473; Rector v. Gibbon, 11I U. :S. 276, 291; -onroe
Cattle Co. v.Becker, 147 U. S.47.
It is contended, however, that Sawyer is precluded from
maintaining this bill by the fact that he filed no adverse claim
to the lode in question under Rev. Stat. § 2325. This section

TURNER v. SAWYER.
OpiniQn of the Court.

declares that "if no adverse claim shall have been filed with
the register and receiver of the proper land office at the expiration of the sixty days of publication" of notice of application
for patent, "it shall be assumed that the applicant is entitled
to a patent, upon the payment to the proper officer of five
dollars per acre, and that no adverse claim exists; and thereafter no objection from third parties to the issuance of a patent
shall be heard, except it be shown that the applicait has failed
to comply with the terms of this chapter." By § 2326, "where
an adverse claim is filed during the period of publication, it
shall be upon oath of the person or persons making the same,
and shall show the nature, boundaries, and extent of such
adverse claim," etc. In this case there was no conflict between
different locators of the same land, andno contest with regard
to boundaries or extent of clim, such as seems to be contemplated in these provisions. Turner did not claim a prior location of the same lode, and made no objection to the boundaries
or extent of Sawyer's claim, but asserted that he had acquired
Sawyer's title by legal proceedings. The propriety of such
claim was not a question which seems to have been contemplated in requiring the "adversing" of hostile claims. In this
particular the case of Garlawidv. IVMpinn, 20 How. 6, is in point.
In that case it was held that where the register and receiver
of public lands had been imposed upon by exiparte affidavits,
and a patent has been obtained by one having no interest
secured to him in virtue of the preaiption laws, to the destruction of another's right who had a preference of entry,
which he preferred and exerted in.due form, but which right
was defeated by false swearing and fraudulent contrivance
brought about by him to whom the patent was awarded, that
the jurisdiction.of the courts of justice was not ousted by the
regulations of the Commissioner of the General Land-Office.
"The general rule is," says Mr. Justice Catron, "that where
several parties set up conflicting claims to property, with which
a special tribunal may deal, as between one party and the government, regardless of the rights of others, the latter may come
into the ordinary courts of justice and litigate the conflicting
claim." Such was the case of Cornegys v. l7 asse, 1 Pet. 193,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Appellees.

212, and the case before us belongs to the same class of ex
I)arte proceedings; nor do the regulations of the Commissioner

of the General Land Office, whereby a party may be held to
prove his better claim to enter, oust the jurisdiction of the
courts of justice. We announce this to be the settled doctrine
of this court. See also Jlfonroe Cattle Co. v. Becker, 147 U. S.

47, 57, and cases cited.
The judgment of the court below was right, and it is,
therefore,
A4frmed.

BELKNAP v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 90. Argued November 20, 21, 1893.-

Decided December 11, 1893.

Ordinarily a court has no power to grant a new trial at a term subsequent
to that at which the original judgment was rendered.
The Court of Claims, however, under Rev. Stat. § 1088, has power to grant
a new trial in such case on a motion on behalf of the United States, and
a mandate from this court does not affect that power.
When such a motion is made on behalf of the government on the ground that
its officers understood that there was an agreement that a case which had
been appealed to this court by the United States, and had been remanded
to that court by this court; on the ground that the appellants had not
entered it here, was to abide the result in another case appealed from the
Court of Claims by the United States and decided here in their favor, the
granting. of the motion by the Court of Claims must be taken by this
(ourt as conclusive on the question whether the evidence warranted the
action of that court, as that evidence is not preserved.
The payment to an Indian agent of the amount appropriated by Congress
for the payment of his salary being less than the amount fixed by general
law as the salary of the office, and his receipt of the sum paid "in full of
my pay for services for the period herein expressed;" is a full satisfaction of the claim.
United States v. Langston, 118 U. S. 389, explained and limited..

t'. George A. Ifing, (with whom was -Mr.Harvey palding
on the brief,) for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge, (with whom was
Mr. Charles C. Binney on the brief,) for appellees.

