WARD 'v.. COGHRAIN.
Statement of the Case.

$1000, and that during the years of his service he received the
appropriations and receipted for them as in full payment for
his services, we think it must be adjudged that he has received
all that of right and by law he is entitled to receive, and that
the judgment of the Court of Claims should, therefore, be
Affrmed.

WARD v. COCHRAT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 110. Argued and submitted November 23, 24, 1893.-Decided December 18, 1893.
An express order of court during the judgment term, continuing a cause
for the purpose of settling, allowing, signing, and filing a bill of exceptions, and the settlement and allowance and filing of the bill, during the
terms to which the continuance was made, takes the exceptions out of
the operation 6f the general rule that the power to reduce exceptions to
form and'have them signed and filed is, under ordinary circumstances,
confined to the term at which the judgment is rendered.
A bill of exceptions which, in so far as it relates to the charge, specifies
with distinctness the parts excepted to, and the legal propositions to
which exceptions are taken, is sufficient.
A defendant in ejectment who relies on adverse possession during the statutory period as a defence must show actual possession - not constiuctive
-and
an exclusive possession -not a possession in participation vith
the owner, or others.
When a special verdict is rendered, all the facts essential to entitle a party
to a judgment must be found.
A judgment rendered on a special verdict failing to find all the essential
facts is erroneous; and consequently a special verdict in an action of
ejectment, which finds that the grantor of the defendant entered into
possession of the land in controversy under a claim of ownership and
that he remained in the open, continued, notorious, and adverse possession
thereof for the period of sixteen years, when he sold and transferred the
same to the defendant, who remained in open, coantinuous, notorious, and
adverse possession of the same under claim of ownership down to the
present time, is defective in that it does not find that the adverse possession was actual and,exclusive.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought at the November

term, 1887, in the Circuit Court of- the United States for the

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

District of Nebraska, by Seth E. Ward, a citizen of the State
of Missouri, against Elmer G. Cochran, a citizen of the State
-ofNebraska, to recover the possession of twenty acres of land
situated in the suburbs of the city of Omaha, and described as
ibe west one-half of the northeast one-quarter of section. 4,
township 15 north, range 13 east, in Douglas County, Nebraska.
In pursuance of the practice in that State, under which two
.trials in ejectment are necessary to a final determination of a
question of title, a trial was had before a judge, without a jury,
and a judgment was entered in favor of the defendant. This
judgment was forthwith, on motion of the plaintiff, set aside
and a new trial was awarded.
At this trial the record discloses that the plaintiff sustained
his side of the issue by putting in evidence a chain of title
from the United States to himself, consisting of a patent of
the United States to Alexander R. McCandlers, dated March
13, 1861, for a tract of land, including the piece in dispute; a
deed of Alexander IR. McCandlers to Michael Thompson, dated
May, 2, 1861, for the same tract; a deed of Michael Thompson
and wife to Edward B. Taylor, dated July 5, 1862, for said
tract; a mortgage of Edward B. Taylor to Ward, the plaintiff,
dated July 28, 1871, on the twenty-acre tract in controversy,
to secure the payment of certain promissory notes; the record
of proceedings in suit by Ward, the plaintiff, -against the heirs
and legal representatives of Edward B. Taylor, who had died
in 1872, to foreclose said mortgage, and a sheriff's deed, under
decree in said suit, to Waid, the plaintiff; dated July 11, 1877;
a deed of Edward A. Taylor (son and one of the heirs of
Edward B. Taylor, and the only heir who had not been made
a party to the foreclosure suit) to Ward, the plaintiff, dated
June 25, 1885, for the twenty-acre tract in dispute. It was
admitted that the value of the land was $20,000 at the time of
the bringing of the suit.
The defendant adduced evidence tending to show that one
. John Flanagan had entered on the tract in dispute in 1868,
under a parol sale of said tract to him by Edward B. Taylor;
that *'lanagan had continued in possession of the tract until
1885, when, on November 25 of that year, Flanagan and wife

WARD v. COCHRIA.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

conveyed the tract to the defendant by deed of that date, who
entered into possession.
On December 9, 1889, the jury rendered a special verdict, in
the following words and figures:
"We, the jury impanelled and sworn to try the issues joined
in the above-entitled cause, do find and say that one John
Flanagan, in the year 1868, entered into the possession of the
west one-half of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter
of section 4, in township 15 north, of range 13th east of the
6th priricipal meridian, in Douglas County, Nebraska, being
the land in controversy in this case, under a claim of ownership thereto, and that he remained in the open, continued,
notorious, and adverse possession thereof for the period of sixteen (16) years thereafter and until he sold and transferred the
same to the defendant in this case.
"We further find that said John Flanagan and Julia, his
wife, by good and lawful deed of conveyatnce, conveyed said
premises to the defehdant in this suit in 1885, and surrendered
his possession to this defendant, and that said defendant has
remained in the open, continuous, notorious, and adverse possession of the same under claim of ownership down to the present
time. We therefore find that at the commencement of this
suit the defendant Was the owner of and entitled to the possession of the said premises, and upon the issues joined in this
case we find for said defendant."
On December 9, 1887, the plaintiff, by his counsel, moved
for a new trial for reasons filed, and, or the same day, moved
the court for judgment in his behalf notwithstanding the
verdict.
On December 5, 1889, the motion for a new trial was overruled, and judgment was entered in favor of the defendant in
pursuance of the verdict; and to said judgment a writ of error
to this court was sued out and allowed.
Mr'. Hugh C. Ward and .b. James Aagerman for plaintiff
in error.
r'. John ..Thurstonand Mr.IF. J.Connell, for defendant
in error, submitted on their brief:

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

I. This case was tried before a jury in the court below and a
verdict rendered on the 9th day of December, 1887. Thereafter a motion for a new trial was held under advisement until
the 5th day of December, 1889, of the November term of said
court, when judgment was entered upon the verdict. It therefore appears that no bill of exceptions was prepared or presented at the trial term, and no order was asked with respect
thereto by the plaintiff in error until the 26th day of December, 1889, just prior to the end of the November term, when
the court entered an -order without the consent of the defendant in error, giving the plaintiff until the first day of February,
1890, in which to present a bill of exceptions; a time beyond
the said November term, at which the judgment was entered.
We submit that it was not within the power of the court to
make such an order; that the same was made without any
notice to the defendant; and the bill of exceptions not having
been signed and allowed at either the trial or the judgment
term- and having in -fact been signed and allowed on the first
day of March, 1890, a date long subsequent to the suing out of
the writ of error and the service of the citation in the case
-the said bill of exceptions was not in time to preserve of
record the alleged errors complained of. .Mihler v. Elers,
91 U. S. 249.
II. The bill of exceptions in this case has been prepared in
disregard of the rules of the court. Hickman v. Jones, 9 Wall.
197, 199, is in point where the court said: "We have to complain in this case, as we do frequently, of the manner in which
th6 bill of exceptions has been prepared. It contains all the
evidence adduced on both sides, and the entire charge of the
court. This is a direct violation of the rule." The case at bar
is similar to .Hannav. .Mas, 122 U. S. 21.
III. The decisions of the highest court of a State with
respect to title by adverse possession, when there are such,
establish the rule of property in that State. H-c&pending v.
Pthfoi-med Dutch Church, 16 Pet. 455. In the absence of
state decision§ to the contrary, it is the rule of this court,
established by an 'unbroken line of decisions, that adverse
possession of real property continued for the statutory period

WARD v. COCHRAX.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

within which an action of dispossession could be commenced,
ripens into a perfect and indefeasible title in fee simple.
In Harpending v. Reformed Dutch Church, ubi supra, it
is laid down (following the head note) that, "After the
elapse of twenty years from the commencement of adverse
possession of the property claimed, the defendants had a title
as undoubted as if they had produced a deed in fee simple
from the true owners of that date; and all inquiry into their
title or its incidents was effectually cut off."
This rule has been followed by this court in many other
cases, but we cite only one, Bicknell v. Comstock, 113 U. S.
149, 152, in which Mr. Justice Miller, delivering the opinion
of the court, says: "This court has more than once held that
the lapse of time provided by the statutes makes a perfect
title.
"In Lefflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599, it is said that ' the
lapse of time limited by such statutes not only bars the
remedy, but it extinguishes the right and vests a perfect title
in the adverse holder.'
"And this doctrine is repeated in Croxall v. S]iererd, 5
Wall. 268, 289 ; and in Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578,
583."
The leading case in the State of Nebraska on the question of
title by adverse possession is Horbachv. M1iller, 4 Nebraska, 31.
The later decisions on that question, citing and approving
that case, are: -Gatling v. Lane, 17 Nebraska, 77; Stettnisc4er
v. Lamb, 18 Nebraska, 619; Par:rv. Starr, 21 Nebraska,
680; Gue v. Jones, 25 Nebraska, 634; Tourtelotte v. Pierce,
27 Nebraska, 57; Fitzgerald v. Brewster, 31 Nebraska, 51;
-Meyer v. Lincoln, 33 Nebraska, 56. The following extract
from -Meyer v. Lincoln clearly states the rule established by
these decisions: "By numerous decisions of this court it has
been held that adverse possession of real estate, as owner,
for ten years, gives a perfect title to the occupant. Horbach
v.- Miller, 4 Nebraska, 31, 47; Gatling v. Lane, 17 Nebraska,
77, 79; flaywood v. Thormas, 17 Nebraska, 237, 240; Tex v.
Pflug,24 Nebraska, 666, 669; Levy v. Yerga, 25 Nebraska, 764;
Obernalte v. Edgar, 28 Nebraska, 70; Crawford v. Gallowiay,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

29 Nebraska, 261; Peterson v. Townsend, 30 Nebraska, 373,
376; Alexander v. Wilcox, 30 Nebraska, 193, 795."
SHmAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

M .

JrSTICE

Objection is made that the bills of exception were not
allowed and signed either at the trial or the judgment term,,
and the case of Alfiiller v. Elders, 91 U. S. 249, is cited to show
that we cannot consider them for that reason.
From the record, it does indeed appear that the bills of
exception were not allowed and signed during the term at
which the judgment was rendered, but italso appears that,
at said term, an order was entered stating that, inasmuch as
the bills of exception could not be completed at that term, the
time for preparing and presenting them was extended till
February 1, 1890, -at which time bills of exception might be
allowed and signed with the same force and effect as if said
action had been had within thecusual time; and it also appears
that on January 18,1890, plaintiff's counsel served defendant's
counsel witli a copy of the bills of exception proposed, with
notice that they would be presented for the judge's consideration on January 27, 1890. On that day, defendant's counsel
did not appear, and thereupon the court entered an order,
reciting the foregoing facts, and directing that the bills of
exception be filed with the clerk of the court, and that defendant should have thirty. days in whioh to file suggestions of
amendment thereto, and continuing the cause till the further
order of the court for the purpose of settling, allowing, and
signing the bills; and it further.appears that on March 1, 1890,
the bills of exception were finally signed by the judge and filed.
The record also discloses that the defendant protested against
the a6tion of the court in extending the time and in allowing
and signing the bill of exceptions after the expiration of the
term -at which the judgment was rendered.
In the case of 2liller v. E(ders, relied on by the defendant
in error, this court did hold that because the bill of exceptions
had not been signed at or during the term at which the judg-

WARD v. COCHRAN .
Opinion of the Court.

ment was rendered, it could .not be considered, and expressed
itself as follows: "As early as Walton v. United States, 9
Wheat. 651, the power to reduce exceptions taken at the trial
to form and to have them signed and filed was, under ordinary
circumstances, confined to a time not later than the term at
which the judgment was rendered. This, we think, is the true
rule, and one to which there should be no exceptions, without
an express order of, the court during the term or consent of
the parties save under very extraordinary circumstances. Here
we find no order 6f the court, no consent of the parties, and
n6 such circumstances as will justify a departure from the
rule. A judge cannot act judicially upon the rights of parties,
after the parties in due course of proceedings have both in
law and in fact been dismissed from the court."
As we have seen, the present record discloses "an express
order of the court during the judgment term, continuing the
cause for the purpose of settling, allowing, signing, and filing
the bills of exception," and this case is thus brought within
the ruling in .Afiller v. Elders.
Our most recent utterance on this subject was in -Morse v.
Andrso, ante, 158, where it was held that this court would
not review bills of exception signed after the time fixed by a
special order of the court had expired.
As this record discloses that the exceptions relied on -were
taken at the trial, and that the delay was in reliance on an
express order of the court, postponing the act of allowing and
signing the bills, we think that we are not precluded from*a
consideration of the errors assign'ed.
A further preliminary objection is urged to the form of the
bill of exceptions, which is said to be a mere transcript of the
entire testimony and of the charge, and the case of ilanna
v. -Haas,12 U. S. 241, is cited.
..In that case it was held that when a bill of exceptions is so
framed as not to present any question of law in a form to be
revised by this court, the judgment must be affirmed, but the
facts of the case were thus stated : " This bill of exceptions
has been framed and allowed in disregard of the settled
Srules of law upon the subject. No ruling upbn evidence is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

open to revision, because none appear to have been excepted
to; and the overruling of the motion for a new trial is not a
subject- of exception. The bill of exceptions, instead of stating
distinctly, as required by law and by the 4th Rule of this
court, those matters of law in the charge which are excepted
to, and those only, does not contain any part of the charge, or
any exception to it, and undertakes to supply the want by
referring to exhibits annexed, containing all the evidence
introduced at the trial, the whole charge to the jury, and
notes of a desultory conversation which followed between the
jud ge and the counsel on both sides, leaving it to this court to
pick out from those notes, if possible, a sufficient statement of
-some ruling in matter of law."'
,The present record presents a very different condition of
facts, as the bill of exceptions, in so far as it relates to the
charge, specifies with distinctness the parts of the charge
excepted to and the legal propositions to which exceptions are
taken. The view we take of the case does not compel us to
consider the objections taken to the admission or rejection of
evideice, and we are'therefore not called upon to determine
whether such objections are properly presented for review.
This was an action of ejectment for the recovery of a tract
of land of which the boundaries and situation were not
matters of dispute. It was conceded that both parties claimed
to derive title from one E. B. Taylor, and that the plaintiff's
.evidence sufficed to entitle him to recover, unlss such right
of recovery was overcome by the defendant's claim of an
adverse possession of a character and duration sufficient, under
the laws of Nebraska, to create a good title.
The xecord discloses thau the judge instructed the jury to
make a finding of special facts; that the jury did so; that the
plaintiff moved for. judgment in his favor upon the verdict;
that the defendant did likewise; and timt the court sustained
the defendant's motion and entered judgment in his favor.
The following are the statutory provisions of Nebraska
relating to verdicts:
"SEC. 292. The verdict- of a jury is either general or
special. A general -verdict is that by which they pronounce

WARD) v. COCHRAN.
Opinion of the Court.

generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury finds the facts only. It must present the facts as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them, and they must be so presented as that nothing remains
to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.
"SEc. 293. In every action for the recovery of money only,
or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the
court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing,
upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may instruct
them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may direct
a written finding thereou. The special verdict or finding
must be filed with the clerk and entered on the journal.
"SEc. 294. When the special finding of facts is inconsistent
with the -general verdict, the former controls the latter, and
the court may give judgment accordingly."
Compiled
Statutes of Nebraska, 1887. Code of Civil Procedure.
The action of the court below in rendering judgment on
the special verdict in favor of the defendant forms the subject
of the first assignment of error. The plaintiff's contention
is that the special verdict did not warrant a judgment in
favor of the defendant, because it did not find that the
possession on which the defendant relied was actual and
exclusive.
No state statute has been referred to as regulating or
defining title by adverse possession, and, indeed, it is stated
in the brief of defendant in error that there is no such
statute; but there is a statutory provision that an action for
the recovery of the title or possession of lands, tenements,
or hereditaments can only be brought'within ten years after
the cause of such action shall have accrued.
Our investigation, therefore, into the sufficiency of the special
verdict must be controlled by the principles established, in this
branch of the law, by the decisions of the courts, particularly
those of the Supreme Court of the State of Nebraska and
of this "court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

In Frenc b v. -Pea'ce,8 Connecticut, 439, 44:0, it was said
that "it is the fact of exclusive occupancy, using and enjoying
the land as his own, in hostility to the true owner, for the
full statutory .period,,which enables the occupant to acquire
an absolute right to the land.
In Soarrlow v. Hovey, 44 Michigan, 63, a refusal of the court
to charge that, when the title is claimed by an adverse possession, it should appear that the possession had been "actual,
continued, visible, notorious, distinct, and hostile," but merely
charging the jury that the possession i. must be actual, continued, and visible," was held erroneous. In Pennsylvania, it
has been repeatedly held that, to give a title under the statute
of limitations, the possession must be "actual, visible, exclusive, notorious, and uninterrupted." Johnston v. Irwin, 3 S. &
R. 291; .Mercer v. 1lratson, 1 *Watts, 330, 338; Overfeld v.
cMristy, 7 S. & R. 173.
In Jackson v. Berner, 48 Illinois, 203, it was held that
an adverse possession sufficient to defeat the legal title, where
there is no paper title, must be hostile in its inception, and
is not to be made out by inference, but by clear and positive
proof; and further, that the possession must be such as to
show clearly that the party claims the land as his own, openly
and exclusively.
In Foulk v. Bond, 12 Vroom, (41 N. J. Law,) 527, 545, it
was said: "The principles on which the doctrine- of title
by adverse possession rests are well settled. The possession
must be actual and exclusive, adverse and hostile, visible and
notorious, continued and uninterrupted."
It was held in Cook v. Babcock, 11 Cush. 206, 209, that
"when a party claims by a disseizin ripened into a good title
by the lapse of time asagainst the legal~owner, he must show
an actual, open, exclusive, and adverse possession- of the land.
All these elements are essential to be proved, and failure
to establish any one of them is fatal to the validity of the
claim."
In Armstrong v. Mforrill, 14 Wall. 120, 145, this court, speak
ing.through Mr. Justice Clifford, said : "It is well settled law
that the possession, in order that it may bar the recovery, must

WARD v. COCHRAN.
Opinion of the Court.

be continuous and uninterrupted as well as open, notorious,
actual, exclusive, and adverse. Such a possession, it is conceded, if continued without interruption for the whole period
which is prescribed by the statute for the enforcement of the
right of entry, is evidence of a fee, and bars the right of
recovery. Independently of positive statute law, such a possession affords a presumption that all the claimants to the land
acquiesce in the claim so evidenced." .Hogan v. .Eurtz, 94
U. S. '(73, is to the same effect. "
The authorities in Nebraska are .substantially to the same
effect on questions of title by adverse possession.
A leading case is florlach v. M1illei;, 4 Nebraska, 31, 46, 48,
in which it was said that "the elements of all title are possession, the right of possession, and the right of property; hence,
if the adverse occupant has maintained an exclusive adverse
possession for the full extent of the statutory limit, the stftute
then vests him with the right of property, which ca-ries with
it the right of possession, and therefore the title becomes in him.
. . . The submission of the case to the jury correctly was
that if they believed, from the evidence, that the plaintiff in
error, for ten years next before the commencement of the
action, was in the actual, continued, and notorious possession
of the land in controversy, claiming the same as his own
against all persons, they must find for the plaintiff in error."
In Gatling v. Lane, 17 Nebraska, 77, 82, the language used
was: "A person who enters upon the land of another with the
intention of occupying the same as his own, and carries that
intention into effect by open, notorious, exclusive adverse possession for ten years, thereby disseizes the owner." In ParkeT
v. Starr, 21 Nebraska, 680, 683, a recovery was sustained where
the testimony clearly. showed that "the defendant and those
under whom he claims have been in the open,; notorious, and
exclusive possession for. ten years next before the suit was
-brought."
In Ballard v. Hansen, 33 Nebraska, 861, 864, the
following instructions, which had been given in the trial court,
were approved by the Supreme Court: "The jury are instructed
that adverse possession,' as relied upon by the plaintiffs in this
action, is the open, actual exclusive, notorious, and hostile

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

occupancy of the land, and claim of right, with the intention
to hold it as against the true owner and all other parties; such
occupancy, if continuous for ten years, ripens into a perfect
title, after which it is immaterial whether the possession be
continued or not." "If you find and believe, from a preponderance of' the testimony in this case, that the plaintiff was in
the actual, open, notorious, exclusive, continuous possession of
any of the lots in controversy for ten years, claiming to own
and hold them as against all others, as to such lots he is
entitled to recover."
Tested by these definitions, it is obvious that if the title
relied on in this case, by the defendant below, wtis fully
described and characterized by the special verdict, it was
defective in two very essential particulars, in that it was not
found to have been actual and exclusive. A possession not
actual, but constructive; not exclusive, but in participation
with the owner or others, falls very far short of that kind of
adverse p6ssession which deprives the true owner of his title
Where a special verdict is rendered all the facts essential to
entitle a party to a judgment must be found, and a judgment
rendered on a special verdict failing to find all the essential
facts is erroneous.
In Prentice v. Zane's Administrator, 8 How. 470, 483, it
was said: "In the Chesapeake Ins. Co. v. Stark, 6 Cranch,
268, and Barnes v. Williams, 11 Wheat. 415, this court has
decided that where, in a special verdict, the essential facts are
not distinctly found by the jury, although there is sufficient
evidence to establish them, the court will not render a judgment upon such an imperfect special verdict, but will remand
the cause to the court below with directions to award a venire
de novo."
In Eodges v. Easton, 106 U. S. 408, where it was contended
that an imperfect special verdict might be pieced out and the
missing facts be supplied by reference to the other parts of the
record, the same conclusion was reached, and the court below
was directed to award a new trial.
In the present case, even if the verdict were regarded as a
general one, and therefore entitled to be supported by the

WARD v. COCHRAN.
Opinion of the Court.

presumption that sufficient facts existed to sustain it, yet we
should feel constrained to reverse the judgment, because of
the errors complained of in the eighth, ninth, and tenth assignments.
The plaintiff's counsel requested the court to charge the
jury that, in order that possession of land may overcome the
title of the true owner, "there must be a concurrence of
the following elements: Such possession must be actual,
hostile, exclusive, open, notorious, and continuous for the whole
period of ten years. Every element in this enumeration is
absolutely essential, and if one of these elements does not exist
there can be no adverse title acquired;" and the court did so
charge; but the court then proceeded to say that, after having disposed of the written instructions, "I propose to go outside of what is there stated and give one on my own motion."
Those voluntary instructions given by the learned judge, though
correct in most respects, were imperfect in the very particulars
in which we have found the special verdict defective. The
jury were not told that, to make out the defence, the possession,
in addition to certain other features properly specified, must
be shown to have been actual and exclusive. This clearly
appears in the final instruction, .which was in the following
terms:
"But if you take the other view and find tIhat defendant
has a good title and that he is entitled to recover, then I think
you ought to gn further and find the fact that he entered into
the possession of the premises at a certain time, or as near as
you can fix it from the testimony; that he ocoupied Che premises; that he continued in possession for more than ten years
prior to the commencement of this suit, which was December 4,
1886. You ought to find, if you can, from the testimony about
the time that he went into possession, whether he continued
in possession, and whether his possession was adverse, continuous, and hostile prior to the commencement of this suit, or
whether Flanagan and his grantees, defendants in this suit,
continued in possession that long, it is the same as if Flaiagan
waw in possession that long himself.
"If you find for the defendant, find when he took possesVOL. CL-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

sion, if you can, and, as near as you can, how long he remained
in possession before the commencement of this suit. Then
your verdict will be, in addition to that, ' We therefore find
that at the commencement of this suit the defendant was the
owner and entitled to the immediate possession of the premises
in dispute.' That disposes of the whole controversy as far as
the verdict of the jury is concerned."
Nor do we think that this is one of those cases in which
erroneous or insufficient instructions in one part of a charge
are corrected or supplied by unobjectionable instructions, on
the same questions, appearing in another part. It is evident
that the attention of the jury must have been withdrawn from
the instructions formally given, as requested, to those announced by the judge, as given on his own motion, and it
seems evident that this action of the court misguided the jury,
and led them to overlook essential questions involved in the
issue they were trying. Smiths v. Shoernaker, 17 Wall. 630;
-Moores v. N ational Bank, 104 U. S. 625; Gilman v. Higley,
110 U. S. 47; Vicksburg &.i-eridian Railroad Co. v. O'Brien,
119 U. S. 103.
Whether, then, we regard the verdict as a special one, not
containing findings sufficient to support the judgment, or as a
general one, rendered in pursuance of imperfect instructions,
we reach the conclusion that the judgment of the court below
must be
Reversed and the cause remanded,with instruction to award
a venire de noo.

HORN v. DETROIT DRY DOCK COMPANY.
AIPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 124. Argued December 5,1893.-Decided December 18,1893.

In chancery proceedings in the Federal courts, when a plea in bar meets
and satisfies all the claims of the bill, and it is sustained, it will, under

