IN I.RE SWA_&, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

In 'e SWAN, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 10. Original. Argued November 20, 1893.-Decided December 18, 1893.
A writ of habeas corpus cannot be used to perform the office of a writ of
error or appeal.
When a person is imprisoned under a judgment of a Circuit Court which
had no jurisdiction of the person or of the subject-matter, or authority
to render the judgment, and no writ of error or appeal will lie, then
relief may be accorded by' writ of habeas cotpus.
S. claiming to act as a constable in the State of South Carolina, and to act
under the statute of that State touching intoxicating liquors known as
the Dispensary Act, seized without warrant and carried away a cask of
liquor which bad been brought into the State by a receiver operating a
railroad under authority of the Circuit Court of the United States for
that district, and was held by him as an officer of that court, awaiting
its delivery to the consignee. The receiver applied to the court which
appointed him, setting forth the facts, and praying that S. be attached
and punished for contempt, and be required to restore the property.
A rule to show cause issued and S. appeared and made answer., The
court adjudged him to be guilty of contempt, ordered him to be imprisoned until he return the property, and when that should be done that
he be imprisoned for a further period of three months, and until he should
pay the costs.
-Held,
(1) That the Circuit Court had jurisdiction;
(2) That its determination that the act of S. was illegal, and that he
was in contempt, was not open to review in this proceeding;
(3) That it was not necessary to determine whether he could be required
to pay the costs, as he bad not yet restored the goods, nor suffered
the three months' imprisonment.
The possession of property by the judicial department, whether Federal or
state, cannot be arbitrarily encroached upon, without violating the
fundamental principle which requires coordinate departments to refrain
from interfe'rence with the independence of each other.

By an order of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of South Carolina in the case of F. W. Bound v.
The South Carolina 1ilway Compa2ny apd others, Daniel H.

Chamberlain was appointed receiver of the railway company;

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and all of its property was placed under hi' care and management and protected by injunction. In the operation of. the
railroad as a common carrier, there was delivered to the receiver April 12, 1893, a barrel of liquor 6hipped by citizens of
North Carolina from Statesville in that State, and consigned
to their agents in Charleston, South Carolina. By reason of
some confusion arising over the bill of lading, or from the
markings on the barrel, there was difficulty in discovering the
consignees, and the barrel was stored in the warehouse of
the railroad company awaiting the result of an investigation
in that particular.
An act of the'general assembly of South Carolina, commonly
called the Dispensary Law, and entitled "An act to prohibit
the manufacture and sale'of intoxicating liquors as a beverage.
within this State, except as herein provided," was approved
December 24, 1892, and by.its terms was to go into full operatioh July 1, 1893. Acts South Carolina, 1892, No. 28, p. 62.
On the first of August, 1893, while the matter of the ascertainment of the consignee was being investigated and the
barrel was in the warehouse of the receiver, freight unpaid,
one C.B. Swan entered the warehouse, seized the barrel, took
it out of the custody of the receiver, and deposited it in the
jail of Charleston County, in the care of the shekiff. Swan
showed no authority either from the consignee or the consignor of the goods, and produced no warrant by virtue of
which the seizure was made. When questioned by the receiver,
the sole authority referred to by him Was his commission as a
constable of the State. His suspicions had been excited respecting this barrel, it having been, presumably from necessity,
removed from one part of the floor of the warehouse to
another, and he acted on his suspicions. It was admitted that
he took the course he did of his own motion without instructions from-any one in the legal department of the State, and
probably without instructions from any other person. After
the seizure the goods remained in the place where deposited
by Swan without any proceeding or application whatever until
on August 7,1893, the receiver filed his petition in the Circuit'
Court in the case in which he was appointed, -setting forth the

IN RE SWAN, Petitioner.
Statement of the Came.

facts and praying that Swan be attached and punished for
contempt of court in seizing the goods without warrant, and
that he be compelled to restore them to the receiver's custody
for delivery to the consignee. A rule to show cause was
accordingly entered, to which Swan made answer, disclaiming
any purpose to commit contempt of court, but justifying the
seizure under the Dispensary Act, and making no offer to restore the goods. The court after full hearing ordered that the
rule be made absolute, and committed him to the custody of
the marshal to be imprisoned in the jail of Charleston County
until he returned, "to the custody of the receiver, the barrel
taken by him from the warehouse without warrant 6f law.
And when that has been surrendered that he suffer a further
imprisonment thereafter in said county jail for three months
and until he pay the costs of these proceedings."
In its opinion, the court, (Simonton, J.,) after stating the
facts, said: "Were this a simple case of interference with
property in the hands and custody of this court, without notice
to it, and without action on its part, its settlement would be
easy. Were it even based upon a charge of violation of the
law on the part of the receiver, and sustained by a mandate
issuing from any proper authority, the court would not be
slow to believe that the manner of the execution of the mandate arose from inadvertence, and would lend its aid to an

investigation of the charge, and a due execution of the law.
As a common carrier, the receiver is bound to respect and
obey the laws of the State. He and the court from whom he
holds his appointment are servants of the law, exceptionably
bound to pay it the utmost deference and respect. But the
real issue in this case is vastly more important than an interference with property in the hands of the court. It is far
reaching in its consequences, and concerns, not only the receiver, but every other citizen. Has any constable the right,
without warrant, to search premises, and to seize property,
when he suspects that a. violation of the law is intended ?"
The various sections of the Dispensary Act were then con,
sidered and the result reached that a constable had no authority to so search and seize under the terms of the act, on general

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

principles, or under the constitutioni of South Carolina, and it
was said in conclusion:
"In the case now before us there is not even the excuse for
haste. The goods were stored and kept in a warehouse, not
at a place for sale. No concealment whatever was practised.
In his answer the respondent says that for several days he saw
the package, and watched it. Any notification to this court
would have absolutely secured him from any removal of it.
Within his reach, at any hour of the day, he could have gone
before any justice or judge, and could have obtained, or at
least could have sought, a warrant. The process of law was
within his reach. Even when he searched and seized the
package, he openly disregarded the law. For eight days he
remained inactive, taking no steps whatever to justify, support,
or legalize his action. It does not appear even that he reported it to any one. Ilis contempt of private rights went
far beyond his disregard of the existence and authority of
this court."
Swan, having been committed, presented his petition for the
writ of habeas corpus, and a rule having been entered thereon,
and a return having been duly made thereto, the application
was heard by this court upon the petition and return, and
the accompanying exhibits, which included the opinion, now
reported in 57 Fed. Rep. 485.
By the first section of the Dispensary Act it was provided
that after July 1, 1893, the manufacture, sale, barter, or exchange, or the keeping or offering for sale, barter, trade, or
exchange, within the State, of intoxicating liquors, should be
regulated and conducted as provided in the act.
The second section provided for the appointment of a commission to purchase all intoxicating liquors for lawful sale in
the State and to furnish the same to persons designated as
dispensers thereof, to be sold as prescribed.
In all purchases or sales made by the commissioner it was
made his duty to cause a certificate to be attached to each
and every package, "and without such certificate-any package
containing liquors which shall be brought into the State, or
shipped out of the State, or shipped from place to place within

IN RE SWAN, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

the State by any railroad, express company,. or other common
carrier, shall be regarded as intended for unlawful-sale."
The following are applicable sections of the act, some immaterial parts being omitted:
"SEc. 22. All places where intoxicating liquors are sold,
bartered or given away in violation of this. act, or where persons are permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquors as a beverage, or where intoxicating liquors are
kept for sale, barter or delivery in violation of this act, are
hereby declared to be common nuisances; and if the existence
of such nuisance be established, either in a criminal or equitable
action, upon the judgment of a court, or judge having jurisdiction, finding such place to be a nuisance, the sheriff, his deputy,
or any constable of the proper county or city where the same
is located, shall be directed to shut up and abate such place
by taking possession thereof, if he has not already done so,,
under the provisions of this act; and by taking possession of
all such intoxicating liquors found therein, together with all
signs, screens, bars, bottles, glasses, and other property used
in keeping and maintaining such nuisance; and such personal
property so taken possession of shall, after judgment against
said defendant, be forthwith- confiscated to the State.
"SEC. 23. The attorney general, his assistant, the circuit
solicitor, or any citizen of the county where such nuisance
exists, or is lept or maintained, may maintain an action in the
name of the State to abate and perpetually enjoin the same.
The injunction shall be granted at the commencement of the
action in the usual manner of granting injunctions, except that
the affidavit or complaint, or both, may be made by the attorney general, his assistant or the s6licitor of the circuit, upon
information or belief, and no bond shall be required; and if
an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge, stating or
showing that intoxicating liquors, particularly describing the
same, aie kept for sale, or are sold, bartered or given away on
the premises, particularly describing the same, where such
nuisance is located, contrary to law, the court or judge shall
at the time of granting the injunction issue his orders, commanding the officer serving.the writ of injunction, at the time
VOL. CL-41

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

of such service, diligently to search the premises and carefully
to invoice all the articles found therein, used in or about the
carrying on of the unlawful business, for Which search and
invoicing said officer shall receive the fees now allowed by law
for serving an injunction. If such officer upon such search
shall find upon any such premises any intoxicating liquor, or
liquors of any kind, in quantity going to show it was for the
purpose of sale or barter, he shall take the same into his custody and turn over the same to the sheriff of the county, who
shall securely hold the same to abide the final judgment of
the court in the action (the expenses for holding to be taxed
as part of the costs of the action); and such officer shall also
take possession of all personal property found on such premises,
and turn over the same to the sheriff of the county, who shall
hold the same until the final judgment in the case. The finding of such intoxicating liquors on such premises, with satisfactory evidence that the same was being disposed of contrary
to this act, shall be primafacie evidence of the nuisance complained of. Liquors seized as hereinbefore provided, and the
vessels containing them, shall not be taken from the custody
of the officer in possession of the same by any writ of replevin
or other process while the proceedings herein provided for are
.pending; and final judgment in such proceedings in favor of
the plaintiff shall, in all cases, be a bar to all suits against such
officer or officers for recovery of any liquors seized, or the
value of the same, or for damages alleged to arise by reason
of the seizure and detention thereof. Any person violating
the terms of any injunction granted in such proceedings shall
be punished for contempt. .
"SEc. 24. It shall be' the duty of the sheriffs, deputy sheriffs
and constables having notice of the violation of any of the
provisions of this act to notify the circuit solicitor of the' fact
of such violation, and to furnish him the names of any witnesses within their knowledge by whom such violation can be
proven.
"SEc. 25. No person shall knowingly bring into this State,
or knowingly transport from place to place within this State,
by wagon, cart or other vehicle, or by any other means or

IN RE SWAN,. petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

mode of carriage, any intoxicating liquors with the intent to
sell the same in this State in violation of law, or with intent
that the same shall be sold by any other person, or to aid any
other person in such sale, under a penalty of five hundred
dollars and costs for each offence, and in addition thereto shall
be imprisoned in the county jail for one year. In default of
payment of said fine and costs the party shall suffer an additional imprisonment of one year. Any servant, agent or employ6 of any rhilroad corporation, or of any express company,
or of any persons, corporations or associations, doing business
in this State as common carriers, who shall remove any intoxicating liquors from any railroad car, vessel or other -ehicle of
transportation, at any place other than the usual and established stations, wharves, depots or places of business of such
common carriers within some incorpo'rated city or town, where
there is a dispensary, or-who shall aid in or consent to such
removal, shall- be subjept to a penalty of fifty dollars and
imprisonment for thirty days for every such-offence: Provided,
That said penalty shall not apply to any liquor in transit when
changed from car to car to facilitate transportation. All such
liquors intended for unlawful'sale in this State may be seized
in transit, and proceeded against as if it were unlawfully kept
and deposited in any place. And any steamboat, sailing
vessel, "railroad, or express company, or other corporation,
knowingly transporting or bringing such liquors into the State
shall be punished upon conviction by a fine of five hundred
dollars and costs for each offence. Knowledge on the part of
any authorized agent of such company shall be deemed knowledge of the company"SEC. 26. The governor shall have authority to appoint
one or more state constables at a salary of two dollars per
day and expenses, when on duty, to see that this act is enforced, the same to be charged to the expense, account of the
state commissioner."
.r. .D. A. Townsend, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, for the petitioner.

OCTOBEt TERM, 1893.
Argument for Petitioner.

I. The Circuit Judge had no jurisdiction of the matter in.
volved in the proceedings for contempt.
The petitioner was attached for contempt while discharging
his duty as an officer of the State, in the execution of a valid
police law, and in doing so he was not violating the Constitution or laws of the United States, nor any order, process, or
decree of any court or judge thereof. The Circuit Court bad
no jurisdiction of the matter. Rev. Stat. ยง 753, and cases
noted; Gould & Tucker's Notes to ยง 753, p. 219.
II. That judge exceeded his authority in attaching the
petitioner for contempt. The Dispensary Law is a valid
police law. It is to be observed that the Circuit Judge bases
his judgment solely upon the ground- that the petitioner, as
state constable, had no right to seize the liquor without a
warrant, as such seizure was forbidden by the constitution of
the State; and only for that reason holds that such seizure
was an improper interference with the receiver. It will also
be seen that he concedes that the receiver "as a common
carrier is bound to respect and obey the laws of the State."
The validity of the Dispensary Law, both in its general
and particular provisions, will be shown by the following
considerations:
(a) The legislature of the State is that department of the
government in which the sovereign police power of the people
is exclusively lodged, and it is restrained in the exercise of
such power only by the provisions of the state constitution,
which expressly, or by necessary implication, limit it, and cannot be restrained by Federal law. TMestern. Union Tel. Co. v.
Pendleton, 122 U. S.317, 359; New Orleans Gas Light Co. v.
Louisiana -Light Co., 115 U. S.650, 661 ; Barblier v. Connolly,
113 U. S.27; City of NYew -ork v. _Atiln, 11 Pet. 102, 139.
In Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U. S.86, 91, it is said:
"It" (sale of liquor) "is a question of public expediency and
public morality, and not of Federal law. The police power
of the State is fully competent to regulate the business- to
mitigate its evils or to suppress it entirely. . . . The manner and extent of regulation rest in the discretion of the governing authority. That authority may vest in such officers as

IN RE SWANT, *Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

it may deem proper the power of passing upon applications
for permission to-carry it on and to issue licenses for that purpose. It is a matter of legislative will only. As in many
other cases, the officers may not always exercise the power
conferred upon them with wisdom or justice to the parties
affected. But that is a matter which does not affect the
authority of the State: nor, is it one which can be brought
under the cognizance of the courts of the United States." See
also Trageser v. Gray, 73 Maryland, 250, 260; Giozzza v. Tiernan, 148 U. S. 65[; The License Cases, 5 How. 504, 631, 632;
.M3ugler v.. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 660; The State v. Wheeler,
25 Connecticut, 290, 297.
(b) The provisions of the Federal and state. constitutions
which limit legislative power are only intended to protect the
individual citizen against any infringement upon his private
rights by the public, and only apply when there is such infringement. In regard to the traffic in intoxicating liquors,
no citizen has the inherent right to sell them. Giozza v. Tiervan., 148 U. S.651?; Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; 3fugler v. Eansas,123 U. S. 623 ; Crowley v. Ch7ristensen, 137 U. S.
86, 91.
(c) It follows, therefore, as a general conclugion from the
two foregoing, propositions, that the constitutional provisions,
which are the bulwarks of private rights against public power,
do not apply in the matter of the police regulation of the
liquor traffic by the State, and the legislature is wholly unlimited in the exercise of its power, save by its discretion as to
the extent and manner thereof.
(d) In the light of. this general conclusion of law it'may be
assumed that the Dispensary Law is a valid police law.
III. It is not necessary to cite any authority to show that
the trade in intoxicating liquors is a matter fully within the
police power of the State, and that there is a necessity for the
exercise of such power in regard thereto. The validity of this
Dispensary Law, both in its general purpose and scope and in
its particular provisions, is shown by the authority already
cited. Th6 only general objection urged against it is, that it
creates a monopoly. This is not a sound objection. As has

OCT01ER TERM, -1893.
Argument for Petitioner.

been shown, no citizen of this country has a right to sell in.
toxicating liquors, and hence the people have no common
right to engage in that trade as a business. When the legislature, in the exercise of the police power, sees fit to commit
the control of that trade to the State, under such regulations
as its discretion suggests it does not deprive any citizen of his
rightful business and does not create a monopoly in the proper
and objectionable sense of that word.
Besides, as the prohibition or regulation of such trade rests
entirely within the police power of the. legislature, it may
make the license to sell intoxicating liquors exclusive in the
State or in any corporation or citizen when deemed .necessary.
The State v. Brennan7' Liquors, 25 Connecticut, 278.
This doctrine of monopoly by the State of the trade in intoxicating liquors is sustained in principle by the iSlaughter.House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
IV. It is also urged that the Fourteenth Amendment is
violated by some of the provisions in the Dispensary Law.
But the Dispensary Law' being a police law, the Fourteenth
Amendment cannot impair its provisions. Besides, there is
no discrimination which makes the clause class legislation.
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 32; Tageser v. Gray, 73
Maryland, 250.
V. It is further contended: (1) that the statute does not
authorize a seizure without warrant, and (2), that if it be construed to give such authority, it violates the provisions of the
constitution respecting unreasonable searches and seizures.
This provision of the constitution of South Caroli-ia is substantially the same as the provisions of the Constitution of the
United States and of Maine, Massachusetts, and Vermont, in
regard to searches and seizures. In the statutes of each of
those States, as to intoxicating liquors, there is an express provision allowing the proper officer to seize the licuor intended.
for unlawful sale and to arrest the keeper of it "without warrant," and then to proceed formally in the matter, to its adjudication.
These provisions of statutes of Maine, Massachusetts, and
Vermont as. to arrest and seizure "without a warrant" have

I\

RE SWAN, Petitioner.
Argument for Petitioner.

been construed and sustained by the highest courts in those
states. Jones v.,Boot, 6 Gray, 435 ; State v. O'Neil, 58 Vermont, 140; I re Powers, 25 Vermont, 261; The State v.
McOann, 59 Maine, 383; The State v. Dunphy, 79 Maine, 101.
VI. The position taken by respondent's counsel, that the
liquors in question could not be seized by the petitidner,
because it was in the custody of the law, is untenable.
It is admitted that all the property of the South Carolina
Railway Company, when it passed into the hands of the receiver, went into the custody of the law, and that the receiver
could not be arrested for obeying the order of the court in
reference thereto; nor could his possession of the property be
interfered with by seizure under execution. But the liquor in
question was not in the custody of the law simply because it
happened to be in the tempprary possession of the receiver.
It was no part of the property of the railway company that
had been taken into the custody of the law, under and by virtue of the receivership thereof. The receiver had transported
it as a common carrier, as the property of Lowenstein Bros.;
to Charleston, and there held it as their property for delivery
to them as the owners. He sustained no other relation to the
liquor than that which the railway company itself sustained to
it, to wit, that which imposed the duty upon him to deliver it,
if not prevented by the law, and allowed him to charge proper
freight thereon.
So the receiver in this case being a commoh carrier, who
had performed his duty as such in transporting the liquor,
and then held it as the property of another, to be delivered
upon payment of proper charges, had no higher rights in
regard to the same than any other warehouseman would
have.
It follows, therefore, that the liquor not being a part of the
property of the railway company in the control of the court,
and being the property of another, in temporary chargeof the
receiver or warehouseman, he c6uld not properly hold' it against
the seizure by your petitioner, and the court could not protect
him in refusing that obedience to a valid police law incumbent
upon every citizen.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

VII. The position taken by the respondent's attorney, that
Rev. Stat. ยง 974,. quoted by him, authorizes the punishment
for contempt by both imprisonment and payment of the costs,
is incorrect.
That section evidently refers to regular prosecutions for
crimes, and has no reference to punishment for contempts
under rule.
It must be concluded either that, if the costs are a fine, they
cannot be imposed as joint punishment with imprisonment;
or that, if not considered a fine, they are added as a part of
the punishment, and are in excess of the limitation of the
statute.
In either case, the express limitation upon the power to
punish must control.
r. 7oseph
Mit.

w:

Barnwell, opposing.

amrF JusTIo. FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
We reitetate what has so often been said before, that the
writ of habeas corpus cannot be used to perform the office of
a writ of error or appeal; but when no writ of error or appeal
will lie, if a petitioner is imprisoned under a judgment of the
Circuit Court which had no jurisdiction of the person or of
the subject-matter, or authority to render the judgment complained of, then relief may be accorded. In re Frederick, 149
U. S. 70; In 'e Tyler, Petitioner,149 U. S. 164.
The contention here is that the order of committal was
wholly void for want of jurisdiction to make any order whatever, or to make the particular order.
1. To sustain the proposition that the court had no jurisdiction to commit, it is argued that the petitioner was in the discharge of his duty as an officer of the State in the execution
of a valid police law of the State, authorizing the search and
seizure; that his action was therefore justifiable, and judicial
interference with him absolutely precluded.
The validity of the Dispensary Act was elaborately discussed

IN RE SWAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

by counsel for petitioner, but we perceive no necessity for entering upon an examination of that .question. The Circuit
Court was of opinion that the act did not authorize a seizure
without warrant. It was admitted below that such a seizure
could not be made except under the authority of a statute conferring the power to do so, and nothing to the contrary has
been adduced on this argument.
Any other view would be inconsistent with settled principles of the common law and with familiar constitutional provisions for the security of person and property and immunity
from unreasonable searches and seizures. The original occasion for securing that immunity may have been the abuse of
executive authority in the matter of obtaining evidence of
political offences, but these safeguards are not therefore limited in their scope, and extendprotection against every exertion
in that direction of merely arbitrary power.
In some of the States authority to proceed in respect of
liquors, without warrant in the first instance, is expressly
given by statute, but is accompanied by the provision thai
when the seizure is so made, the property seized is to be
kept in, safety for a reasonable time until a warrant can be
procured, and it is held that, should the officer neglect to obtain
a warrant within such time, he will be liable as a trespasser.
JZent v. Tfilley, 11 Gray, 368; lfestonr v. Carr, 71 Maine, 356.
In Kennedy v. Favor, 14: Gray, 200, 202, Chief Justice Shaw
said: "The authority to seize liquors without a warrant,
though sometimes necessary, is a high power; and, being
in derogation of common law right, it is to be exercised only
where it is clearly authorized by the statute or rule of law
which warrants it."
In his examination of the Dispensary Act the learned judge
holding the Circuit Court pointed out that it was to be strictly
construed and not to be extended beyond the import of its
terms. N orthern Pacifio Railroad v. Whalen, 149 U. S. 157.
The act could not be regarded as dealing with intoxicating
liquors as if they were a deadly poison whose presence was
noxious per se, which might justify an enlarged construction
of the language of the statute to the end that so fearful a nui-

650

OCTOBEPt T_1RM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sance might be abated, for their use as a beverage was recognized, and their sale placed in the hafids of. public officials.
iMoreover, it was not admissible to hold by construction that
the statute had authorized the seizure of the goods without
warrant, in view of section twenty-two of article I. of the constitution of South Carolina, which declared- that "all persons
have a right to be secure from unreasonable searches, or seizure of their persons, houses, papers, or possessions. All warrants shall be supported by oath or affirmation, and the order
of the warrant to a civil officer to make search or seizure in
suspected places, or to arrest one or more suspected persons,
or to seize their property, shall -be accompanied with a special
designatioi of the persons or objects of search, arrest, or seizure, and no warrant shall be issued but in the cases and with
the formalities prescribed by the laws."
Indeed, the statute upon any reasonable construction did not
contemplate action without process. By the twenty-second
section, places where intoxicating liquors were sold, bartered,
or given away, or where persons were permitted to resort for
the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquiors as a beverage, or
where intoxicating liquors were kept for sale, barter, or delivery, in violation of the act, were declared to be common nuisances, and if the existence of such nuisance were estabiished,
either in a criminal or equitable action, upon the judgment of
a court or judge having jurisdiction, finding the place to be a
nuisance, it was to be abated and the liquors and accessories
taken possession of and confiscated.
Under section twenty-three, such places might be' enjoined
and abated by action in the name of the State, careful provision
being made that orders for the search and seizure of the goods
should only be issued upon an affidavit stating or showing that
intoxicating liquors particularly described were kept for sale,
or sold, bartered, or given away on the premises, particularly
describing the same.
The twenty-fifth section provided that liquors in transit intended for unlawful sale in the State might be seized and pro.
ceeded against as if "unlawfully kept and deposited in any
place," and were therefore not subject to seizure without pre-

IN RE SWAN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

liminary proceeding or. judicial action, as provided in sections
twenty-two and twenty-three in regard to liquors so unlawfully kept and deposited. So far from th6 argument being
well founded that because the provisions of the twenty-second
and twenty-third sections were not expressly repeated in the
twenty-fifth, it was to be inferred that they were dispensed
with, the provision that liquors in transit might be seized and
proceeded against as if "unlawfully kept and deposited in any
place," made them a part of the section by reference, and it
was in accordance with those sections that such property could
be condemned; and that that involved here was turned-over
by petitioner to the sheriff of Charleston County. The duties
of a constable were under section twenty-four to notify the
circuit solicitor of the violation of any of the provisions of theact under section twenty-four, and under section twenty-two,
if the existence of the nuisance therein mentioned were established either in a criminal or equitable action, he might be
directed to abate the place by taking possession thereof. Certainly, seizure by him without warrant or judicial action was
not expressly authorized by the statute nor by implication
upon any canon of construction applicable to an act creating
offences unknown to the common law and authorizing confiscation.
It is insisted that the Circuit Court was in error in the views
it entertained and the conclusion reached in accordance therewith. But this objection is of error merely, and does not go.
to, the power of the court in the premises. Judgments of
courts, whether Federal or state, cannot be treated as void
and attacked collaterally on -habeas corpus, even if error has
actually supervened.
It must be remembered that this property was in the custody
of the officer of the court; that it had been brought into the
State before the act went into operation; that it had not been
delivered because of imperfect address; that there was no concealment and no occasion for haste; and that there was no
difficulty in the way of application to the court, to have the
goods detained or for permission to withdraw them from the
receiver's possession. Nothing can be clearer than that

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the court had jurisdiction to determine whether the goods
were retained in violation of the laws-of the State; whether
the receiver in conducting the business of the railroad in
respect of the transportation of this barrel was proceeding
"according to the valid laws of the State" as provided by the
sec6nd section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1887, (24
Stat. 552, c. 373,) and whether the seizure was authorized by
any law of the State.
The possession of property by the judicial department,
whether Federal or state, cannot be arbitrarily encroached
upon without violating the fundamental principle, which requires codrdinate departments to refrain from interference
with the independence of each other, 1n Pre Tyler, Petitioner,
149 U. S. 164, and the position that a petty officer can take
property from the possession of a court without permission
and without warrant, "upon his own motion and without
instructions from any other person," as petitioner admits he
did, because in his view the duty is imposed upon him by a
particular statute, and that the court is without power to pass
upon the questions involved, or' if it does so, that its judgment
may be treated with contemptuous defiance, is utterly inadmissible in any community assuming to be governed by law.
We entertain no doubt whatever that the Circuit Court bad
jurisdiction, and it necessarily follows that its determination
that the action of the constable was illegal, and that he was
-in contempt in seizing and persisting in holding the property,
is not open to review in this proceeding.
2. It is further contended that the court exceeded its power
in that the payment of costs was required, because the costs
were in the nature of a fine, and therefore the punishment
inflicted was both fine and imprisonment. Under section 970
of the Revised Statutes, when judgment is reidered against
a defendant in a prosecution for any fine or forfeiture, he shall
be subject to the payment of costs, and- on every conviction
for any other offence, not capital, the court may in its discretion award that the defendant shall pay the costs of the
prosecution; and as contempt, of court is a specific criminal
offence, it is said that the judgment for payment of costs

IN RE HOHORST, Petitioner.
Syllabus.

would appear to be Withirf the power of the court, although
by section '725 it is provided that contempts of the authority
of courts of the United States may be punished 0 by fine or
imprisonment, at the discretion of the court." But be that as
it may, the sentence here was that the petitioner be imprisoned
"until he returns to the custody of the receiver; the barrel
taken by him from the warehouse without warrant of law.
And when that has been surrendered, that he suffer a further
imprisonment thereafter in said county jail foi, three months
and until he pay the costs of these proceedings, ' As the prisoner has neither restored the goods nor suffered the imprisonment for three months, even if it was not within the power of
the court to require payment of costs and its judgment to that
extent exceeded its authority, yet he cannot be"discharged on
habeas corpus until lie has performed so much of the judgment
or served out so much of the sentence as it was within the
power of. the court to impose. Ex parte -Lange,18 Wall. 163;
Emparle Parks, 93 U. S. 18.
The applicationrforthe writ of habeas corpus is denied..

In re HOHORST, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No.1. Original. Argued November 14,1893. -Decided

December 18, 1893.

In the act of March 3, 1887, c. 373, ยง 1, as corrected by the act of August
13, 1888, c. 866, giving the Circuit Courts of the United States original
jurisdiction, "concurrent with the courts of the several States," of all
suits of a civil nature, in -which the matter in dispute exceeds $2000 in
amount or value, "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States" or in which there is "a controversy between citizens of a State
and foreign States, citizens or subjects," the provision that" no civil suit
shall be brought against any person by any original process or proceeding
in any other.district than that whereof he is an inhabitant," is inapplicable to an alien or a foreign corporation sited here, and especially in a suit
Xor the infringcment of a patent righ't; and such a person or corporation

