OCTOBER TERM, 1893.

16

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. DENVER AND RIO GRANDE
RAILROAD COMPANY AND OTHERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
lNo. 4. Argued October 10,1893. -Decided

October 23, 1893.

In this case the court follows its rulings in No. 3, an~e, 1.,

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.21r.Solicitor General for plaintiff in error.
.Mr.Edward 0. Wolcott, (with whom was Xr. Joel F. *Faile
on the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR. JUsTICE JTACSOx delivered tb opinion of the court.

Thiscase is controlled by the decision of this court rendered
in the case of the United States v. Denver and Rio Grande
Railway Co. The pleadings and the agreed statement of
facts1 present substantially the same questions as are discussed
1

Agreed Statement of Facts.

It is agreed:
1. That the timber sued for in said action was cut by J. J. Carpenter,
X. L. -Carpenter, and H. S. Carpenter, as agents of the Denver and Rio
Grande Railroad Company, for the use of said company.
2. That the complaint in said action shows the amount of timber cut,
and that the same was used as railroad ties.
3. That said timber was cut upon public, unoccupied, and unentered
lands of the United States, in Gunnison County, Colorado.
4. That the lands from which said timber was cut were along, near, or
adjacent to the line of railway of said company.
5. That one-half of the timber cut, as aforesaid, was cut on lands adjacent or near to the portions of said line of- railway which were constructed
prior to June 8th, 1882, and the other half of said timber was cut from lands
near to, adjacent, and along portions of said line of railway constructed and
completed after June 8th, 1882.
6. That the line of railway of the Denver and Rio Grande Railway
Company, predecessor in interest and ownership to the Denver and Rio
Grande Railroad Company, had not been completed to Santa F6, on June 8th,

UNITED STATES v. DENVER &c.. RAILROAD.

17

Opinion of the'Court.

and decided in the suit against the railway company. The
defendant in this case is the successor in title of the Denver
and Rio Grande Railway Company, and complied with all the
requirements of the act of 1875. The timber, with which it
was sought to be charged, was taken early in 1886 for use as
cross-ties. About one-half of this timber was taken from the
public lands adjacent to the line of the co!npany's road in
Montrose County, Colorado, and .was used on that portion
of its line constructed after June 8, 1882. The rest of the
timber was taken from public lands adjacent to the line, constructed prior to June 8, 1982, lying east of Cebolla. The
court below held that the defendant had a right to take timber from public lands east of Cebolla for the purpose of
repairing its line constructed prior to June 8, 1882, but had
no right to take timber from that portion of the line for the
purpose of constructing new switches and side tracks along
the line of road completed subsequent to June 8, 18823 and for
this item, amounting to $1120, the defendant was held liable,
and acquiesced in that judgment. The plaintiffs in error seek

for a reversal of the judgment on the ground that it improp1882, nor has said line of railway ever been so completed either by the
Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company or by the Denver and Rio Grande
Railroad Company.
7. That one-fourth of the ties cut, as aforesaid, were used by the Denver
and Rio Grande Railroad Company upod various portions of the line of
railway formerly owned by the Denver and Rio Grande Railway Company,
and subsequently owned by the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company,
and which portions were constructed and completed prior to June 8th, 1882,
said ties being used for purposes of repairs.
8. That one-fourth of said timber has been used in the construction of
new switches and side tracks along the line of road completed subsequent
to June 8th, 1882.
9. That the remaining one-half of the ties so cup either have been or are
intended to be used in the construction of new extensions of said railroad,
now in process of building between montrose and Ouray.
10. That the said Denver and Rio Grailde Railroad Company has strictly
complied with all the provisions of the act of Congress approved March 3d,
1875, granting -railroads a right of way through the public lands, and is
claiming under said act as to all road constructed since June 8th, 1882, and
as to road now in process of construction.
VOL. CL-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

erly relieved: defendant from liability for the rest of the
timber.
We are of opinion that there was no error in the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and the same is accordingly

WOOD v. BRADY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME -COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
1go. 15. Submitted October 10, 1893.-Decided October 23,1893.
The construction placed by a state cburt upon one statute implies no obligation on its part to put the same construction upon a different statute,
though the language of the two may be similar.
The question whether an action to foreclose a lieu for unpaid assessments
for street iinprovements in San Francisco is in rem or in personam,
is one upon which the decision of the Supreme Court of California is
binding, and its ruling that a plaintiff who was no party to defendants'
suits to-foreclose, has a right to show by evidence aliunde the invalidity
of the judgment's obtained by them, is not a subject for review here.

MOTIoN to dismiss, or affirm. This action was originally
begun by Brady. id the Superior Court of San Francisco
against a number of defendants, including Wood. and Diggins,
the plaintiffs in error, to quiet his title to two lots of land, in
Which it was averred that defendants claimed an interest
adverse to the plaintiff. Both parties claimed title under
certain assessments for street improvements and sales under
proceedings to foreclose :liens for such assessments. The
assessments under which plaintiff claimed were prior in point
of time to those under which defendants claimed, but the
deeds issued to defendants antedated those under which the
plaintiff claimed.
The asgessments upon which plaintiff relied were recorded
November 14, 1870; actions Were begun against the owners
of the two lots early in 1871 to foreclose the liens created by
'these assessments, and judgments -and orders of sale were
entered in both cases in January, 182. Appeals were taken
to-the Supreme Court in both cases, .and the judgments. of the

