520

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

LONG v. THAYER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 471. Submitted November 27,1893.-Decided December 11, 1893.
T. bought a tract of land in Kansas City of S. & WT.under a contract on
their part signed by K. as their agent, under which payments were to be
made at stipulated times, notes bearing interest to be given for those
sums, and a deed to be given on final payment. The agent's authority
from WI.was in w'riting; from S., it was verbal. W. died shortly after
the contract was made, and before any payment matured. T. went into
possession, gave the notes, made payable to K. or bearer, made payments
to K. as they became due, without knowledge of the death of W.,and improved the property by erecting buildings upon it. On making the last
payment lie was informed that WI.had died. The interests of W. and S.
became vested in L., who brought a suit in ejectment against the tenant
of T. T. intervened in that suit and his equitable defence being overruled, filed a bill to restrain its further prosecution. Held,
(1) That the death of IV. revoked K's authority to act for him or his
estate, and payments made to K. as his agent after his death did
not discharge T.'s obligation to his estate;
(2) That whether it also operated as a revocation of the verbal authority given by S., may admit of some doubt, but is unimportant in
view of the long silence of S.;
(3) That in view of the character of the notes, and in view of the-fact
that L. was not an innocent purchaser, but took title with full
knowledge of the facts, including the open, notbrious and unequivocal possession of the property by T., the decree of the court
below, granting a perpetual injunction on payment into court of
one half of the purchase money with interest, should be affirmed.

THIS was a bill in equity filed by Thayer to enjoin the enforcement of a judgment obtained by Long against one
Townsend R. Smith, a tenant under Thayer, of a lot in
Kansas Olty.

Thayer had bought the lot of Skiles and Western under a
contract signed by one J. F. Kinney as their agent, dated June
30, 1870, by which, in consideration of $50 in cash, a promis-

sory note at three months for $102.50 and another note at one
year for $150, with ten per cent interest, Shiles and Western

LONG v. THAYER.
Statement of the Case.

had agreed to give Thayer a deed, with a proviso that failure
to pay either of said notes at maturity should forfeit the contract. A few days thereafter, and on July 9, 1870, Western
died. Thayer took possession under his contract and made
all the payments as therein required to Kinney, but at the
time the last payment was made (August 14, 1871) he was
informed by Kinney that Western had died. At the time he
made the first payment (September 13, 1870) Western was
dead, bitt Thayer was not informed of it. After Thayer went
into possession he erected a frame cottage with the usual outbuildings and improvements, and remained in possession of
the premises until the filing of this bill.
In 1885 or 1886 Western's widow married Long, the plaintiff in the ejectment suit, and Western's heirs, Lucy U. Western and Elgin U. Western, made a warranty deed of the land
to Long, who shortly thereafter brought suit in ejectment
against Townsend R. Smith, Thayer's tenant. Thayer, learning of the suit, intervened and was made a party defendant.
He set up an equitable defence, which was overruled as inconsistent with the practice of the Federal courts. Thereupon he
filed this bill, and applied for an injunction to restrain Long
from further prosecuting his suit. There was no evidence
tending to show that any administrator or executor had been
appointed for Western'A estate, or any guardian for his minor
heirs, capable of receiving payment from Thayer. Skiles' interest became ested in Western's heirs by virtue of a partition
suit and litigation over the title to the land in question,. to
which litigation Thayer was not made a party. These partition proceedings occurred in 1-873, after Thayer had made his
last payment.
Upon a final hearing, the Circuit Court decreed that, upon
payment by Thayer into court of the sum of $126.25, with
interest at ten per cent from June 13, 1870, the injunction be
*made perpetual; and that the defendant place in the registry
of the court deeds of the interest of the Western heirs, and a
quitclaim of his ,own interest in the property in controversy
to the appellant, .etc. From this decree the defendant Long
appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. A. I.

Garland and .b'. H. J. MAay for appellant.

rIt. P'. E 11atch, iLr. 1R. B. Middlebrook, and ,fr. William
A. .llcKenney for appellee.
i-\_h. JUSTIC :Bnow , after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This case turns largely upon the legal effect to be given to
the death of Western, which took place a few days after the
contract for the sale of the land was made, and before the first
note became due. Had Western not died, there can be no
question that the payments to Kinney would have been good,
and that Thayer would have been entitled to a deed.
Western's death undoubtedly operated as a revocation of
Kinney's authority to act for him or his estate. The paynients
made to Kinney as his agentwould not be sufficient to discharge Thayer's obligation to his estate, even if such payments
were made by him in actual ignorance of Western's death.
31icigan .T2suranee Co. v. Leavenworth, 30 Vermont, 11;
Davis v. Windsor Savings Bank, 46 Vermont, 728; enkins v.
Atkins, 1 Humphrey, (Tenn.) 294; Clayton, v. )Jerrett, 52
Mississippi, 353; Lewis v. Herr, 17 Iowa., 73. Indeed it was
said by this court in Galt v. Galloway, 4 Pet. 332, 34-14, that
"no principle is better settled, than that the powers of an
agent cease on the death of his principal. If an act of agency
be done, subsequent to the decease of the principal, though his
death be unknown to the agent, the act is void."
Whether Western's death also operated as a revocation of
the verbal authority given by Skiles may admit of some doubt,
although the weight of authority is that the death of one
partner or joint owner operates, in the case of a partnership, to
dissolve the partnership, and in the case of a joint tenancy to
sever the joint interest; and the authority of an agent appointed by a firm or joint owners thereupon ceases, where
such authority is not coupled with an interest. 3Mltoaughtonr
v. illoore, 1 laywood, (N. 0.) 189; Rowe v. Band, Ill Indiana, 206.

LONG v. THAYER.
Opinion of the Court.

But even if it did operate as a technical revocation of Kinney's
authority to act for Skiles, the presumption is, from Skiles'
long silence, in the absence of proof to the contrary, that
Kinney accounted to him for his proportion of the money
collected. The court below evidently proceeded upon this
theory, and required Thayer, as a condition for calling upon
Long for a deed, to repay one-half of the amount of the two
notes with the stipulated interest at 10 per cent. These were
certainly as favorable terms as Long could expect. Thayer
had paid the money to Kinney, with whom the contract was
made-the first payment in actual ignorance of Western's
death, and the second doubtless under the supposition, which
a person unlearned in the law might reasonably entertain, that
payment to the person with whom the contract was made was
sufficient, and that Kinney would account to the proper
represelitatives of Western, and procure him a deed. All the
equities of the case were in Thayer's favor, and justice demanded that Long should be required to- convey, upon being
paid Western's share of the consideration with interest.
There is another view of the case which does not seem to
have been presented to the court below, and which indicates
that Long received even more than he was really entitled to.
The second note of $150, which is produced, appears upon its
face to have been payable to "J. F. Kinney or beanrer," and
while the first pote is not produced, Kinney swears that this
,was also payable in the same manner. Theprooabilities are that
it was, both from the fact that the second note was payable
to bearer and from the further fact that Kinney claimed that
Western-was largely indebtedto him. If such were. the case
(and Kinney's authority to take these notes is not disputed) it
is difficult to see why the payments to Kinney, who himself
held the notes, were not valid payments, which entitled Thayer
to a deed to the land. So long as these notes were outstanding, he could not safely -pay to any one else, and if he paid
the holder, he did just what the contract required him to do.
Long clearly wyas-not an innocent purchaser of the land in
question. Not only had Thayer been iri the open, notorious,
and unequivocal possession of the land and its improvement,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Syllabus.

renting the premises and paying the taxes, but Long's marriage
into the Western family, his taking a deed from the heirs
through M r. Mk~eriwether, the husband of one of' the heirs,
who acted as attorney both for Long and for the heirs, and
the giving of a promissory note unsecured by mortgage upon
the land- a note which the heirs apparently never sawindicate very clearly that he could not have been ignorant of
the true situation.

The decree of the court below was clearly right, and must be

Affir ned.

LATTA v. KILBOURN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA..
No. 97. Argud .November 21, 22, 1893.-

Decided December fl, 1893

A decree in chancery, which determines that a partnership existed between
the parties, that one Partner is entitled to recover of the other a share
in the profits of the partnership business, that the defendant partner
account to the plaintiff partner, and that the case be referred to a master
to state such account upon proofs, is not a final decree.
The plaintiff set uli in his bill a verbal contract of partnership between the
defendant and himself in the buying and selling of real estate, and called
for an answer under oath. The defendant answered under oath, denying
positively and in direct terms the existence of the alleged contract of
partnership. Held, that, under well settled rules of equity pleading and
practice, this ,nswer could be overcome only by the testimony of at least
two witnesses, or of one witness with corroborating circumstances, and
that the proofs in this case fail to break down the defendant's denial.
The violation by one partner of his undertaking to give to the firm or his
associate an opportunity or option to enga1ge in any particular transaction, not within the scope of the firm's business, does not entitle is copartners to convert him into a constructive trustee in respect to the
profits realized therefrom.
An agreement by partners that no one of them should engage in the buying
and selling of real estate on his own account does not entitle the other
partners to share in profits made by one of them in real estate speculations, entered into by him without first securing the assent of his
copartners.

