UNITED STATES v. ROI)GEr.S.
Statement of the Case.

The trial court was righlt in holding that he was guilty of
contributory negligence. So, without considering the other
questions presented in the record, the judgment. will .be
affirmed.
As since the decision by the Supreme Court of the Territory
that Territory has been admitted into the Union as the two
States of North Dakota and South Dakota, and as the counties of the trial are in the State of South Dakota, the mandate
will go to the Supreme Court of that State.

Affirned.

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROM THE EASTERN DISTRIT
OF MIIIIGAN.
No. 30. Submitted April 21, IS1.

- Decided November 20,1893.

The term "high seas," as used in the provision in Rev. Stat., § 5346, that
"every person who, upon the high seas, or in any arm of the sea, or in
any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay, within the admiralty jurisdiction of
the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of any particular Stale, on
board any vessel belonging in Whole or part to the United States, or any
citizen thereof, with a dangerous weapon, or with intent to perpetrate
any felony, commits an assault upon another shall 1)e punished," etc., is
applicable to the open, unenclosed waters of the Great Lakes, between
which the Detroit River is a connecting stream.
The courts of the United States have jurisdiction, under that section of the
Revised Statutes, to try a person for an assault with a dangerous weapon,
committed on a vessel belonging to a citizen of the United States, when
such vessel is in the Detroit River, out of the jurisdiction of any particular
State, and within the territorial limits of the )ominion of Canada.
The limitation of jurisdiction by the qualification that the offences punishable
are committed on vessels in any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven,
creek, basin, or bay " without the jurisdiction of any particular State,"
which means without the jurisdiction of any State of the Union, does not
apply to vessels on the "high seas" of the lakes, but only to vessels on
the waters designated as connecting with then ; and so far as vessels on
those seas are concerned, there is no limitation named to the authority
of the United States.

IN February, 1888, the defendant, Robert S. Rodgers and
others, were indicted in the District Court of the United States

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

for the Eastern District of Michigan for assaulting, in August,
1887, with a dangerous weapon, one James Downs, on board
of the steamer Alaska, a vessel belonging to citizens of the
United States, and then being within the admiralty jurisdiction
of the United States, and not within the jurisdiction of any
particular State of the United States, viz. within the territorial
limits of the Dominion of Canada.
The indictment contained six counts, charging the offence
to have been committed in different ways, or with different
ilitent, and was remitted to the Circuit Court for the Sixth
Circuit of the Eastern District of Michigan. There the
defendant Rodgers filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the
court, alleging that it had no jurisdiction of the matters
charged, as appeared on the face of the indictment, and to
the plea a demurrer was filed. Upon this demurrer the judges
of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion, and they transmitted to this court the following certificate of division:
"Certificate of Division of Opinion.
"United States of America. The Circuit Court of the United
States for the Sixth Circuit and Eastern District of Michigan.
"The United Sates
'V8.

Robert S. Rodgers.
"The defendant in this cause was indicted on the twenty
fourth day of February, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and eighty-eight, in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of M[ichigan, together
with John Gustave Beyers and others, charged, under section
5346 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, with having
made an assault with dangerous weapons upon one James
Downs, the assault having taken place on the steamer Alaska,
a vessel owned by citizens of the United States, while such
vessel was in the Detroit River, out of the jurisdiction of ar\particular State of the United States and within the territorial
limits of the Dominion of Canada, and the said Robert S.
Rodgers, ,nd the others indicted with him, having first, after

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Statement of the Case.

the assault, come into the United States in the Eastern District
of Michigan.
"On the twentieth day of September, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine, the defendant Rodgers was arrested, and on the same day the indictment
was, on motion of the United States attorney for the Eastern
District of Michigan, and by order of the District Court for
such district, remitted to the Circuit Court for such district,
and, with all proceedings theretofore taken, certified to such
Circuit Court.
"On the twenty-third day of September, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine, the defendant, on being called upon to plead in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by permission of the court pleaded in abatement to the jurisdiction
of the court, claiming that under'section 5346 of the Revised
Statutes of the United States the courts of the United States
have no jurisdiction of offences committed in the Detroit River
on a vessel of the United States within the territorial limits of
the Dominion-of Caniada.
"The United States, by C. P. Black, United States attorney,
and Charles T. Willdns, assistant United States attorney for
the Eastern District of Michigan, deainured to such plea, and
the defendant joined on demurrer.
"The matter of the plea of the jurisdiction comirg on to
be heard in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Michigan, on the third day of October, in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundrecd and eightynine, before the circuit and district judges, and the defendant
being present in court, the said circuit and district judges were
divided in opinion on the question: ' Whethe' the courts of the
United States have jurisdction, under sectian 534p6 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, to try a yerson for an
assault, with a dangerousweapon, committed o) a vessel belonging to a citizen of the ,nited States, when such vessel is in the
-DetroitRiver, out of the jurisdiction of any particularState
and within the territoriallimits of the Dominion of Canada.'
"And so, at the request of the defendant and of the United

OCTOBER TERf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

States attorney for this district, the circuit and district judges
do hereby at the same term state this point upon which they
disagree, and hereby direct the same to be certified under the
seal of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Michigan to the Supreme Court of the United
States at its next session, for its opinion thereon.
"HowELL E. JAeKsox, Circuit Judge.
Yta
B. BRowN, District Judge."
"H
Section 5346 of the Revised Statutes, upon which the indictment was found, is as follows:
"SEc. 5346. Every person who, upon the high seas, or in
any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin, or
bay, within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States,
and out of the jurisdictio.n of any particular State, on board
any vessel belonging in whole or part to the United States, or
any citizen thereof, with a dangerous weapon, or with intent
to perpetrate any felony, commits an assault on another shall
be punished by a fine of not more than three thousand dollars
and by imprisonment at hard labor not more than three
years."
The statute relating to the place of trial in this case is contained in section 730 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"S1Ec. 730. The trial of all offences committed up6n the high
seas or elsewhere, out of the jurisdiction of any particular
State or district, shall be in the district, where the offender is
found or into which he is first brought."
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Parker for the United
States.
No appearance for Rodgers..

IMR. JUSTICE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
Several questions of interest arise upon the construction of
section 5346 of the Revised Statutes, upon which the indict-

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

ment in this case was found. The principal one is whether
the term "high seas," as there used, is applicable to the open,
unenclosed waters of the Great Lakes, between which the
Detroit River is a connecting stream. The term was formerly
used, particularly by writers on public law, and generally in
official communications between different governments, to
designate the open, unenclosed waters of the ocean, or of the
British seas, outside of their ports and havens. At one time
it was claimed that the ocean, or portions of it, were subject
to the exclusive use of particular nations. The Spaniards, in
the 16th century, asserted the right to exclude all others
from the Pacific Ocean. The Portuguese claimed, with the
Spaniards, under the grant of Pope Alexander VI., the exclusive use of the Atlantic Ocean west and south of a designated line. And the English, in the 17th century, claimed
the exclusive right to navigate the seas surrounding Great
Britain. Woolsey on International Law, § 55.
In the discussions which took place in support of and
against these extravagant pretensions the term "high seas"
was applied, in the sense stated. It was also used in that
sense by English courts and law writers. There was no discussion with them as to the waters of other seas. The public
discussions were generally limited to the consideration of the
question whether the high seas, that is, the, open, unenclosed
seas, as above defined, or any portion thereof, could be the
property or under the exclusive jurisdiction of any nation, or
whether they were opeii and free to the navigation of all
nations. The inquiry in the English courts was generally
limited to the question whether the jurisdiction of the admiralty extended to the waters of bays and harbors, such extension depending upon the fact whether they constituted a part
of the high seas.
In his treatise on the rights of the sea, Sir Matthew Hale
says: "The sea is either that which lies within the body of a
county, or without. That arm or branch of the sea which lies
within the fauces elorrw, where a man may reasonably discern
between shore and shore, is, or at least may be, within the
body of a county, and, therefore, within the jurisdiction of the

.25d:

OCTOBER TER , 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

sheriff or coroner. That part of the sea which lies not within
the body of a county is called the main sea or ocean." De
Jure Maris, c. iv. By the "main sea" iHale here means
the same thing expressed by the term "high sea" - "mare
alta'b," or "le haut meer."
In Traring v. Clarke, 5 How. 440, 453, this court said that
it had been frequently adjudicated in the English common
law courts since the restraining statutes of Richard II. and
Henry IV., "that high seas mean that po'tion of the sea
which washes the open coast." In United States v. Gi-ash, 5
Mason, 290, it was held by Mr. Justice Story, in the United
States Circuit Court, that the term "high seas," in its usual
sense, expresses the unenclosed ocean or that portion of the
sea which is without the fauces terrce on the sea coast, in contradistinction to that which is surrouided or euclosed between
narrow headlands or promontories. It was the open, unenclosed waters of the ocean, or the open, unenclosed waters of
the sea, which constituted the "high seas" in his judgment.
There was no distinction made by him between the ocean and
the sea, and there was no occasion for any such distinction.
The question in issue was whether the alleged offences were
committed within a county of Massachusetts on the sea coast,
or without it, for in the latter ease they were committed upon
the high seas and within the statute. It.was held that they
were committed in the county ol Suffolk, and thus were iiot
covered by the statute.
If there were no seas other than the ocean, the term "high
seas" would be limited to the open, unenclosed waters of the
ocean. But as there are other seas besides the ocean, there
must be high seas other than those of the ocean. A large
commerce is conducted on seas other than the ocean and-the
English seas, and it is equally necessary to distinguish between
their open waters and their ports and havens, and to provide
for offences on vessels navigating those waters and for collisions between them. The term "high seas" does not, in either
case, indicate any separate and distinct body of water; but
only the open waters of the sea or ocean, as distinguished
from ports and havens and waters within narrow headlands

UNITED STATES v. RODG ERS.
Opinion of the Court.

on the coast. This distinction was observed by Latin writers
between the ports and havens of the Mediterranean and its
open waters-the latter being termed the high seas.' In
that sense the term may also be properly used in reference to
the open waters of the Baltic and the Black Sea, both of
which are inland seas, finding their way to the ocean by a
narrow and distant channel. Indeed, wherever there are seas
in fact, free to the navigation of all nations and people on
their borders, their open waters outside of the portion "surrounded or enclosed between narrow headlands or promontories," on the coast, as stated by Mr. Justice Story, or
"without the body of a county," as declared by Sir Matthew
Hale, are properly characterized as high seas, by whatever
name the bodies of water of which- they are a part may be
designated. Their names do not determine their character.
There are, as said above, high seas on the Mediterranean,
(meaning outside of the enclosed waters along its coast,) upon
which the principal commerce of the ancient world was conducted and its great naval battles fought. To hold that on
such seas there are no high seas, within the true meaning of
that term, that is, no open, unenclosed waters, free to the
navigation of all nations and people on their borders, would
be to place upon that term a narrow and contracted meaning.
We prefer to use it in its true sense, as applicable to the open,
unenclosed waters of all seas, than to adhere to the common
meaning of the term two centuries ago, when it was generally
limited to the open waters of the ocean and of seas surrounding
Great Britain, the freedom of which was then the principal
subject of discussion. If it be conceded, as we think it must
be, that the open, unenclosed waters of the Mediterranean are
high seas, that concession is a sufficient answer to the claim
that the high seas always denote the open waters 6f the
ocean.
Whether the term is applied to the open waters of the
I II Isula rtIm
Efficit objectu laterum, quibus oinis ab NlIo
Frangitur, inque sinus sciidit sese unda reduaos."
--The .-Fneid. Lib. I, -v. ]59-161.

OCTOBERt TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ocean or of a particular sea, in any case, will depend upon the
context or circumstances attending its use, which in all cases
affect, more or less, the meaning of language. It may be conceded that if a statement is made that a vessel is on the high
seas, without any qualification by language or circumstance, ;_''
will be generally understood as meaning that the vessel is
upon the open waters of one of the oceans of the world. It
is true, also, that the ocean is often spoken of by writers on
public law as tie sea, and characteristics are then ascribed
to the sea generally which are properly applicable to the ocean
alone; as, for instance, that its open waters are, the highway
of all-nations. Still the fact remains that there are other seas
than the ocean whose open waters constitute a free highway
for navigation to the nations and people residing on their
borders, and are not a free highway to other nations and
people, except there be free access to those seas by open waters
or by conventional arrangements.
As thus defined, the term would seem to be as applicable to
the open waters of the great Northern lakes as it is to the
open waters of those bodies usually designated as seas. The
Great Lakes possess every essential characteristic of seas.
They are of large extent in length and breadth; they are
navigable the whole distance in either direction by the largest
vessels known to commerce; objects are not distinguishable
from the opposite shores; they separate, in many instances,
States, and in some instances constitute the boundary between
independent nations; and their waters, after passing long
distances, debouch into the ocean. The fact that their waters
are fresh and not subject to the tides, does not affect their
essential character as seas. Many seas are tideless, and the
waters of some are saline only in a very slight degree.
The waters of Lake Superior, the most n orthern of these
lakes, after traversing nearly 400 miles, with an average
breadth of over 100 miles, and those of Lake Michigan, which
extend over 350 miles, with an average breadth of 65 miles,
join Lake Huron, and, after flowing about 250 miles, with an
average breadth of 70 miles, pass into the river St. Clair;
thence through the small lake of St. Clair into the Detroit

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Opinion 'of the CoQurt.

River; thence into Lake Erie and, by the Niagara River, into
Lake Ontario; whence they pass, by the river St. Lawrence, to
the ocean, making a total distance of over 2000 miles. Ency.
Britannica, vol. 21, p. 178.

The area of the Great Lakes, in

round numbers, is 100,000 square miles. Ibid. vol. 14, p. 217.
They are of larger dimensions than many inland seas which
are at an equal or greater distance from the ocean. The
waters of the Black Sea travel a like distance before they
-come into contabt with the ocean. Their first outlet is through
the Bosphorus, which is about 20. .iles long and for the
greater part of its way less than a mile in width, into the sea
of Marmora, and through that to thb Dardanelles, which is
about 40 miles in length and less than four miles in width,
and then they find their way through the islands of the Greek
Archipelago, up the Mediterranean Sea, past the Straits of
Gibraltar to the ocean, a distance, also, of over 2000 miles.
In the Genesee Chief case, 12 How. 443, this court, in considering whether the admiralty jurisdiction of the United
States extended to the Great Lakes, and speaking, through.
Chief Justice Taney, of the general character of those lakes,
said: "These lakes are, in truth, inland seas. " Different States
border on them pn one side, and a foreign nation on the
bther. A great and growing commerce is carried on upon
them between different States and a foreign nation, which is
subject to all the incidents and hazards that attend commerce
on the ocean. Hostile fleets have, encountered on them, and
prizes been made; and every reason which existed for the
grant of admiralty jurisdiction to the general government on
the Atlantic seas applies with equal force to the lakes. There
is an equal' necessity for the instance and for the prize power
of the admiralty court to administer international law, and
if the one cannot be established, neither can the other."
(p. 453.)
After using this language, the'Chief Justice commented
-,ipon the inequality which would exist, in the administration
of justice, between the citizens of the States on the lakes, if,
on account of the absence oE tide water in those lakes, they
were not entitled to the remedies afforded by the grant of
VOL. CL-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

admiralty jurisdiction of the Constitution, and the citizens of
the States bordering on the ocean or upon navigable waters
affected by the tides. The court, perceiving that the reason
for the exercise of the jurisdiction did not in fact depend upon
the tidal character of the waters, but upon their practical
navigability for the purposes of commerce, disregarded the test
of tide water prevailing in England as inapplicable to our
country with its vast extent of inland waters. Acting upon
like considerations in the application of the term "high seas"
to the waters of the Great Lakes, which are equally navigable,
for the purposes of commerce, in all respects, with, the bodies
of water usually designated as seas, and are in no respect
affected by the tidal or saline character of their waters, we
disregard the distinctions made between salt and fresh water
seas, which are not essential, and hold that the reason of the
statute, in providing for protection against violent assaults on
vessels in tidal waters, is no greater but identical with the
reason for providing against similar assaults on vessels in
navigable waters that are neither tidal nor saline. The statute
was intended to extend protection to persons on vessels belonging to citizens of the United States, not only upon the
high seas, but in all navigable waters of every dnd out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State, whether moved by the tides
or free from their influence.
The character of these lakes as seas was recognized by this
court in the recent Chicago Lake Firont case, where we said:
"These lakes possess all the general characteristics of open
seas, except in the freshness of their waters, and in the absence
of the ebb and flow of the tide." "In other respects," we
added, "they are inland seas, and there is no reason or principle for the assertion of dominion and sovereignty over and
ownership by the State of lands covered by tide waters that
is not equally applicable to its ownership of and dominion and
sovereignty over lands covered by the fresh waters of these
lakes." Illinois Central Pailroadv. Illinois, 146 U. S.387,
435.

It is to be observed also that the term "high" in one of its
significations is used to denote that which is common, open,

IUNTED STATES v. RODGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

and public. Thus every road or way or navigable river whichi
is used freely by the public is a "high" way. So a large body
of navigable water other than a river, which is of an extent
beyond t16 measurement of one's unaided vision, and is open
and unconfined, and not under the exclusive control of any
one nation or people, but is the free highway of adjoining
nations or people, must fall under the definition of "high
seas" within the meaning of the statute. We may as appro.
priately designate the open, unenclosed Waters of the lakes
as the high seas of the lakes, as to designate similar waters
of the Ocean as the high seas of the ocean, or similar
waters of the Mediferranean as the high seas of the Mediterranean.
The language of sectioh 5346, immediately following the
term" "high seas," declaring the penalty for violent assaults
when committed on board of a vessel in any arm of the sea or
in any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay, within the admiralty
jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of
any particular State, equally as when committed on board of
a vessel on the high seas, lends force to the construction given
to that term.. The langua ,eused must be read in conjunction
with that term, and as referring to navigable ivaters out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State, but connecting with the
high seas mentiohed. The Detroit River, upon which was
the steamer Alaska at the time the assault was committed,
connecis the waters of Lake iHuron (with which, as stated
above, the waters of Lake Superior and Lalie Michigan join)
with the waters of Lake Erie, and separates the Dominion of
Canada from the United States, constituting the boundary
between them, the dividing line running nearly midiray between its banks, as established by commissioners, pursuant to
the treaty between the two countries. 8 Stat. 274, 2'76. The
river is about 22 miles in length and from one to three miles
in width, and is navigable at all seasons of the year by vessels
of the largest size. The number of vessels passing through it
each year is immense. Between 'the years 1880 and 1892,
inclusive, they averaged from thirty-one to -forty thousand a
year, having a tonnage varying from sixteen to twenty-four

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion'of the Court.

millions.' In traversing the river they are constantly passing
from the territorial jurisdiction of the one nation to that of
the other. All of them, however, so far as transactions had
on board are concerned, are deemed to be within the country
of their owners. Constructively they constitute a part of the
territory of the nation to which the owners belong. Whilst
they are on the navigable waters of the river they are within
the admiralty jurisdiction of that country. This jurisdiction
is not changed by the fact that each of. the neighboring nations
may in some cases assert its own authority over persons on
such vessels in relation to acts committed by them within its
territorial limits. In what cases jurisdiction by each country
will be thus asserted and to what extent, it is not necessary to
inquire, for no question on that point is presented for our consideration. The general rule is that the country to which the
vessel belongs will exercise jurisdiction over all matters affecting the vessel or those belonging to her, without interference
of the local government, unless they involve its peace, dignity,
or tranquillity, in which case it may assert its authority.
Vildenh s's case, 120 U. S. 1, 12; Halleck on International
Law, c. vii, § 26, p. 172. The admiralty jurisdiction of the
country of the owners of the steamer upon which the offence
charged was committed is not denied. They being citizens of
IThe following statement, furnished by Colonel 0. M. Poe, of the Engineer Corps, shows the traffic through Detroit River for the years indicated:
Year.

N~umber of

Registered

NYear.
umber of

Registered

Vessels.

Tonnage.

Vessels.

Tonnage.

1880 .......
1881 .......
1882 .......
1883 .......

40,521
35,888
35,199
40,385

20,235,249
17,572,240
17,872,182
17,695,174

1886 .......
1887 .......
1888 .......
1889 .......

38,261
38,125
31,404
32,415

18,968,065
18,864,250
19,099,060
19,646,000

1884 .......

38,742

18,045,949

1890 .......

35,640

21,684,000

1885 .......

34,921

16,777,828

1891 .......
1892 .......

34,251
33,860

22,160,000
24,785,000

Colonel Poe adds: "This statement does not include Canadian vessels, a
large number of which use this channel, nor does it include any vessels not
clearing from the various custom houses. Were these included, a consider
ably greater showing could b. made. They are not included because the
statistics cannot be obtained."

UNITED STATES v. IODGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, and the steamer being upon navigable
waters, it is deemed to be withifi the admiralty jurisdiction of

the United States. It was, therefore, perfectly competent for
Congress to enact that parties on board committing an assault
with a dangerous weapon should be punished when brought
within the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United
States. .But it will hardly be claimed that Congress by the
legislation in question intended that violent assaults committed upon persons on vessels owned by citizens of the
United States in the Detroit River, without the jurisdiction
of any particular State, should be punished, and that similar
offences upon persons on vessels of like owners upon the
adjoining lakes should be unprovided for. " If the law can be
deemed applicable to offences committed on vessels in any
navigable river, haven, creek, basin, or bay, connecting with
the lakes, out, of the jurisdiction of any particular State, it
would not be reasonable to suppose that Congress iptended
that no remedy should be afforded for similar offences committed on vessels upon the lakes, to which the vessels on the
river, in almost all instances, are directed, and upon whose
waters they are to be chiefly engaged. The more reasonable
inference is that Congress intended to include the open, unenclosed waters of the lakes under the designation of high seas.
The term, in the eye of reason, is applicable to the open,
unenclosed portion of all large bodies of navigable waters,
whose extent cannot be measured by one's vision, and the
nav.bation of which is free to all nations and people on their
borders, by whatever names those bodies may be locally designated. In some countries small lakes are called seas, as in the
case of the Sea of Galilee, in Palestine. In other countries
large bodies of water, greater than many bodies denominated
seas, are called lakes, gulfs, or basins. The nomenclature, however, does not change the real character of either, nor should
it affect our construction of terms properly applicable to the
waters of either. By giving to the term "high seas" the construction indicated, there is consistency and sense in the whole
statute, but there is neither if it be disregarded. If the term
applies to the open, unenclosed waters of the lakes, the appli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

cation of the legislation to the case under indictment cannot
be questioned, for the Detroit River is .a water connecting
such high seas, and all that portion which is north of the
boundary line between the United States and Canada is without the jurisdiction of any State of the Union. But if they be
*considered as not thus applying, it is difficult to give any force
to the rest of the statute. without supposing that Congress
intended to provide against violence, on board of vessels in
navigable riverA, havens, creeks basins, and bays, without the
jurisdiction of any particular State, and intentionally omitted
the much more important provision for like violence and disturbances on vessels upon the Great Lakes. All vessels in any
navigable river, haven, creek, basin, or bay of the lakes, whether
within or without the jurisdiction of any pa~rticular State, would
some time find their way upon the waters of the lakes; and
it is not a reasonable inference that Congress intended that
the law should apply to -offences only on a limited portion of
the route over which the vesseis were expected to pass, and
that no provision should be made for such offences over at
much greater distance on the lakes.
Congress in thus designating the open, unenclosed portion
of large bodies of water, extending beyond one's vision,
naturally used the same term to indicate it as was used with
reference to similar portions of the ocean or of bodies which
had been designated as seas. When Congress, in 1790, first
used that term the existence of the Great Lakes was known;
they had been visited by great numbers of persons in trading
with the neighboring Indians, and their immense etent and
character were generally understood. Much more accurate
was this kmowledge when the act of March 3, 1825, was
passed, 4 Stat. 115, c. 65, and when the provisions of section
5346 were re~nactedl in the Revised Statutes in 1874. In all
these cases, when Congress provided for the punishment of
violence on board of vessels, it must have intended that the
provision should extend to vessels on those waters the same
as to vessels on seas, technically so called. There were no
bodies of water in the United States to any portion of which
the term "high seas" was applicable if not to the open,

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

unenclosed waters of the Great Lakes.

It does not seem

reasonable to suppose that Congress intended to confine its
legislation to the high seas of the ocean, and to its navigable
rivers, havens, creeks, btAins, and bays, without the jurisdiction
of any State, and to make no provision for offences on those
vast bodies of inland waters of the United States. There are
vessels of every description on those inland seas now carrying
on a commerce greater than the commerce on any other inland
seas of the world. And we cannot believe that the Congress
ot the United States purposely left for a century those who
navigated and those who were conveyed in vessels upon those
seas without any protection.
The statute under consideration provides that every person
who, upon. the high seas or in any river connecting with them,
as we construe its language, within the admiralty jurisdiction
of the United States, and out of the jurisdiction of aily
particular State, commits, on board of any vessel belonging
in whole or in part to the United States, or any citizen
thereof, an assault on another with a dangerous weapon or
with intent to perpetrate a felony, shall be punished, etc.
The Detroit River, from shore to shore, is within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States, and connects with the
open waters.of the lakes- high seas, as we hold them to be,
within the meaning of the statute. From the boundary line,
near its centre, to the Canadian shore it is out of the jurisdiction of the State of Michigan. The case presented is therefore
dir6ctly within its provisions. The act of Congress of September 4, 1890, 26 Stat. 424, c. 874, (1 Sup. to the Rev. Stat.
chap. 874, p. 799,) providing for the punishment of crimes
subsequently committed on the Great Lakes, does not, of
course, affect the construction of the law previously existing.
We are not unmindful of the fact that it was held by the
Supreme Court of Michigan in People v. Tyler, 7 ichigan,
161, that the criminal jurisdiction of the Federal courts did
not extend to offences committed upon vessels on the lakes.
The judges who rendered that decision were able and distinguished; but that fact, whilst it justly calls for a careful
consideration of their reasoning, does not render their conclu-

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

sion binding or authoritative upon this court. Their opinions
show that they did not accept the doctrine extending the
admiralty jurisdiction to cases on the lakes and navigable
rivers, which is now generally, we might say almost universally, recci ved as sound by the judicial tribunals of the country.
It is true, as there stated, that, as a general principle, the
criminal laws of a nation do not operate beyond its territorial
limits, and that to give any governnient, or its judicial tribunals, the right to punish any act or transaction as a crime,
it must have occurred within those limits. We accept this
doctrine as a general rule, but there are exceptions to it as
fully recognized as the doctrine itself. One of those exceptions
is that offences committed upon vessels belonging to citizens
of the United States, within their admiralty jurisdiction, (that
is, within navigable waters,) though out of the territorial
limits of the United States, may be judicially coisidered
when the vessel and parties are brought within their territorial
jurisdiction. As we have before stated, a vessel is deemed
part of the territory of the country to which she belongs.
Upon that subject we quote the language of Mr. Webster,
while Secretary of State, in his letter to Lord Ashburton of
August, 1842. Speaking for the government of the United
States, he stated with great clearness and force the doctrine
which is now recognized by all countries. ie said: "It is
natural to consider the vessels of a nation as parts of its territory, though at sea, as the State retains its jurisdiction over
them; and, according to the commonly received custom, this
jurisdiction is preserved over the vessels even in parts of the
sea subject to a foreign dominion. This is the doctrine of the
law of nations, clearly laid down by writers of received
authority, and entirely conformable, as it is supposed, with
the practice of modern nations. If a murder be committed
on board of an, American vessel by one of the crew upon
another or upon a passenger, or by a passenger on one of the
crew or another -passenger, while such vessel is lying in a port
within the jurisdiction of a foreign State or sovereignty, the
offence is cognizable and punishable by the proper court of
the United States in the same manner as if such offence had

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
-

Opinion of the Court.

been committed on board the vessel on the high seas. The
law of England is supposed to be the same. It is true that
the jurisdiction of a nation over a vessel belonging to it, while
lying in the port of another, is not necessarily wholly exclusive. We do not so consider or so assert it. For any unlawful
acts done by her while thus lying in port, and for all contracts
entered into while there, by her master or owners, she and
they must, doubtless, be answerable to the laws of the place.
Nor, if her master or crew, while on board in such port, break
the peace of the community by the commission of crimes,
can exemption be claimed for them. But, nevertheless, the
law of nations, as I have stated it, and the statutes of governments founded on that law, as I have referred to them, show.
that enlightehed nations, in modern times, do clearly hold
that the jurii'diction and -laws of a nation accompany her
ships not only over the high seas, but into ports and harbors,
or wheresoever else they may be water-borne, for the general
.purpose of governing and regulating the rights, duties, and
obligations of those on board 'thereof, and that, to the extent
of the exercise ofthis jurisdiction, they are considered as parts
of the territory of the nation herself." 6 Webster's Works,
306, 307.
We do not accept the doctrine that, because by the treaty
between the United States and Great Britain the boundary
line between the two countries is run through the centre of
the lakes, their character as seas is chlanged, or that tiae jurisdiction of the United States to regulate vessels belonging to

their citizens navigating those waters and to ptmish offences
committed upon such vessels, is in any respect impaired.
Whatever effect may be given to the boundary line between'
the two countries, the jurisdiction of the United States over
the vessels of their citizens navigating those waters and the
persons on board remains unaffected. The limitation to the
jurisdiction by the qualification that the offences punishable
are committed on vessels in any arm of the sea, or in any
river, haven, creck, basin, or bay "without the jurisdiction of
any particular State," which means without the jurisdiction of
,any State of the Union, does .not apply to vessels on the "high

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

aeas" of the lakes, but only to vessels on the waters designated
as connecting with them. So far as vessels on those seas are
concerned, there is no limitation named to the authority of the
United States. It is true that lakes, properly so called, that
is, bodies of water whose dimensions are capable of measureinent by the unaided vision, within the limits of a State, are
part of its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, but bodies
of water of an extent i-hich cannot be measured by the unaided vision, and which are navigable at all times, in all
directions, and border on different nations or States or people,
and find their outlet in the ocean as in the present case, are
seas in fact, however they may be designated. And seas in
fact do not cease to be such, and become lakes, because by
local custom they may be so called.
In our judgment the District Court of the Eastern District
of Michigan had jurisdiction to try the defendant upon the
indictment found, and it having been transferred to the Circuit
Court, that court had jurisdiction to proceed with the trial,
and the demurrer to its jurisdiction should have been overruled. Our opinion, in answer to the certificate, is that
The couris of the United States have jurisdiction, under
section 534,6 of the Rievised Statutes, to try a person for
an assault, with a dangerous weapon, comm itted on a
vessel belonging to a citizen of the United States, when
such vessel is in the Detroit Ri.iver, out of the Jurisdiction
of any particularState, and within the territorial limits
of the Doninion of Canada; and it will be returned to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Sixth Circuit and EasternDistrictof .tichigani, and it is so ordered.
MR. JUsTIcE GRAY dissenting.

The opinion of the majority of the court is avowedly based
upon the hypothesis that the open waiers of the Great Lakes
are "high seas," within the meaning of section 5346 of the
Revised Statutes, on which the indictment in this case is
founded.
That hypothegis I am unable to accept. It appears to me

UNITED STATES b. R ODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, 3.

to be inconsistent with the settled meaning of the term "high
seas," in our law, and in common speech, and especially as
used in the Crimes Acts of the United States, as heretofore uniformly expounded by this court, and by the justices
thereof.
According to all the authorities, without exception, "the
high seas" denote the ocean, the common highway of all
nations -. sometimes as including, sometimes as excluding, bays
and arms of the sea, or waters next the coast, which are
within the dominion and jurisdiction of particular Statesbut never as extending to any waters not immediately connecting with the sea.
The first Crimes Act of the United States provided, in section 8, for the puhishment of murder or other capital offence
committed "upon the high seas, or in any river, haven, basin
.r bay, out of the jurisdiction of any particular State;" and,
in section 12, for the punishment of any person who should

"commit manslaughter upon the high seas," but not mentioning in that section any other waters. Act of April 30, 1790,
c. 9; 1 Stat. -113, 115. In United States v. Wiltberger, decided
by this court in 1820, it was adjudged that manslaughter committed by the master upon one of the seamen, on board a merchant vessel of the United States, below low water mark of a
river flowing into the sea in China, was not "manslaughter
upon the high seas," nor within the act of 1790; and Chief
Justice farshall, in delivering judgment, saidf: "If the words
be taken according to the common understanding of mankind,
if they be taken in their popular and received sense, the ' high
seas,' if not in all instances confined to the ocean which
washes a coast, can never extend to a river about half a mile
wide, and in the interior of a country." 5 Wheat. 76, 94.
In United States v. Beailbford, this court held that the
words "out of the jurisdiction of any particular State," in section 8 of the act of 1790, meant a State of tho Union, and not
•a foreign State; and that a ship lying at anchor in an open
roadstead, within a marine league of a foreign shore, and not
In a river, haven, basin or bay, might be found by a jury to
be on the high seas. 5 Wheat. 1$4, 189, 200. A similar

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

decision had been previously made by Mr. Justice Story.
United States v. Ross, I Gallison, 624.
In United States v. Hlamilton, 'Mr. Justice Story held that
larceny in an enclosed dock, within the ebb and flow of the
tide, in a foreign port, was not larceny "upon the high seas,"
under section 16 of the act of 1790. 1 Mason, 152. In United
States v. .Morel, it was held by Mr. Justice Baldwin and Judge
Hopkinson, that an indictment on the same section was not
sustained by proof of stealing in a land-locked harbor of one
of the Bahama Islands; the court saying: "The open sea, the
high sea, the ocean, is that which is the common highway of
nations, the common domain within the body of no country,
and under the particular right or jurisdiction of no sovereign,
but open, free and common to all alike, as a common and
equal right." 13 American Jurist, 279, 282. And in United
States v. Jackson, a like decision was made by Mr. Justice
Thompson and Judge Betts as to larceny in the harbor of
Vera Cruz, because "the high seas were, properly speaking,
within the territory of no State or country." 2 N. Y. Leg.
Obs. 3, 4.
In United States v. Robinson, 4 M ason, 307, which was art
indictment on the act of March 26, 180-, c. 40, (2 Stat. 290,) for
destroying a vessel "on the high seas" with intent to defraud
the underwriters, Mr. Justice StorV held that a land-locked bay
in Bermuda could not be considered as the high seas. And,
under the same statute, MNr. Justice Nelson and Judge Betts
held that a vessel in the East River, or western extremity of
Long Island Sound, was not upon the high seas. United States
v: Wilson, 3 Blatchford, 435.
The Crimes Act of March 3, 1825, c. 65, was drafted by
Mr. Justice Story, to supply the defects of former acts.
I Story's Life of Story, 297, 437, 439, 440; 2 ib. 402. That
act, in sections 4, 6-8, 11 and 22, provided for the punishment
of murder, of assaults with a dangerous weapon or with intent
to kill, and of various other crimes, "upon the high seas, or
in any arm- of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin or
bay," thus covering all tide waters, including a dock or basin,
or a land-locked bay, in which the tide ebbs and flows from

UNITED STATES v. ROXGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

the sea, though in a foreign State, if "Within the admiralty
jurisdiction of the United States, and out of the jurisdiction
of any particular State" of the Union. 4 Stat. 115-118, 122.
In United States v. Grush, 5 Mason, 290, which wag an
indictment on the provision of section 92 of the act of 1825,
(re~nacted in the very section of the Revised Statutes now-in
question,) for an assault with a dangerous weapon and with
intent to kill, Mr. Justice Story, in deciding that a place in
Boston Harbor within the body of a county was a bay or
haven or arm of the sea, but was not the high seas, said:
"There cannot, I think, be any doubt as to what is the true
meaning of the words ' high seas' in this statute. Mr. Justice
Blackstone, in his Commentaries, (1 Com. 110,) uses the words
' high sea' and ' main sea' (altum mare, or le haut meer) as
synonymous; and -he adds, ' that the'main sea begins at the
low water mark.' But though this may be one sense of the
terms, to distinguish the divided empire, which the admiralty
possesses between high water and low water mark, when it is
full sea, from that which the common law possesses, when it
is ebb sea; yet the more comnion sense is, to express the open,
unenclosed ocean, orthat portion of the sea, which is without
the faees terraw on the sea-coast, in contradistinction to that,
which is surrounded, or enclosed between narrow headlands or
promontories." And, after referring to United States v. iFiltberger, above cited, and other authorities, he concluded: "From
this view of the subject, I am entirely satisfied, as well upon
the language of the authorities, as the descriptive words in
the context, that the words ' high seas' in this statute are used
in contradistinction to arms of the sea, and bays, creeks, &c.,
within the narrow headlands of the *coast; and comprehend
only the open ocean, which washes the sea-coast, or is n6t
included within the body of any county in any particular
'State." 5 Mason, 297-299.
Here we have the deliberate opinion of Mr. Justice Story,
w'io had drafted .the act, who had taken part in all the previotls decisions of this, court up on the subject, and who had
often considered it at the cirUit, that the words - high seas"
in the very enactment now before us "-comprehend only the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

open ocean, which washes the sea-coast, or is not included
within the body of any county in any particular State."
, So Chancellor Kent says: " The high seas mean the waters
of the ocean without the boundary of any county, and they
are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the admiralty up to
high water mark when the tide is full. The open ocean which
washes the sea-coast is used in contradistinction to arms of the
the sea enclosed within the ffauces terrce, or narrow headlands
and promontories: and under this head are included rivers,
harbors, creeks, basins, bays, &c., where the tide ebbs and
flows." 1 Kent Com. 367.
If we turn to the principal American dictionaries, we find
the following definitions of "high seas": In Worcester, "igh
seas, the open ocean." In Webster, "high seas, (law) the open
sea; the part of the ocean not in the territorial waters of any
particular sovereignty, usually distant three miles or more
from the coast line." In the Century Dictionary, "high seas"
are defined as "the open sea or ocean; the highway of waters;"
and, in. law, either (1) the waters of the ocean to high water
mark, or (2) those "not within the territorial jurisdiction of
any nation, but the free highway of all nations, the waters
of the ocean exterioe to a line parallel to the general direction
of the shore and distant a marine league therefrom;" and it
is added: "The Great Lakes are not deemed high seas."
A fortnight after the passage of the act of 1825, this court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Story, decided that the general admi*ralty jurisdiction of the courts of the United States was limited to tide waters. Thie Thtonas Jeferson, 10 Wheat. 428.
That decision was followed in 1833 in Peyroure v. Ihoward,
7 Pet. 324, in 1837 in The Orleans, 11 Pet. 175, and in 18417
in Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441. For more than half a century after the adoption of the Constitution, Congress took no
step towards extending the admiralty jurisdiction beyond such
waters. In the act of February 26, 1845, c. 20, extending
that jurisdiction, in matters of contract and tort, "upon the
lakes and the navigable waters connecting the same," Congress
clearly treated those lakes and waters as distinct from, and not
included within, "the high seas or tide waters." 5 Stat. 726.

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

And Congress never indicated any intention to extend the
criminal jurisdiction of the courts of the United States "to
the Great Lakes and the connecting waters" until three years
after the assault alleged in the indictment in this case. Act
of September 4, 1890, c. 874; 26 Stat. 424.
The judgment of this court in 1851, in The Genesee Midy,
12 Hlow. 443, overruling The Thomas Jferson and the cases
which followed it, and holding the act of 1845 to be constitutional, did not proceed upon any assumption that the Great
Lakes were "high seas;" but upon the broad ground that
"the lakes and the waters connecting them are undoubtedly
public waters," and therefore "withi-i the grant of admiralty
jurisdiction in the Constitution of the United States." 12
How. 457. Chief Justice Taney, in delivering that judgment,
clearly distinguished the Great Lakes from the high seas.
This appears in his statement of the question whether "the
admiralty jurisdiction, in matters of contract and tort, which
the courts of the United States may lawfully exercise on the
high seas, can be extended to the lakes, under 'the power to
regulate commerce;" as well as in his pregnant observations,
"These lakes are, in truth, inland seas. Different States
border on them on one side, and a foreign nation on the
other." 12 Hlow. 452, 453.
So in The Eagle, 8 Wall. 15, in which it was decided that
the admiralty jurisdiction over all navigable waters, having
been declared in The Genesee Qhief to depend upon the Constitution, and not upon any act of Congress, extended to the
British side of the Detroit River, Mr. Justice Nelson, speaking
for this court, observed the same distinction, saying that the
District Courts could take cognizance of "all civil causes of
admiralty jurisdiction upon the lakes and waters connecting
them, the same 4s upon the high seas, bays, and rivers navigable from the sea." 8 Wall. 21.
The lakes are not high seas, for the very reason that they
are inland seas, within the exclusive jurisdiction and control
of those countries within whose territories thei lie, or between
whose territories they are the bou ndary; and therein essentially differ from "the high seas, where the'law of no partica-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

lar State has exclusive force, but all are equal." Bradley, T.,
in The Scotland, 105 U. S. 24, 29.
The distinction is familiar and well established in international law.
As was said by Sir William Scott: "In the sea, out of the
reach of cannon shot, universal use is presumed; in rivers
flowing through conterminous States, a common use to the
different States is presumed." The Twee Gebroeders, 3 C.
Rob. 336, 339.
In a case in which a municipal. seizure under the Customs
Act of March 2, 1799, c. 22, § 29, (1 Stat. 649,) in the St.
Mary's River, then forming the boundary between the United
States and the Spanish territory, of a vessel bound up that
river to the Spanish waters and Spanish possessions, was held
unlawful, Mr. Justice Story, speaking for this court, said that,
"upon the general principles of the law of nations, the waters
of the whole river must be considered as common to both
nations, for all purposes of navigation, as a common highway,
necessary for the advantageous use of its own territorial rights
and possessions;" and he distinguished the waters of, the
river, common to the two nations between whose dominions it
flowed, from "the ocean, the common highway of all nations."
The Apollorn, 9 Wheat. 362, 369, 371.
Vattel says: "The open sea is not of a nature to be po sessed, no one being able to settle there so as to hinder others
from passing over it-." Vattel, lib. 1, c. 23, § 280. "No nation,
therefore, has the right to take possession of the open sea, gr
to claim the sole use of it, to the exclusion of other nations."
§ 281. "Every lake, entirely included in a country, belongs
to the nation owning the country, which in possessing itself
of a territory is considered as having appropriated to itself
everything included in it; and, as it seldom happens that the
property of a lake of, considerable size falls to individuals, it
remains common to the nation. If this lake is situated between two States, it is presumed to be divided between them
at the mniddle, so long as there is neither title, nor constant
and manifest custom, to determine otherwise." c. 22, § 274.
Wheaton says: "The sea'cannot become the exclusiveprop-

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

erty of any nation. And consequently the use of the sea, for
these purposes," (navigation, commerce, and fisheries,) "remains open and common to all mankind." Wheaton's International Law, (St4 ed.,) § 187. "The territory of the Stare
includes the lakes, seas and rivers, entirely enclosed within
its limits. The rivers which flow through the territory also
form a part of thl domain, from their sources to their mouths,
or as far as they flow within the territory, including the bays
or estuaries formed by their junction with the sea. Where a
navigable river, forms the boundary of conterminous States,
the middle of the channel is generally taken as the line of
separation between the two States, the presumption of law
being that thQ right of navigation is common to both; but
this presumption may be destroyed by actual proof of prior
occupancy and long undisturbed possession, giving to one of
the riparian proprietors the exclusive title to the entire river."

§ 192.
Phillimore, after observing that "no difficulty can arise with
respect to rivers and lakes entirely enclosed within the limits
of a State," and discussing the rights in rivers which flow
through more'than one State, and the rights in the open iea,
in narrow seas or straits, and in portions of the sea next the
coast or between headlands, says: "With respect to seas
entiely enclosed by the land, so as to constitute a salt-water
lake, the general presumption of -law is, that they belong to
the surrounding territory or territories in as full and complete
a manner as a fresh-water lake. The Caspian and the Black
Sea naturally belong to this class." And he proceeds to show
that the rights of other nations than Turkey and Russia to
navigate the Black Sea from: the Mediterranean rest upon
treaties only. 1 Phillimore's International Law, (3d ed.) c. 5,.
§ 155; c. 8, § 205 205A. See also Wheaton, § 182 and note;
Treaty of 1862 o-f the United States with the Ottoman Empire,
art. 11, 12 Stat. 1216.
The Mediterranean Sea, opening directly into the Atlantic
Ocean at the Straits of Gibraltar, and washing the shores of
many countries of different sovereigns, has, excepting such
portions thereof as the Gulf of Venice or the Straits of IMesVOL. CT--18

OCTOBER TERE, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

sina, been recognized and considered

by all nations for centu-

ries.as part of the high seas, free to all mankind. Martens,
Pr6cis du Droit des Gens, § 42; Wheaton, § 190. And it was
.the one sea familiarly known to the ancients as altum mare,
the deep sea or "high sea," or simply altum, the deep.
The freedom of the Baltic Sea, and of the Sound connecting
it with the North Sea, long and earnestly controverted, was
finally established in 1857 by a treaty of the five powers
whose territories bordered 'thereon with other European nations, and by a s6parate treatyobetween the United States and
Denmark. Wheaton, §§ 183-85, 187 note; 1 Phillimore, c. 5,
§ 179; c. 8, § 206; 11 Qtat. 719.
As to the Great Lakes of North America, there has never
been any doubt. They are in the heart of the continent, far
above the flow of. the tide from the sea. Lake Michigan is
wholly within the limits and dominion of the United States,
and of, those Status of the Union which surround it. Illinois
Central 1?ail'oacl v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387; 6 Opinions of
Attorneys General, 172. The middle line of Lakes Superior,
Huron, Erie and Ontario, and of the waters connecting them,
forms part of the boundary between the United States and
the State of Michigan and other States of the Union, on the
one hand, and the British possessions, in Canada, on the other.
Treaties of Paris in 1783, art. 2, and of Ghent in 1814, art. 6,
and Decision of Commissioners under this article; 8 Stat. 81,
221, 274; Charters and Constitutions, 994, 1453, 2026. No
bther nation has the right to navigate them, except by the
permission, and subject to the laws, of the United States and
Great, Britain, respectively. The controversy between the
United States and Great Britain as to the right of navigating
the river St. Lawrence turned upon the effect to be given to
the fact that one side of the Great Lakes and of the waters
connecting them belonged to each country,'as against the fact
that both shores of the St. Lawrence below belonged to Great
Britain; and it was never suggested that any third ijation had
a free and common right of navigation of the lakes and their
connecting, waters. On the contrary, the exclusive right of
the United States and Great Britain to navigate the lakes was

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.

•275

Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

made the basis of the American claim to the navigation of the
river. On June 19, 1826, Mr. Clay, Secretary of State under
President John Quincy Adams, in a letter to Mr. Gallatin,
then Minister to England, said: "The United States and
Great Britain have, between them, the exclusive right of navigating the lakes. -The St. Lawrence connects them with the
ocean. The right to navigate both (the lakes and the ocean)
includes that of passing from the one to the other through the
natural link." Congressional Documents, 1827-28, No. 43,
p. 19; Wheaton, § 205. The right of citizens of, the United
States to navigate the St. Lawrence, as well as a Tight to
British subjects to navigate Lake Michigan, was secured by
treaties between the two countries in 1854 and 1871. 10 Stat.
1091; 17 Stat. 872. See also Act of July 26, 1892, c. 248, 27
Stat. 267; 1 Wharton's International Law Digest, §§ 30, 31. ,
No instance has been produced, in w'hich the words "high
seas" have been used to designate fresh inland waters, the
entirejurisdiction and control of which belong to those nations
within whose territories they lie, or between whose territories
they form the boundary.
The conclusion seems to me inevitable that no part of the
Great Lakes can be held to be "high seas," within the meaning of section 5346 of the Revised Statutes.
The language of this section, immediately following the term
"the high seas," is "or in any aim of the sea, or in any river,
haven, creek, basin or bay." It is quite clear that the Detroit
River is not an "arm of the sea," or a "haven, creek, basin or
bay." Is it a "river," within the meaning of this enactment?
Upon this point I agree with the rest of the court that the
language used must be read in conjunction with the term "the
high seas," and as referring to waters connecting with the high
seas mentioned; and that Congress cannot be supposed to have
intended to include fresh-water rivers, and not to include the
lakes from or into which they flow, and which, together with
them, form a continuous passage for vessels. But if the lakes
are not "high seas," nor included in the act, the consequence
would seem 'to be that the word "river" cannot be held to
include a river connecting two of the lakes.

. OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

The question now befbre the court is not one, arising in a
civil proceeding, of the extent of the general and comprehensive grant in the Constitution bf "admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction" to the courts of -the United States. But it is a
question, arising in a criminal prosecution, of -the construction
of particular words in a penal statute, which cannot be extended
by the cour~t to a similar or analogous case, not within their
natural and obvious meaning.
. The place in the Detroit River within the territorial limits
of the Dominion of Canada, where this offence is alleged to
have been committed, was doubtless "within the admiralty
jurisdiction of the United States," under the decision in Tli
Genesee Chief; and was "out of the jurisdiction of any particuJlar State," unaer the decision in United States v.'.Brailford,
5 Wheat. 184, 189, 200, already cited. Nor is there any doubt
of the .power of Congress to punish crimes committed on
American vessels, wherever they may be afloat. United
States v. Furlong, 5 Wheat. 184, 19-; Urapo v. Eelly, 16
Wall. 6,10, 624-626.
But, in order to come within the statute, it is not enough that
the offence was committed "within the adniiralty jurisdiction
of the United Stateg;" and "out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State" of the Union; and upon a vessel belonging in
.whole or in part to the United States, or to a citizen thereof.
It must also be covered by the description, "upon the high seas,
or upon any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin
or bay."
The leading words of this description are applicable to
nothing but the ocean and its adjacent yaters within the ebb
and flow of the tide; every word in thedescription aptly designates tide waters; all the words, • taken together, point to
tide vaters; and no other waters come within their natural'
and obvious meaning, in the connection in which they are used.
The evident intention of Congress, to be collected- from the
w"ords it employed, was to pnish offenees upon the sea; and
upon any waters forming part of the sea, or immediately connecting with it, as far as high water mark, and not .within the
jdrisdiction of any State of the Union; and the whole object

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

and effect of adding, after the "high seas," the words "or in
any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin or
bay," were to cure the defects of earlier statutes in this respect,
and to include all waters within the ebb and flow of the tide,
which are estuaries or approaches of the high seas or open
ocean.
Upon this part of the case, the decision of this court in
United Slates v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, is much in point. That
was an indictment for a murder committed by a marine upon
another enlisted man on a ship of war of the United States
lying in the harbor of Boston, and so within the territorial
jurisdiction of the State of Massachusetts, and therefore, as
the court held, not coming within the description in section 8
of the act of April 30, 1790, c. 9, "upon the high seas, or in,
any river, haven, basin or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular State." But the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the -United States was also sought to be maintained under
the provision of section 7 of the same act, for the punishment of murder committed " within any fort, arsenal,
dockyard, magazine, or other place or district of country, under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United
States." 1 Stat. 113. It was argued that a ship of war of the
United States was "a place under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States," and therefore within the act.
But this court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, held otherwise; and, while waiving a decision of the question whether
any court of ]Massachusetts would have jurisdiction of the
offence; and recognizing as unquestionable the power of Congress to punish an offence committed by a ftlarine on board a
ship of war, wherever she may be ; nevertheless held that Congress had not exercised that power by the provision last
quoted, because the objects with which the word "place" was
tssociated -- "fort, arsenal, dockyard, magazine," and "district of country "-being all fixed and territorial in their character, "the construction seems irresistible that, by the words
'other place' was intended another place of a similar character with those previously enumerated, and w,-ith that which
follows," and "the context shows the mind of the legislature

OCTOBER TBRAM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Gray, J.

to have been fixed on territorial objects of a similar character."
a Wheat. 390, 391.
Applying the same rule of construction, noscitur a sociis, to
the enactment now before the court, the conclusion seems irresistible that, as the preceding words, "upon the high seas, or in
any arm of the sea,?' as well as the succeeding words,"haven,
creek, basin or bay," designate tide waters of or adjoining the
ocean, the words "any river" must be held to designate
waters of a similar character, that is to say, those rivers only
where the tide ebbs and flows, and which are immediately
connected with the sea or with one of the other waters enumerated, and cannot be extended to a fresh-water river in the
interior of the continent, because the context shows the mind
of the legislature to have been fixed on tide waters.
Should there be any doubt of the soundness of this construction, that doubt, in interpreting a penal statute, should be
solved in favor of the defendant.
In United States v. Wiltlberger, cited- at the beginning of this
opinion, in which, as in United States v. Bevans, just cited,.
and in the case at bar, the question was of the meaning of
words, not defining the elements of the crime itself, but only
describing the place of its commission, Chief Justice Marshall
expounded the rule of construction of penal statutes as follows: "The rule, that penal laws are to be construed strictly,
is perhaps hot much less old than construction itself. It is
founded on the tenderness of the law for the rights of individuals; and on the plain'principle that the power of punishment
is vested in the legislative, not in the judicial. department. It
is the legislature, not the court, which is to define a crime, and
ordain its punishment." "Though penal laws are to be construed strictly, they are not to be construed s6 strictly as to
defeat the obvious intention of the legislature. The maxim
is not to be so applied as to narrow the words of the statute
to the exclusion of cases which those words, in their ordinary
acceptation, or in that sense in which the legislature has obviously used them, would comprehend. The intention of the
legislature is to be collected from the words they employ."
"To determine that a case is within the intention of a statute,

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

its language must authorize us to say so. It would be dangerous, indeed, to carry the principle, that a case which is
within the reason or mischief of a statute is within its provisions, so far as to punish a crime not enumerated in the statute, because it is of equal atrocity, or of kindred character,
with those which are enumerated." 5 Wheat. 95, 96. And
in answer to the suggestion made in that case (which has
been repeated in this) of "the extreme improbability that
Congress could have intended to make those differences with
respect to place, which their words import," the Chief Tustice
said: "We admit that it is extremely improbable. But probability is not a guide which a court, in construing a penal
statute, can safely take. We can conceive no reason why other
crimes, which are not comprehended in this act, should not be
pulnished. But Congress has not made them punishable, and
this court cannot enlarge the statute." 5 Wheat. 105.
For these reasons, with all deference to the opinion of my
brethren, I am constrained to conclude that the question certified should be answered in the negative.
M . JusTiOE Browx dissenting.

I am also constrained to dissent from the opinion of the
court in this case, which appears to me to inaugurate a wholly
new departure in the direction of extending the jurisdiction of
the Federal courts. It is a matter of regret to me that this
departure should be made in a case in which the defendant
was represented neither by brief nor oral argument-a fact
which suggests, at least, an unusual degree of caution in dealing with the question involved.
I had supposed that, in criminal cases, the accused was entitled to the benefit of any reasonable doubt, not only with
regard to the evidence of guilt, but with regard to the jurisdiction of the court; in other words, that penal statutes should
be construed strictly; and that the facts that the Supreme
Court of Michigan, in a very carefully considered case some
thirty years ago, People v. Tyler, 7 Michigan, 161, had decided
that the criminal jurisdiction of the Federal courts did not

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

extend to';the lakes; that the same question had been decided
the same way by Judge Wilkins in .Xiller's case, Brown's
Adm. 156; that the Federal courts upon the lakes had uniformally accuiesced in these decisions; and that no case is reported
to the contrary, would of itself make d case of reasonable
doubt, to the benefit of which the prisoner would be entitled.
I fully concur in all that has been stated in the opinion of
the cciurt with regard to the magnitude of the commerce upon
the la-kes; and if that question were pertinent here, it would
doubless be controlling. Having lived for thirty years within
sight of this commerce, it would ill become me to depreciate
its importance, but it occurs to me that if this were a consideration at all it would be equally applicable to our jurisdiction
over the Hudson, the Ohio, and the Mississippi, upon all of
which the commerce is of great magnitude. I had assumed
that the question at issue involved simply the construction of
a statute, and not the magnitude of the commerce upon the
lakes.
My own views on this question were so fully set forth in
the case of Byers, 32 Fed. Rep. 404, that I can add but little
to What was thure said. Revised Statutes, § 5346, under
which this indictment was framed, limits the jurisdiction of
the District Oourt to "cas e i arising upon the high seas, or in
any arm of the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, l5asin or
bay within the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States,
and out of the jurisdiction of anyjlxrticularState."
The first question which arises, then, is as to whether the
lakes are "high seas," and as to that I had supposed, until
reading the opinion of the court in this case, there could be
but one answer.
The term "high seas" has never been regarded by any
public writer or held by any court to be applicable to territorial waters, and, like the word "highways," presupposes the
right of the public to make free use of them, and excludes
the idea of private ownership. Of the sea, Lord Hale says
(De Jure 3laris, chapter 4): "The sea is either that which
lies within the body of the county or without. That arm or
branch of the sea which lies within the fauces terre, where

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

a man may reasonably discern between shore and shore, is, or
at least may be, within the body of a county, and therefore
within the jurisdiction of the sheriff or coroner. The part of
the sea which lies not within the body of a county, is called
the main sea or ocean."
Azuni, an Italian publicist of the last century, in writing of
the maritime law of Europe, says (Part 1, chapter 1, section
12): "The sea belongs to no one; it is the property of all
men; all have the same equal right to its use as to the air
they breathe, and to the sun that warms them. Seas are the
great highways traced by nature between the different parts
of the world, to facilitate and expedite communication between the various nations who inhabit it. If a nation seizes
on these highways, if it arrogates to itself the exclusive privilege of traversing them without opposition, and repels, by the,
fear of being plundered, all those who wish to make the same
use of them, it is no better than a nation of robbers." Section
14: " The liberty of navigation and of fishing is derived from
natural law, and the law of nations, as well as from the civil
law. For these reasons, the high seas ought to remain as
common to the human race as air and liglt. The use of those
elements, unquestionably, can never belong to any one nation,
to the exclusion of others." Section 15: "From these principles, it follows, that the right of prior occupancy cannot give
to a nation the absolute empire of the high sea, and for the
reason already mentioned, that this element is not susceptible.
of individual appropriation."
Valin, in his commentary on the Marine Ordinance, observes: "For in short the ocean belongs to no one, and the
conclusion undoubtedly to be drawn from this- is that all
nations are permitted to navigate it."
So Vattel, in speaking of the sea (Book 1, chapter 23, seetion 281): "But this," speaking of private property, "is not
the case with the open sea, on which people may sail and fish
without the least prejudice to any person whatsoever, and
without putting any one in danger. No nation, therefore, has
a right to take possession of the open sea, or claim the sole
use of it,. to the exclusion of other nations. . . . Nay,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

more, i4 nation, Which, without a legitimate claim, would arrogate to itself an exclusive right to the sea, and support its
pretensions by force, does an injury to all nations; it infringes
their common right; and they are justifiable in forming a
general combination against it, in order .to repress such an
attempt."
So Chancellor Kent, in speaking of jurisdiction over the
seas, Part 1, Lecture 2, says: "The open sea is not capable
oftbeing possessed as private property. The free use of the
ocean for navigation and fishing is common to all mankind,
and the public jurists generally and explicitly deny that the
main ocean can ever be appropriated. The gubjects of all
nations meet there, in times of peace, on a footing of entire
equality and indepehdence. No nation has any right or jurisdiction at sea, except it be over the persons of its own sub"jectsin its own public and private vessels." 1 Kent Coin. 26.
From time immemorial the terfn "high seas" has been used
to import the unenclosed and open ocean without the fauces
"terrce. In United States v. Bevans, 3 Wheat. 336, a homicide
had been committed upon an American man-of-war lying
at. anchor in the main channel of Boston harbor, to which
there is at all times a free and unobstructed passage to the
open ocean. The language of the statute was practically the
same as in this case; but it was held by this court, speaking
through Chief Justice Marshall, that to bring .the defendants
within the jurisdiction of the courts of the Union the murder
must have been committed in a river, etc., out of the jurisdiction qf any State, and that as the jurisdiction of a State was
oextensive with its territory and with its legislative power, the
courts of Massachusetts had exclusive jurisdiction of the criine.
It was further held that whatever might be the constitutional
power of Congress, it was clear that this power had not been
exercised so as to confer upon its courts jurisdiction over any
offences committed within the jurisdiction of any particular
State. In United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76, it was held
that the courts of the United States had no jurisdiction of a
manslaughter committed on a merchant vessel of the United
States lying in the river Tigris, in the Empire of China. It

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

was held in this case that the homicide was not committed on
the "high seas."
In United States v. Jackalow, 1 Black, 484, it was said by
this court that to give a Circuit Court of the United Stats
jurisdiction of an offence not committed within its district, 'it
must appear that the offence was committed out of thp juiqsdictiort of any State, and not within any other district of the
United States. This was applied to an offence committed in
Long Island Sound, one and a half miles from the Connecticut
shore at low water mark.
So in .Xiller's case, 1 Brown's Adm. 156, it was held by
Judge Wilkins of Michigan that while it was within the constitutional competency of Congress to define and punish
offences when committed upon other waters than the high
seas, it had not done so, and that Lake Erie was not a part of
the high seas. This was applied to a shocking case of an
attempt to burn a passenger steamer upon Lake Erie.
But it seems to m6, without going further into the authorities, that. the term "high seas" is accurately defined by the
statute under which this indictment is framed as "waters
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States and out of tlejurisdictionof any particularState."
The underlying error of th6 opinion of the court in this case
appears to me to consist in a total ignoring of the last qualification. That the term "high seas" extends to what are.
known as the great oceans of the world there can be no doubt.
I presume it also extends to the Mediterranean Sea, for the
reason that, bordering so many nations as it does, a division of
the waters between these nations would be impracticable.
Whether, as stated in the opinion of the court, the terl also
extends to the Black Sea, there seems to be graw'e doubt ; but
if it does, it is because the waters of the Black Sea are not
proprietary waters, are not claimed by Russia or'Turkey as
being a part of their territory. The very idea of giving to
the courts of all nations -jurisdiction over the high seas arises
primarily from the fact that they belong to no particular sovereignty. If it be true that the lakes are high seas, it logically
follows that any European power may punish a crime com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, 3.

mitted upon the lakes in their own courts, whenever it is able
to .lay hands upon the offender. It would also follow that
other nations than England and America would have the right
to navigate these seas without any local restrictions, and even
to send their fleets there and perhaps- to engage in hostilities
upon its waters. "In the case of Thlie Genessee Cidef, 12 How.
413, this court did not hold that the lakes were high seas, but
that the limitation of the admiralty jurisdiction in civil cases
to tide waters did not apply to this country, or to the interior
lakes, a doctrine in which I fully concur, and one that has
met with the practically ananimous approval of the profession.
Tlhe difficulty of applying the term "high seas" to the lakes
arises not from the fact that they are not large enough, that
the commerce which vexes their waters is not of sufficient
importance, but from the. fact that they are within the local
jurisdiction of the States bordering upon them. By the treaty
,of peace between this country and Gr at Britain, of 1783, the
boundary line between the United States and Canada was
fixed in the middle of Lake Ontario, Niagara River, Lake
Erie, Detroit River, Lake Huron, St. Mary's River, and Lake
'Superior, and by the treaty of 1814 this line was recognized
,and subsequently designated by commissioners appointed for
that purpose. So in the acts admitting Illinois, Wisconsin,
and Michigan into the Union the boundary lines of these
States were fixed at the middle of Lake '.ichigan, and as to
the State of Michigan at the boundary line between the TUnited
States and Canada. Acting upon this theory, the State of
Michigan has assumed jurisdiction of all crimes committed
upon her side of the boundary line, and provided for their
punishlment in certain counties irrespective of the question
whether the crimes were committed within the limits of a
particular county.
But even if the lakes were to be considered as high seas,
that term surely cannot be applied to a river twenty-two miles
in length and less than a mile in width, connecting the- two
lakes.
The further question then arises whether the locality in

UNITED STATES v. RODGERS.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

question is covered by the words "in any arm of the sea, or
in any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay within the admiralty
jurisdiction of the United States and out of the jurisdiction of
any particular State.", As the western half of the Detroit
and St. Clair rivers is within the territorial 'jurisdiction of
Michigan, it only remains to consider whether the fact that
the eastern half of these rivers is within the territorial jurisdiction of Canada meets the requirements of the statute. I
may say that this question was elaborately considered by the
Supreme Court of Michigan iltthe case of People v. Tqler,
7 Michigan, 161, which was also the case of an assault committed on the Canadian side of the boundary line, in which the
Federal court, without an investigation of the question, had
convicted Tyler. The Supreme Court of Michigan were
unanimous in the opinion that the jurisdiction did not'exist.
Separate opinions were delivered by three of the judges, in
which every possible case bearing upon the question was cited
and criticised. I have no doubt whatever of the power of
Congress to extend its jurisdiction to crimes committed upon
navigable waters. Ildeed, since the decision in Byers' case,
and on September 4, 1890, Congress did pass an act providing
for the punishment of crinies committed anywhere upon the
lakes. 26 Stat. 424, c. 874. 1 Supp. Rey. Stat. 799.
But, considering that, at the time the act of Congress in
question was passed, viz., in 1790, the lakes were far beyond
the bounds of civilization and possessed no commerce, except
such as was carried on in canoes, it seems impossible to say
that Congress intended that the words "arm of the sea, or
river, haven, creek, basin, or bay" could have been intended
to apply to the lakes when the word "lakes" might just as
well have been used, had the interior waters of the country
been included. It seems to me entirely clear that the words
alluded to, following immediately the words "high seas,"
apply only to such waters as are connected immediately with
the high seas, and have 'no application to the Great Lakes.
This was evidently the view taken by Congress in the enactment of 1890.
I may add in this connection that the act of 1790, under

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

which this indictment was framed, was before Congress at the
time of the passage of the Crimes Act of 1825, and also at the
time of the adoption of the Revised Statutes, and no effort
was made to change the language of the act by inserting the
word "lakes," and no such change was ever made until after
the offence in this case had been committed.
The conclusion seems to me irresistible that, considering the
words high seas are followed by the words "in any arm of
the sea, or in any river, haven, creek, basin, or bay within the
admiralty jurisdiction of the United States and out of the
jurisdiction of any particular State," they should be limited to
such waters as are directly connected with the high seas. It
is incredible that if Congress had intended to include the lakes
in either of these acts it would have drawn a line through the
centre, and given to the Federal courts jurisdiction upon one
side of that line, and not upon the other, when it was equally
within its competency to confer full jurisdiction over all crimes
committed upon American vessels upon the entire lakes. Especially is this true in view of the fhct that it is often impossible to locate the ship at the time the crime is committed upon
one side or the othei: of the boundary line.
It is beyond question in this case that the crime charged
was committed within the waters of the Province of Ontario;
that the courts of such Province had jurisdiction of the cause,
and in my opinion such jurisdiction was exclusive.

