BALL & SOCKET FASTENER CO. v. KRAETZER.

'111

Syllabus.

therefore, no right of subrogation in favor of the insurance
companies existed.
These issues of fact and law were determined against
Wager and in favor of the insurance companies, and a final
decree condemning the vessel was rendered. This decree remains unreversed and in full force.
It cannot be questioned that, in the present case, the
Circuit Court could, and this court on appeal can, take notice
of the former case in the Southern District, because the proceedings and decree therein are set up. at length in the answer
of Wager in the present case. It is true that Wager alleges,
in his answer, that he had prosecuted an -appeal to the
Supreme Court, which was thed pending. But the record of
that appeal shows that it was dismissed by this court for want
of jurisdiction. The Sydney, 139 U. S. 331.
We think, therefore, that the Circuit Court did not err in
regarding Wager as having been concluded by the trial and
decree in the former case, and in entering a final decree
agaihst him.
In both appeals the decree of the Circuit Court is

Affrmed.

M . JsTioE BROWN, not having heard argument in this
case, took no part in its decision.

BALL

AND

SOCKET FASTENER
KRAETZER.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COMPANY

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 58. 'Argued October 27, 1893. -Dicided

November 6,1893.

The fourth and seventh claims in letters patent No. 325,688, issued to Albert
G. Mend, September 8, 1885, for a "button" are not infringed by glove
fasteners manufactured ubder 'letters patent Nos. 359,614 and 359,615,
issued to Edwin J. Kraetzer, March 22, 1887; and though it would be
possible tQ nake ot A literal infringement of the sixtli cla.im, by on.

OCTOBER TERI, 1893..
Statement of the Case.
struing the claim broadly, the court holds that the patdntee is not
entitled to such construction.
There is no equity in charging infringement upon a defendant in a patent
suit, in consequence of an apparently accidental adoption of an immaterial feature of the plaintift's patent.
When costs are unnecessarily increased by the incorporation of useless
papers, costs may be imposed upon the offending party under Rule 10,
Paragraph 9; and they are imposed in this case.

THis was a bill in equity originally filed for the. infringement of six letters patent for iWprovements in glove fasteners,
five of which patents were issued to William S. Richardson
and one to Albert G. Mead.
A plea having been filed upon the ground of multifariousness, two of the patents were stricken from the bill upon the
application of the -plaintiff.
The only patent relied upon at the heiring or covered by the
assignments of error was that to Albert G. Mead, No. 325,688,
issued September 8, 1885, for a "button."
In -his specification patentee states: "This invention relates to metallic fasteningz employed in securing the separate flaps of any article,
such as gloveg or other similar articles of wear, in lieu of the
ordinary button and button-hole, and pertains especially to
that class entitled ' ball-and-socket fastenings' in which a ball
is adapted to be enclosed by and retained within the hollow
or socket member, when the fastening is actively employed.
I considermy present invention embraces, first, the method of
centrally securing the socket portion of the fastening -to the
article, whereby the open part or socket of said member is
disposed upon the under side of the flap, and secured by a
rivet extending through the fabric, thus in permanently securing it to the latter a suitable button-head or cap is employed
upon the upper surface of the flap, and can be so formed and
constructed as to form a button finish, a result much desired,
since it gives the article an appearance exactly similar to aft
ordinary button, which is the most neat and tasty finish that
can be employed in the class of articles of apparel to which"
such fastenings are usually attached, but, further, the whole
device is thereby concealed and prevented from becoming
caught and broken; secondly, in the peculiar method of form-

BALL & SOCKET FASTENER CO. v. KRAETZER.

113

Opinion of the Court.

ing the ball member of said fastening, as likewise that of the
rivet by which the ball is secured to the fabric, the two parts
forming a unit and readily used in connecotion with the socket
member, forming an article very easily manufactured, cheap,
and inexpensive, and one which presents an unusually ornamental finish.'
Defendant was manufacturing under letters patent Nios.
359,614 and 359,615, granted to him March 22, 1887, for improvements in glove fasteners.
The case was heard upon pleadings aid proofs, and the bill
dismissed upon the ground that the defendant had not
infringed. 39 Fed. IRep. 700.
No appeal was taken from the decree of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill as to the three Richardson patents remaining, and the appeal only involved the consideration of the
fourth, sixth, and seventh claims of the -Mead patent.. These*
claims were as follows:
"4. In a fastening device of the nature described, the enclosing portion composed of a hollow socket centrally secured
to the fabric by a button-head, F, and with the enclosing portion
disposed upon the under side of the flap, substantially as stated.
"6. A member of a fastening device consisting of a hollow
socket, in combination with a rivet and button-head, whereby
it is centrally attached to the fabric, substantially as set forth.
"'7. A meiypber of a fastening device composed of a hollow
socket, D, centrally attached by an eyelet, 1, the latter resting
.upon and within an annular depression, q, formed in a concaved collet or disk, E, substantially for the purpose herein
set forth."

.Ar. fThwmas THlliam Clarke for appellant.
Air. Jon 1?. Bennett, (with whom was -Mr. 1. B. H.
Dowse on the brief,) for appellee.
MR. JusTioE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The invention of Mfead consists of a glove fastener having
on the button side a knob with a shank to it, which passes
VOL. CL-8

OCTODER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

through two washers, one of which washers is above and the
other below the glove fabric, and the shank is upset on the
lower side of the lower washer. The swell of the knob is
sufficient to allow of an engagement with the clasp or spring
sides of the button-hole member of the fastener. This buttonhole member, which is the one alleged to be infringed, consists
of an inuperforated cap or button-head, F, and an elastic socket,
D. The button-head F consists of three parts,'a solid cap, F,
an inteiior disk, E, perforated at the centre, and the attaching.
eyelet I descending from it. A modification of this portion of
the device is shown in Fig. 12, wherein the imperforated cap
or button-head, F, is omitted, the button-head consisting simply
of a dished washer, E. In this form, which is as efficient and
much cheaper, the eyelet is made flush with the exterior
surface of the disk, E. In order to present a more perfect
MACADPrATZNZR

finish, and at the same time to prevent the edgps thereof from
catching, the patentee forms an annular depression in the top
of disk E, to a depth equal to the thickness of the metal
forming the eyelet.. Thus a smooth exterior surface is secured.
In both forms of his device, illustrations of which are here
given, the dished washer is necessarily present, because it is
the thing which, by being riveted to the spring-mouth socket,
serves to fasten the structure to the glove-flap, the leather of
which is squeezed by the exterior of the socket against the
interior of the button-head or dished washer E.
The socket, _D, consists of a cup-shaped washer with
spheroidally-curved wings. The cup-shaped washer, with its
wings curved slightly inward at their lower edges, and thus
presenting a contracted but outwardly-yielding mouth, consti-

BALL & SoCKET FASTENER- CO. v. KRAETZER.

115

Opinion of the Court.

tutes the spring-socket for receiving and holding the knob.
The upper part of this socket is perforated at its centre to
receive the rivet or eyelet projecting dovnward from the
upper portion of the cap. In the application of .this fastener
to a glove fabric, a hole is pierced in the fabric large enough
-for the passage of the eyelet, and the two hemispheroidal
metallic surfaces, one of which surfaces is the outside of the
upper part of the socket, and the, other of which is the inside
of the cap or exterior piece, are for.some considerable distance
parallel to each other, and thus the fabric of the glove is
stretched into a dome shape, by being compressed or nipped
between the back of the socket and the inside of the cap, and
is firmly held by this engagement.
It is admitted that Mead did not invent this spring socket,
nor the perforation at its centre; and while he did not invent
the attachment of that socket to the fabric by a flat washer,
the surface of which lay in a line parallel to the tangent line
of the upper surface of the dome of the socket, it is claimed
that'he did invent the application of a curved or cup-shaped
cap in the place' where the flat washer had previously been.
In the Kraetzer patent, the button-hole member, of which
an illustration is given below, consists of a perforated top shell

Kraetzer Fastener.

or cap, A, with a central opening, B, Which, is surrounded by
an annular depressioft -or countersunk cavity. The opening,
B, is adapted to. receive the upper end of a spring shell, which
has an annular shoulder, E, at its base, and a contracted neck
at its top. The spring which engages the button member of
the Kraetzer fastener is a coiled-wire ring, split on one side, so
as to expand as the button passes through it. This spring
ring is loosely held in its chamber. The spring chamber is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
'Opinion of the Court.

composed of two pieces of metal united around their edges,
one of which has a tubular extension which passes through
'the fabric and is engaged with a cap or button-head on the
other side of the fabric.
In the Mead socket the resiliency of the button-hole member is in the socket itself, which is directly attached to the
fabric. In the Kraetzer fastener the part which engages the
button-head or stud serves no other purpose whatever, but
rests loosely in the chamber of its holder. This holder or
shell is clamped'permanently and firmly to the- fabric, and is
never expanded or contracted as in the Mead socket. In engaging and disengaging the fastener, the wire ring alone
expands and contracts.
. From this statement of the construction of the two devices,
which can be made more apparent by a comparison of the
drawings, it is very evident that they are constructed upon
different principles. and operated in a wholly different manner.
But it is claimed that an elastic mouth, combined with and
firmly united to a dome, the, mouth and dome being situated
wholly on the under side of the flap and secured by a buttonhead, wholly upon tle upper side of the flap, wa- not known
in the art prior to tWe Mead patent, and that the effec of this
is, .taken in connection with the fact that the hole in the flap
need not be any larger than the diameter of the rivet, as stated
by the plaintiff's expert,, "that the spring socket presses the
glove leather upward ihto the button-head, and'squeezes the
leather against the inner surface of the button-head." If
this feature be an advantage, as n6w claimed, it is strange
that no allusion is made to it in the specifications; and in his
testimony the patentee stated directly that in .describing his
invention as set forth in his patent,'in the attachment of the
fastener to the fabric, he did not contemplate any stretching
ofthe leather, or that the hole in the fabric should be of any
particular size, or any other effect than is produced when two
parts are fastened together by an eyelet. On the contrary, it
would appear that this squeezing of the leather could only
take place where the disked washer or cap was used, and in
his specifications the patentee states that "the disk, E, may

BALL & SOCKET, FASTENER CO. v. KRAETZER. 11
Opinion 6f the Court.

be a flat plate, but, in the present instance, I have shown its
outer edge or circumference bent in order to approximate to
the general shape of the button-heafd when the latter is pressed
into its finished form," and thus it.strengthens said cap.
This would indicate that the advantage now claimed of a
tighter compression of the leathev was not originally within
the contemplation of the patentee, but is an afterthought,
suggested by his inability to make out a case against the defendant.of an infringement of the sprin'g portion of the socket.
Applying these considerations to the different claims of the
patent, it is quite evident that there is no infringement of the.
fourth claim, which includes as an element' the imperforated
button-head, F, which is not found in the Kraetzer patent.'
It is equally clear that there is no infringement of the
seventh claim, since the Kraetzer device has not "the hollow
socket, D," but a socket* of a wholly different construction,
operating in a different manner, and depending for its elasticity,, not upon the peculiar inwardly projecting wings of the
]Mead socket, but upon a ring concealed within its walls.
Neither has it the eyelet 1, unless the tapering upper ead of
the spring shell of the Kraetzer patent can be regarded as an
equivalent.
The charge of infringement must rest, then, upon the sixth
claim, Wqhich-is for "a member of a fastening device consisting
of a hollow socket in combination with a rivet and buttonhead, whereby it is centrally attached to the fabric, substantially as set forth." While, by construing the "hollow socket"
broadly, as including every kind of a hollow socket appropriate for that purpose, and by construing the upper part of such
socket' as equivalent to. the rivet,- 1, of the Mead patent, it
would be possible to make out a literal infringement, yet we do
not think the patentee is entitled to such a broad construction
of his claim, in view 'of the fact that the -only function obtained by the defendant in the use of his combination is that
of squeezing the leather upward -into the button-head -a
function of very -doubtful advantage, and apparently of no
value to the Kraetzer device, and one never contemplated by
Mead or alluded to in" his specification. We think it too frail

OCTOBER TERM, -1893.
Statement of the Case.

a support to hang a charge of infringement upon. When the
essential operation of tte two devices is so different there is
no equity in charging iufringement upon the defendant by an
apparently accidental adoption of an immaterial feature of the
plaintiff's patent.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the court below committed no error in its disposition of the case; but, in view.of the
fact that the appellee has seen fit to encumber the record with
copies of some. fifty himmater'ial patents, we tlink it a proper
case for the application of the 10th rule, which authorizes us
()iragraph 9) to impose costs upon - an appellee guilty of -requiring unnecessary parts of the record to be printed, and
that he should be charged with half the cost of printing the
re6ord in this case. "Care should be taken that costs are not
unnecessarily increased by incorporating useless papers, and
that the case is presented fairly and intelligently."' Railway
Co. v. Stewa?,t, 95 U. S.279, 281. With this qualification the
decree is
Affirmed.

GRAVES v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT, couRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE,
WESTERN DISTRICT OF AR)ANSAS.
No. 838. Submitted October19, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.
Where objection is made in a criminal trial to comments upon facts not' in
evidence or statements having no connection with the case or exaggerated expressions 6f the prosecuting officer, it is the duty of the court
to interfere and put a stop to them if they are likely to be prejudicial to
the accused.
The wife of a person accused of crime is not a competent witness, on his
trial, either in his own behalf or on the part of the governnqent, and a
comment to the jury upon her absence by the district attorney, permitted
by the court after objection, is held to be reversible error.

Tuis was a writ of error upon the conviction of the plaintiff
in error for the murder of an unknown man in the Indian
Territory on the 13th day of February, 1889.

