OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

COLORADO

CENTRAL

CONSOLIDATED

MINING

COMPANY v. TURCK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 935. Submitted October 16, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.

Thii court exercises appellate jurisdiction only in accordance with the acts
of Congress on that subject.
When the original jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the -United States is
invoked upon the sole ground that the determination of the suit depends
upon some question of a Federal nature, it must appear, at the outset,
from the pleadings, that the suit is one of that character, of which the
Circuit Court could properly take cognizance at the time its jurisdiction
is invoked.
When the jurisdiction of a Circuit Court is invoked solely on the ground of
diverse citizenship, the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final,
although another ground for jurisdiction in the Circuit Court may be
developed in the course of subsequent proceedings in the case..

THis was an action in ejectment brought by John Turck.

against the Colorado Con~olidated Mining Company, December 2, 1885, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Colorado. The complaint alleged,:
"First. That plaintiff is a resident and citizen of the State
of Colorado; that theColorado Central Consolidated Mining
Company, defendant, is a corporation organized and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of New York;
that the amount in dispute in this action exceeds the sum of
$500 exclusive of costs.
"Second. Plaintiff further alleges that upon the first day of
January, A.D. 1885, he was the owner of, seized in fee and entitled to the possession of a certain lode mining claim and premises, situate in Argentine mining district, Clear Creek County,
Colorado, described as follows, to wit: The Aliunde Tunnel
lode, No. 2, with all the dips, spurs, angles and variations of
said lode throughout their entire length and depth, and all
other lodes, veins, ledges or deposits of mineral, the top or

COLORADO CENTRAL MINING CO. q. TUROK.

139

Statement of the Case.

apex of which lie inside of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2,
as patented to John Turck by certain letters patent of th6
United States, dated the 31st day of.January, A.n. 1883, which
lode, mining claim and premises are described in said patent
as mineral entry No. 1862 in the series of the United States
land office at Central City, Colorado, and designated by the
surveyor-general of the State of Colorado, as survey lot No.
1494, which lode is fifteen hundred feet. in length, by one
hundred and fifty feet in width.
"Third. That said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2, has a pitch
to the northwest of about sixty degrees from a horizontal;
that the top and apex of said lode lies within the side and end
lines of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2; that owing to the
dip of said lode to the northwest, at a depth of about three
hundred feet beneath the surface of the ground, said .Aliunde
Tunnel lode, No. 2, passes under the north side line of said
patent and enters the land adjoining; that while plaintiff was
so seized and possessed of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2,
the defendant afterwards, and on the 1st day of January, A.D.
1885, wrongfully entered upon and ousted the plaintiff from
about four hundred feet of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2,
mining claim and premises next hereinafter described, and
now wrongfully withholds the same from plaintiff, that is to
say: That said defendant wrongfully-ousted the plaintiff from.
so much of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2, mining claim
and premises as lies beneath the depth of three hundred feet
beneath the surface of the ground north of the north side line
of said Aliunde Tunnel lode No. 2, carrying said north line
down vertically" and from thence on the pitch of said lode
northwesterly, and- measuring thence along the line of said
Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2, a distance of four hundred feet
next west of the northeast end line of said claim."
That plaintiff owned the property in fee, and was entitled
to possession, and that the value of the rents, issues, and profits, "while said plaintiff has been excluded therefrom by the
dMfendants, amounts to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.'
Wherefore judgment was demanded for possession,
damages, and costs.

140 "

0CTOBER TERAM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

The defendant answered by a general and special denial,
and for a second defence said:
"1. That it is, aid ever since the 15th day of December,
A.D. 1879, it hath been, the owner and seized in fee and in the
actual possession of the Colorado Central lode mining claim
survey,-lot No. 261, being a lode mining claim 1500 feet in
length by 50 feet 'in width, and of all lodes the tops or apexes
of which may be found within the lines of said survey, lot
No. 261.
"2. That said Colorado Central lode mining claim was
entered.for patent and patented by the United States to the
grantors of defendant before said date and long before the
real or pretended discovery, location or patenting of said
Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2.
"3. That said Colorado Central lode mining claim lies immediately to north of and adjoining the survey lot of said,
Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2, and that.whatever vein, the defendant has worked on is the vein of the Colorado Central
lode, or some vein having its top or apex within the side lines
of said survey lot No. 261, and not within the side lines of
the survey lot of said Aliunde Tunnel lode, No. 2."
And by the fourth paragraph defendant denied that it
wrongfully withheld possession from plaintiff of the Aliunde
lode, or any vein having its apex within the side lines thereof.
Plaintiff replied to this second defence, denying the defendant's ownership in the Colorado Central lode to the extent
averred; admitting the second paragraph of the answer that
the Colorado Central lode was patented before discovery and
patent of the Aliunde, and that the two lodes lay adjoining
each other; but denying that the Aliunde lode was 'a part of
the Colorado Central lode, and that the vein of the plaintiff
had its top or apex within the side lines of the Colorado Central lode, at any point claimed by the plaintiff, and 'denying
that defendant had not wrongfully withheld possession.
The case went to trial and resulted in a verdict for the
plaintiff and judgment thereon, which was set aside on payment of costs, under the local statute, and a second trial was
had with the same result. Certain exceptions were taken by

COLORADO CENTRAL MINIIG 00. v. TUROK.

141

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant to parts of the charge of the- court and to tthe
refusal to give certain instructions requested. The case was
taken by writ of error to the United States Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, and the judgment was
affirmed, May 8, 1892. A petition for rehearing was filed
during the term, -which was denied February 18, 1893,.and
thereupon a writ of error was allowed to this court.
The opinions of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be found
in 4 U. S. App. 290, 50 Fed. Rep. 888, and 54 Fed. Rep. 262.
The case was submitted on motion to dismiss or affirm.

-

.Mr. lVillard Teller and A.. ff.AX Orahoodfor the motion.
C. T.Hughes, and
M1r. Simon Sterne, .Mr.
r'ison opposing.

r. 1?.

. -Mor-

]AER. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLERE delivered the opinion of the c.ourt.
From Wiscaqt v.D'Auchy, 3 Dall. 321, to American Construction Co. v.Jacksonville &o. Railway Co., 148 U. S.372,
ithas been held in an uninterrupted series of decisions that
this court exercises appellate jurisdiction only in accordance
with the acts of Congress upon that subject.
By the Judiciary Act of March 3,1891, itJs provided that
the review by appeal, by writ of error, or otherwise, from
existing Circuit Courts shall be had in this court, or in the
Circuit Courts of Appeals thereby established, according to
the provisions of the act regulating the same. The writ
of error in this case was brought under section six of that
statute, which provides that "judgnients or decrees of the
Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be final in all cases in which
the jurisdiction is- dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or controversy being aliens and citizens of the
United States or citizens of different States," and also that "in
all cases not hereinbefore, in this section, made final there
shall be of right an appeal or writ of error or review of the
case by the Supreme Court of the United States where the
matter in c6ntroversy shall exceed one thousand dollars besides costs." 26 Stat. 826, 828, ยง 6, c. 517.

OCTOBER TERM, "1893.
Opinion of the Court.

If the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit was final, under the section in question, then
this writ of error must be dismissed. And in order to maintain that the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals was not
final, it must appear that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
was .not dependent entirely upon the opposite parties being
citizens of different States.
Under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, Circuit
Courts of the United States had original cognizance of all
suits of a civil nature at common law or in equity, -among
others, where the matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of
costs, the sum or value of five hundred dollars, and arising
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or in
which there was a controversy between citizens of different
States.
This complaint was filed December 2, 1885, and alleged the
diverse citizenship of the parties as the ground of jurisdiction.
But it is said that the vital question raised in the -case was
whether the patentee of a lode claim, whose discovery and
patent were later than the date of another's patent, may
follow his junior patented lode, the apex thereof being within
his side lines, into the other's patented ground on the dip;
-and that the solution of this question depended upon the
construction and application of section 2322 of the Revised
Statutes, concerning the dip and apex of lodes. Hence that
the suit really and substantially involved a controversy only
to be determined by reference to the Federal statute, and that
jurisdiction existed on that ground and did not depend entirely
upon the other.

To maintain this proposition, it is contended that reference
may be made to the entire pleadings, the evidence, or the
iulings of the courts below.
This view, however, ignores the settled doctrine that the
inquiry, in cases such as this, into the jurisdiction of the
Circuit -Court, is limited to the facts appearing on the record
in the first instance. This has been often so held in the
enforcement of the inflexible rule which requires this court
in the exercise of its appellate power to deny the jurisdiction

COLORADO CENTRAL MINING CO. V. TUROK.

143

Opinion of the Court.

of courts of the United States in all cases where such jurisdiction does not affirmatLyely appear in the record on which it is
called upon to act.
AndAwe do not think we can do better in elucidation of the
rule than quote from the opinion of the court in iMetcalf v.
]ratertown,128 U: S. 586, 588, where the subject is considered
and the authorities cited.
"It has been often decided by this court," said Mr. Justice
Harlan, by whom that opinion was delivered, "that a suit
may be said to arise under the Constitution or laws of the
Tnited States, within the meaning of that act, [18 Stat. 470, c.
137,] even where 'the Federal question upon which it depends
-is raised, for the first time in the suit, by the answer or plea
of the defendant. But these were removal cases, in each of
which the grounds of Federal jurisdiction were disclosed either
in the pleadings, or in the petition and affidavit for removal;
in other words, the case, at the time the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court of the United States attached, by removal,
clearly presented a question or questions of a Federal nature.
Railroad Co. v. .Mississippi, 102 U. S. 135, 140; Ames v.
KYansas, III U. S.449, 462; Paciic Railroad Removal Cases,
115 U. S.1, 11; Southern Pacific Railroad Co. v. California,
118 U. S.109, 112. Besides, the right of removal under the
act of 1875 could not be made to depend upon a preliminary
inquiry as to whether the plaintiff had or had not the right
to sue in the state court of original jurisdiction from which it
was sought to remove the suit. When, however, the original
jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States is invoked
upon the sole ground that the determination of the suit depends
upon some question of a Federal nature, it must appear, at the
outset, from the declaration or the bill of the party suing,
that the suit is of that character; in other words, it must
appear, in that. class of cases, that the suit was one of which
the Circuit Court, at the time its jurisdiction is invoked,
could properly take coguizauce. If it does not so appear,
* then the court, upon demurrer or motion, or upon its own.
inspection of the pleading, must dismiss the suit; just as it
would remand to the state court a suit which the record, at

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the time of removal, failed to show was within the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court. It cannot retain it in order to see
whether the defendant may not raise some question of a
Federal nature upon which the right of recovery will finally
depend; and if so retained, the want of jurisdiction, at the
commencement of the suit, is not cured by an answer or plea
which may suggest a question of that kind."
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was invoked, December
2, 1885, by the filing of the complaint, from which it appeared
that the suit was one of which cognizance could be properly
*taken on the ground of diverse citizenship, but it did not appear
therefrom that jurisdiction was rested, or could be asserted,
on any other ground. The. Federal question now suggested
did not emerge until the defendant set up its second defence,
and not then unless deducible from the bare averment that it
claimed under the. senior discovery and patent, which was
admittedin the replication.
The proposition that the right given by section 2 22, of the
Revised Statutes to the holder of the apex to follow his vein
on its dip outside of the side lines of his claim is merely a
right against an adroining claimant holding under a junior
patent or certificatb was afterwards advanced in certain
instructions requested by defendant and refused.
The jurisdiction had, however, already attached and could
not be affected by the subsequent developments. It depended
entirely upon diverse citizenship when the suit was commenced,
and to that point of time the inquiry must necessarily be
referred.
If the plaintiff had invoked it on two distinct grounds, one
of them being independent of diverse citizenship, a different
question might have been presented.
We are of opinion that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals was final under the sixth section, and that the writ
of error cannot be maintained.
TV'it of erro' disnvssed.

