OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendants in Error.

LEES v. 'UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 05. Argued November 22, 1893.-Decided December 4, 1893.

A district court of the United States has jurisdiction over an action to
recover a penalty imposed for a violation of the act of February 26, 1885,
23 Stat. 332, c. 164, "to prohibit the importation and migration of f oreigners and aliens under contract or agreement to perform labor in the
United States, its Territories, and the District of Columbia."
The act of February 26, 1885,23 Stat. 332, c. 164, prohibiting the importation
of aliens under contract to perform labor in the United States is constitutional.
An action to recover a penalty under that act, though in form a civil action,
is unquestionably criminal in its nature, and the, defendant cannot be
compelled to be a witness against himself.
It is well settled that, instead of preparing separate bills for each separate
matter, all the alleged errors of a trial may be joined in one bill. of exceptions; and the exception in this case is specitic and direct to the one
error of compelling the defendant to become a witness against himself,
and comes within this rale.

THIS was a civil action 'in form, to recover a penalty for

importing -an alien under contract to perform labor, in violation of the act of February 26, 18S5, 23 Stat. 332, c. 164. The
point upon which the case turns in the opinion i§, that the
action being criminal in nature, though civil in form, the de.fendant could not be compelled to be a witness against himself.

AMr. Hector T. Fenton for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Conrad for defendants in
error.

It is assigned as error, that the court erred on the trial in
overruling defendants' objection to the compulsory examination of John Lees. If error in this regard was committed by

-LEES, v. UNITED STATES..
Opinion of the Court.

the trial court, it could be brought to the attention of thereviewing court only by a bill of exceptions, setting forth
plainly the matter complained of as error, and thereby introducing the same into the record. Hanna v. .aas, 122 U. S.
24.
In this case a bill of exceptions appears to-have been begun,
and later on in the record to have been concluded. The intermediate space is occupied with the testimony of the witnesses,
among which appears the following: "John S. Lees, sworn.
Mr. Fenton: John S. Lees, the witness called, is one of the
defendants. This is a proceeding in the nature of a criminal proceeding. I object to his being examined on behalf of
the plaintiff; because he is protected by statute. (Objection
overruled. Exception for defendant.)"
It nowhere appears, by any certificate of the judge, by
whom John S. Lees was called to testify, or on whose bhalf:
nothing by which the fact is certified to this court that any
objection was made and overruled, or aiy exception taken for '
defendhnts, nor, indeed, does it appear when, or by whom the
remarks above quoted were written, upon the record from
which this transcript was made. These are all. matters extraneous to the record and could only be introduced into it by a
proper bill of exceptions. No such bill appears in this record.
And now as to the charge and opini6n of the court which
is the subject of this bill of exceptions: No error is specifically
assigned, but the whole charge is dumped out en masse, and
this court is called upon to scrutinize the whole opinion and
charge, and pick out from it such error as it may discover.
And thus, neither "the points of law," the charge of the
court, nor the opinions of the court, are before this court for
review.

MR.JusTIcE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
On August 22, 188S, the United States commenced this
action inthe District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to recover of Joseph Lees and
John S. Lees, the present plaintiffs in error, the sum of one

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

thousand dollars, as a forfeit and penalty for a violation by
them of the act of Congress of February 26, 1885, entitled
"An act to prohibit the importation and migration of foreigners anl aliens under contract or agreement to perform labor
in the United States, its Territories, and the District of Columbia." 23 Stat. 332, c. 164. Proceedings were thereafter had
in that suit which resulted in a judgment, on February 23,
1889,. in favor of the United States, for the sum of one thousand dollars. This judgment was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of that district, aid has since, by writ of error, been
brought to this court for review.
The first alleged error is that the District Court had no
jurisdiction over the action. The third section of the act provides that, for every violation, the offender "shall forfeit and
pay 'for every such offence the sum. of one thousand dollars,
-which may be sued for and recovered by the United States, or
by any person who shall first bring his action therefor, including any such alien or foreigner, who may be a party to any
such contract or agreement, as debts of like amount are now
recovered in the Circuit Courts of the United States." It is
insisted that the last clause of this sentence-vests the sole jurisdiction over such actions in the Circuit Court. But for those
words there would be no question of the jurisdiction of the
District Court.
From the earliest history of the government the jurisdiction
over actions to recover penalties and forfeitures has been
placed in the District Court. The ninth section of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 76, c. 20, provided
as follows: "The District Court shall have exclusive original
cognizance ....
of all suits for penalties and forfeitures
incurred under the laws of the United States." While in the
Revised Statutes the word "exclusive" was omitted, the language was not otherwise substantially changed. It is .true
that in some cases jurisdiction over matters of penalty and
forfeiture has been committed to the Circuit Court, but this
was always done by special act, and does not otherwise affect
the proposition that the general jurisdiction over actions for
penalties and forfeitures has been and is vested in the District

LEES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Court. Hence, when, as here, a statute imposes a penalty and
forfeiture, jurisdiction of an action therefor would vest in the
District Court, unless it is in express terms placed exclusively
elsewhere. If the words, "as debts of like amount are now
recovered," were omitted from this last clause, the construction chtimed by counsel might be sustained ; jurisdiction would
then be given to the Circuit Courts. So, if those words were
in parenthesis, or even separated from the last part of the
clause by a comma, or any similar punctuation, there would
be plausibility in the contention; but taking the clause as a
whole, giving force to all its words, it would seem to refer to
the form of the action rather than to the forum. When it is
remembered that a penalty may be recovered by indictment
or information ina criminal action, or by a civil action in the
form of an action of debt, and also.that the Circuit Courts of
the United States are, as contradistinguished from the District
Courts, the Federal courts. of original civil jurisdiction, the
significance of this clause is clear. It in effect provides that,
although the recovery of a penalty is a proceeding criminal in
its nature, yet in this class of cases it may be enforced in a
civil action, and in the samemanner that debts are recovered
in the ordinary civil courts. Repeals by implication are not
favored, and the general grant of jurisdiction to the District
Courts of suits to recover penalties and forfeitures should not
in any case be transferred exclusively to the Circuit Courts by

words of doubtful import.

In United States v. .3ooney, 116

U. S. 104, i somewhat similar effort was made to construe
certain provisions of a statute as divesting the District Courts
of their general jurisdiction over suits to recover penalties and
forfeitures; but, in the face of language mo'e significant of a
change than that here presented, this court sustained such
jurisdiction.
A second alleged error is that the act, so far as it imposes
this penalty, is unconstitutional. This question was elaborately
considered by Mr. Justice Brown, then a Judge of the District
Court, in United State§ v. Oraig, 28 Fed. Rep. 795, and the
conclusion reached that there was nothingr in the act conflicting with the Constitution. In cMurch of the HYoly Trinity v,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

United States, 143 U. S. 451, its constitutionality was assumed;
and since the C/iinese -Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, and the
case of Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, affirming fully the power of Congress over the exclusion of aliens,
there can be little doubt in the matter. Given in Congress the absolute power to exclude aliens, it may exclude
some and admit others, and the reasons for its discrimination
,are not open to challenge in the courts. Given the power to
exclude, it has a right to make that exclusion effective by
punishing those who assist in introducing, or attempting to
introduce, aliens in violation of its prohibition. The importation of alien laborers, who are under previous contract to
perform labor inthe United States, is the act denounced, and
the penalty is visited not upon the alien laborer - although by
the amendment of February 23, 1887, 24 Stat. 414,.c. 220, he
is to .be-returned to the country from which he. came-but
upon the party assisting in the importation. If Congress has
power to exclude such laborers, as by the cases cited it unquestionably has, it has the power to punish any who assist in their
introduction.
A third allegation of error is that the court compelled one
of the defendants to become a witness for the government,
and furnish evidence against himself. The bill of exceptions
reads as follows:
"John S. Lees svorn.
"Mr. Fenton: John S. Lees, the witness called, is one of the
defendants. This is a proceeding in the nature of a criminal
proceeding. I object to his being examined on behalf of the
plaintiff, because he is protected by statute.
"(Objection overruled. Exception for defendant.)"
This, though an action civil in form, is unquestionably criminal in its nature, and in such a case a defendant cannot be
compelled to be a witness against himself. It is unnecessary
to do more than to refer to the case of Boyd v. United States,
116 U. S. 616. The question was fully and elaborately considered by Mr. Justice Bradley in the opinion delivered in that

LEES v. UIMTED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

case. And within the rule there laid down it was error to
compel this defendant- to give testimony in behalf of the
government.
Not questioning that such is the scope and effect of the
decision in Boyd v. United States, counsel for the government
insists that the objection is not properly preserved in the
record, and, therefore, not open for our consideration. A
single bill of exceptions Wds prepared to bring on to the record
all the proceedings of tWe trial; It gives all the testimony, the
various objections and rulings duringitg admission, the instructions asked, the charge of the court, and the exceptions thereto,
and closes with these words:
"And thereupon the c'unsel for the said defendants did
then and there-except to the aforesaid 6harge and opinion of
the said court, and inasmuch as the said charge and opinion,
so excepted to, do not appear upon the record:
"The said counsel for the said defendants did then and
there tender this bill of exceptions to the opinion of the said
court, and requested the seal of the judge aforesaid should be
put to the same, according to the form of the statute in such
case made and provided. And thereupon the aforesaid judge,
at the request of the said counsel for the defendants, did put
his seal to this bill of exceptions, pursuant to the aforesaid
statute in such case made and provided, this 14th day of
Mifay, 1889.
"(Signed)
WmLim BuTLeR. [Seal.]"
The objetion is that it nowhere appears, by any direct certificate of the judge, by whom John S. Lees was called to testify, or on whose behalf, or that any objection was made and
overruled, or any exception taken. Counsel says in his brief :
"It is plainly evident that the bill of exceptions was designed,
as it 9tates, to introduce into this record only the charge and
opinion of the court, and did not relate to any of the innumerable other matters, as to which it appears that the right to
except was reserved at the time of their occurrence, and
memoranda entries made at the time for future bills of excepVOL. CL-31

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, should they hereafter be deemed advisable. But the
purpose to introduce these matters by such bills of exception
seems to have been abandoned; at any rate, no such bills appear in this record, and these matters cannot, therefore, be
considered by the court."
There'is some plausibility in this contention, inasmuch as
the two sentences prior to the last, quoted above from the
bill of exceptions, suggest, at least, that the purpose of counsel
for defendants was simply to preserve exceptions to the charge,
and that the authentication of the judge was requested for
that alone. 'But whatever of force there is in this implication
is overborne by the statement in the last sentence of what the
judge did. By his signature and seal he authenticated the bill
of exceptions, as prepared and presented to him. And all the
facts and matters stated, in that bill are by such authentication
brought into the record for all purposes for which they may
legitimately be used.
The bill is a single bill of exceptions, commencing with the
opening of the trial and ending with the charge of the court,
and as such it is authenticated. And that, by this bill errors
other.than those in the charge were sought to be preserved, is

made clear by the fact.that, in the assignments of error filed
'with the bill, there are separate allegations of error in respect
to the rulings of the court in the admission of testimony. It
is well settled that, instead of preparing separate bills for each
separate matter, all the alleged errors of a trial may be incorporated into one bill of exceptions. Pomeroy's Zessee v. Bank
of 16ndiana, I Wall. 592, 600, 601, in which it was said: "Many
exceptions may be inserted in one bill of exceptions, and, of.
course, it is sufficient if the bill of exceptions is sealed at the
close. Accordingly, the practice, in the first and second circuits, is to put every exception taken at the trial into one bill
of exceptions, which makes the records less voluminous." See
also Chateaugay Iron Co., Petitioner,128 U. S. 51-4. It does
not, however, follow that, because all rulings excepted to at
the triAl may be incorporated into one bill of exceptions,
all the proceedings at the trial ought to be stated at length.
On the contrary, we frequently find all the testimony set out in

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.
such 'a bill when it can serve no useful purpose, and simply
encumbers the record. Only so much of the testimony, or the
proceedings, as is necessary to present clearly the matters at
law excepted to should be preserved in a bill. of exceptions.
If counsel would pay more attention to this, they would often'
save this court much unnecessary labor, and their clients much
needless expense. Of course, in this case, as in all similar
cases, there remains an inquiry as to the scope and sufficiency
of any partisular objection or exception disclosed by the bill.
All that is meant by this ruling is that the objection or exception thus noted is before us- for consideration for whatever it
is worth. And, turning to the exception now under consideration, it is specific and direct to the one error of compelling
the defendant to be a witness against himself. It is not like
that in Railfoal Cornpany v. 7arnell, 98 U. S. 479, where
the exception ran to a whole page of the court's charge, nor
was it as in Hlannc v. _31aas, 122 U. S. 24, an objedtion without any exception to the court's ruling, but a distinct objection
to a specific matter presented, considered, and overruled, and
the ruling excepted to. It was, therefore, sufficient' to bring
to the consideration of this 'court the error alleged.
The judgment is reversed, and the case remandedfor a new
trial.
M . JUSTICE IARLAN did not hear the argument, nor take
part in the decision of this case.

KINKEAD v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FRO31 THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 83. Argued November 15, 1893. -Decided

December 4, 1S93.

The court of claims was not estopped by the recitals in the act of January
17, 1887, 24 Stat. 358, e. 21, referring this case to it, from considering the
question of the title of th6 claimants to the property whose value is
sought to be recovered.

