BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

BROWN 'v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES BOB THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 758. Submitted October 19, 1893.-

Decided November 6, 1893.

The ruling in Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, that, "upon an indictment for conspiracy, acts or declarations of one conspirator, made after
the conspiracy has ended, or not in furtherance of the conspiracy, are
not admissible in evidence against the other conspirators," affirmed and
followed.

TiE case is stated in the. opinion.
-Mr.A. H. Garland for plaintiff in error.
Mfr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for defendants in
error.
MR.JUSTICE

JAcESON delivered the opinion of the court.

John Browni, the plaintiff in error, was indicted and convicted for the murder of Josiah Poorboy and Thomas
Whitehead, on December 8, 1891, at the Cherokee Nation in
the Indian Territory, and on April 30, 1892, was sentenced to
be hanged.
It appears from the record that Poorboy and Whitehead
were deputy marshals who had been tr~ying to arrest James
Craig, an escaped prisoner, for whose apprehension a small
reward had been offered, and who was the co-respondent in a
suit brought by Brown Hitchcock against his wife for divorce
on the ground of adultery.
On the night of the murder, the plaintiff in error with Jot
Roach and Wacoo Hampton, an escaped convict, were at the
house of Mrs. Hitchcock, and at her request started out to
find Craig. They did not succeed, and on their way back
Hampton, who had gone on a short distance ahead, stopped
was known Whitein front of the house of Shirley, where it-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

head was staying, and called out for Whitehead. The latter
came out accompanied with Poorboy, both being armed. As
they appeared Wacoo Hampton rode off, and about the time
the marshals reached the roadway Roach and the plaintiff in
error, mounted on one horse, rode up. Whitehead asked if
either of them was Mlatthew Craig, a brother of James Craig,
and when he was told no, he said he "would arrest them anyhow," and told them to get off the horse and lay down their
guns. They dismounted, and Roach laid his gun down on the
ground. As he straightened up, some one fired and the shot
struck him in the arm. He then ran away, but Wacoo Hampton returned, and a shooting affray ensued. The proof tended
strongly to establislh the fact that the plaintiff in error killed
Whitehead, but as to whether he or Wacoo Hampton ldlled
Poorboy the testimony was inconclusive. A few days after
the murder Hampton, who resisted arrest, was killed.
Among the assignments of error specially relied on, and
which is apparently well taken, is the seventh assignment.
As presented in the record by the plaintiff in error, it is
claimed that the court charged the jury that "if self-defence
does not exist, the only other condition that can exist in the
case is a state of murder." This charge would have been
clearly erroneous, but, by reference to the char~ge of the court
itself, it appears that the assignment of error omits a material
part of the charge. -"hat the court really said -was this: "I
give you the law of manslaughter because it has been invoked
in the case, and you are to see whether it exists; and because
you may apply the doctrine of exclusion to enable you to
come to the conclusion as to whether murder exists or not,
because, if self-defence does not exist, and if mansZlaughter does
not exist, the only other condition that can exist in the case is
a state of murder. Manslaughter is the wilful and unlawful
killing of a human being without malice aforethought, and it
occupies a midway position between a state of case where the
law of self-defence would apply and a state of case where the
law defining murder applies." This language and what was
said in other parts of the charge upon the subject of manslaughter, as set out in the record, is not open to exception.

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is next insisted, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, that the
court erred in refusing to give the following instruction, which
was asked for the defendant:
"1. Manslaughter is an unlawful and wilful killing, but without malice, and is punishable by imprisonment not exceeding
ten years and fine not exceeding one thousand dollars.
"2. If you believe, from the evidence in this case, that the
deceased were attempting to make an illegal arrest of the
defendant, and that the defendant, in resisting such illegal
arrest, either by himself or in conjunction with his companions, killed the deceased, one or both, then the attempt
to illegally arrest the defendant would be such a provocation
as would reduce the offence to manslaughter, though the
killing was done with a deadly weapon."
This was refused because the court had already fully
instructed upon the subject of manslaughter, and by reference
to the record it appears that the charge as given, which
defined -manslaughter to be "the wilful and unlawful killing
of a human being zoithout malice aforethought," was more
accurate than the instruction asked for, which omitted the
element of the killing being without any malice either express
or implied. After what the court had said, and in the form
presented, we think this instruction was properly refused.
The remaining point to be considered is covered by several assignments, which charge error in the court below in
admitting testimony of subsequent declarations or statements
of one party tending to show that there was a conspiracy
to commit murder, and in charging the jury on that subject.
It appears in the evidence that while on their mission to
find Craig, Wacoo Hampton said to Roach and the plaintiff
in error that he intended to kill Brown Hitchcock, the husband of Mrs. Annie Hitchcock, with whom she had quarrelled
on account of the suit for divorce which her husband was
prosecuting. It was claimed on the part of the government
that this statement of Wacoo Hampton showed a conspiracy
to commit an unlawful act, and while engaged in this unlawful enterprise the murder of Poorboy and Whitehead was
perpetrated. Roach, who was wounded on the night of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

murder and was taken to the house of Mrs. Hitchcock,
remained there all night. On the following morning Sullivan, a witness for the government, and his step-son were
riding by the house of Mrs. Hitchcock, and saw her on the
porch. He thought she called to him, and he stopped his
horse, but she told him not to come in. She said she wanted
his step-son. The young man went into the house, and
remained there four or five minutes.
In offering this evidence the district attorney-said that he
proposed to show a conspiracy between Mirs. Hitchcock, the
plaintiff in error, Wacoo Hampton and Roach to kill Brown
Hitchcock ; that she was primarily responsible for the murder,
and that they went by her direction on that evening for the
purpose of committing murder. The district attorney assumed
that she did not want Sullivan to come into her h6use, because
Roach was there. The counsel for the plaintiff in error strenuously objected to the admission of the testimony of Sullivan
as to'what Mrs. Hitchcock said, on the ground that, even if
she were a co-conspirator, her statements and declarations,
made after the killing, were not competent against the plaintiff in error. The court held that the witness might testify as
to what Mrs. Hitchcock said as tending to establish the conspiracy. On the subject of conspiracy the court in its charge
said:
"You are to look at it as the motive power which may
point to the act done, only by circumstances, such as association of the parties together, such as their being connected
together at the time of the doing of the act, such as their association after the act, such as their declaration as to their participation in the act. All these things may be taken into
consideration by you for the purpose of showing the existence
of conspiracy, of an unlawful understanding to commit the act
that was a crime, that was an act of murder."
And in that connection the jury were further instructed
that:
"If the defendant was on an unlawful mission, if lie had
entered into an understanding to kill Hitchcock, or if he had
entered into an understanding to assist others in resisting

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

arrest, or resisted an arrest that could properly be made, he
was entering upon the commission of an act where there was
a purpose to do an unlawful act, and he would be in the
wrong; he would be entering upon a state of case that he had
no right to enter upon.
"If the defendant was travelling with Wacoo Hampton for
the purpose of preventing his being arrested, prompted by a
determination to resist efforts to arrest him, then he was in
the wrongj.he had entered upon the performance of an unlavful eifterpkise of a character that might result in death, an
enterprise that was unlawful under the law, because Wacoo
Hampton had no right to resist arrest. It was his duty to
submit to arrest at the hand of any officer or any citizen, and
whoever engaged in criminal purpose to assist him in resisting
that arrest had entered upon the execution of a wrongful act
of [such] a character that, if the arrest was attempted to be
executed and resistance offered, it might result in death; and
when parties agree to enter upon a common criminal enterprise
of that kind, of the kind that as the direct result of its execution
death may be the consequence, and the party or parties killed
were seeking to make the arrest in the proper way of another
than the defendant in this case, killed by Hampton, for example, the act of Hampton in killing was the act of this defendant, because, it is an act that would naturally, reasonably, and
probably grow out of the resistance to the arrest offered or
agreed to be offered. . . . If there wds a design upon the
part of this defendant to assist Wacoo Hampton in resisting
that arrest, and in the resistance offered to it these two men
were killed, the act of killing would be the act of the defendant, and the act of killing would be an act of murder upon the
part of all who participated in it, of all who entered into the
unlawful agreement to resist arrest, and who were present at
the execution of that unlawful agreement which resulted in
the death of the parties."
Considered in connection with these instructions, the court
improperly admitted the testimony, as to what Mirs. Hitchcock
said after the killing, as evidence tending to establish a conspiracy between the plaintiff in error and herself and others to
VOL. CL-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

kill her husband. It was furthermore objectionable because
there was no evidence in the case tending to show that the
defendant, or his alleged co-conspirators, killed either of the
deceased under the mistaken supposition that either one of
them was Hitchcock. In the admission of the statements and
declarations of Mrs. Hitchcock the court assumed that the acts
and declarations of one co-conspirator, after the completion or
abandonment of a criminal enterprise, constituted proof against
the defendant of the existence of the conspiracy. This is not
a sound proposition of law.
In Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 309, Air. Justice
Gray, speaking for the court, said: "The court went too far
in admitting testimony on the general question of conspiracy.
Doubtless in all cases of conspiracy, the act of one conspirator
in the prosecution of the enterprise is considered the act of all,
and is evidence against all. United States v. Gooding, 12
Wheat. 460, 469. ,lBut only those acts and declarations are
adiAissible under this rule which are done and made while the
conspiracy is pending, and in furtherance of its object. After
the conspiracy has come to an end, whether by success or by
failure, the admissions of one conspirator by way of narrative
of past facts, are not admissible in evidence against the others.
I Greenl. Ev, ยง 111; 3 Greenl. Ev. ยง 94; State v. Dean, 13
Iredell, 63; Pattonv. State, 6 Ohio St. 467; State v. Thibeau,
30 Vermont, 100; State v. Larkin, 49 N. HI. 39; Ileine v. Co nmonwealth, 91 Penn. St. 145; Davis v. State, 9 Tex. App. 363."
The same proposition is stated in the following authorities:
People v. Davis, 56 N. Y. 95, 103; Nbew York Guar:anty &
Indemnity Go. v. Gleason., 78 N. Y. 503; People v. -MlcQuade,
110 N. Y. 284, 307; also Wharton, Orim. Ev. (9th ed.) ยง 699.
Tested by the rule laid down in these cases, the acts and
declarations of Mrs. Hitchcock, on the morning after the killing, were not competent evidence against the plaintiff in error,
of the existence of any conspiracy on his part, to kill her husband, or to resist the arrest of Hampton, or to commit any
ether unlawful act,*such as the court instructed the jury would
render him responsible for the acts done by his associates whilq
engaged in a criminal enterprise. If a conspiracy was sought

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE CO.
Syllabus.

to be established affecting the plaintiff in error, it would have
to be by testimony introduced in the regular way, so as to give
the accused the opportunity to cross-examine the witness or
witnesses. It could not be established by acts or statements
of others directly admitting such a conspiracy, or by any statement of theirs from which it might be inferred.
The case having to be reversed for this error, it is not
deemed necessary to consider the other assignments relating
to matters which may not occur upon another trial.
For the erroneous action of the court below in improperly
admitting the testimony of Sullivan as to what Mrs. Hitchcock said after the killing, as evidence tending -to show a conspiracy,-and in charging the jury that the declarations of a
party or parties as to their participation in the criminal act
were competent evidence of the conspiracy, as against the
plaintiff in error, the judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the lFester, .District of Arkansas,
with direction to set aside the judgment, and awardplaintiff in error a new trial,and it is accordingly so ordered.

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE COMPANY.
PROVIDENCE INSURANCE COMPANY v. MORSE.
1PPEALS

FROM1 THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STAT.ES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 41, 49. Argued October 18, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.
Where a bill of lading provides that in case of loss the carrier, if liable
for the loss, shall have the benefit of any insurance that may have been
effected on the goods, this provision limits the right of subrogation of
the insurer to recover over against the carrier, upon paying to the
shipper the loss.

Where the chrrier is actually and in terms the party asnsired, the

under-

