MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

fuel, lights, and furniture, and paying for the same, and it is
impossible to make a distinction between these classes of services. Payment is a necessary incident*to hiring and purchasing, and one is as much a service under the regulations for the
government of the penitentiary as the other.
The judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the case r'emanded with directions to dismiss
the petition.

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 789. Submitted Octuber 20, 1893.

Decided October 30, 1893.

When the tendency of testimony offered in a criminal case is to throw
light upon a particular fact, or to explain the conduct of a particular
person, there is a certain discretion on the part of the trial judge which
a court of errors will not interfere with, unless it manifestly appears
that the testimony has no legitimate bearing upon the question at issue,
and is calculated to prejudice the accused in the minds of the jurors.
When a necessity arises for a resort to circunstantial evidence in a criminal trial, objections on the ground of relevancy are not favored, as the
effect of circumstantial facts depends upon their connection with each
other, and considerable latitude is allowed on the question of motive.
The fact that such testimony also has a tendency to show that the defendant
was guilty of the alleged offence is not sufficient reason for its exclusion,
if otherwise competent.
Acting on these principles, the court sustains the ruling of the court below
admitting testimony stated at length in the opinion, to show a motive for
the alleged murder.
An exception to the denial of a motion for a new trial on the ground that
the verdict was not supported by the evidence is untenable under repeated
rulings of this court.

THIs was a writ of error upon the conviction of the plaintiff
in error for the murder of Charles Palmer, on July 25, 1889,
in Blue County, Indian Territory. Nelson Moore, defendant's
brother, was indicted with him, but was not tried.

OCTOBER TEI h, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Upon the trial of the case, after the witnesses of the government had shown that Charles Palmer, the person alleged to
have been murdered by the defendant, was found on the 25th
day of May, 1889, the evidence further showing that he had
b.een murdered by some person or persons, the United States
attorney proposed to prove that one Camp had disappeared
from the same neighborhood during the month of November,
1888, and had not been heard from since; that he was last
seen in company with defendant and his brother, Nelson
Moore; that Palmer had been trying to find Camp's body,
and that defendant knew that he had been investigating
Camp's disappearance. Concerning which the testimony of
the proposed witness, Kitty Young, formerly Mrs. Palmer,
relative to said Camp, was substantially as follows:
"Tom Moore, Nelse Moore, and Mr. Camp kept batch and
lived together about I of a mile from my husband, Charles
Palmer. About 9 o'clock ht night during the month of
November, 1888, Nelse Moore and Mr. Camp was at our
house to borrow a horse from my husband to drive the next
day to a wagon, stating they were going to Caddo. They did
not get ;he horse. Mr. Palmer and myself promised Mr.
Camp we would go down to the house and milk his cows
while he was gone. Soon after they left on foot that night I
heard a gun in the direction of their house. About 1 o'clock
A.M. I saw Mr. Camp's wagon and horses pass our house coming from the direction of where they lived. Immediately
after breakfast Mr. Palmer and myself went down to the
Moores' house to milk the cows. There was no one there.
We saw blood in the house and everything torn up around in
the house. We saw a fresh horse wagon tracks which led
down into the bottom. We followed it some distance and
noticed where it returned by a different road and came into
the road which passes our house. About five days after this
Nelse Moore returned alone with the team and wagon that
belonged to Camp. He was wearing Camp's boots. The
defendant and Nelse claimed Camp's clothes, horses, watch,
wagon, cows, and all the property which Camp had. I have
never seen or heard of Camp since the night referred to.

MOORE ,v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"Mr. Palmer was down in the woods hog hunting on
Thursday before he was killed. When he returned that evening Tom Moore asked him where he had been. Mr. Palmer
stated that he had been in the bottom hog hunting. Tom
Moore said; 'Yes, I know the kind of hogs you were looking
for.'.

"Tom and Kelse 'Moore owned no stock or property. Tom
had no money., Mr. Pahner had been furnishing him provisions. Tom had been hired to Mr. Palmer, was familiar
with the premises. Had been clearing land for Mr. Palmer
on the place we lived on. The defendants claimed to have
bought all Camp's property."
The court admitted this testimony to show, not that Camp
had been killed by defendant, but as a motive for his alleged
murder of Palmer. To this the defendant excepted upon the
ground that the testimony had a direct tendency to prejudice
the minds of the jurors.
The only other error alleged was to the refusal of the court
to grant a new trial upon the ground that the verdict " was
not supported by that amount and character of evidence that
is required by law2'
No appearance for plaintiff in error.
.A&. Assistant Attorney General WVthitney for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTIcrE BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The testimony on behalf of the prosecution tended to show
that Charles Palmer, who had been seen alive about 12 o'clock,
was found lying dead in the road in Sandy Creek bottom, about
two miles from his home, at 4 o'clock of the same day.
About three or four hundred yards from where the body was
found, the defendant, Tom Moore, was seen by two witnesses
about 2 or 3 o'clock of the same day, coming toward them and
carrying a Winchester gun. When he saw them he turned off

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

at a fast walk out of sight. The wounds in Palmer's body
were made with a Winchester gun or a pistol. Defendant was
a person of no means, living with his brother, :Nelson Moore,
about, a quarter of a mile from Palmer's, for whom he had been
at work, clearing his land. Palmer's land was rented from an
Indlian. This land was also claimed by a full-blooded Choctaw
.woman named Lizzie Lishtubbi. Four days before the murder
defendant Moore married this woman. He had previously
boisted that he was going to marry the woman and get the
land; "that she was old and would not live long, and he would
geb a good stake." One -of the witnesses told him that he
would have trouble over it, as Charles Palmer was about the

gamiest man in the Territory. lie replied: "I am some that
way myself." As he started to leave, he said: "I may not get
to marry the widow; and if I do not, if you give me away, I

will kill you." But the witness thought it merely a goodnatured remark, as he was laughing at the time.
We think it was within the discretion of the court to admit

the testimony in dispute of Kitty Young. As intimated in the
case of Alexander v. United States, 138 U. S. 353, where the
question relates to the tendency of certain testimony to throw
light upon a particular fact, or to explain .the conduct of a particular person, there is a certain discretion on the part of the
trial judge which a court of errors will not interfere with,
unless it manifestly appear that the testimony, has no legitimate
bearing upon the question at issue, and is calculated to prejudice the accused in the minds of the jurors. There are many
circumstances connected with a trial, the pertinency of which
a judge who has listened to the testimony, and observed the
conduct of the parties and witnesses, is better able to estimate
the value of than an apfellate court, which is confined in 'its
examination to the very words of the witnesses, perhaps imperfectly.taken down by the reporter. It was said by Mr. Justice
Clifford, in delivering the opinion of this court in Castle v.
Bullard, 23 How. 172, 187, that "whenever the necessity
arises for a resort to circumstantial evidence, either from the
nature of the inquiry or the failure of direct proof, objections
to testimony on the ground of irrelevancy are not favored, for

MOORE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the reason that the force and effect of circumstantial facts
usually, and almost necessarily, depend upon their connection
with each other." And in liendrickson v. People, 10 N. Y.
13, 31, it is said that "considerable latitude is allowed on the
question of motive. Just in proportion to the depravity of the
mind would a motive be trifling and insignificant which might
prompt the commission of a great crime. We can never say
the motive was adequate to the offence; for human minds
would differ in their ideas of adequacy, according to their own
estimate of the enormity of crime, and a virtuous mind would
find no motive sufficient to justify the felonious taking of
human life." See also Sitailel,v. B'un6tetad,99 Mass. 112, 130;
Commonwealth v. coe, 115 Mass. 481, 504; Commonwealth v.
Pomeroy, 117 Mass. 143 ;-.Jurplhy v. People, 63 N. Y. 590,
594; Kennedy v. peo)ple, 39 N. Y. 245; People v. Irarrih,136
N. Y. 423; Commonwealth v. Abbott, 130 Mass. 472.
Even conceding that the prosecution had shown a motive for
the murder of Palmer in the fact that he was in possession of
land to which defendant's wife also had a claim, the further
facts that Palmer was known by the defendant to have been
down in the bottom where Camp had been suspected of being
murdered, taken in connection with the blood found at the
house jointly occupied by himself and the Moores, the report
of a gun heard in the direction of the house, the wagon tracks
leading toward the bottom where he was thought to have been
murdered, and the subsequent return of one of. the Moores with
Camp's team and clothes, and wearing his boots, were such as
were calculated to excite defendant's suspicion that Palmer was
there for the purpose of investigating the circumstances of
Camp's death and his connection with it.
The fact that the testimony also had a tendency to show
that defendant had been guilty of Camp's murder would not
be sufficient to exclude it, if it were otherwise competent. 1
Greenl. Ev. ยง 3; B1trris v. People, 121 Illinois, 521; People v.
HUarrhs, 136 N. Y. 423.
The exception to the denial of the motion for a new trial
upon the ground that the verdict was not supported by the
amount and character of evidence that is required by law, was

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

untenable under the repeated rulings of this court. Crumyton
v. United States, 138 IT. S. 361, 365; Wilson v. Everett, 139
U. S. 616, 621; Van Stone v. Stillwell & Bierce Xg. Co., 142
U. S. 128, 134.
There was no error in the rulings of the court below, and the
judgment is, therefore,
Affli med.

COLLINS v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR FROM THE CIRCUIT *COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKAINSAS.
No. 821.

Submitted October 19, 1893.- Decided October 30, 1893.

On the trial of a person indicted for murder, it appeared that the deceased
in a drunken fit assaulted the brother of the defendant, that the defendant, who was dancing, left the dance, went in search of his pistol,
returned with it and shot the offender, and that after going away, he
returned a few minutes later, put the pistol close to the head of the
deceased and fired a second time. The court below instructed the jury,
in substance, that, if the defendant in a moment of passion, aroused by
the wrongful treatment of his brother, and without any previous preparation, did the shooting, the offence would be manslaughter; but if he prepared himself to kill, and had a previous purpose to do so, then the mere
fact of passion would not reduce the crime below murder. Held, that
there was no error in this instruction.

THE plaintiff in error was convicted in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Arkansas of the
crime of murder, and sentenced to be hung. The circumstances
of the homicide were substantially these: On the evening of
July 17, 1891, there was a dance at the Valley House in Fort
Gibson. 'A half brother of the defendant, named Walter Shannon, a boy about twelve years of age, was tending a soda-pop
or confectionery stand in the room where the dance was going
on. The deceased, Randle Lovely, who was quite drunk, took
a bottle.of soda-pop, drank it, and refused to pay for it. Some
words passed between him and the boy, which resulted in his
plapping the boy with his open hand. The boy turned to run

