OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

erly relieved: defendant from liability for the rest of the
timber.
We are of opinion that there was no error in the judgment
of the Circuit Court, and the same is accordingly

WOOD v. BRADY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME -COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
1go. 15. Submitted October 10, 1893.-Decided October 23,1893.
The construction placed by a state cburt upon one statute implies no obligation on its part to put the same construction upon a different statute,
though the language of the two may be similar.
The question whether an action to foreclose a lieu for unpaid assessments
for street iinprovements in San Francisco is in rem or in personam,
is one upon which the decision of the Supreme Court of California is
binding, and its ruling that a plaintiff who was no party to defendants'
suits to-foreclose, has a right to show by evidence aliunde the invalidity
of the judgment's obtained by them, is not a subject for review here.

MOTIoN to dismiss, or affirm. This action was originally
begun by Brady. id the Superior Court of San Francisco
against a number of defendants, including Wood. and Diggins,
the plaintiffs in error, to quiet his title to two lots of land, in
Which it was averred that defendants claimed an interest
adverse to the plaintiff. Both parties claimed title under
certain assessments for street improvements and sales under
proceedings to foreclose :liens for such assessments. The
assessments under which plaintiff claimed were prior in point
of time to those under which defendants claimed, but the
deeds issued to defendants antedated those under which the
plaintiff claimed.
The asgessments upon which plaintiff relied were recorded
November 14, 1870; actions Were begun against the owners
of the two lots early in 1871 to foreclose the liens created by
'these assessments, and judgments -and orders of sale were
entered in both cases in January, 182. Appeals were taken
to-the Supreme Court in both cases, .and the judgments. of the

WOOD v. BRADY.
Statement of the Case.

court below affirmed December 15, 1884, and remittiturs filed
January 19, 1885. Both lots were sold by the sheriff to the
plaintiff March 31, 1885, and no redemption having been
made, sheriff's deeds were delivered October 3,1885.
On July 10, 1875, other assessments were recorded upon
these lots in favor of Diggins; actions were begun to foreclose
them December 28, 1875; judgments rendered July 25, 1878,
and sale made of lot 5, January 12, 1880, to Diggins, and of
lot 6, November 15, 1878, to defendant Wood; and deeds
were delivered on May 5, 1881, and November 12, 1879,
respectively. By the contracts between Diggins and the
superintendent of public streets, which were executed Apri.
19, 1875, it was agreed that the work should be. commenced
within-seven days and completed within fifty days from April
27, 1875; it further appeared that said fifty days expired on
the 16th day of June, 1875; that said Diggins commenced the
work under his contract and completed the same after the 1st
day of July, 1875;' that on the 1st day of July, 1875, and not
before, Diggins obtained from the Board of Supervisors an
extension of time within which to complete tlie contracts, and
no other extension of time was obtained by him within which
to complete the work under said contracts.
Other similar assessments were made- and recorded upon
which foreclosure -proceedings were also instituted and carried
to judgment and sale. These, however, it is not aecessary to
specify particularly.
In this connection the Supreme Court of California,. t&
which the case was carried by appeal, held 1. That the judgments under which Brady held were conclusive as against the owners of the lots in controversy, who
had been made defendants in the foreclosure proceedings, and
that the sales had transferred the legal titl6 of such owners to
the plaintiff, and although the sheriff's deeds made to defendants Wood and Diggins antedated those of the plaintiff, and
were based upon judgments prior to those under which plaintiff
claimed, yet, as the liens under which plaintiff's judgment were
rendered were older than those of the defendants, plaintiff had
the superior legal title.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

2. That the most the defendants could claim was that, as
they had no notice of plaintiff's foreclosure suits, plaintiff took
his title incumbered with all valid liens thereon held by them
at the date of the judgment; atid that, assuming that defendants did not have this notice, the court did not err in allowing
plaintiff to show that the liens under which defendants claimed
were not valid.
3. That as to two of the deeds relied upon by defendants, it
was found that the work for which the assessment underlying
such deeds was made was not completed within the time fixed
by the contract, and that the 'order of the Board of Supervisors
granting the extension was not made until after the expiration
of the time allowed by the contract for its completion; and,
this being so, the contractor never acquired any valid lien upon
the property.
A. That as to another deed to defendant Wood, the court
found that the Board of Supervisors failed to publish for the
length of time required by law the resolution of intention to do
the street-work which resulted in the subsequent assessment,
foreclosure, and sale.
Its conclusion was that the liens upon which defendants'
deeds depended for their validity were void, and defendants
acquired no interest in the lot as against the plaintiff. Brady
v. Burke, 90 California, 1.
Defendants thereupon sued out this writ of error, which
plaintiff moved to dismiss upon the ground that no Federal
question was involved.
_Mr. James G. .Maguire for the motion.
.Ar. J. C. Bates opposing.
MR. J sTME BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

In this case the Chief Justice of California has certified that
the defendants insisted that the judgments under which they
claimed title. were valid when the assessments were made and
judgments thereon rendered, and. that the extensions of time

WOOD v. BRADY.
Opinion of the Court.

granted to do the work mentioned'in said contracts were valid
and binding under the decisions of the Supreme Court when
said judgments were rendered, and that said judgments and
assessments could n6t be impaired by a subsequent judicial
construction of the law holding such extensions to have been
invalid.
The gist of the error charged by the plaintiff lies in the
alleged overruling of a prior decision of the Supreme Court of
California in Taylor v. Palmer,31 California, 240, which was
also an action to recover a street assessment and to enforce a
lien for the same against certain real estate in San Francisco.
The contract in this case was let and the work done under an
act passed in 1862, Act of April 26, 1862, Laws of 1862, c.
297, p. 384, as amended in 1863. The contract required the
work to be performed within thirty days. The work was not
completed at the expiration of that time, and two days thereafter the time was extended by resolution of the Board of
Supervisors. It was *claimedthat this extension was illegal, but
the court held that the power to extend the time was expressly
conferred by the act of 1863, which provided that the street
"Superintendent shall fix the time for the commencement and
completion of the work, under all contracts entered into by
him, and may extend the time so fixed from time to time under
the direction of the Board of Supervisors." It was held-that
this power of extension might be exercised after the expiration
of the time previously fixed, the act providing that "in all
cases where. the Superintendent, under the direction of said
Board, has extended the time for the performance of contracts,
the same shall te held to have been legally extended."
The law remained in this condition until the session
of 187172, when another act was passed, Act of April 1, 1872, c. 56,
Laws 1871-72, p. 804, which applied to the city and county of
San Francisco only, but it contained in section 6 the following
provision: "Should said contractor, or the property owners,
fail to prosecute the same" (the work) "diligently or continuously in the judgment of said Superintendent of Public Streets
Highways and Squares, or complete it within the time prescribed in the contract, or within such extended time, then it

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

shall be the duty of the said Superintendent of Public Streets,
Highways and Squares, to report the same to the Board of
Supervisors, who shall without further petition on behalf of
the property owners, order the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors to advertise for bids, as in the first instance, and relet
the contract, in the manner hereinbefore provided." It was
under this statute that the contracts were let to Wood and
Diggins.
The construction of this statute was discussed in 1879 in
Beveridge v. Livingstone, 5-4 California, 54, and the court held
that the requirements of the sixth section were mandatory,
and excluded the exercise "bythe Board or Superintendent of
any power to extend the time for completing the work after
the expiration of the contract time, or of an extension ordered
during the running of the contract time; and that such extension was, therefore, void. The case was distinguished from
that of Taylor v. -Palmer,and the court remarked that it was
not inclined to be controlled by thd authority of that case
further than as it construed the exact language of the act of
1863, under which it was decided.
Both contracts between Diggins and the Superintendent
had been extended after the time originally limited for the
performance of the work, and plaintiff Brady was permitted
to show this to impeach defendants' judgments and invalidate
their liens. Plaintiffs in error now contend that the construction given by the Supreme Court in Taylor v. Palmer, in
favor of the validity of such extensions, was one upon which
Diggins was entitled to rely, and constituted a part of his contract, the obligation of which could not be impaired by a
different construction subsequently given. But assuming for
the purposes of this case that there may be a vested right
under an erroneous decision, it is carrying the doctrine to an
'unwarrantable extent to say that the construction placed by
the court upon one statute implies an obligation on its part
to put the same construction upon a different statute, though
the language of the two may be similar.
The argument that the language being similar, a like construction should be put upon both acts, is one properly ad.

WOOD v. BRADY.
Opinion of the Court.

dressed to the state court; but when that court, has assumed
to distinguish between the two acts, it is not within our province to say that the distinction is not well taken. The acts in
this case,, though similar, are not identical, and there is certainly some ground for saying that the construction of the
two should not be the same. The point made by the plaintiffs in error that the-decision in Bever7idge v. Livingstone was
made retroactive is answered by the fact that c6urts are bound
in their very nature to declare what the law is and has been,
and hot what it shall be in the future, and that if they were
absolutely bound by their prior decisions, they would be without the power to correct their own errors.
But even if it were conceded that defendants had a right to
rely upon the Supreme Court giving to the act of 1872 the same
construction it had placed upon the act of 1863, that construction was nothing more than that the Board of Supervisors had
a discretion to extend the time for the performance of the
contract after the time originally limited had expired. It is
evident that this was no part of defendants' contracts. Their
contracts were to do certain work within a certain time, and
the fact that there was a discretion on the part of the Board of
Supervisors to extend such time did not enter into or form a
part of the contract. It was a discretion which the Board of
Supervisors might or might not exercise. If the contractor
had violated his contract, he had no legal right to such extension, and took his chances of obtaining it. In other words,
there was no possible contract the obligation of which could
be impaired by a ruling that the Board of Supervisors had no
power to grant such extension.
The question whether an action to foreclose a lien of this
kind is in 'em, or in personam, under the practice in Califoknia, is one upon which the decision of the Supreme Court is
binding, and its ruling that plaintiff, being no party to defendants' suits to foreclose, had a right to show by evidence aliunde
the invalidity of the judgments obtained by them, is not a
proper subject for review by this court.
In no aspect does the case present a Federal question, and
the writ is, therefore,
.Dismieed.

