OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

MISSISSIPPI MILLS v. COHN.
APPEAL FRO1 THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 27. Argued October 20, 23, 1893. -Decided November 13, 1893.
The jurisdiction of Federal courts, sitting as courts of equity, cannot be
enlarged or diminished by state legislation.
Whether such a court has jurisdiction in equity over a particular case, will
be determined by inquiring whether by the principles- of common law
and equity, as distinguished and defined in this country and in the mother
country at the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the United
States, the relief sought in the bill was one obtainable in a court of law,
or one which only a court of equity was fully competent to give.
A creditors' bill, to subject property of the debtor fraudulently standing in
the name of a third party to the payment of judgments akgalnst the
debtor, is within the jurisdiction of a Federal court, sitting as a court of
equity, although, in the courts of the State in which the Federal court
sits, state legislation may hive given the creditor a remedy at law.
N. and S., being citizens of Louisiana, obtained a judgment in a court of the
State against C., also a citizen of Louisiana, which they assigned to
W. and L., citizens of Missouri. The assignees thereupon brought suit
against C. in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Louisiana, putting the 'jurisdiction on the ground of diverse
citizenship. Held, that under the provisions of § 1 of the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, c. 137, which statute was in force when the suit was
commenced, it could not be maintained.
The jurisdiction of this court in this case is limited by the act of February
25, 1889,25 Stat. 693, c. 236, to the determination of the questions as to the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.

THE facts in this case are as follows: On March 29, 1881,
Joel Wood and William H. Lee, citizens of the State of Missouri,..partners as Wood & Lee, obtained a judgment in the
Eighth District Court of the parish of East Carroll, Louisiana,
against Simon Cohn, a citizen of the State of Louisiana, for
$539.25, with interest, for goods sold by them to him on October 30, 18S0. On April 2, 1881, S. B. Newman and S. D.
Stockman, composing the firm of S. B. Newman & Co., also
obtained a judgment in the same court against said Cohn for

MISSISSIPPI MILLS v. COHN.
Opinion of the Court.

$241,282.16, which judgment, subject to a credit of $5452, the
proceeds of certain attachment proceedings accompanying the
action, was duly assigned to Wood & Lee. 'Newman and
Stockman were both citizens of Louisiana. On November 30,
1885, Wood & Lee filed their bill in equity in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Louisiana
against Sim6n Cchn, his wife Fannie Cohn, and his wife's
mother, Henrietta Steinl~rdt, all citizens of Louisiana, the purpose and object of which was to. set aside as fraudulent a judgment in favor of Mrs. Cohn against Simon Cohn, and to subject
certain property standing in the name of Mrs. Steinhardt, and
alleged to be the property in fact of Simon Cohn, to the payment of these judgments. On July 11, 1882, the Mississippi
Mills, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Mississippi, obtained a judgment in the Eighth District Court
of the parish.of East Carroll, Louisiana, against Simon Cohn,
for $751.46. On July 5, 1883, it commenced in that court a
suit of substantially the same nature as that commenced by
Wood & Lee; this suit was duly removed to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District; of Louisiana.
After such removal, and on October 29, 1886, these cases were
consolidated by an order of the Circuit Court, and from that
time on they proceeded as one case. Pleadings having been perfected and proofs taken, the consolidated case was submitted to
the Circuit Court, and on July 18, 1889, a decree was entered
dismissing the bills of plaintiffs for want of jurisdiction. To
reverse this decree of dismissal, appellants have brought their
appeal to this court.
.ALr. Edward Cunningham, J'., for appellants..
No appearance for appellees.
AIR. JusTicE BREwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
No appearance has been made for the appellees in this court,
and we should be at a loss to know the grounds for the decision

OCTO13ER TER\f, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Circuit Court were it not for the opinion of District
Judge Boarman, before whom the case was heard, 39 Fed.
Rep. 865, which gives his reasons for entering the decree of
dismissal.
It may be premised that no objection arises on account of
the amount in controversy in either suit, for at the time these
suits were brought the Circuit Court had jurisdiction where
such amount exceeded the sum of five hundred dollars. Rev.
Stat. § 629. Nor can there be any doubt of the jurisdiction of
this court over the appeals of either appellant, treating them
as separately appealing, because the case in the trial court
involved the question of the jurisdiction of that court. 25
Stat. 693, act of February 25, 1889, c. 236. The decision of
the Circuit Court was to-the effect that no relief could be had
in equity, because under the practice prescribed in that State
there was a remedy by an action at law. We quote from the
opinion:
"If it be true that Cohn, notwithstanding said purchases,
'transfers, etc., were ostensibly made by Mrs. Steinhardt, and
the title of record is in her- name, is the real owner of the
property now sought to be subjected to the payment of .Cohn's
-debts, the complainants have a well-known and adequate
remedy at law to make the property liable for their claims.
"The issues made up by the pleadings and evidence involve
fundamentally the title to, or the real ownership of, the
property in question. The complainants charge that Cohn, in
fact and law, is the owner thereof. The defendants deny his
ownership, and contend that the sales were real sale§ to Mrs.
Bteinhardt. Such issues are not determinable in this court in
equity proceedings. . . . In the view and purpose of complainants' charges, Cohn now owns the property, and they
have not presented or sought to present such an action as
should be heard in equity, and it is ordered that their suit be
dismissed."
"Weare unable to concur in these views. It is well settled
that the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, sitting as courts of
equity, is neither enlarged nor diminished by state legislation.
Though by it all differences in forms of action be abolished;

MISSISSIPPI MILLS v. COHN.
Opinion of the Court.

though all remedies be administered in a single action at law;
and, so far at least as form is concerned, all distinction between
equity and laW be ended, yet the jurisdiction of the Federal
court, sitting as a court of equity, remains unchanged. Thus,
in Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425, 430, it was said, citing several
cases: "We have repeatedly held ' that the jurisdiction of the
courts of the United States over controversies between citizens
of different States cannot be impaired by the laws of the
States, which prescribe the modes of redress in their courts, or
which regulate the distribution of their judicial power.' If
legal remedies are sometimes modified to suit the changes in
the laws of the States, and the practice of their courts, it is not
so with equitable. The equity ,jurisdiction conferred on the
Federal courts is the same that the High Court of Chancery in
England possesses; is subject to neither limitation or restraint
by state legislation, and is uniform throughout the different
States of . the Union." And in Afc~onihay v. W5,ight, 121
U. S.201, 205: "The contention of the appellants, however,
is that by the statute of West Virginia the complainant might
have maintained an action of ejectment. Reference is made,
in support of this contention, to the. West Virginia Code of,
1868, c. 90, to show that an action of ejectment in that State
will lie against one claiming title to or interest in land, though
not in possession. Admitting this to be so, it, nevertheless,
cannot have the effect to oust the jurisdiction in equity of the
courts of the United States as previously established. That
jurisdiction, as has often been decided, is vested as a part of
the judicial power of the United States in its courts by the.
-Constitution and acts of Congress in execution thereof. Without the assent of Congress that jurisdiction cannot be impaired
or diminished by the statutes of the several States regulating
the practice of their own courts." See also Scott v. Neely, 140
U. S. 106; Cates v. Allen, 149 U. S.451, in which a state
statute, extending the jurisdiction of equity to matters of a
strictly legal nature, was held inapplicable to the Federal
courts, and unavailing to vest a like jurisdiction in such courts,
sitting as courts of equity.
So, conceding it to be true, as stated by the learned judge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

that the full relief sought in this suit could be obtained in the
state courts in an action at law, it does not follow that the
Federal court, sitting as a court of equity, is without jurisdiction. The inquiry rather is, whether by the principles of
common law and equity, as distinguished and defined in this
and the mother country at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution of the United States, the relief here sought was
one obtainable in a court of law, or one which only a court of
equity was fully competent to give.
In order to determine this question, a further statement is
necessary of the facts disclosed in and the exact relief sought
by these bills. After the allegations in respect to the judgments, the bills aver that in 1879 and 1880 the defendants
entered into a conspiracy to defraud and despoil the creditors
of Simon Cohn; that he proceeded to carry out this scheme
by purchasing frorh plaintiffs and others a large amount of
goods, on credit, and selling them for cash at a great sacrifice,
and these moneys he had so placed as to be beyond the reach
of his creditors. The means by which these goods were received and disposed of are stated at some length. Further,
and, as is alleged, in carrying out this scheme, he fraudulently
procured his wife. to institute a suit for moneys, when none
was due from him to her, and he not defending, to recover
a judgment for $4000 as her separate .estate, by which any
property in his name could be sold and the title transferred to
his wife. Also, he executed a mortgage for $5300 on certain
real estate, to wit, six lots in the town of Providence and a
fine brick storehouse thereon, in favor of his brother, a'mortgage-which was in fact without any consideration. Thereafter,
his brother foreclosed such mortgage, and on foreclosure the
property was purchased in the name of Mrs. Steinhardt, Simon
Cohn's mother-in-law. Other property described was purchased
in the name of Mrs. Steinhardt, although the money paid
therefor was furnished by Cohn, and was part of that realized
from the cash sales heretofore mentioned. All his property
had in fact been placed in the name of Mrs. Steinhardt, ant
he was carrying on business ostensibly in her name, though
all the while the real owner. The prayer of the bills is, that

MISSISSIPPI MILS v. COHN.
Opinion of the Court,

the judgment in favor of the wife be set aside as fraudulent;
that the defendant, Simon Cohn, be declared the real owner
of the properties described; and that they be taken possession
of by a receiver, and sold to satisfy the judgments.
It will be seen from this statement that these bills were
substantially creditors' bills, to subject property- in fact, the
property of the defendant, but fraudulently standing in the
name of a third party-to the payment of those judgments, and to remove a fraudulent judgment which might
stand as a cloud upon the title of the debtor. Such suits have
always been recognized as within the jurisdiction of equity.
'In 2 Beach on Modern Equity Jurisprudence, § 883, it is
said: "A1court of equity will aid a judgment creditor to reach
the property of his debtor by removing fraudulent judgments
or conveyances or transfers which defeat his 'legal remedy at
law." See also 3 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris., § 1415 ; Docray v.
3fason, 48 Maine, .178; Edgell v. Haywood, 3 Atk. 352, 357 ;
Burroughs v. Elton, 11 Yes. 29, 33; Hendricks v. ?oblinson,
2 Jdhns. Ch.283; Edmeston v: Lyde, 1 Plaige, 637; Beck v.
Burdett, 1 Paige, 305; Cuyler v. Moreland, 6 Paige, 273;
Feldenheirnerv. Tressel, 6 Dakota., 265. It follows from these
considerations that the Circuit Court erred in dismissing these
bills for want of jurisdiction.
It was further held by the Circuit Court, as appears from
the opinion referred to, that Wood and Lee were not entitled
to relief by reason of the Newman judgment, on the further
ground that Newman and Stockman, being citizens of Louisiana,
could not have sued in the Federal court; and that Wood and
Lee, their assignees, were equally disabled. This, by reason
of that clause in the first section of the act of Yarch 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470, c. 137, conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit
Courts, (which statute was in force at the time of' the coinmencement of this suit,) which reads as follows: "Nor shall
any Circuit or District court have cognizance of any suit
founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon
if no assignmient had been made, except in cases of promissory
notes negotiable by the law merchant and bills of exchange."

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

This question has been settled adversely to the appellants, and
in accord with the ruling of the Circuit Court, by the case of
Walker v. Powers, 104 U. S. 245, 248. That case arose under
the same section. That presented as this, a suit by the assignee
of a judgment to set aside, as fraudulent, certain sales and
conveyances of real estate made by the judgment debtor,
and to subject it to the payment of the judgment. There
were two judgments, and after disposing of one Mr. Justice
Miller, speaking for the court, said,- as to the other: "In
reference to the judgment in favor of Chester, on which, as
his assignee, Whittemore asks relief, it is urged as ground of
demurrer, that Chester being a citizen of the same State with
Stewart, his assignee is incapable of -prosecuting this suit in a
Federal court. It was 4rought in 1876, and the question here
raised must be decided by a construction of the act of M1arch
3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470. . . . That judgment -is, then,
the foundation of his suit in the Circuit Court. It is a cause
of action which he holds by assignment from a party who
cannot sue in that court. Without this cause of action he has
no standing in court, and has no right to ask the court to
inquire into the other matters alleged in the bill. It is as
much the foundatioh of his right to bring the present suit
as if it were a bond and mortgage on which he was asking
a decree of foreclosure. See Sheldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441.
Circuit Court, if the judgment of Chester had
S..The
been there recovered, might have jurisdiction of the case to
remove obstructions to the enforcement of its own judgment,
no matter who for the time being was its owner. But where
a party comes for the first time in a court of the United States
to obtain its aid in enforcing the judgment of a state court,
he must have a case on which the former court can entertain
original jurisdiction. CAristmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290."
It may be that, when the appellants obtain the relief they
seek in respect to the judgments rendered in their own favor
in the Federal court, and the property of the defendants has
been sold by a receiver or otherwise, the owners of this Newman judgment may intervene in the case and apply for a
share of the funds. Payne v. Hfook, 7 Wall. 425, 432. But

McDAID v. OKLAH0MA, ex rel. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

that is a question which need not now be considered, and is
very different from the question Iaere presented, of the right
of the assignees of this state judgment to maintain in the
Federal courts an independent suit for its enforcement.
The act of February 25, 1889, which gives this court jurisdiction, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, provides that "in cases where the
decree or judgment does not exceed the sum of five thousand
dollars, the Supreme Court shall not review any question
raised upon the record, except such question of jurisdiction."
It follows, therefore, that in this case our inquiry must stop
with that question of juriidiction, which we have thus determined.
The decree f the Circuit Court dismissing these bills for
want of jurisdictionmust be reversed, and the consolidated
case will be re'manded to that courtforfurtherjoroceedings
in accordance with law.

IoDAID v. OKLAHOMA TERRITORY, ex rel. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF OLAHOMA.
,1'o. 785. Submitted October 20, 1893. .- Decided November 20, 1893.

Under the authority conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury by the
act of May 14, 1890, 26 Stat. 109, c. 207, entitled "an act to provide for
town site entries of lands in what is known as 'O klahoma,'and for other
purposes," it was entirely competent for the Secretary to provide for an
appeal to the Commissioner of the. General Land Office in case of contest.
When an appeal from a decision'of the trustees appointed by the Secretary
under the provisions of that act was duly taken, it became the duty of
the trustees to decline to issue a deed to the appellee until the appeal
was disposed of.,

Tnxs was a proceeding in mandamus brought in the District
Court of the First Judicial District of Logan County, in the
Territory of Oklahoma, April 27, 1891, to compel Daniel J.
voL. cr-14

