OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

-Railway,148 U. S. 372. And we judicially know, from our
own records, Butler v. Eaton, 141 U. S. 2,0, 243, that the
present appellants applied to this court for that writ, and that
the application was denied.
Appeal dismissed.

CORBIN

CABINET

LOOK

COMPANY

v.

EAGLE

LOOK COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE' UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 42. Argued October 18, 19, 1893.- Decided October 30, 1893.

The first claim under the reissued letters patent No. 10,361, issued to Henry
L. Spiegel, July 31, 1883, for improvements in cabinet locks, is void
because it broadens and expands the claims in the original patent, and it
does not appear that there was any accident, inadvertence, or mistake in
the specification and claim of the original, or that it was void or inoperative for any reason which would entitle the patentee to have a reissue.
When au applicant for letters patent makes a broad claim which is rejected,
and he acquiesces in the decision and substitutes a narrower claim therefor, he cannot insist upon a construction of the narrowed claim which
would cover what was so rejected.
To warrant new and broader claims in a reissue, they must not only be
suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings, or models,
but it must appear that they constitute part of the invention intended to
be covered by the original patent.
In applications for reissue the patentee cannot incorporate claims covering
what had been rejected on the original application.
Letters patent No. 316,411, granted April 21, 1885, to Henry L. Spiegel for
improvements in cabinet locks are void for want of patentable" invention.

IN .equity, to prevent the infringement of letters patent.
Decree below dismissing the bill, from which the complainant
appealed. The case is stated in the opinion.
31r. John P. Bartlett (with whom was
.llitchell on the brief,) for appellant.

Jfr. C/harles E.

.ir. Wibnmarth ff. Tlasrtom and Mr. Benjamin Price for
appellee.
'AIR. JUSTICE

JACKSON de.'livered the opinion of the court.

CORBIN CABINET LOCK CO-v. EAGLE LOOK CO. 89
Opinion of the Court. ,

The appellant brought this suit against the appellee for
the infringement of two letters patent granted to Henry L.
Spiegel, for improvements in cabinet-locks - one being reissue
letters patent No. 10,361, dated July 31, 1S83, and the other
No. 316,411, dated April 21, 1885, both of which were assigned
by Spiegel to Frank W. Mix, and by- Mix to. the appellant.
They relate to what are known in the trade as "machine"
-locks, so called from the fact that they are adapted for insertion in mortises cut entirely by machinery or routing-tools,
and thus distinguished from the "old-style" lock previously
used, which was adapted only for mortises cut or chiselled by
hand. The locks covered by the patents are used chiefly on
furniture.
It is alleged that the defendant's lock, which is substantially
that covered by the Morris L. Orum patent of August 22, 1882,
infringes the first claim of the reissue, and the three claims of
the patent of 1885. The defences set up as to the reissue are:
That the first claim thereof is for a different invention from
that described in the original patent; that it is an expansion
of the original claim, and is not infringed. As to the patent.
of 1885, the defences interposed are: That it is anticipated by
other persons and patents, and want of patentability. The
opinion of the court below dismissing the bill is reported in
37 Fed. IRep. 338. From that decree the present appeal is
prosecuted.
The history of the art on this subject is so fully set forth in
the opinion of Mr. Justice Brown in the case of Diter v. Corbin Cabinet Lock Co., 149 U. S. 216; decided at the last term
of this court, tiat it need not be repeated here.
No special consideration was given by the court below to
the first claim of the reissue patent, and while it was not seriously insisted in oral argument before this court, that there
was error in the judgment of the court below on this branch
of the case, counsel for appellant have nevertheless contended
in their brief that the first claim of the reissue patent is valid,
and was infringed. It becomes necessary, therefore, to examine the question raised on the reissue patent.
The original patent on which the reissue is founded was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

No. 241,828, dated May 24, 1881. It appears from the file
wrapper and contents that in his original application the patentee made three claims, the first being for "cabinet-lock having its rear-plate projecting at each side of the lock-case (at
GG), substantially as and for the purpose specified;" the second was for a lock having such projecting rear-plate, and having its front-plate provided with a slit and strip; and the third
claim was for a lock having such projecting rear-plate, and
having the upper part of such projection bent toward the
front-plate (as at G'). Each of these claims was rejected by
the Patent Office, the first and broader claim on reference to
the Gory patent, No. 138,148, dated April 22, '1873; the second on reference to the Bishop patent, No. 201,219, dated
March 12, 1878; and the third on the ground of no invention.
In the letter of rejection it was suggested to the applicant
that a 1single specific claim, limited to its (the lock's) exact
construction," might be allowed. This suggestion was accepted; all three claims originally filed were cancelled, and
there was substituted and allowed a single claim as follows:
"A cabinet-look having its rear-plate projecting beyond each
side of the lock-case as at GG, and having the upper part of
each projection bent toward the front-plate D, combined with
the front-plate D, said front-plate having a slit n, and.strip in,
substantially as and for the.purposes specified."
Having originally sought broader claims, which were rejected, and having acquiesced in such rejection, and having
withdrawn such claims and substituted therefor this narrower
claim, describing a particular or specific lock, as such, neither
the patentee, nor his assignees, can be allowed under the
authorities to insist upon such construction of the allowed
claim as would cover what had been previously rejectdd.
Skeyord v. Carrigan, 116 U. S. 593; 'RoMoner v. .Peddie,132
U. S. 313 ; Royer v. CozTe, 146 U. S. 524.
Aside from the operation of this estoppel, it is perfectly
clear that the action of the Patent Office in rejecting the three
original claims was correct, for the "old-style" lock, which
was in use long prior to the date of the Spiegel so-called in vention, had a projecting front-plate, and a projecting rear-plate,

CORBIN CABINET LOCK CO. v. EAGLE LOCK C0.

41

Opinion of the Court.

which necessarily included a space between them. So, too, the
lock of the Gory patent had a projecting rear-plate, but lacked
the bent-in feature and slitted front-plate. But the Spiegel
patent presented no patentable differences. The specification
and claim of the original patent, as allowed, described and
covered a lock per se of a special construction, and did not
extend to or include anything in combination therewith.
In the.application for reissue, filed April 28, 1883, the original specification was amended in two material respects. The
new matter consisted of a statement describing how a mortise
should be formed, and how the lock is to be combined therewith, so as to be held laterally therein, as follows: "By
means of the portions of the walls of the mortise which are in
front of the locking-plate G' and in the rear of the frontplate of the lock." And there was also added this further
statement: "It will thus be seen that the lock is prevented
from lateral displacement by the projections upon the backplate in combination with the corresponding shape of the mortise, and that it is prevented from vertical displacement bythe thin strip m and bent part G'." With these additions to
the original specification, there were allowed in the reissue, the
original claim and three neW claims, as follows:
"1., A cabinet-lock having its front-plate and rear-plate
extending laterally beyond the body of the lock, in combination with the mortise, whose walls enter the space between
the front and rear-plate, whereby fastening screws are dispensed with, substantially as described.
"12. A cabinet-lock having its front-plate and rear-plate
extending laterally beyond the body of the lock, and having
also the edge G' upon the rear-plate bent toward the companion plate, substantially as described, and for the purpose
specified.
"3. A cabinet-lock having the thin strip m and the.slit 91 at
the lower corner of its outer plate, substantially as described,
and for the purpose specified."
Of these reissue claims the first is the only one which it is
insisted the defendant's lock infringes. It is perfectly manifest that the new matter in the reissue specification was

OCTOBER TERMA,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.
inserted to lay the foundation for either changing the original
claim, or the patent covered thereby; or for the purpose of
expanding that claim, so as to make it cover substantially
what had been rejected on the original application. An
examination of the proceedings in the Patent Office, in connection with the original application, and the claim of the
original patent, renders it perfectly obvious that the first claim
of the reissue is not for the lock as such, but is for a combination of a lock with a mortise, and in this respect it is for a
different invention from that (lescr'ibed in the single claim of the
original patent, which covered only a lock of a definite description. The first claim of the reissue clearly includes, as an element
of the combination therein described, a peculiarly constructed
mortise to receive the lock. This element the original patent
does not indicate as b~ng any par of the invention of the
patentee. As already stated, the claim of the original patent
is for a lock as such, while the first claim of the reissue is for
a combination of that lock with something not claimed as an
element in the original patent, viz. a peculiarly shaped mortise. This was a departure from the original claim not warranted by anything appearing in the original specification.
Again, this first claim of the reissue clearly oper'ates to
broaden and ex)and the original claim, in that it omits or
contains no reference to any means whatever for holding the
lock in placd vertically, such as are described in the original
claim. It drops out and eliminates elements shown in the
original claim, such as the bent-in portion of the plate and the
slit n and strip qn, by iheans of which the necessity for fastening screws was to be dispensed with. This claim of the reissue
was, for these reasons, clearly unwarranted. It does not
appear that there was any accident, inadvertence, or mistake
in the specification and claim of the original patent, or that it
was void or inoperative for any reason such as would entitle
*thepatentee to have a reissue thereof.
It is settled by the authorities that to warrant new and
broader claims in a reissue, such claims must not be merely
suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings,
or models, but it must further appear from the original patent

CORBIN CABINET LOCK CO. v. EAGLE LOCK CO. 43
Opinion of the Court.

that they constitute parts or portions' of the invention which
were intended or sought to be covered or secured by such
original patent. It is also- settled by the authorities that in
applications for reissue the patentee is not allowed to incorporate or secure claims covering or embracing what had been
previously rejected upon his original application. Bant4 v.
.F'antz,105 U. S. 160 ; Heald v. Rice, 101 IT. S. 737; .Miller
v. Brags Co., 104 U. S. 350; James v. Camplell, 104 U. S. 356 ;
To pfl v. Toplif, 145 U. S. 156. For these reasons, and other
reasons which might be stated, we are clearly of opinion that
the first .claim of the reissue patent No. 10,361, dated July 31,
1883, is void, and that appellant was entitled to no relief in
respect thereto, even if the original patent on which it was
founded could be sustained as a valid patent.
In respect to the Spiegel patent of 1885 for improvements
in cases for locks, we concur in the conclusion reached by the
Circuit Court that it was invalid for want of patentable invention. We are further of opinion that, in view of the state 6f
the art, as shown by thie "old-style" lock, by the Gory patent
of 1873, and by the Spiegel patent of 1881, the patent of
1885 was fully anticipated.
The application for the patent of 1885, as originally filed,
contained a single claim, as follows:
"I claim as my invention the herein described lock-case
having overhanging edges and a front plate projecting laterally and below the adjacent sides of the case, and rounded at
the bottom, whereby the lock is adapted for insertion in a
routed cavity into which the lock-plate fits, substantially as
described."
This was a broad claim to a lock having a projecting frontplate and a projecting cap-plate, so as to form intervening
spaces or grooves on the opposite edges of the lock-case, the
front-plate being rounded at the bottom. It was practically
for the same construction of lock-case as shown in the prior
Spiegel patent of 1881, except that the front-plate was to be
rounded at the bottom. This claim on an interference with
the Orum patent No. 262,977, of 1882, was rejected, the Coinmissioner of Patents holding that Spiegel had no right to make

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

a claim any broader than the specific device which he showed.
He thereupon amended his claim so as to read as follows:
"A lock-case having a top-plate and an overhanging cap, and
a front-plate projecting beyond the adjacent walls of the cap,
and rounded at the bottom, whereby the lock is adapted to be
inserted and held in a routed cavity by the projecting front
and cap-plates."
It was held by the Commissioner of Patents, under the interference already referred to, that this claim was lacking in
patentability.
Spiegel subsequently presented a specification which, after
describing the state of the art, and referring to the original
patent of May 24, 18Si, stated that "while this latter construetion of lock possesses valuable features of improvement not
disclosed by the prior art, yet the form of lock shown and
described in the patent is'such as to preclude its adoption for
use in routed cavities, because its front-plate is not of the proper
form to fit within and cover a cavity made by a routing-tool.
The object of this invention is to obviate the objectionable
features hereinbef6re set forth, and provide a lock-case of such
form and construction that it may have a projecting key-post,
if so desired, and be secured within a routed cavity and snugly
retained therein, so as to conceal the cavity from view, and
form a neat and finished appearance when in place. With
these ends in view, my invention consists in a lock-case having
its edges constructed to engage or interlock with the side walls
of a routed cavity, and provided with a front-plate having a
rounded bottom, adapted to fit within a countersunk recess
around the routed cavity and constitute a support for the lockcase and conceal the cavity from view."
What he claimed as new and desired to obtain by letters
patent was:
"1. A lock-case having a front-plate formed with a rounded
bottom, a cap-plate forming in connection with the front-plate
intervening spaces or grooves on the opposite edges of the lockcase, and a top-plate extending over and beyond the cap-plate,
the projecting edges of the front-plate being adapted to fit
within a countersunk recess around tho routed cavity within
which the lock-case is inserted, substantially as set forth.

CORBIN CABINET LOOK CO. v. EAGLE LOOK CO. 45
Opinion of the Court.

"2. A lock-case having a front-plate formed with a rounded
bottom, a cap-plate secured to or connected with the front-plate
and constructed to form therewith intervening spaces or grooves
on opposite edges of the lock-case, and a top-plate extending
over and beyond the cap-plate, in combination with a support
having a routed cavity provided with a countersunk recess
adapted to receive the outer and projecting edges of the frontplate, substantially as set forth.
"3. A lock-case having a front-plate formed with a rounded
bottom, a cap-plate secured to or connected with the front-plate
and constructed to form therewith intervening spaces or grooves
on opposite edges of the lock-case to retain it in place within
the routed cavity, and a top-plate extending over and beyond
the cap-plate, in combination with a support provided with a
rounded cavity of a depth sufficient to receive the projecting
edge of the top-plate flush therein, substantially as set forth."
These claims were several times rejected by sbveral different
examiners, and Commissioners of the Patent Office, because
they were lacking in patentable invention, and were anticipated
by the prior state of the art and previous patents. How they
came to be finally allowed and issued is wholly unexplained in
the record.
The claim to invention in this patent of 1885 must rest upon
differences which existedi if any, between the lock and the
mortise, therein described, and what was shown and disclosed
in the prior state of'the art, and in the Gory patent of 1873,
and the Spiegel patent of 1881. In the lock of the patent of
1881, the front-plate was straight at the bottbm instead of*
being rounded as in the patent of 1885. This change involved
nothing more than mechanical skill so as to, make the bottom
of the front-plate fit in the routed cavity, which was necessarily rounded. The further change described in the patent
of 1885, of a countersunk recess to receive the projecting frontplate of the lock, flush therewith, was not new; for such
countersunk recess was frequently found in the "old-style"
locks, when it was desired to make the front-plate thereof
flush for the purpose of presenting a neat finish. This countersunk recess, used in connection with the "old-style" locks, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

made by hand-chiselling, and was intended to present or produce a neat finish. The making -of such countersunk recess
for substantially the same purpose in the patent of 1885 by a
routing-tool instead of by hand-chiselling, did not rise to the
dignity of an invention. The change involved nothing more
than mechanical skill, which was produced by a change in the
form of the routing machine.
Again, the Gory patent of 1873 shows a lock with a round
bottom front-plate, and it further shows that the front-plate
of that lock projects below the body of the lock, though it
does not project at the sides; while the Sargent patent, No.
210,807, dated December 10, 1878, shows a lock having a
round bottom front-plate, which front-plate projects below and
at the sides of the body of the lock, as in the -Spiegel lock,
patented in 1885. The purpose of rounding the front-plateg
at the bottom in both of the locks of the Gory and Sargent
,patents was to enable them to fit in a rounded or routed
cavity. So the countersunk recess, made for the purpose of
receiving the projecting front-plate flush, was old, and called
for no invention on the part of Spiegel. What Spiegel did in
this respect was what had long before been. done in the use
of the "1old-style" lobks. The fact that he made his mortise,
including the countersunk recess, with a routing-tool instead
of by hand-chiselling, certainly does not rise to the dignity of
invention. In his arrangement of the lock and mortise, the
lock is supported vertically by the selvage, and the sole object
of letting the front-plate in flush by means of the countersunk
recess was to produce a heater finish and more attractive
article* than could be produced without such countersunk
recess, or, as he expresses it in his specification, "to conceal
the cavity from view and form a neat and finished appearance
his mortise,
When in place." All that Spiegel did was to make
including the countersunk recess, with a routing-tool, so that
it would be rounded at the bottom, and then make the frontplate of his lock rounded to correspond with this rounded
cavity, and fit in flush in the countersunk recess. This change
exhibits no patentable subject of invention over and above
that which is disclosed in his prior patent of 1881, and shown

GORDON v. WARDER.
Counsel for Appellees.

in the Gory and Sargent patents. These changes were simply
obvious modifications of such prior patents, and cannot be sustained as a patentable invention.
We are of opinion, therefore, that there was no error in the
decree below and that the judgment should be
Affirned.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN did not sit in this case and took no part
in its discussion.

GORDON v. WARDER.

GORDON v. HOOVER.
GORDON v. CHAMPION MACHINE COMPANY.
GORDON v. WHITELEY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES TOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Nos. 34, 35, 36, 37. Argued October 16, 17, 1893.

Decided October 30, 1893.

The first claim in lettcrs patent No. 77,878, granted May 11, 1868, to
James F. Gordon, was a claim "for a binding arm capable of adjustment
in the direction of the length of thle grain, in combination with" an
automatic twisting device, substantially as and for the purposes
described;" and it was not infringed by the devices used by the defendants for attaining the common purpose of securing the stalks of grain
into bundles by passing around them a iband at the middle of the
stalks.

THESE four bills in equity, for the alleged infringement of
the same letters patent by different parties, were argued
together here. In each the bill was dismissed below, from
which decree the complainant appealed in each case.
_Y. Esek Cowen and ff'. Fr.ederick P. Fish for appellants.
_Yr.. Robert H. Parkinson and Mr>. Eldmund IFetmore for
appellees.

