OCTOBER TEIM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

the law, as he understands it, gives him a right to take the life
of his assailant. ie is judge, jury, and sheriff. Indeed, this
is not denied, but it is thought that the language used by the
court is too metaphysical. In other words, the court has stated
what is strictly and accurately true. Yet, because it is abstract
and metaphysical, this court will presume that the jury. did
not understand and might be misled by it. When did it become
a rule of law that a court of error should presume that the
jury in a trial court were ignorant? When before was it ever
heard that a verdict was to be set aside by an appellate court
on the ground that a juror may have been misled by an instruction of the trial court, when that instruction it is conceded is
strictly accurate and applicable to the -case?
For these reasons I dissent, and I am authorized to say that
concurs with me in this dissent.

MR.JUsTIcE BRowN

MULLETT'S ADMINISTRATRIX v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADhIS.
No. 121.

Argued November 28, 1893.- Decided December 11, 1893.

The Supervising Architect of the Treasury is not entitled to extra compensation, above his salary, for planning and supervising the erection of 'a
department building in Washington, occupied by other departments of
the government.
In this case the delay in bringing suit leads to the conclusion that the
architect recognized the work for which he sued as within the scope of
his regular duties.

Ox May 4, 1889, Alfred B. Mullett filed his petition in the
Court of Claims, seeking to recover for services as an architect
rendered in the year 1871, in preparing designs for the building
now occupied by the State, War, and Navy Departments, and
working drawings for the construction of the same. Other
claims were stated in the petition, but they have since been

MULLETT'S ADAMINISTRATRIX v. UNITED STATES. 567
Statement of the Case.

abandoned by the petitioner. On June 2, 1890i the Court of
Claims made its findings of fact, as follows:
"I. The commission authorized by the resolution of December 14, 186-9, and of which plaintiff, then Supervising Architect
of the Treasury, was a member, decided to erect a building
for the Department of State upon McPherson Square, in the'
city of Washington. It was suggested that plaintiff prepare
plans for the building proposed, but he declined, and tentative
plans were prepared by another. These plans were not satisfactory. Plaintiff thereupon, at the suggestion of the Assistant
Secretary of State, prepared tenltative plans for the building
then intended to be erected upon McPherson Square for the
Department of State only..
"Later it was decided to erect at the corner of Penisylvania
Avenue and Seventeenth Street, Washington, a building, to
accommodate the Departments'of State, War, and Navy; and
the McPherson Square site for the Department of State was
abandoned. This course was authorized by the act of March
3, 1871, and prior to the passage of this act plaintiff Nyas
requested by the Secretary of State to extend his former design
so it would cover the larger building then contemplated. This
he did.
"II. After the passage of the act of March 3, 1871, 16 St.
494, c. 113, the commissioners therein named selected: the
plaintiff as architect to design and prepare the drawings
for the building contemplated by that act. Plaintiff designed
these drawings, superintended their preparation, made and
suggested changes therein, and the drawings so designed by
him were accepted" and approved by the commissioners designated in the said act, and the building now occupied by the
Departments of State, of War, and of the Navy was 'built in a
substantial accordance with the drawings. Plaintiff superintended the construction of the southern wing of tis building,
now occupied by the Department of State, and the east wing
from the beginning,. until January 1, 1875, at which date the
expenditures upon the building amounted to $3,876,096.47.
The total cost of the entire building was $10,030,028.99.
"III. Plaintiff during all the tiue covered by the service

OCTOBER.TERM, 1893.
Counsel for Appellant.

hereinbefore described was Supervising Architect of the Treasury Department. The labor performed by him as to the new
building was done by permission of the Secretary of the Treasury, without sacrifice of time properly to be devoted to the
duties of the supervising architect, and without promise of
compensation, except as hereinafter shown. iPlaintiff was not
at personal expense or outlay in the preparation of plans or
otherwise in connection with the new building, but he gave
to it his individual genius and individual labor, and this without
injury to the interests committed, to his charge as supervising
architect.
"IV. Plaintiff resigned his office as supervising architect of
the Treasury. This resignation took effect January 1, 1875.
H.e was requested by the Secretary of State t6 remain in charge
of. the new building at a salary of $5000 a year, giving to it
his entire time and attention. This he declined.
"V. Prior to the passage of the act authorizing the con-.
struction of the building plaintiff was told at a meeting where
were.present the Secretary of State and representatives of the
Committees on Public Buildings and Grounds of the Senate
and House of Representatives, that if he w6uld make the plans
they had no doubt that his services would be taken into consideration by Congress in making the necessary appropriations
for the\erection of the building, and that if his plans were.
accepted and he should superintend the construction of the
building that he would be properly compensated.
I UVI. The building for the Departments of State, War, and
of the Navy was begun June 21, 1871, and finished in 1888.
It does not appear that prior to the commencement of this
action plaintif made a demand for compensation as architect
or superintendent of said-building, except in an application to
Congress."
The opinion of the court was delivered by Davis, J., and is
reported in 25 0. Cl. 409. From such judgment the petitioner
appealed to this court. After taking the appeal he died, and
the .action was revived in the name of his adfministratrix.
.Mr. Georqe S. Bou

ewel
for appellant.

AIULLETTS ADMI ISTRATRIX v. UNITED STATES.

569

Opinion of the Court.

ill>. Assistant Attorney General .Dodge for appellees. .A1.
CharlesT. Russell was on his brief.
MRn. JusTxc BRnwnv

delivered the opinion of the court.

In addition to those that have been quoted above, there was
a seventh finding with respect to the schedule of the'charges
of architects and the rules governing the same, but in the view
we have taken of this case that is immaterial. At the time
the services sued for were rendered the plaintiff held the position of Supervising Architect of the Treasury, the salary of
which, as fixed by Rev. Stat. ยง 235, was $5000 a year. The
nature and extent of his duties were not specifically defined
by law. But that they were of the charac)ter of those described in this case is implied from the title of "Supervising
Architect." It is not claimed that 'any new office was created.
On the contrary, the averment in the petition is that he was
employed "in his, professional capacity as an architect." In
other words, that he rendered certain services not within the
scope of his official duties as Supervising Architect of the
Treasury. It will also be perceived that no express promise
of payment for these services was made by any officer or representative of the government, for the suggestion and request
in respect .to the preparation of plans spoken of in the first
finding carried with it no mention of compensation. Nor is
there disclosed in the fifth finding any such promise. An expression to the plaintiff on the part of persons representing the
government of their belief that his services would be compensated, is very far from a promise to pay. There is no pretence
of any act of Congress authorizing payment, or in terms directing employment. Reliance is placed'not upon an express but
an implied promise, and recovery is sought upon a quantum
meruit. Here we are confronted by these provisions of the
Revised Statutes, which were in force at the time of these
transactions:
"SEC. 1763. No person who holds an office, the salary or
annual compensation attached to which amounts to the sum
of two thousand five hundred dollars, shall receive compensa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

tion for discharging the duties of any other office. unless
expressly authorized by law.
"SEC. 1764. No allowance or compensation shall be made
to any officer or clerk, by reason of the discharge of duties
which belong to any other officer or clerk in the same or any
other Department; and no allowance or compensation shall
be made for any extra services whatever, which any officer or
clerk may be required to perform, unless expressly authorized
by law.
"SEC. 1765. lNo officer in any branch of'the public service,
or any other person whose salary, pay, or emolumen'ts are
fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay,
extra allowance, or compensation, in any form whatever, for.
the disbursement of public money, or for any other service or
duty whatever, unless the same is authorized by law, and the
appropriation therefor explicitly states that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation."
Obviously, the purpose of Congress, as disclosed by these
sections, was that every officer or regular employ6 of the
government should be limited in his compensation to such
salary or fees as were by law -specifically attached to his office
or employment. "Extras," which are such a fruitful subject
of disputes in private contracts, were to be eliminated from
*the public service. Such purpose forbids a recovery in this
case. Mr. Mullett as Supervising Architect of the Treasury
was in the regular employ of the government at a stated salary
of five thousand dollars. He was employed to render services
which, if not strictly appektaining to his office or position,
were of the same general character and to be performed at
the same place. No new office was created; no express
promise of payment was made; no act of Congress in terms
gave authority to promise payment, or made any provision or
appropriation for compensation. The case is one simply of a
claim for compensation for extra services, when no express
authority therefor can be found in any act of Congress.
These sections have been in force many years, and have
received the consideration of this court in several cases: lloyt
v. Unhited States, 10 How. 109; Converse v. United States,

MULLETT'S ADMINISTRPUTRIX v. UNITED STATES.

571

Opinion of the Court.

21 How. 463; United States v. Sitoemaeer, 7 Wall. 338; Stah;sbury v. United States, 8 Wall. 33; Hall v. United States, 91.
U. S. 559; United States v. Brindle, 110 U. S. 688;. United.
States v. Saunders, 120 U. S. 126; Badeau v. United States,
130 U. S. 439, 451; and United States v. King, 147 U. S. 676,
in which most of the former cases were reviewed, and in which
it' was held that a clerk of a Circuit Court is not entitled to,
compensation for services in selecting juries in connection with
the jury commissioner, there being no statute expressly authorizing such compensati6n.
-Astill later case is that of Gibson v. Peters, decided at the
present term, ante, 342, in *hich Gibson, a United States district attorney, claimed that, having the right to represent the
receiver of a national bank in a suit brought by such receiver,
he had i'endered or offered to render such services,'and was
therefore entitled to payiment for such services out of the funds
in the hand of the receiver, and this by reason of the provision
in the Revised Statixtes, section 5238, that all expenses of any
such receivership should be paid out of the assets of the bank
before distribution. It was held that his compensation was
fully prescribed by sections 823 to 827 of the Revised Statutes,
and that he could not recover anything in addition for these
services, notwithstanding the general language of section
5238.
The present case illustrates the propriety of such legislation
as is found in these sections. Eighteen years after the services
were rendered, fourteen years after he had left the employ of
the government, the petitioner commences his action to recover
compensation. No written contract for the services is shown;
no legislation appears which directs that any services be
called for, outside of those to be rendered by the officers and,
employ6s of the government, or which recognizes that any
extra services have been rendered, or provides any payment
therefor. In the rapid changes which attend public life, many,
if not most, of those who participated in the negotiations and
arrangements which led up to the doing of this work by the
petitioner, and who could doubtless have thrown light upon
the matter, have passed away. Petitioner was in the employ

OCTOBER TERNt, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

of the government, and employed for work of like character
to that sued for. He was the one officer or employ6 to whom,
when this work had to be done, attention would naturally
have been directed. It would seem from his delay in bringing
suit that he recognized this work as within the scope of his
regular duties. At the most, it can only be regarded as extra
service, cast upon him as an officer of the government and by
reason of his official position, and, as such, there is no express
provision of law for its compensation.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is right, and it must be
Affirmed.

FARLEY v. HILL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIMcUIT COURT OF THE U2MM~E

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MMIWIfESOTA.
No. 56. Argued October 30, 31, November 1, 1893. -Decided December 11, 1893.

Passing by the question whether a receiver appointed by a court pending
proceedings to foreclose a railroad mortgage is precluded from buying
bonds on the market or from agreeing to unite with others in bidding at
the sale, and the question whether the contract set'up in this case is
within the statute, of frauds of the State of Minnesota, and the question*
whether, even if the contract was illegal and not enforceable in a court
of equity, an account might not be compelled, the court holds that the
plaintiff has failed in proving his case.

IN EQITY. Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed. The evidence was voluminous, but the
court seems to have stated in its opinion everything that is
necessary to be stated in order to understand it. The case was
before this court at October term, 1886, as staled in the
opinion, under the title P7arley v. Kittson, reported in 120
U. S. at p. 303. Since then Mr. Kittson has died, and the
St. Paul Trust Company, the executor of his will, was substituted as defendant in his place. The facts, as stated by the
court, with its opinion, 'were as follows:

