McDAID v. OKLAH0MA, ex rel. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

that is a question which need not now be considered, and is
very different from the question Iaere presented, of the right
of the assignees of this state judgment to maintain in the
Federal courts an independent suit for its enforcement.
The act of February 25, 1889, which gives this court jurisdiction, 25 Stat. 693, c. 236, provides that "in cases where the
decree or judgment does not exceed the sum of five thousand
dollars, the Supreme Court shall not review any question
raised upon the record, except such question of jurisdiction."
It follows, therefore, that in this case our inquiry must stop
with that question of juriidiction, which we have thus determined.
The decree f the Circuit Court dismissing these bills for
want of jurisdictionmust be reversed, and the consolidated
case will be re'manded to that courtforfurtherjoroceedings
in accordance with law.

IoDAID v. OKLAHOMA TERRITORY, ex rel. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY
OF OLAHOMA.
,1'o. 785. Submitted October 20, 1893. .- Decided November 20, 1893.

Under the authority conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury by the
act of May 14, 1890, 26 Stat. 109, c. 207, entitled "an act to provide for
town site entries of lands in what is known as 'O klahoma,'and for other
purposes," it was entirely competent for the Secretary to provide for an
appeal to the Commissioner of the. General Land Office in case of contest.
When an appeal from a decision'of the trustees appointed by the Secretary
under the provisions of that act was duly taken, it became the duty of
the trustees to decline to issue a deed to the appellee until the appeal
was disposed of.,

Tnxs was a proceeding in mandamus brought in the District
Court of the First Judicial District of Logan County, in the
Territory of Oklahoma, April 27, 1891, to compel Daniel J.
voL. cr-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

McDaid, William H. Merriweather, and John H.-Shanklin, as
trustees of the town site of Guthrie, Oklahoma Territory,
appointed by the Secretary of the Interior under the act of
May 14, 1890, 26 Stat. 109, c. 207, entitled "An act to provide
for town site entries of lands in what is known as I Oklahoma,'
and for other purposes," to execute ,deeds for certain lots in
said town site. The relators, Smith and Bradley, claimed to
have entered two lots on the site, and one John Galloway
claimed a prior right thereto.
On .September. 23, 1890, the relators applied to the town
site trustees for a deed to the lots, and on the same day Galloway also made his application therefor. The trustees heard the
controversy of the two claimants, and on April 6, 1891, rendered their decision in favor of the relators, finding that they
were entitled to the lots in dispute and to a conveyance from'
the trustees, and they ordered that a deed be executed accordingly. Galloway having- died, his heirs were substituted for
him, and they filed their appeal from the decision to the Commissioner of the General Land Office. In consequence of the
appeal the trustees refused to issue the deed, and thereupon
the relators instituted this suit.
The complaint alleged that the sole ground of refusal was
the appeal; that there was no authority for such appeal, and
that it furnished no excuse to the trustees for their refusal.
The defendants answered, setting up that Galloway's heirs
"duly filed their appeal from the decision of this board to the
Commissioner of the General Laud Office pursuant to the instructions under the act of' Congress under which this board
was appointed, such instructions having been made by the
,Secretary of the Interior authorizing appeals by claimants to
lots in cases where such claimants -feel themselves aggrieved
by the decisions of this board.
" And these defendants, further answering, say thatthere is
a right of appeal given by the instructions of the Secretary of
the Interior- and recognized by this board, and that appeals in
similar cases have been taken by other persons from other
decisions of this board both before and after the appeal taken
in this case.

McDAID v. OKLAHOMA, ex rel. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

"And these defendants say that they ivere. appointed by the
Secretary of the Interior, and that at thi time of their appbintment were directed to allow appeals from their decisions
where such appeals were properly prayed, and that theappeal
in this case was properly prayed, and under such instructioni
was granted.
"And these defendants further say that the question of
legal ownership as to said lot has, not been definitely settled
by the higher tribunals of the Inmerior Department, and that
no deeds have passed- for such lot8 and *should not pass until
such appeal is disposed of, and -hat under such circumstances
it is not for this court by mandate or otherwise to direct in
whht manner or to whom conveyances of lands or lots, the
title to which is in the United States, should be made to
individuals."
Relators demurred to the answer and their demurrer was.
sustained. Defendants then inoved to dismiss the cause upon
the ground that the territorial court had no jurisdiction over
the 'subject-matter. This motion was overruled, and thereupon judgment was enter&d- ordering the. tfustees -to execute
and deliver a deed to the relators of the lots in question. "An
appeal was thereupon prosecuted to the Supreme- Court of the
Territory, by which the judgment was affirmed, July 6, 1892.
The opinion of the court and of Clark, J., dissenting, will be
found in I Oklahoma, 92. The, cause was then -brought to
this court by writ of error.
The act of Congress of May 14, 1890, omitting the eighth
section, is as follows:
4C Be it enacted, etc.,
That so much of the public lands situate in the Territory of Oklahoma, now open to settlement, as
may be necessary to embrace all the legal subdivisions-covered
by actual occupancy for .purposes of trade and business, not
exceeding twelve hundred and eighty acires in each case, may
be entered as town sites, for the several use and benefit .of the
occupants thereof, by three trusteds 'to be appbinte(I by the
Secretary of the Interior for that purpose, such entry to be
made under the provisions of section twenty-three hundred
and eighty-seven of the Revised Statutes as near as may be"

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

and when such entry shall have been made, the Secretary of
the Interior shall provide regulations for the proper execution
of the trust, by such trustees, including the survey of the land
into streets, alleys, squares, blocks, and lots when necessary,
or the approval of such survey as may already have been
made by the inhabitants thereof, the assessment upon the lots
of-such sum as may be necesary to pay for the lands embraced
in such town site, costs of survey, conveyance of lots, and
other necessary expenses, including compensation of trustees:
Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior may when practicable cause more than oie town site to be entered and the
trust thereby created executed in the manner herein provided
by a single board of trustees, but not meore than seven boards
of trustees in all shall be appointed for said Territory, and no
more than two members of any of said boards shall be appointed from one political party. "SEC. 2. That in the execution of such trust, and for the
purpose of the conveyance of title by said trustees, any certificate or other paper evidence of claim duly issued by the authority recognized for such purpose by the people residing
upon any town site, the subject of entry hereunder, shall be
taken as evidence of'the occupancy bythe holder thereof of
the lot or lots therein described, except that where there is an
adverse claim to said property such certificate shall only be
pnhafacie evidence of the claim of occupancy of the holder:
Provided, That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to make valid any claim, now invalid of those who
entered upon and occupied said lands in violation of the laws
of the United ,States or the proclamation of the President
thereunder: Provided further, That the certificates hereinbefore mentioned shall not be taken as evidence in favor of
any person claiming lots who entered upon said lots in violation of law or the proclamation of the President thereunder.
"SEc. 3. That lots of land occupied by any religious organization, incorporated or otherwise, conforming to the approved
survey within the limits of such town site, shall be conveyed
to or in trust for the same.
"SEc. 4. That al lots not disposed of as hereinbefore pro-

]McDAID v. OKLAIOMA, ex rel. SMITH.
Statement of the Case.

vided for shall be sold, under the direction of the Secretary of
the Interior, for the benefit of the municipal government of
any such town, or the same or any part thereof may be reserved for public use as sites for public buildings, or for the
purpose of parks, if in the judgment of the Secretary such
reservation would be for the public interest, and the Secretary
shall execute proper conveyances to carry out the provisions
of this section.
"SEc. 5. That the provisions of sections four, five, six, and
seven of an act of the legislature of the State [of] Kansas,
entitled ' An act relating to town sites,' approved March second, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, shall, so far as applicable, govern the trustees in the performance of their duties
hereunder.
"SEe. 6. That all entries of town sites now pendixig on
application hereafter made under this act, shall have lrefer •
ence at the local land office of the ordinary business of the
office and shall be dbtermined as speedily as possible, and if an
appeal shall be taken from the decision of the local office in any
such case to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the
same shall be made special, and disposed of by him as expeditiously as the duties of his office will permit, and so if an
appeal should be taken to the Secretary of the Interior. And
all applications heretofore filed in the proper land office shall
have the same force and effect as if made under the provisions
of this act, and upon the application of the trustees herein pro-,
vided for, such entries shall be prosecuted to final issue in the
names of such trustees, without other formality, and when final
entry'is made, the title of the United States to the land covered
by such entry shall be conveyed. to said trustees for the uses
and purposes herein provided.
"SEac. 1. That the trustees appointed under this hct shall
have the power to administer oaths, to hear and determine all
controversies arising in the execution of this act, shall keelh a
record of their proceedings, which shall, with all papers filedwith -them and all evidence of their official acts, except conveyances, be filed in the General Land Office and become part
of 'the records of the same, and all conveyances executed by

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

them shall be acknowledged before an officer duly authorized
for that purpose. They shall be allowed such compensation as
the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe, not exceeding ten
dollars per day while actually employed; and such travelling
and other necessary expenses as the Secretary may authorize,
and the Secretary of the Interior shall also provide them: with
necessary clerical force by detail or otherwise."
Section 238l of the Revised Statutes reads thus:
"Whenever any portion of the public lands have been or
may be settled upon and occupied as a, town site, not subject
to entry under the agricultural preemption laws, it is lawful,
in case such town be incorporated, for the corporate authorities thereof, and, if not incorporated, for the judge of the
county court for the county, in which sucth town is situated, to
enter at the proper land office, and at the minimum price, the
land so settled and occupied in t.ust for the several use' and
benefit of the occupants thereof, according to their iespective
interests; the execution of which trust, as to the disposal of
the lots in such town, and the proceeds of the sales thereof, to
be conducted under such regulations as may be prescribed by*.
the legislative authority of the State or Territory in which the
same may be situated."
Sections four, five, six, and seven of the act of the legislature of the State of Kansas, entitled "An act relating to town
sites," approved March 2., 1868, are as follows:
"SEo. 4. At an'y time after the entry of any such town site,
the probate judge of the county in which such town may be
situated may appoint three commissioners, who shall not be
residents of such town, or the owners of any interest therein;
and it shall be the duty of such commissioners to cause an
actual survey of such site to be made, conforming, as near as
may be, to the original survey of such town, designating, on
such plat, the lots or squares on which improvements' are standing, with the name of the owner or owners thereof,.together
with the value of the same.
"SiEc. 5. Said commissioners shall, as soon as the survey and
plat shall be completed, cause to be published, in some newspaper, published in the county in which such town issituated,

McDAID v. OKLAHOMA, ex rel. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

a notice that such survey has been completed, and 'giving notice
to all persons' concerned or interested in such town site that,
on a designated day, the said commissioners will proceed to
set off to the persons entitled to the same, according to their
respective interests, the lots, squares, or grounds to which each
of the occupants thereof shall be entitled. Such publication
shall be made at least thirty days prior to the day set apart by
such commissioners to make such division.
"SEC. 6. After such publication shall have been duly made,
the commissioners shall proceed, on the day designated in such
publication, to set apart to the persons entitled to receive the
same, the lots, squares, or grounds to which each shall 'be
entitled, according to their respective interests, including, in
the portion or portions set apart to each person or company
of persons, the improvements belonging to such persons or
company.
"SEC. 7. After the setting apart of such lots or grounds
and the valuation of the same, as hereinbefore provided for,
the said commissioners shall proceed to levy a tax on the lots
and improvements thereon, according to their value, sufficient
to raise a fund to reimburse to the parties who may have
entered such site, the sum or sums paid by them in securing
the title to such site, together with all the expenses accruing
in perfecting the same,-the fees due the commissionerg and
the surveyor for their respective services, and other necessary
expenses connected with the proceedings." Kansas Gen. Stats.
1868, pp. 1074, 1075.
Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.

MR_.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the
court.
In .Rnight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161,
the supervisory power of the Secretary of the Interior over
all matters relating to the sale and disposition of the public
lands, the surveying of private land claims and the issuing of

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Cou'rt.

patents thereon, and the administration of the trusts devolving upon the government by reason of the laws of Congress
or under treaty stipulations, respecting the public domain, was
fully considered, and numerous authorities cited. It was declared by Mr. Justice Lamar, speaking for the court, that the
Secretary was clothed with plenary authority as the supervising agent of the-government to do justice to all claimants, and
to preserve the rights of the people of the United States, and
that he could exercise such supervision by direct orders or by
review on appeal, and, in the absence of statutory direction,
prescribe the mode in which it could be exercised by such
rules and regulations as he might adopt.
In the execution of the trusts created by the act of May 14,
1890, the Secretary of the Interior on June 18, 1890, issued a
circular setting forth such regulations. (10 Land Dec. 666.)
Of these, paragraph 12 provided for the hearing and determination by the town site trustees of controversies between
two or more claimants to the same -lot, block, or parcel of
land, and paragraph 13 for an appeal from their judgment to
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and an appeal
from the Commissioner to the Secretary. On May 8, 1891,
this paragraph was amended by adding thereto the words:
"A failure. to appeal as herein provided shall not be construed
as a waiver of, or to prejudice the rights of either party, nor
held to preclude suits in the courts in case the party entitled
to appeal desires to proceed in that manner for the purpose of
settling the title to the lot or lots in controversy." (12 Land
Dec. 612.) These regulations were referred to by the Secretary under date of July 3, 1891, in certain instructions to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, in which it was
rulod that the Secretary was authorized to allow appeals from
the decisions of the town site trustees under the act of May
14, 18"90, to the Commissioner, even though the act did not
expressly provide for an appeal in such cases. (13 Land
Dec. 9.) The question of the right of appeal is.there discussed
at-length, and again on March 15, 1892, (14 Land Dec. 295,)
by the Assistant Secretary, who decided that the issue of the
patent to town site trustees under the act was not a disposition

M£cDAID v. OKLAHOMA, ex rel. SMITH.
Opirion of the Court.

of the government title, but a conveyance in trust to be held
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior.
This proposition is denied, and it is insisted that the authority of the Secretary relates solely to public lands, the title to
which is still in the United States, and that by the issue of
the patent to town site trustees the title passes and all control
over the lands embraced therein is lost. Hence that in this
case the title of the United States passed by the patent to the
trustees, and that they held it thereafter in trust for the occupants, free from the control of the land Department. Reference is made to Xfoore v. Robins, 96 U. S.530, and like cases,
to the point that when a patent has been awarded, issued,
delivered, and accepted, all right to control the title or to
decide on the right to the title has passed from the execu'tive
department of the government. But those cases refer to the
legal title directly and finally conferred, and the principle invoked can only be applicable on the assumption that by the
town site conveyance title was granted to the Oklahoma trustees for the purpose of divesting the government of all authority and control over the final disposition of the property, and
not for the purpose of putting title in the trustees as agents of
the government for the execution of the trust devolving upon
them as such. Whether this assumption is justified or not
must depend upon the terms and true construction of the act
of May 14, 1890.
By section one of that act the land that might be embraced
in each town site entry was limited, and it was prescribed that
the entry should be made for the several use of the occupants
thereof by three trustees to be appointed by the Secretary of
the Interior for -that purpose, and that when the- entry should
have been made the Secretary should provide regulations for
the proper execution of the trust by such trustees, including
surveys when necessary, or the approval of such survey as
might already have been made by the inhabitants, and for the
assessment upon the lots of such sum as might be necessary to
pay for the lands embraced in such town site, costs of survey,
conveyance of lots, and other necessary expenses, including
compensation of trustees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court

Section two provided that in the execution of such trust and
'for the purpose of the conveyance of title by the tr:ustees, any
certificate or other paper evidence of writing duly issued by
the authority recognized for such purpose by the people- residing upon any town site, the subject of entry tlereunder, should
be taken as evidence of the occupancy by the holder thereof of
the lot or -lots therein described, except that where there might
be an, adverse claim to such property such certificate should
only beprimazfacie evidence of the claim of occupancy.
Section four directed that all lots not disposed of as thereinbefore provided for should be sold under the direction of the
Secretary of the Interior for the benefit of the municip:al government of any such town, or the same or any part thereof
might be reserved for public use as sites of public buildings or
for the purpose of parks, if in the judgment of the Secretary
such reservation should. be in the public interest, and the
Secretary was required to execute proper conveyances to carry
out the provisions of this-section.
Section six prescribed the manner of the adjudication of the
*entries, and directed "that when final entry is made the title
of the United States to the land covered by such entry shall
be conveyed to said trustees for the uses and purposes herein
provided."
I By section seven power was given to the trustees to ad:

minister oaths and to hear and determine all controversies
arising in the execution of the act, and they were directed to
keep a record of their proceedings, which should, with all
papers filed with them and all evidence of their official acts,
except conveyarices, be filed in the General Land Office and
become part of the records of the same - and the trustees were
to be allowed such compensation within a specified limit as the
Secretary of the Interior might prescribe, and such travelling
and other necessary expenses as he might authorize, and he
was also to provide. them with the necessary clerical force by
detail or otherwise.
In the light of these provisions we perceive no reason for
doubting that the trustees appointed by the Secretary under
the act, and whose compensation and expenses were fixed by

MoDAID

. OKLAHOMA, ex rel. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

him, were agents of the government for the purpose of carrying out the trust thereby created to the extent and as specified,
and this included the ascertainment of the beneficiaries in the
first instance and the transfer of the title to them. While on
the final entry the title of the United States was to be conveyed to the trustees, such conveyance was explicitly, declared
as nade "for the uses and purposes in the act provided," and
among these uses and purposes was the determination of controversies between contesting claimants by the trustees, who
were to administer oaths, pass on evidence, and keep a record
of their proceedings, to be deposited in the Land Department.
They unquestionably acted in that regard as the representatives of the government, and their decisions were properly
subject to that appeal to the Commissioner and the Secretary
for which the Secretary's regulations providqd. As matter of
convenience, the trustees were the instrumentality for the
transmission of title in respect of lands disposed of to actual
holders, while the Secretary, notwithstanding the patent, was
the medium as to surplus lands, which he could not be if the
legal title had definitively passed to the trustees by the patent
for the whole site. The result is the same if the fourth section
be construed as directing the Secretary to cause the trustees
to execute the conveyances therein referred to. The trust
upon which the title was held was to be discharged in accordance with the regulations, and was necessarily-subject to the
supervisory power of the Department of the Interior.
Section 2387 of the Revised Statutes confirms this view, for
the town sites there referred to were to be entered by the corporate authorities of the town, if incorporated, or, if not, by
the4 judge of the county court for the county in which the
town .was located, and the trust as to the disposal of .the lots
and the proceeds of the sales thereof was to be executed int
accordance with such regulations as might be prescribed by
the legislative authority of the State or Territory in which the
town might be situated, while under this special act, in reference to Oklahoma, the entry was to be made by trustees
appointed by the Secretary and the trust conducted under such'
regulations as might be established by him. 'n the one case

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the government parted with its connection with the land when
the patent issued to the local authority; in the other, the government retains its connection by having tHe entry made by
its own agents, and the trust executed in the manner it
directs.
By the scheme of this act, the title is held in trust for the
occupying claimants, it is true, but also in trust sub modo for
the government until the rightful claimants and the undisposed
of or surplus lands are ascertained. The act did not contemplate that the allowance of the entry and the issue of the
patent should operate to devolve the final, determination of
conflicting claims to lots upon these government appointees,
and, until the trustees conveyed, the title did not pass beyond
the control of the executive department in that regar-d.
The regulation ,of the execution of the trust by the Secretary covered the regulation of the matter of controversies
between claimants, and also included, in addition and not by
way of limitation, the regulation of the survey of the land
into blocks, streets, alleys, and lots, and the assessment for
purchase money,- costs, compensation, and expenses. The
supervisory power could no more be denied in respect of the
decisions of the trustees upon adverse claims than in respect of
the survey and assessment.
In our judgment, it was entirely within the competency of
the Secretary to provide for an appeal in cases of contest, and,
as he had done so by the regulations in question, and an appeal had been duly taken thereunder in the case before us, the
trustees properly declined to issue the deed, and the mandamus was improvidently awarded, even assuming that the
District Court has jurisdiction in the premises and that mandamus was the appropriate remedy.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded o the
iSupreme Court of the Territwy qf Oklahoma, with a
direction to reverse thejudgment of the -DistrictCourt and
remand the case to that court with directions to dismiss the
.petition.

