GARDNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD.

34.9

Statement of the Case.

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 72. Argued November 7, 1893. -Decided

'ovember 27, 1S93.

Plaintiff sued defendant in a Circuit Court of the State of Michigan on the
cause of action for which this suit is brought. Verdict and judgment
were in plaintiff's favor in the trial court. This judgment was reversed
by the Supreme Court of the State, and a new trial was ordered. When
the case was remanded plaintiff voluntarily withdrew his action and subnitted to a nousuit which was not to prevent his right td briug'any suit
in any court. He -then commenced this action in the Circuit Court of the
United States. The defendant contended (1) that plaintiff was estopped
from bringing this action by the judgment in the state court; (2) that
the record showed no negligence on the part of the defendant, and that
a verdict should have been directed in its favor. The Circuit Court
overruled the first contention of the defendant, but accepted the second,
and directed a verdict for defendant.
Hld,
(1) That the plaintift was not estopped from bringing this action by the
proceedings and judgment in the state court;
(2) That the evidence in regard to negligence was conflicting, and the
question should have been left to the jury under proper instructions.
The question of negligence in such case is one of law for the court, only
when the facts are such that all reasonable men must draw the same
conclusion from them; or, in other words, a case should not be withdrawn from the jury unless the conclusion follows as matter of law that
no recovery can be had upon any view which can be properly taken of
the facts the evidence tends to establish.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Michigan by Frederick Gardner, a citizen of the State of Indiana, against the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, a corporation of the
State of Michigan, to recover damages for injuries alleged to
have been inflicted by reason of the negligence of the defendant in causing, and llowing to remain for some time prior to

the accident complained of, a hole in the planking of the cross-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

ing of a thoroughfare near its station house in Niles, Michigan, known as 'Fifth Street, contrary to its duty in that behalf,

whereby the plaintiff was injured without negligence on his
part; and, also, in ordering the plaintiff, who was a night
switchman at that station, to do certain coupling and uncoup-

ling of cars, out of the line of his employment as switchman
and more dangerous.
Upon the trial before the District Judge, the evidence
tended to show that Fifth Street in the city of Niles crossed
the defendant company's tracks, of which at this crossing
there were, besides the main track, several others, occupying
a large portion of defendant's right of way; that the defendant's station house, freight house, and other depot buildings
were located at this point; that thirty-two feet of the crossing were. planked between the tracks by the defendant; that
near the southeast corner of the planking, and about twelve
or fifteen feet therefrom, stood a switch, which moved the
track *outh, in adjusting it for the passage of trains; and that
a month or so before the injury to the plaintiff, a car wheel.
had struck the end of a plank next to the rail of the track, by
reason of the switch not being properly adjusted, making a
hole in the surface several inches in length and width; that it
was the duty of the yardmaster and roadmaster of defendant
to keep the roadbed and crossihgs in good condition and repair; that the yardmaster must have known of the fracture of
the plank; and that other employAs had actual knowledge of
its existence, but that plaintiff, who worked only during the
night, had not been informed and did not know thereof. The
yardmaster testified that he did not remember "seeing any
bad spots" in the planking; "not to amount to anything;"
"there might have been a car off and the ends of the'plank
broke down a little; there might have been, but nothing that
I would think would be dangerous."
The evidence further tended to show that the yardmaster
of the company had the control and management of the
switches and of the work belonging to the. "making up
trains;" that in 1881 he employed the plaintiff to tend
switches at night; that prior to :March, 1882, he had ordered

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD.

351

Statement of the Case.

him not to engage in the work known as making- up trains,
which included coupling and uncoupling cars, ahnd afterwards
and prior to May 16, 1882, the supply of help for making up
trains in the morning not being equal to the demand; he required the plaintiff to assist in such making up, including
coupling and uncoupling. It appeared that the yard at night
was in charge of a yard foreman or assistant yardmaster, and
the evidence tended to show that on the 16th of May the
plaintiff, acting in obedience to the orders of such assistant
yardmaster, attempted to uncouple cars just before he meceived his injury; the hole in question being hidden under the
car being uncoupled; that there was a down grade sloping
west at the place where the plaintiff was, and the cars, according to necessity and genefal usage, were in slight motion at
the time, and tat .as the plaintiff was stepping out from between the cars one of his feet was firmly caught in the hole,
and the injuries inflicted in consequence.
On the trial of the cause it appeared that the plairrtiff had
originally commenced suit in the circuit court for the county
of Berrien, Michigan, and that the cause had there been tried
and resulted in a verdict and judgment in favor of the plaintiff,
whereupon the defendant brought error to the Supreme Court
of the State, which reversed the judgment and granted a new
trial, and counsel for defendant gave in evidence the printed
record used in said Supreme Court, together witha copy of
the opinion of that court in the premises, and also a certified
copy of the judgment in the state circuit court in obedience
to the mandate of the Supreme Court, and it was agreed by
the parties that, on the filing of its opinion, the Supreme
Court entered judgment in the usual form, reversing the judgment of the court below and granting a new trial in the suit.
The judgment of the state circuit court recited that, upon
the filing of a certified copy of the judgment of the Supreme
Court reversihg the prior judgment and vacating the verdict
of the jury, and the placing of the cause upon the calendar
for trial, the plaintiff came by his counsel and voluntarily
withdrew his suit, and submitted to a nonsuit therein, wherefore, ,' on motion of said plaintiff, by his said attorneys, it is

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ordered by the court, now here, that the said plaintiff be, and
is hereby,. nonsuited, but not to prevent the right of the
plaintiff to bring any suit in any court," and, for costs in favor
of defendant. The opinion of the Supreme Court is reported
in 58 Michigan, 584.
The headnotes are as follows:
"1A switchman who had been strictly cautioned against having anything to do with coupling cars tried to uncouple some
while the train was moving, and had his foot caught where
the planking had been for some time slightly broken, though
the defect had not been seen by him as yardman and the railroad company had no notice of it. HYeld, that he could not
recover for the injury resulting to him.
"2. A railroad employ6 takes the ordinary risks of the
work for which he hires; and if the company has used proper
diligence in choosing competent servants it is not liable in
damages for an injury to one of them caused by the carelessness of another."
The case in the Circuit Court having gone to the jury
resulted in a verdict in plaintiff's favor, and a motion for netv
trial was made by defendant, which was heard before the
Circuit and District Judges. The Circuit Judge was of opinion
that upon the record there was no negligence on the part of
the company, and that the case should have been withdrawn
from the jury and a verdict directed for the defendant. The
District Judge thought otherwise, but a new trial was granted,
and the case being retried upon the same evidence, the District Judge, accepting in that regard the views of the Circuit
Judge, instructed the jury to find for the defendant, which
was done, and judgment having been entered, the cause was
brought to this court by writ of error.
-Mr. Edward Bacon for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Ashley Pond for defendant in error.
On behalf of the defendant in error I contend and submit:
(1) That the ruling of the Circuit Judge that, under the circumstances, the judgment of the Supreme Coirt of the State

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD.

353

Argument for Defendant in Error.

constituted a perfect defence to the action, is correct, and that
the judgu--nt below must, for that reason, be affirmed; and
(2) that, i.respective of the effect of the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State, the plaintiff was not entitled to
recover upon the facts which the evidence tended to prove,
and hence, for that reason, there was no error in withdrawing
the case from the jury, and the judgment below must be
affirmed.
I. Let it be understood at the outset that I do not contend
that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the State, resulting as it did in the order for a new trial of the action in the
circuit court of the State, and followed as it was by a discontinuance of that action, operated to bar the plaintiff from
bringing, in another coukt, or, indeed, in the same court,
another action against the defendant to recover damages on
account of the injury he suffered by the accident described in
his said action in the state court.
What I do contend is that the said judgment of the state
Supreme Court precludes the plaintiff from successfully maintaining a new action against the defendant upon evidence
tending to prove only the same state of facts which the evidence before the Supreme Court of the State tended to prove.
"It is an undoubtedly settled law that a judgment of a court
of competent jurisdiction upon a question directly involved in
one suit, is conclusive as to that question in another suit
between the same parties." Per Field, J., in Russell v. Place,
94 U. S. 606, 608.
It is certain that the state Supreme Court considered and
determined the question which arose between the parties. It
is true that the formal order, as entered, does not upon its
face show that such question was determined. But that fabt
was properly shown by the opinion of the court which was
introduced in evidence. That evidence aliunde the record was
admissible for that purpose is settled by the authorities. Russell v. Place, 91 U. S. 606; Campbell v. Rankin, 99 U. S. 261;
Wilson's Executor v. Deen, 121 U. S. 525. The atatute required the opinion to be filed. 2 Howell's Annotated Stats.
Mich. ยง 6426.
-VoL. CL-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

And it is beyond question, I submit, that such determination,
and the order of said court as the result of such determination,
constitute a judgment within the strict legal signification of
that term.
I am not unaware of the fact that, in the opinion of Justice
Miller, in the case of Bucher v. Cheshire Railroad, 125 U. S.
555, 578, there is a dictum which, at first blush, appears to be
adverse to the position for which I am contending; but I
think an examination of that case will show that what is there
said has no .application here. It will be found that the statement tliat there had been no judgment rendered in the state
court is literally true. A verdict had been rendered in the
case, but no judgment had been entered thereon. Upon the
trial certain exceptions to rulings of the trial judge had been
taken, and these were the subject of review by the same
court'sitting in bane, and, such exceptions being sustained, a
new trial was ordered. The situation was exactly the same
as it would have been had a motion for a new trial been made
and heard before the trial judge upon allegations of error in
his rulings, and he had granted a new trial.
11. Assuming that the order of the superior was as the
plaiintiff construes it, the case was this: The plaintiff was
.employed as a switchman. So far as the record shows - and
unquestionably such was the fact - he was not employed' for
any specified time. He was at liberty to quit the employment
whenever he chose, and the company was at liberty to discharge him at any time. Now, the order which he says he
received was not to go outside of his employment for a particular occasion and to perform a single act, but' it was an
order in the nature of an enlargement of his duties, and when
he -assented to obey the order he assented that his duties
should be so enlarged, and the work-he afterwards did was
within and not outside of the line of his duties.
1eary v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 139 Mass. 580,
squarely sustains this proposition. The case was this: A person of full age and ordinary intelligence entered the employ of
a railroad corporation as a freight truckman, loading and unloading cars in its yard and shifting freight in its freight

GARDNER v. MICHIGAN 'CENTRAL RAILROAD.

355

Opinion of the Court.

houses. After working in this capacity about three years, hewas directed to perform,'in addition to his regular duties,
those of a fireman, from one to three hours a day, upon an
engine which was used to shift freight cars in the yard, where
there were many tracks, sidings, frogs, and switches, and to
make up trains. He had acted as such fireman about twenty
times, when, while standing on the foot-board of the engine,
with his back towards the direction in which it was moving,
and waiting for its speed to slacken so that he could get off,
lie was jolted off and injured. He had' been brought up on a
farm, and had ridden but six times in 'railroad cars. It was
held that the injury was caused by one of the risks assumed
by him in his employment, and that the action could not be
"maintained. The second paragraph of the syllabus reads as
follows : "If a servant, of full age and ordinary intelligence,
upon being required by his master to perform other duties
more dangerous and complicated than those embraced in his
original hiring, undertakes the same, knowing their dangerous
character, although unwillingly and from fear of losing his
employment, and is injured by reason of his ignorance and
inexperience, he cannot maintain an action against the master for such injury."
MR. CHIEF JUsTicE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Counsel for plaintiff in error does not contend that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Michigan operated as a bar to
this action, but he insists that that judgment precluded" the
plaintiff from successfully maintaining a new action against
the defendant, upon evidence tending to prove only the same
state of facts which the evidence before the Supreme Court -'of
the State tended to prove." This assumes a final adjudication
on matter of law, binding between the parties, and, treating
the judgment reversing 'nd remanding the caus6 as final,
applies it as an estoppel, notwithstanding the fact that a nonsuit was subsequently taken.' We'cannot concur in this view,
and are of opinion that the Circuit Court was not obliged to
give any such effect to the proceedings in the state court, nor

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

do we think that the Supreme Court of Michigan committed
itself to the definite rulings supposed.
In .Xan7eattc.n Life insurance Co. v. Broughto, 109 U. S.
121, an action had been brought upon a life insurance policy
in the state court and a nonsuit had been granted on the
defendant's motion. A new action was subsequently instituted
in the Circuit Couft of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and upon the trial the court was requested to direct a verdict for the -defendant, because the
former judgment was a bar, and the defendant afterwards
objected to the introduction, by the plaintiff, of certain evidence, because the question to which the evidence related had
been tried and determined in the former action. The court
denied the request and overruled the objection, and upon error
to this court it was held that these rulings were correct; that
a judgment of nonsuit did not determine the rights of the
parties and was no bar to a new action; and, that "a trial
upon which nothing was determined cannot support a'plea of
resjudicata, or have any weight as evidence at another trial."
.Hdmer-v. Brown, 16 ]How. 354, 366, was cited, in which it
was held upon a writ of right for the recovery of certain property that "a judgment of nonpros. given by a state court in
a case between the same parties, for the same property, was
not a sufficient plea in bar to preveit a recovery under a writ
of right; nor was the agreement bf the plaintiff to submit his
case to that court upon a statement of facts, sufficiefit to prevent his recovery in the Circuit Court." Mr. Justice Wayne,
delivering the opinion of the court, among other things, said:
"The court was also asked to instruct the jury that the deniandant was estopped from prosecuting this action by his
agreement in his previous suit to submit it upon a statement
of facts. In every view which can be taken of an. estoppel,
that agreement cannot be such here, because the demandant
does not make in this case any denial of a fact admitted by
him in that case. lHe rests his title here'to the demanded
premises upon the sante proofs which were then agreed by
him to be facts. This he has a right to do. Hlis agreement
only estopped him from denying that he had submitted him-

GARDNER v. MICHIGA1\ CENTRAL RAILROAD.

357

Opinion of the Court.

self to be nonsuited, or that he was not liable to its conse
quences."
In Bucher v. Cheshire ?aili'oad, 125 U. S. 555, 578, the
plaintiff had sued in the state court and recovered judgment,
and the highest appellate court of the State, reviewing the
cae, decided the points of law involved in it against the plaintiff, set aside the judgment, and setit the case back for a new
trial. The plaintiff then became nonsuit, and brought suit in
the United States court on the same cause of action, and it
was held that he was not estopped. The action was one for
damages -for personal injuries inflicted by reason of the defendant's negligence, and one of the defences was that plaintiff was travelling on Sunday in violation of statute. The
Circuit Court refused to submit to the jury the evidence upon
the question of whether or not his act of ti:avelling on the
Lord's Day was a work of necessity or charity under the statute of Massachusetts in- that behalf, and this court sustained
the ruling, for the reasons given by Mr. Justice Miller, who
said: "It is not a matter of estoppel which bound the parties
in the court below, because there was no judgment entered in
the case in which the ruling of the state court was made, and
we do not place the corredtness of the determination of the
Circuit Court in refusing to permit this question to go to the
jury upon the ground that it was a point decided between
the parties, and, therefore, res judicata as between them in
the present action, but upon the ground that the Supreme
Court of the State in its decision, had given such a construction to the meaning of the words 'charity' and 'necessity'
in the statute, as to clearly show that the evidence offered
upon that subject was not sufficient to prove that the plaintiff
was travelling for either of those purposes." This court felt
itself constrained to follow the decision of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in accordance with the rule that
the decisions of state courts relating to laws of a local character, which may have become established by those courts, or
had always been a part of the law of the State, are usually
conclusive and always entitled to the highest respect of the
Federal courts.

OCTOBER T:ER

"1893.

Opinion of the Court.

But in the present case only the responsibility of a railroad
company to its employ~s was involved, and it is settled that
that question is matter of general law, and that, in the absence of statutory. regulations by the State in which this cause
of action arises, this court is not required to follow the decisions of- the state courts. Railroad Co. v. Iockioood, 17 Wall.
357; tough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; .Affrick v. .tichigan Central Railroad,107 U. S. 102; Lake Shore &c. Railway v. Prentice, 147 U. S. 101 ; Baltimore & Ohio. Railroad
v. Baugh, 149 U. S. 368.
Apart from this, while it is true that it was apparently ruled
in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Michigan, not only
that upon the record as it was before that court -plaintiff was
guilty of contributory negligence, but also that the defendant
was free from negligence since that- of which plaintiff complained was the negligence of a fellow-servant, yet am analysis
-of the language used satisfies us of the correctness of the
statement in the principal opinion in Van Dasbn v. _.tellier,
78M
Michigan, 492, 505, that the case was really decided "npon
the ground that the plaintiff was injured in going into a place
and at work in violation of orders not to do so," which might
or might not appear to be so upon a retrial, and upon which
the evidence in the Circuit Court was far from being undisputed. We, therefore, conclude that the opinion of the state
Supreme Court should be given only such weight as its reasoning and the respectability of the source from whence it proceeds entitles it to receive.
And here reference may properly be made to the fact that
considerable differences appear to exist between the evidence
on the trial under review and that exhibited in the record
before the state court, differences bearing chiefly upon the
question of contributory negligence. But, assuming the evidence as to the other branch of the case to have been unchanged, we are not prepared to concede that the decision of
the Supreme Court of M ichigan proceeded upon the proposition that defendant must necessarily be absolved from negligence because all its employAs, including plaintiff, were, as
matter of law, fellow-servants with those who should have

GuRDNER, .v. MICHIGAN CENTRAL RAILROAD.:

359

Opinion of the Court.

kspt the planking in good condition, as that proposition is
un tenable.
In 17oug]b v. Railway Oomany, 100 U. S. 213, where the
injury was the result of defective appliances, it w as held that,
to the general rule exempting the common master from liability to a servant for injuries caused by the negligence of fellowservants, there are well-defined exceptions, one of which arises
from the obligation of the master not to expose the servant
when conducting his business to perils, from which they may
be guarded by proper diligence on his part. While it is implied in the contract between the parties that the servant risks
the dangers which ordinarily attend or are incident to the
business in which he voluntarily engages for compensation,
among which are the carelessness of his fellow-servants with
whose habits, conduct, and capacity he has in the course of his
duty an opportunity to become acquainted, and against whose
neglect and incompetency he may himself takeprecautions, it
is equally implied in the same contract that the master shall
supply the physical means and agencies for the conduct of his
business, and that he shall not be wanting ip proper care in
selecting such means. The master is not to be held as guaranteeing or warranting the absolute safety under all circumstances or the perfection of the machinery or apparatus which
may be provided for the use of employ3s, but he is bound to
exercise the care which the exgency reasonably demands in
furnishing such as is adequate and suitable, and in keeping
and maintaining them in such condition as to be reasonably
safe for use.
These principles are reiterated in very many authorities,
and amnong them in Snow v. Housatonic Railroad,8 Allen,
41, referred to with approval by the Supreme Court of M[ichigan in this case, and much in point. It was there ruled that
a railroad company may be held liable for an injury to one of
its servants, which is caused by want of repair in the roadbed
of the railroad, and that, if it is the duty of a servant to uncouple the cars of a train, and this cannot be easily done while
the train is still, and he endeavors to uncouple them while the
train is in motion, and steps between the cars and meets with

OCTOBER TERI,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

an injury which is caused by want of repair to the roadbed,
the court cannot rule, as a matter of law, that be is careless,
but should submit the case to the jury, although he continued
in the employment of the company after he knew of the
defect. The proximate cause of the injury was a bole in one
of the planks laid down between the rails of the defendant's
railroad where it crossed the highway, which had existed for
more than two months, to the knowledge of the plaintiff, who
had complained of it to the repairer of the tracks of the railroad. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts held that
the defendant was not relieved of its liability to the plaintiff
by reason of any relation which subsisted between him and it
at the time of the accident arising out of the employment in
which he was engaged, because, among other reasons, it did
not appear that the defect in the road was the result of any
such negligence in the servant as to excuse the defendant, bat
was caused by a want of repair in the superstructure between
the tracks of the defendant's road, which defendant was bound
to keep in a suitable and safe condition so that plaintiff could
pass over it without incurring the risk of injury. The liability
was rested dn the implied obligation of the master, under his
contract with those whom he employs, to use due care in supplying and maintaining suitable instrumentalities for the performance of the work or duty which he requires of them, and
renders him liable for damages occasioned by a neglect or
omission to fulfil this obligation, whether it arises from his
own want of care or that of his agents to whom he entrusts
the duty.
We regarded this doctrine as so well settled that in Texas c
Pacific Railway v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 607, we contented ourselves, without discussion, with a reference to some of the
cases in this court upon the subject. The decisions in the State
of M,ichigan are to the same effect. -an .Dusen v. Letellie., 78
Michigan, 492; Sadowski v. XM ichigan Car Oompany, 84: Michigan, 100 - Roux v. Blodgett & Davis Iumber Co., 85 Michigan,
519 ; Ashman,v. Plint d PareMarquette Railroad,90 Michigan,
567. Upon the whole, we see no ground for excepting this case
from the rules governing other cases involving questions of fact.

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
Syllabus.

The question of negligence is one of law for the court only
where the facts are such that all reasonable men must draw
the same conclusion from them, or, in other words, a case
should not be withdrawn from the jury unless the conclusion
follows as matter of law that no recovery can be had upon
any view which can be properly taken of the facts the evidence tends to establish. Railway Company v. Ives, 144 U. S.
408, 417; Railway Company v. Cox, 145 U. S. 593, 606;
Railroad Corany v. .Miller, 25 Michigan, 274; Sadowski v.
car Company, 84 Mlichigan, 100.
Tested by this rule we are of opinion that the case should
have been left to the jury under proper instructions, inasmuch as an examination of the record discloses that there
was evidence tending to show that the crossing was in an
unsafe condition; that the ijbjury happened in consequence;
that the defect was occasioned under such circumstances, and
was such in itself, that its existence must have been known to
defendant; that sufficient time for repairs had elapsed; and
that the plaintiff was acting in obedience to orders in uncoupling at the place and time, and as he was; was ignorant of
the special peril; and was in the exercise of due care.
The judgment is reversed, and te cause remanded with a
direction to grant a new trial.
MR. JUsTIcE FIERL did not hear the argument and took no
part in the consideration or decision of this case.

EUSTIS v. BOLLES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREA

JUDICIAL COURT OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 74. Argued November 9,10, 1893. -Decided

November 20, 1893.

The decision by the Supreme Judicial Court of fassa~husetts that a creditor of an insolvent debtor, who proves his debt in insolvency, and
accepts the benefit of proceedings under the state statute of May 13,
1884, entitled "Au act to provide for composition with creditors in

