OCTOBER TEIRA.

1893.

Syllabus.

mon sense? Does any one suppose that the jury understood
the court to instruct them that the witnesses for the government were telling the truth, and that the defendant was lying
When he testified differently? Is it not clear that they would
understand simply that -their attention was called to the effect
on his credibility of a contradiction between his testimony and
that of disinterested witnesses ? Ias it come to this that the

use of the "definite article" in a charge is sufficient to set
aside b verdict and overthrow a trial? It is indisputable that
where the government calls an accomplice, it is the right, if
not the duty, of the court to call the attention of the jury to his
relationship to the case,. and the bearing which such relationship has upon his credibility. If it may iind ought to do that
to protect the defendant against the danger oF perjury on the
part of witnesses of the government, may ft not, and ought it
not to, do the same to protect the government against thn, at
least equal, danger of perjury on the defendant's part? It is
the duty of the trial court to hold the scales even between
the government .and the defendant, and, generally speaking,
what it may and ought to do on the one side it may and
ought to do on the other. For these reasons I dissent.
I am authorized to say that MR. JusTIcE B.RowN concurs
with me in this dissent.

COLUMBIA MILL COMPANY v. ALCOR{N.
AIPEAL FRO

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

TIE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 115. 'Submitted Novembei- 24, 1S'33. -Decided

Deamber 4, 1893

A person cannot acquire a right to the exclusive use of the word " Colunibia" as x trade-mark.
To acquire a right to the exclisive use of a nmne, device, or symbol as a
trade-mark, it must appear that it was adopted for the purpose of identifyiug the origin or ownership of the article to which it is attached, or

COLUMBIA

LL COMPAXY. IV.ALCORII.

-161 .

Opinion of the Court.
that such trade-mark points distinctively to the origin, manufacture, or
Qwnership of the article on which it is stamped, and is designed to indicate the owner or prQduccr of the commodity, and to distinguish it from
like articles manufactured by others.
If a device, mark, or symbol is adopted or placed upon an article for the
purpose of identifying its class, grade, style, or quality, or for any purpose other than a reference to or indication of its ownership, it cannot
be sustained as a valid trade-mark..
The exclusive right to the use of a mark or device claimed as a trade-mark
is founded on priority. of appropriation, 'and it must appear that -the
claimant of it was the first to use or employ it on like articles of production.
A trade-mark cannot consist of words in common use as designating local:
ity, section, or region of country.
In the case of'an alleged violation of a valid trade-mak the similarity of
brands must be such as to mislead ordinary observers, in order to justify
a restraining injunction.,

IN equity to restrain an alleged violation of a trade-mark.
Decree dismissing the bill, from which complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.Ar. P. E. Gunckel, for appflant, submitted on his brief.
No -Appearance for appellee.
RM.

OusTiciE

JAcKsozr delivered the opinion of the court.

The complainant, a corporation of Minnesota, engaged in
the manufacture of flour.at Minneapolis in that State, brought
this bill to restrain the defendants from using the word
"Columbia" in a brand placed on flour sold by them. The
complainant alleged that it had selected this word as a fanciful
and arbitrary name or trade-mark 4t least five years prior to
the filing of the bill, for the use and purpose of identifying a
certain quality of flour of its own manufacture. The complainang's brand, printed on sacks and stencilled on the heads
6f barrels, was in the form of a circle, in .the upper arc of
which were the words "Columbia Mill Co.," and in the lower
arc, "Minneapolis, Minn." Thdse words were printed in blue.
On a horizontal line, and in the middle of the circle, was the

-

OCTOBER TERM'J, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged trade-mark, "Columbia," in large letters, which was
printed in red. Below this word, on separate lines and in
smaller letters, were the words "Roller Process" and "Patent."
The bill also .alleged that the brand of flour on. which the
trade-mark was affixed obtained an extensive sale, and became
gerilerally known throughout the country, but that in the
years 1887 and 1888 purchasers and consumers thereof were
misled and deceived by the defendants, who put up in similar
packages an imitation of the flour manufactured by the complainant, which was thus sold by them under the name, brand,
and trade-mark "Columbia." It was further alleged that the
flour thus sold, although inferior in quality to the complainant's article, caused a great diminution in the business of
the complainant. The bill prayed for an injunction and an
accounting of the profits on all the flour sold by the defendants under the brand of "Columbia."
The defendants answered that they carried on in Philadelphia.a general business of buying outright, and of selling on
commission, flour consigned to them, and that in accordance
with the custom of the trade they had their own brands put
on the sacks and barrels of flour handled by them. They
admit that one of the brands so used was in the form of a
circle, hav.ing the words "High Grade" in the upper arc, and
under those words "No. 1;" then on the next line "Hard
Wheat," under which, in large letters, was the word "Columbia," and below that, in letters of the same size, was the word
"atenf," and the figures "196" in another line below. On
the lower are of the circle were the word§ ":Minneapolis,
Minn." The answVer stated that the whole of the brand was
printed in black ink. The defendants further averred that
"they have never sold any flour not manufactured by. the
complainant as being the flour of the complainant. That
they have not knowingly or actually used, or caused to be
used, any brand for flour in imitation of any brand used by
the complainant, nor have they ever sold any "flour branded
in "initation of complainant's flour. That they have never
-come in competition with complainant's flour, nor has any one
ever purchased the respondents' flour believing it to be of the

COLUMBIA MILL COMPANY v. ALCORN.
Opifnion of the Court.

complainant's manufacture. That they deny any claim on the
part of the complainant to any right to the name 'Columbia'
as a trade-mark, averring that the same was used by these
respondents and other parties long before the said complainant
commenced to use it, and that other mills beside the complainant's manufacture and sell flour branded ' Columbia.'"
Upon the pleadings and proofs, the court below held that
the complainant had not established its exclusive right to the
use of the word "Columbia," in a brand for flour, and dismissed the bill. From this decree the present appeal is prosecuted.
We are clearly of opinion that there is no error in the judgrihent of the court below. The general principles of law applicable to trade-marks, and the conditions under which a party
may establish an exclusive right to the use of a name or symbol, are well settled by the decisions of this court in the following cases: Canal Co. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311; .3foLean v.
-Fleming,96 U. S. 245; ffanufacturbzi Co. v.T,'ainer, 101
U.S. 51; GoodyearC'o. v. Goodyear ilbber Co., 1228 U. S. 598;
Corbi7 v. Gould, -13a U. S. 308; Lawrence .Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee .3fg. Co., 138 U. S. 537; Brown Chemical Co. v.
.Azeyer, 139 U. S. 540.
These cases estdiblish. the following general propositions:
(1) That to acquire the right to the exclusive use of a name,
device, or symbol, as a trade-mark) it must appear that it was
adopted for the purpose of identifying the origin or ownership of the article to which it is attached, or that such trademark must point distinctiVely, either by itself or by association,
to the origin, manufacture, or ownership of the article on
which it is stamped. It must be designed, as its primay
object and purpose, to indicate the owner or producer of the
commodity, and to distinguish it from like articles 'manufactured by others. (2) That if the device, mark, or symbol was
adopted' or placed upon the article for the purpose of identifying its class, grade, style, or quality, or for any purpose other
than a reference to or indication of its ownership, it cannot be
sustained as a valid trade-mark. (3) That the exclusive right
to the use of the mark or device claimed as a trade-mark is

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

founded on priority of appropriation; that is to say, -the
claimant of the trade-mark must have been the first to use
or 'employ the same on like articles of production. (4) Such
trade-mark cannot consist of words in common use as designating locality, section, or region of country.
The alleged trade-mark cannot, for many reasons, bo made
the subject of an exclusive private property.' First, because
it is clearly shown from the proof in the cause that the word
"Columbia," as a brand upon sacks or barrels of flour, was in
use long before its appropriation by the complainant.
It is established by the evidence that as early as 1865 or
1866 a brand was made for Lee & Hollingsworth, owners of
the Columbia Mills of Brooklyn, INew York, which was placed
upon their sacks or barrels of flour, in the form of a circle.
The upper part of the circle was formed of the words "Colum-,
bia Mills." In the middle of the circle, in large letters, was
the word "Columbia," and above awl below this word were
placed, respectively, "196" and "XXX." In the lower arc of
the circle were the words "Family Flour." The wihole brand
was printed in black, and was encompassed by a black circular
border.
-It is further shown by the proof that the word "Columbia,"
before its adoption by the complainant, was used by the Columbia Mill Company of Columbia, Brown County, Dakota;
by the Columbia Elevator and Grain Mills of Providence,
Rhode Island; by the Columbia Mill Company of Oakland,
Indiana; and by S. S. Sprague & Company of Providence,
Rhode Island. The word "Columbia" having been thus pre-,
viously appropriated and used upon barrels and sacks of flour,
was not subject to exclusive appropriation thereafter by the
complainant, so as to make it a valid trade-mark such as the
law will recognize and protect.
Second. The word "Columbia " is not the subject of exclusive appropriation under the general rule that the word or
words, in -ommon use as designating locality, or section of a
country, cannot be appropriated by any one as his exclusive
trade-mark.
In Canal Ca. v. Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 321, it was held that the

COLUMBIA MILL COMPANY v. ALCORN.
Opinion of the Court.

word Lackawanna, which is the name of a region of country
in Pennsylvania, could not be, in combination with the word
coal, constituted a trade-mark, because every one who mined
coal in the valley of Lackawanna had a right to represent
his coal as Lackawanna coal. Speaking for the court, Mr. Jus-'
tice Strong said: "The word ' Lackawanna' was not devised by
the complainants. They found it a settled and known appellative of the district in which their coal deposits and those of
others were situated. At the time they began to use it, it was
a recognized description of a region, and of course of the
earths and minerals in the region. .
It must be then
considered as sound doctrine that no one can apply the name
of a district of country to a well-known article of commerce,
and obtain thereby such an exclusive right to the application
as to prevent others inhabiting the district, or'dealing in similar articles coming from the district, from truthfully using the
same designation."
In Koelder v. Sanders, 122 N. Y. 65, it Was held that the
word "international" could not be exclusively appropriated
by any one as a part of a trade name, because the word was a
generic term in common use, and in its nature descriptive of a
business to which it pertains, rather than to the origin or
proprietorship of the article to which it might be attached.
In Connell v. Reed, 128 Mass. 477, it was held that the
words "East Indian," in connection with "Remedy," placed
upon bottles of medicine, were not the subject of a trademark. In that case Mr. Chief Justice Gray, speaking for the
court, said: "that it was at least doubtful whether words in
common use as designating a vast region of country and its
products can be appropriated by any one as his exclusive trademark, separately from his own, or some other name, in which
he has a peculiar right."
In Glendon Iron Co. v. Uhler, 75 Penn. St. 467, a corporation adopted the trade-mark "Glendon," which was placed
upon their iron. The place where their furnace was located
was afterwards erected into a borough by the name of Glendon. Another company, engaged in business in the same
place, afterwards used the word "Glendon" on their iron. It
VOL. cL--30

OCTOBER TER-i,

1893.

Opinion of the Court.

was held that the second company had a right so to do. The
ruling of the court was rested on the ground that the name
"Glendon" was common to the whole world, and that the
previous appropriation of it by the complainant did not prevent any other manufacturer of pig iron, in its limits, from
using the same word.
In Laughman's Appeal, 128 Penn. St. 1, it was held that the
word "Sonman," being the name of a large boundary of laud,
containing a number of separate private estates, owned by a
number of different persons engaged in the business of mining
and shipping coal, could not be adopted as a trade name by
one party to the exclusion of others.
In the leading case of Amoskeag 3Ifg. Co. v. 8pear, 2 Sandf.
599, it is laid down that no one has a right to appropriate a
sign or symbol which, from the nature of the fact it ig used to
signify, others may employ with equal truth, and, therefore,
have-an equal right to employ for the same purpose.
It is uppn these principles that a person' may put his own
name upon his own goods, notwithstanding another person of
thesame name may, in that name,,rhanufacture and sell the
same or similar articles. Brown Chernical Co. v. .Meyer, 139
U. S. 540.
The appellant was no more entitled to the exclusive use of
the word "Columbia" as a trade-mark than he would have
been to the use of the word "America," or "United States,"
or "Minnesota," or "Minneapolis."
These merely geographical names cannot be appropriated and made the subject of an
exclusive property. They do not, in and of themselves, indicate anything in the nature of origin, manufacture, or ownership; and in the presefit case the word "Columbia" gives no
information on the subject of origin, production, or ownership.
The upper part of the brand or label of the trade-mark discloses the full name of the complainant as the manufacturer
of the article, and is in no way supplemented or made clearer
by the word "Columbia."
It can no more be said that it
was intended to designate origin or ownership than to denote
the quality of the flour oil which the brand was placed, and.
the proof tends strongly to show that the whole label was

COLUMBIA MILL COMPANY v. ALOORN.
Opinion of the Court.

intended to indicate the quality, or class, or character of the
flour, as being made of spring wheat instead of winter
wheat.
It is further shown by the proof that for the particular
girade of flour, on which the brand including the alleged trademark "Columbia '1 was used, the complainant had at least
three 9ther trade names, such as" Golden Rod," "Best," and
"Superlative," which were used indiscriminately, and for different sections of the country, with the word "Columbia."
The quality and process of manufacture were identically the
same, and all made from spring wheat, whether one trade
name or the.other Was used thereon.
It is also shown by the testimony in this case that the flour
manufactured from spring wheat,, such" as that dealt in both
by the complainant and the defendants, is never sold or boughtsimply on the brand, but usually, if not always, by actual
sample, and the proof fails to establisl that the brand of the
appellees was calculated to mislead, or did actually deceive or
mislead, any one into supposing that the flour'of the complainant was being bought. So it cannot be said that the defendants were personating the complainant's business by using
such a description or brand as to lead customers to suppose
that they were trading with the appellant. Even in the case
of a valid trade-mark, the similaritv of brands must be such
as to mislead the ordinary, observer.
For the foregoing reasons we are clearly of opinion that
there was no error in the court below in dismissing the bill,
and the same is, accordingly,

