'420

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

Harden v. Fisher, 1 Wheat.. 300, 303 ; Barnes v. MVlliams, 11
Wheat. 415; AfcArthur v. Porter's Lessee, 1 IPet. 626; Ew
parte _Freench, 91 U. S. 423; Ryan "V. Carter, 93 U. S. 78, 81;
-Aodgesv. Easton, 106 U. S. 408, 411; Fort Scott v. Hickman,
112 U. S. 150, 165; Tyre & 8,pring Forks Co. v. Spalding, 116
U. S. 541, 545, 546; Allen v. S. Louis Bank, 120 U. S. 20, 30,
40; 1?aimond v. Terrebonne Parish, 132 U. S. 192; Lloyd v.
cfioWiliams, 137 U. S. 576.
Judgment 'reversed and cause remacndedfor a new trial.

SEEBERGER v. HARDY.
SPALDING v. YOUNG.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN TED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Noo. 93, 276. Argued November 21,1893.-u-Deeided December 4,1893.

In estinlating the amount of duty to be imposed upon shell opera glasses
under the tariff act of March 3, 1883, 22 Stat. 488, c. i21,the value of the
materials should be taken at the time when they are put together to form
the completed glass.
The question wbether the opera glasses should be regarded as falling.
within the description of paragraph 216, as a manufacture composed
wholly or in part of metalis not raised by the record; and, no instruction
bhsed upon that interpretation having been asked of the court below,
this court does not find it necessary to express an opinion on the subject.

THESE were actions against the collector of the port of
Chicago to recover duties claimed to have been erroneously,
assessed upon certain consignments of pearl operaglasses. The
facts and the questions of law involved in the two actions
were similar, except in some unimportant details. The opera
glasses consisted of lenses in a- metal frame, with an outer
covering of shell. The question litigated was under which of
the three following provisions of the tariff act of Mlarch 3,

SEEBERGE R o. hARDY.
Statement ol the Case.

1883, 22 Stat. 488, c.-121, were so-called, shell opera glasses
dutiable:
By paragraph 143, (page 497,) "Porcelain and Boheinian
glass, chemical glassware, painted glassware, stained glass, gnd
all other manufactures of glass, or of which glass shall be the.
component material of chief value,,not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act," were dutiable at 45 per cent ad
.valorem.
By .paragraph 216, (page 501,) "Manufacturesi articles, or
wares,. not specially enumerated or provided for in this act,
composed wholly or in part of iron, steel, copper, lead, nickel,
pewter, tin, zinc, gold, silver, platinum, or any other meal,
and whether partly or wholly manufactured," were subject to
45 per cent ad valorem.
'By paragraph 486, (page D14,) "Shells, whole or parts of,
manufactured, of every description, not specially enumerated
or provided for in this act," were dutiable at 25 - per cent
ad valorem.
As these opera glasses were made of a combination of three
materials, namely, glass, metal, and shell, they were also
claimed to be subject to Rev. Stat. ยง 2499, as. amended by the'
said act of March 3, 1"883, (page 491,) viz.: "On all articles
manufactured from two or more materials the duty shall be
assessed at the highest rates at which the component materidl
of chief value may be chargeable. If two or more rates qf
duty-should be applicable to any imported article, it shall be
classified for duty under the highest of such rates."
Upon the trial, certain depositions were offered in evidence
tending to show the relative value of the component parts of
which the opera glasses were made up; to the reading of which.
counsel for the defendant objected "upon the ground that'the
said depositions did not give in detail the values of the metal,
shell, and glass,, component parts of 'the pearl opera glasses in
this suit, in the condition in which the opera glass manufacturer received them." The depositiotis were admitted and
counsel excepted.
In this connection the court charged the jury that "in
determining which of -the materials (manufacture of metal,

4212

OCTOBER TERI , 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

manufacture of shell, or manufacture of glass) composing, the
opera glasses in question was the component material of chief
value, they must ascertain what were their values at the time
they were in such condition that nothing remained to be (lone
upon them except putting them together to make the perfected glasses." Defendant excepted to this instruction, and
asked the court to charge "that . in arriving at what was the
component material of chief value in the said'opera glasses,
they should look and look only at the respective values of the
metal, shell, and glass in the raw and unmanufactured state
in which the opera glass manufacturer received them, and
before their respective values had been enhanced by the manufacturer by means of any work, labor, or time expendedthereon." This was refused. In each case the jury returned
a verdict fbr the plaintiff importer; upon which judgment was
entered, and the collector sued out this writ of error.
-r. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintifs in
error.
Mr. T. lFickham Smith for defendants in error.
Percy L. Shuman was with him on the brief.

-Mr.

MR. JUSTIE BRowN, after .stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
These cases turn upon the question whether,-in estimating
the value of the component materials of which a certain
manufactured article is made, "thevalue of the materials shall
be taken in the raw and unmanufactured condition in which
the manufacturer receives them, and before their respective
values have been enhanced by work expended upon them,
or in the condition that nothing remains to be done upon
them by the manufacturer except puttifig them together
to make the completed glass.
It appeared th6 manufacturer bought the metal in the
shape -of ingots, the shell in the natural form of mother-ofpearl, and the glasses in the rough state in which they leave

SEEBERGER v. HARDY.
Opinion of ,.the Court.

the cast. In neither case did the defendant introduce any
testimony. Nothing, therefore, appears in the record as to
the value of the materials when purchased appropriate to
each opera glass. It is evident that the question involved
is one of considerable importance, as in some articles, the
raw material is the main cost, and in others, the labor.
We think the theory of the importer was the correct one,
and that the value of the materials should be taken at the
time they are put together to form the completed glass.
There are grave difficulties in making the estimation at any
other time. Whether, for instance, the shell shall be taken in
its rough and uncleansed state as it comes from the animal,
or after it has been cleaned and polished. Shall the glass
be taken in its polished or unpolished state? Shall the.
value of the metal be taken immediately after it is smelted
or in a more advanced state of manufacture? The positionf
of the government seems to be that the value of the component materials should. be taken as they go into the hands
of the manufacturer. But one manufacturer may buy them
in their rough state, another in their polished state, and
another in their final state, ready to be put together in tie
form of a glass. The value of the raw material, as is shown
in this case with respect to the shell and copper, may be
subject to violent fluctuations.
One manufacturer may
have bought them at a high price, another at a low price,
both being held a considerable time in stock. What price shall
govern? Thus, in appraising the value of a piece of furniture
made of wood and silk plush, it-would be obviously inequitable
to take the value qf the lumber as it comes from the tree, and
the silk from the worm or the spinner. The true rule would
seem to be to take each of them as they go into the
furniture.
While it may be true that to a certain extent the government may be at the mercy of the importers' witnesses in
estimating the value of the labor put upon the raw material
as it goes into the completed article, this difficulty cannot
be allowed to defeat the plain object of the enactment. Such
difficulties -were doubtless foreseen, as they did not appear

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.

to be of such magnitude as to prevent Congress, in the act
of 1890, from providing particularly that "the value of each
component material-shall be determined by the ascertained
value of such material in its condition as found in the article,"
and thus putting the question at rest. We regard this as
merely declaratory of the law.
There is another point raised in this case, namely, that the
opera glasses should be regarded as falling within the description of paragraph 216, as a manufacture composed wholly
or in part of metal, and, therefore, dutiable at 45 per cent
ad valorem. As this question is not raised by the record, and
no instruction was asked of the court based upon this interpretation, we do not find it necessary to express an opinion

upon the subject.
The judgment of the court below in each case, is therefore,
Affirmed.

MoALEER v. UITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 108. Argued November 23, 1893.-Decided December 4, 1893.
An employ6 in the Treasury Department, having obtained letters patent for
an invention which proved to be of use in the department, executed an
indenture to the department in which he said: "For the sum of one
dollar and other valuable consideration to me paid by the said department, I do hereby grant and license the said United Stateg Treasury
Department and its bureaus the right to make and use machines containing the improvements claimed in said letters patent to the full end of
the term for which said letters patent are granted." Held, that this
instrument constituted a contract fully executed on both sides, which
gave the right to the Treasury Department, without liability for remuneration thereafter, to make and use the machines containing the patented
improvements to the end of the term f6r which the letters were granted;
which contract could not be defeated, contradicted, or varied, by proof
of a collateral parol agreement inconsistent with its terms.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
rendered March 31, 1890, dismissing the petition of one Philip

