UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.'
Statement of the Case.

of guilt the cool, deliberate act, and the result of hasty
passion." In the language complained of, he goes on to say
that mere passion does not reduce the crime from murder to
manslaughter, for it may be a passion voluntarily created for
the purpose of homicide; but it must spring from some
wrongful act of the party slain at the time of the homicide,
or so near theretofore as to give no tiihe for passion to cool.
Applying the rule to the facts in evidence, the instruction
was that, if the defendaftt in a moment of passion, aroused by
the wrongful treatment of his brother and without any previous preparation, did the shooting, the offence would be
manslaughter and not murder; but as is immediately thereafter added, if he prepared himself to kill, and had a previous
purpose to do so, then the mere fact of passion would not
reduce the crime below murder.
We see nothing in this of which the defendant can properly
complain, and as this is the only matter called to our attention, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be
Ajflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. PATTERSON.
APPEAL FROMI THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 951.

Submitted October 20, 1893.-Decided October 30, 1893.

A commissioner of a Circuit Court of the United States is not entitled,
under Rev. Stat. ยง 847, to compensation for hearing charges made by
complaining witnesses against persons charged with violations of the
laws of the United States, and holding examinations of such complaining
,witnesses and any other witnesses produced by them in support of their
allegation, and deciding whether a warrant should not issue upon the
complaint made.
Although such services are of a judicial nature, and may be required by the
laws of the State in which they are rendered, they cannot be charged
against the United States in the absence of a provision by Congress for
their payment.

Tis was an appeal from a judgment of the Court of Claims,
in favor of the claimant and against the United States. The
VOL. CL-5

OCTOBER TERIM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
claimant was a commissioner of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of North Carolina, and
as such commissioner performed certain services for the defendants, consisting, as stated in the findings, "of hearing
charges made by complaining witnesses against persons charged
with violations of the laws of the United States, and holding
examinations of such complaining witnesses, and any other
witnesses produced by them in support of their allegation, and
deciding whether a warrant should not issue upon the complaint made." For such services that court held that he was
entitled to compensation at the rate of five dollars per day, and
rendered judgment accordingly..
A r. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and .Mr. CIharles C.
Binney for appellants.
.A r. William IF. Dudley, ilir. Louis T. .fichlener, .A-.
Richard P. lMeffahor, and Mr. George A. Zing for appellee.
Mr. JuSTIOE BREWER
opinion of the court.

, after stating the case, delivered the

The single question presented by-this record is whether the
services described by the finding of the Court of Claims come
ri o
within this clause of section 8417 of the Revised Statutes: "Fo
r
hearing and deciding on criminal charges, five dollars a day
for the time necessarily employed." No opinion was filed by
the Court of Claims, but the reasoning by which the majority
of that court reached their conclusion seems from the briefs of
counsel to have been as follows: Section 847 provides, generally, for the compensation of commissioners, some services
named therein being of a clerical and some of a judicial nature.
This section was considered by this court in Un ited States v.
Jones, 134 U. S. 483, and in the opinion therein, on pages 486
and 487, it was said: "The compensation of a commissioner is
clearly prescribed and classified by section 847 of the Revised
Statutes according to the character of the services performed.
For acts purely clerical and ministerial, such as administering
oaths, taking acknowledgments, taking and certifying depo-

U1NITED STATES v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

sitions to file, or furnishing a copy of the same, specific fees
are provided, and for issuing writs or warrants or other services he has the same compensation as is allowed to clerks for
like services. For acts not merely clerical, but which are performed by the commissioner in his judicial capacity, his fees
are regulated on a basis of per diem compensation." These
services were clearly not of a clerical, but of a judicial nature.
It was held in the case of United States v. Ei'iltg, 140 U. S.
142, that, in view of section 1014 of the Revised Statutes, the
law of the State in which the services are rendered must be
looked at, in order to determine what is necessary in the matter
of procedure; and referring to the laws of the State of Nortth
Carolina these provisions are found:
"CODE OF NORTH CAROLINA, Vol. 1, Sec. 1133.
Duty of
magistrateo complaint being made to 1i.7 of the comm-ission
qf a crime.-Whenever complaint shall be made to any such
magistrate, that a criminal offence has been committed within
this State, or without this State and within the United States,
and that a person charged therewith is in this State, it shall
be the duty of such magistrate to examine on oath the complainant and any witnesses who may be produced by him.
"SEC. 1134.- -Duty of magistrate to issue his warrantfor the
arrestof the accused.-If it shall appear from such examination
that any criminal offence hag been committed, the magistrate
shall issue a proper warrant under his hand, with or without
seal, reciting the accusation, and commanding the office', to
whom it shall be directed, forthwith to take the person accused
of having committed such offence and to bring him before a
magistrate, to be dealt with according to law."
Therefore, it is the duty of a commissioner, as of a committing magistrate of the State, to examine on oath the complainant and other witnesses, and, upon a consideration of such
testimony, determine whether a crime has been committed,
and this before issuing any warrant. It being his duty to
render these services, and they being of a judicial nature, he is
entitled to compensation therefor, and, by the rule laid down,
on the basis of a per diem.
We are unable to poneur in this reasoning. It may be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

ceded that the services thus described are of a judicial character, and that they are required by the laws of the State of
North Carolina, though for that matter substantially the same

practice exists elsewhere, and under most systems of criminal
procedure; yet unless Congress has made specific provision for
compensation for such services, none can be charged agaLinst
the United States. The inquiry is never limited to the fact or
the character of services, but always extends to the statutory
authqrity for compensation. The latter being wanting, no
recovery can be had. Now the clause in question, and this is
the only clause that can be relied on, provides a per diem compensation "for hearing and deciding on criminal charges."
A criminal charge, strictly speaking, exists only when a formal
written complaint has been made against the accused and a
prosecution initiated. It is true the popular understanding of
the term is "accusation," and it is freely used with reference
to all accusations, whether oral, in the newspapers, or otherwise; but in legal phraseology it is properly limited to such
accusations as have taken shape in a prosecution. In the eyes
of the law a person is charged with crime only when he is
called upon in a legal proceeding to answer to such a charge.
Mfere investigation by prosecuting officers, or even the inquiry
and consideration by examining magistrates of the propriety
of initiating a prosecution, do not of themselves create a criminal charge. The hearing and deciding on a criminal charge is
something which takes place only after the criminal charge
has been legally made. Ia Bouvier's Law Dictionary (I Bouv.
p. 581) "Iearin g " is thus defined: "The examinatiQn of a
prisoner charged with a crime or misdemeanor and of the witnesses for the accused." In 9th American and English Encyclopwdia of Law, p. 324, it is said to be "the preliminary
examination of a prisoner charged with a crime and of witnesses for the prosecution and defence." See, also, Wharton's
Criminal Pleadings and Practice, ยง 70.
The question presented in the Jones case was whether the
hearing and deciding of motions with respect to bail, and for
continuances in cases pending before the commissioner, was a
hearing and deciding on criminal charges within the scope of

1tNITE)

STATES v. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

that clause, and it was held that it was. But in that case the
criminal charges had been made; that is, formal written complaints had been filed, warrants issued, the defendants arrested,
and cases were pending, and the ruling was that any judicial
action in such cases was hearing and deciding on criminal
charges, and the general language of classification used in the
opinion must be taken in connection with the facts as. they
existed and the question presented. It was not intended to
hold that for every act of a judicial nature, any more than for
every act of" a clerical nature, a comnmissioner was entitled to
compensation. His compensation is limited to those specific
services for which Congress has provided compensation, and
words and phrases of accepted meaning in legal phraseology
must -not, because they may be popularly used in a broader
sense, "begiven, when found in a statute, that popular significance so as to enlarge the matters in respect to which compensation has been authorized and may be awarded. There
is nothing in the case of Counselman. v. ifitchcock, 142 U. S.
547, which militates against the views herein expressed. In
that case a distinction was drawn between the terms criiinal case" in the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution, and
"criminal prosecution" in the Sixth Amendment, and the
former, for the protection of the citizen, given a broad construction, and so as t'o include investigations before a grand
jury. The limitation placed upon the term "criminal prosecution" coincides with that here given to "criminal charges."
Our conclusion is that for these services, though of a judicial
nature, performed before the filing of the formal written complaint and the arrest of the defendants, Congress has provided
no compensation. Judgment will therefore be
Reversed, and the case remanded with instructionsto render
judgmentfor the United States.

