MAGIN v. KARILE.
Opinion of the Court.

ance in that suit; did not intervene or claim any rights in the
property, and they were represented in that suit by the corporation, the party under whom both they and the trustee
claimed. A decree of dismissal was, therefore, proper. It
appears in the record as a decree upon the merits. It should
have been for want of jurisdiction, and to that extent the
decree as entered will be modified. The appellants will be
charged with all the costs in the case.
.Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTicE BRowN and MR. JUSTICE J-CsoN dissented.

MAGIN v. KARLE.
MAGIN v. LEHMAN.
APPEALS FROM

1HE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 84, 85. Argued November 15,16, 1893.--Decided November 27, 1893.

Letters patent 248,646, granted to Charles Gordon, October 25, 1881, for
"an improved apparatus for cooling and drawing beer" are void for
want of patentable novelty, and the invention patented was anticipated.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr. John R. Bennett, (with whom was .X.
on the brief,) for appellant.

George B. Seden,

Mr. Josiah Sullivan for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the court.

These two causes present the same questions on the same state
of facts. They were heard in the lower court and in this
court as practically one case, and will therefore be considered

388

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

and determined together. The suits were brought by the
appellant as assignee of letters patent No. 248,646, granted to
Charles Gordon, October 25, 1881, for "an improved apparatus
for cooling and drawing beer," against the respective appellees
for the alleged infringement of the patent. The defences
interposed by the answer of each respondent were, want of
patentable novelty in the invention covered by the letters
patent, the anticipation thereof by certain prior deviccs, and
non-infringement. The latter defence was not insisted on,
either in the court below or in this court, the main defence
relied on being that of anticipation by a prior apparatus used
for the same purpose before the date of the Gordon invention.
ipon this question much proof was taken on both
sides.
The causes were heard before Mr. Justice Blatchford, sitting in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, who found from the proof that the
existence of the prior anticipating device was clearly established, and shown to have been in practical use before the
Gordon invention. The court said:
"This is the same 'atent which was involved in the suits
of .faginr v. .Mc. y and .tagin v. Trelker, decided by me in
this court August 20, 1885, 24 Fed. Rep. 743. In the opinion
in those cases, the material parts of the specification and the
four claims are set forth, and the operation of the apparatus is
described. It was there held that, so far as claims 1 and 4
were concerned, the invention was anticipated by an apparatus
put in use by one Meinhard, in Rochester, New. York, in the
summer of 1877, and which was continued in use about four
years. A description was given of that apparatus, and it was
held, on the evidence, that it was practical and successful, and
embodied the same principle as that of Gordon; that it was
continued in use for nearly two years after Gordon obtained
his patent; and that, although it did not contain the non-conducting jacket surrounding the outer wall of the cold-air
passage, which was a feature in claim 3 of the patent, there
was no patentable invention in adding a non-conducting jacket
to the elements found in claim 1, or to those found in claim 4.

MAGIN v. KA LE.
Opinion of the Court.

Infringement of claim 2 was not alleged in those cases. The
bills were dismissed on the ground of the prior existence of
the Meinhard apparatus.
"In the present suits infringement is alleged in each of
them of claims 1 and 4-of the Gordon patent. The testimoily
on both sides taken in the McKay and Welker suits in regard
to the. Meinhard apparatus is introduced in evidence in the
present cases, and voluminous proofs in addition have been
taken by both parties in regard to that apparatus.
"A careful examination of all the evidence, with the aid of
exhaustive briefs for the respective parties, confirms me in the
conclusion at which I arrived in the McKay and Welker cases,
that the invention embodied in claims 1 and 1- of the Gordon
patent existed in the Meinhard apparatus prior to the time
when the invention was made by Gordon, and that that apparatus was practical and successful." 40 Fed. Rep. 155.
Ilaving reached this conclusion the court dismissed the bill,
and from that decree the present appeals are prosecuted.
The character of tlhe invention, so far as relates to the first
and fourth claims, which are the only claims alleged to be infringed by the appellees, is thus set forth in the specification:
"My invention relates to an improved apparatus having for
its object the keeping of beer, ale, or other liquid at a low
temperature during the operation of drawing the same for
consumption; and it consists in surrounding the supply plate
through which the beer is delivered to the faucet with a coldair passage, for the purpose of maintaining a low temperature
in the liquid in the supply pipe."
The first and fourth claims 'areas follows:
"1. The combination of the ice-box D, supply pipe B,
faucet 0, and the cold-air passage II, surrounding the supply
pipe, substantially as and for the purposes set forth."
"14. The combination of the ice-box D, supply pipe B,
faucet C, lower chamber F, and the cold-air passage I, communicating between the ice-box and the chamber, substantially as described."
These two claims are substantially the same, the only difference between them being that the fourth claim includes the

OCTOBER TERM , 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

lower chamber F, which is not specifically mentioned as an
element of the combination in the first claim.
The apparatus consists of an upper or saloon ice-box, provided with a suitable faucet and a chamber located in the
cellar, which is connected with the upper or saloon ice-box by
an air passage, through which passes the beer supply pipe conveying the beer from the keg in the cellar chamber to the
faucet in the upper or saloon ice-box. The air cooled by the
ice in the upper or saloon ice-box, and the water produced by
the melting of the ice, flow dowh through the air passage,
coming in contact with the beer-supply pipe, thereby reducing
the temperature of the beer contained therein, and passing
through it. The beer is forced from the keg upward through
the beer supply pipe to the faucet by air pressure introduced
in the keg by any suitable air apparatus.
Gordon made this invention in June, 1879. The anticipating apparatus was used by one Meinhard, in Rochester, New
York, in 1877, or early in 1878. That apparatus had the
upper ice-box, faucets, the lower chainber, and the supply
pipe extending from the upper to the lower chamber, and the
supply pipe was surrounded or encased in another pipe which
formed an air passage communication between the upper icebox and the lower chamber. Each supply pipe led to a. barrel
or keg in the lower chamber, and the upper portion of the
supply pipe was surrounded or encased in a tin pipe, while
the lower part was enclosed in a rubber hose. The water of
the melted ice, and the cold air from the upper ice-box, flowed
down around the supply pipe through this tin and rubber
encasement. It was claimed that this apparatus was a practical and successful one, and embodied the same principle as
that of the Gordon device, though it may have been inferior
in degree of utility and perfection, and that the Gordon
apparatus was simply an improvement, which did not involve
any patentable invention.
It is purely a question of fact, to be determined from the
testimony in the cases, whether the anticipating Meinhard
apparatus actually existed, as alleged by the appellees. They
have established by a number of respectable witnesses that

[AGIN v. KARLE.
Opinion of the Court.

such an apparatus was in practical use by Meinhard a year or
more prior to -the date of the Gordon inVention. This testimony is sought to be impeached or contradicted by the appellant, but after a careful examination thereof, we think he fails
to break down or discredit the proof by which the anticipating device is established.
The .voluminous testimony on this question of fact has been
carefully examined, and, without reviewing it in detail, we
concur with the court below in thinking that it does establish, clearly and satisfactorily, the existence of the prior
Meinhard apparatus, which constituted an anticipation of the
Gordon invention.
Again, in a stipulation entered into between the parties, it
was agreed as follows:
"It is hereby stipulated by and between the parties hereto
that prior to the date of the invention by Mr. Charles Gordon
of the improvement described, claimed in letters patent No.
, or any of the said imlrovements, there had been in
public use in the city of St. Louis, Missouri, and possibly elsewhere, a device or apparatus for drawing and cooling beer, in
which were upper. and lower ice-boxes, beer-supply pipes, beer
kegs, air pipes, air pumps, and faucets, said beer-supply pipes
being led from the lower to the upper ice-box in metallicpipes at least four inches in diameter which was filled with
sand or gravel; said metallic pipe running from the upper to
the lower ice-box; said metallic pipe being closed at its lower
end, where it joined the lower ice-box; and below the sand
or gravel by a wooden plug or disk, through which the beersupply pipes pass, this plug or disk foriniig a bottom for the
pipe for the purpose of holding the gravel in the pipe. The
said apparatus was in all respects similar to the Gordon device, except the difference hereinbefore stated, it being an
apparatus similar to the device shown on page 7 of the
'Cleveland circular,' which is offered in evidence by the defendants, and the same is received and marked 'Defendants'
Exhibit Cleveland Circular.'"
This St. Louis apparatus had a beer-supply pipe, connecting
the upper ice-box and the barrel or keg in the lower chamber,

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of 'the Court.

enclosed in a iietallic case, four inches in diameter, which was
filled with sand or gravel, through which the drippings from
the upper ice-box percolated. The metallic case, thus filled,
was designed for cooling the beer that remained in the supply
pipe by means of the drippings from the upper ice-box, which
flowed down through the same, and to some extent it accomplished the desired purpose. The principal was well known
at that time, and at the date of the Gordon invention, that
cold air from" an upper ice-box or chamber wonld descend
through an enclosed connection to a lower chamber. The
,Gordon invention, by means of an open air chamber surrounding the supply- pipe, sought to put this principle to a practical
purpose. He dispensed with the sand or gravel, such as filled
the metallic case around the supply pipe in the St. Louis
apparatus, and left that space 6pen, so that the cold air, as
well as the dfippings from the upper ice-kox, might be conducted through the same. In other words, he simply emptied
the metallic case of the St. Louis apparatus of its sand or
gravel so as to leave that metallic case open, and allow the
cold air from the upper box to flow down through the same.
This change in the apparatus does not rise to the dignity of
invention such as would entitle him to a patent. The purpose
to be accomplished was not patentable, and the particular
means devised to secure that purpose did not involve invention. Carver v. RHyde, 16 Pet. 513, 519; .eRoy v. Tatham,
14 How. 156; Corning v. Burden, .15 How. 252; Barr v.
Daryee, 1 Wall. 531 ; Fuller v. -entzer, 94 U. S. 288 ; napp
v. Morss, ante, 221.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the Gordon patent is
wanting in patentable novelty, and that it was anticipated.
The judgment of the court below, in each case, is accordingly
Afliemed.

