OCTOBER TERMIf, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK

AND

TEXAS LAND
VOTAW.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 7. Submitted October 10, 1893.-

Decidjed October 23, 1893.

In an action to try the title to land, where there is conflicting evidence as
to certain natural objects named in running the lines, an instruction to
the jury that if, after fully considering the conflicting" evidence they are
left doubtful and uncertain, they will be justified in locating the grant by
referring to such of the natural objects as are certain, is not error.
Such is the effect of the instruction to the jury in this case.

THE

..

case is stated in the opinion.
Cha les 1.. Ogden for plaintiff in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE SHRAs delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas to try the
title to a large tract of land in the county of Dimmitt and
State of Texas.
The New York and Texas Land Company, the plaintiff,
based its claim upon patents issued by the State of Texas to
the International and Great Northern Railroad Company, and
upon certain deeds of conveyance from said company through
se.veral parties down to the plaintiff. The defendant's title
originated in a grant of land by the State of Texas to the
heirs of one Juan Francisco Lombrano. This grant appears
to have been made by the State in recognition of a previous
Spanisli grant made in 1812 to Lombrano, but the defendant,
though reading this Spanish grant as evidence on the question
of the boundaries of the tract in question, relied wholly on the
patent from the State of Texas.
The record presents no question as to the validity of the title

NEW YORK & TEXAS LAND CO. v. VOTAW.

25

Opinion of the Court.

of either party, nor any bill of exception touching the admission or rejection of evidence. It was admitted by the plaintiff
that the defendant had a valid title to all of the land included
in the Lombrano grant, and that such title was prior in time
to that asserted by the plaintiffs. The sole controversy was
whether the elder Lombrano grant included the lands subsequently granted to the International and Great Northern Railroad Company. This was the issue that was before the court
and jury for determination, and to which the evidence of both
parties was directed.
We are not uked by the plaintiff in error to consider the
evidence in the cause with a view of determining whether it
warranted the jury in their verdict in favor of the defendant.
The errors complained of are found in certain portions of the
charge of the court to the jury, and our only concern with the
evidence is to enable us to peiceive whether the court committed error in its instructions to the jury.
The description contained in the Spanish grant, and which
is followed'in the patent made by Texas to the Lombrano heirs,
does not give courses, but the lines are ran from one natural
object to another. The controverted lines are the southern
and eastern boundary lines of the Lombrano grant; that is,
the lines called for in the Spanish grant as running from Tasa
Creek on the Rio Grande, to the junction of the San Ambrosia and San Pedro Creeks, and following up the San Pedro
Creek and terminating near its head, and the line running
from the head of the San Pedro Greek to the Carrizo Springs.
Several surveys wo re made, as well under the grant to the
Lombrano heirs, as that patented by Texas in 1883, to the
International and Great Northern Railroad Company. It
appears by these surveys and by the testimony of the engineers who made them, that there were either two creeks used
as natural objects in running the lines, viz., San Pedro Creek
and San Pablo Greek, or that one creek was known by different persons and at'different times, by the two names.
In this condition of the evidence the court instructed the
jury as follows:
"1. You are to determine from the evidence whether the

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

San Pedro Creek called for in the field-notes" of ihe grant is
the creek now called the San Pedro, or whether the creek
called at this time the San Pablo was, at the time this survey
was made by the surveyor, called the San Pedro Creek; and
you will look to all the calls along the creek, and from all the
evidence adduced you will determine this, as well as all other
questions of fact, by a: preponderance of the evidence, whereever the eviden.e is found to be conflicting.
"2. I may here say that if the lower creek, now called the
San Pablo, is the south line of the Lombrano grant, then your
verdict will be for the defendant.
"3. If from the evidence you find that some :of the calls
for natural objects in the grant cannot be ascertained, or, in
other words, if the natural objects are not all identified and
some of them are, then, and in that case, you will locate the
grant with reference to those that are made certain, whether
course and distance would reach the natural objects or not;
but in case no natural or artificial objects called for can he
found and .etablished, then artificial monuments would be of
next controlling power; these failing, then course and distance
would be the next best means of locating the true boundary
of the grant.
"4. From an established point it is competent to reverse
the calls, if by so doing we can better ascertain the true
boundary of the grant.
"5. The map required by law to be returned by the surveyor with his field-notes, upon which a patent is issued, may
properly be considered in connection with the field-notes, and
is part thereof inlocating the lines of the survey, unless there
are calls that control the same.
"6. The field-notes of a survey returned to the General
Land Office for patent, and upon which a patent issues, are,
to all intents and purposes, a part of the patent,' and if a
material call in such field-notes is omitted from the patent, a
certified copy of such field-notes, duly certified from the
General- Land Office, will serve to supply such omission, and
you will regard the calls in such certified copy of field-notes
the same as if correctly copied in the patent.

NEW YORK & TEXAS LAND CO. v. VOTAW.

27

Opinion of the Court.

"'7. If you find from the evidence, after applying the evidence to the calls of the patent, that
or any of the
natural objects called for are uncertain or doubtful, and some
are certain, the certain ones will govern you in establishing
the boundaries of the land.
"8. You are not confined to begin the survey at the beginning or any other particular corner; any intermediate corner
or the last corner as you find them on the ground may be
adopted by you for the purpose of locating the grant, always
giving precedence to the corner that is best identified and
that best harmonizes the various calls of the patent in the
construction of the survey."
All of these instructions are assigned for error, but the third,
'fourth, and seventh clauses are those chiefly complained of.
The argument on behalf of the plaintiff in error concedes,
in effect, that the instructions do, in a general way and apparently correctly, state the rules of law pertaining to conflicting
boundaries; but it Is contended that the instructions given
were not fairly applicable to the facts in evidence, and presented the issues to the jury in a manner that must have
withdrawn their attention from the real question. This contention of the plaintiff in error may be most favorably stated
in the following language of the brief of its counsel:
"It is quite true that the court in its general charge to the
jury instructed them that they should determine which of the
creeks was called the San Pedro at the time the survey was
made by a preponderance of evidence, but it is also true that
in the sixth clause of the general charge to the jury the court
there practically instructed them that they should locate the
grant with reference to the natural 6bjects which were, made
certain. It is submitted that in view of the issues presented
in this case and in view of the evidence which was before the
jury, even this sixth clause of the general charge was not
proper to be given, although the erroneous doctrine is not so
clearly stated in this clause of the general charge as it is in
the special charge asked by the defendant's counsel. It, however, must be evident that the idea that it was proper for the
jury to disregard any natural object called for in the grant,
-some

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.,
Opinion of the Court.

in regard to the true location of which there was any conflict
of evidence, must have been thioroughly impressed upon the
minds of the jury when they were practically so instructed in
the general charge of the court and distinctly and unmistakably so instructed in the special charge given at the request of
the counsel for the defendant inerror.
"It is possible and even probable that. a boundary case
might arise in which it would be proper for the court to
instruct the jury that if any of the objects called for in the
grant-were not identified by .;lii evidence, they could look to
some other calls in the grant to determine its true locality.
It is, however, difficult to conceive of a case in which it would
ever be proper for the court to instruct the jury that if any of
the objects called for in the grant are uncertain or doubtful,
they should be disregarded for the reason that if it were a
correct instruction in any case it would also be a correct instruction in any other case in which the true location of any
objects marking the boundary of a grhnt was in any manner
rendered doubtful by the evidence; and as this would be the
situation in every litigated case in which there was a contest
in regard to the boundary or in which there was a conflict of
evidence, it would of necessity follow that this would be a
proper charge to be given in every boundary case in which
the object of the investigation was to determine the boundaries
of the grant by ascertaining the true location of the objects
called for as marking its boundaries. It also follows that it
would therefore be proper for the jury in any contested pase
to disregard all evidence in relation to the very object to
ascertain the true location of which the proceeding was had.
The very fact that there is a litigation necessary for the purpose of ascertaining the true location of an object in itself
renders it doubtful and. uncertain, and if the doctrine announced in the charge complained of is correct, being doubtful
and uncertain, the jury will not determine its location, there
fore the litigation would be useless; there would be no need
of litigation with regard to the true location of an object
called for in a grant with regard to which there was absolutely
no doubt or uncertainty, and if that doubt or uncertainty can-

NEW YORK & TEXAS LAND CO. v. VOTAW.

29

Opinion of the Court.

not be solved by a judicial investigation it is useless to litigate
over the question.
"It must also be evident that if it were proper to instruct
the jury in a boundary case that they should make up their
verdict without regard to any facts which might be disputed,
it would also be proper to so charge them in any other case,
and thus all litigation would be at an end."
This criticism assumes that the court instructed the jury
that if there was conflicting evidence as to the existence or
location of'some of the natural objects called for in the respective grants, such objects should be wholly disregarded, and
that the verdict should be controlled by the evidence referring
to such natural objects as were certain. Such an instruction
would, indeed, as argued 6n behalf of the plaintiffs in error,
be equivalent to telling the jury to disregard all evidence in
relation to the very object to ascertain the true location of
which the proceedifng was had, and the mere fact that there
was contradictory evidence as to the true location of a
boundary line would decide the litigation in favor of the party
in possession.
But we are unable to see that these instructions express so
unreasonable a proposition. Fairly read, and as the jury must
have understood them, we understand these instructions to say
not that if there is conflicting evidence as to certain natural
objects, the jury should put such evidence and the controverted
facts wholly otit of view, and look only to other and uudisputed facts, but that if, after considering the conflicting evidence, the jury are left doubtful and uncertain, they will be
justified in locating the grant by referring to such of the
natural objects as are certain. In terms, as well as in substance, the court told the jury that they should determine the
true l6cation and name of the boundary creek, as well as all
other questions of fact in the case, "from all the evidence, and
by a preponderance of the evidence, wherever the evidence
was found to be conflicting." The seventh instruction was
explicit that "if you find from the evidence, after applying
the evidence to the ealls of the patent, that some or aby of the
natural objects called for are uncertain or doubtful, and some

OCTOBER TETAY, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

are certain, the certain ones will govern you in establishing
the boundaries of the land." Plainly, this does not mean that
the jury should refuse to consider and weigh the evidence if
conflicting, but that if, after so considering it, there should be
doubt as to the proper conclusion to be drawn, such doubts
might be resolved by referring to natural objects whose location was certain.
These observations likewise dispose of the further contention that the court below erred in instructing the jury that
"from an established point, it is competent to reverse the calls
if, by so doing, we can better ascertain the true boundary of
the grant." The argument admits that this instruction is formally correct, and only expresses a familiar rule of construction in boundary cases. But it is claimed that, as the court
bad instructed the jury to disregard all natural objects with
respect to which th6 evidence was conflicting, the jury could,
in reversing the calls, skip or disregard such, and run the lines
only by objects in regard to which there was no dispute. But,
as we have seen, the court had not instructed the jury to disregard the natural objects as to which there was conflicting
evidence, but that if they were unable to reach a satisfactory
conclusion from the conflicting evidence they should specially
regard those facts that were clearly shown. Hence the jury
would not, in reversing the calls of the patent, disregard the
points and objects in dispute, but would determine, "from all
the evidence and by the preponderance of the evidence," the
true boundaries of the grant.
We are, therefore, of opinion that there was no error in the
instructions of the court to the jury, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Aflirnzed.

