WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE CO.
Syllabus.

to be established affecting the plaintiff in error, it would have
to be by testimony introduced in the regular way, so as to give
the accused the opportunity to cross-examine the witness or
witnesses. It could not be established by acts or statements
of others directly admitting such a conspiracy, or by any statement of theirs from which it might be inferred.
The case having to be reversed for this error, it is not
deemed necessary to consider the other assignments relating
to matters which may not occur upon another trial.
For the erroneous action of the court below in improperly
admitting the testimony of Sullivan as to what Mrs. Hitchcock said after the killing, as evidence tending -to show a conspiracy,-and in charging the jury that the declarations of a
party or parties as to their participation in the criminal act
were competent evidence of the conspiracy, as against the
plaintiff in error, the judgment of the court below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the lFester, .District of Arkansas,
with direction to set aside the judgment, and awardplaintiff in error a new trial,and it is accordingly so ordered.

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE COMPANY.
PROVIDENCE INSURANCE COMPANY v. MORSE.
1PPEALS

FROM1 THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STAT.ES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 41, 49. Argued October 18, 1893.-Decided November 6,1893.
Where a bill of lading provides that in case of loss the carrier, if liable
for the loss, shall have the benefit of any insurance that may have been
effected on the goods, this provision limits the right of subrogation of
the insurer to recover over against the carrier, upon paying to the
shipper the loss.

Where the chrrier is actually and in terms the party asnsired, the

under-

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.
writer can have no right to recover over against the carrier, even if the
amount of the policy has been paid by the insurance company to the
owner, on the order of the carrier.
The claim of the master of the vessel, through whose loss the loss of the
goods insured took place, to exemption from liability to the insurance
companies having been adjudicated against him, and the appeal to this
court on that judgment having been dismissed for want of jurisdiction,
he is estopped from again setting up that claim in this case.

IN ADmLALTY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr. J.A. -yland for Wager.
.&r. Edward -D. .Mcarthy,for the Providence Insurance
Company and another.
.Afr. ,pencer Olinton, (with whom was .Mr.George Clinton
on the brief,) for Morse.
MR. TusTciE

SHIRAS

delivered the opinion of the court.

In May, 1883, Armour, Plankinton & Co., grain merchants,
having their place of business at New York city, were the
owners of a cargo of wheat, which they desired to have
brought from Buffalo, to New York. Henry Morse and
Alanson Morse, composing the firm of H. Morse & Co., were
doing business as intermediaries or middlemen between boatmen and shippers in procuring cargoes to be shipped. Charles
E. Wager was the master and owner of the canal boat
William Worden, and also of the steam canal boat Sydney.
Through one Meadows, as their agent, Armour, Plankinton
& Co. made a contract with II. Morse & Co., whereby the
latter employed Charles E. Wager to take the cargo of wheat,
amounting to 1900 bushels, on the boat William Worden,
for transportation from Buffalo to New York.
In the spring of 1883, before this cargo was shipped on the
canal boat William Worden, the said insurance ccompanies
,delivered to HU. Morse & Co. an open or running cargo policy,
vhich contained the following terms and covenants:

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"Uniform Canal Cargo Policy.
"The New England Underwriters.
"The Security Insurance Co., of New Haven, Conn.
"The Providence Washington Insurance Co., of Providence,
R.I.
"Each acting and contracting for itself, and not one for the
other, for the true performance of the premises; each company
for its own part only, which is one-half of all liability accruing under this policy, by this policy of irisurance, on account
of H. Morse & Co., for whom it may concern, do insure the
several persons whose names are hereafter endorsed hereon as
owner, advancer, or common carrier, on goods, wares, merchandise, or country produce, on his own boat, or boats belonging to others, loaded on commission or chartered, from place
to place, as endorsed hereon, or in a book kept for that purpose, for the several amounts, at the rate, and on the goods,
wares, merchandise, or country produce, as specified in the said
endorsement.
"No risk considered as insured under this policy until said
endorsement is approved and signed by these companies, or
their duly authorized agents at
-,
unless with special
agreement with the companies and endorsed hereon."
Before the cargo it question was put on board the William
Worden, H. Morse & Co. applied to Worthington &- Sill, the
general agents at Buffalo of these insurance companies, to
insure the cargo of wheat while in transitu on board the
William Worden.
That application was in writing, as follows:
"Worthington & Sill, General Agents.
"New England Underwriters' Canal Insurance.
"Office, No. 48 Main Street, Buffalo, N. Y.
"Insurance is wanted by H. Morse & Co. Loss, if any, is
payable to do. or order, on wheat inboard cargo of boat
'William Worden.' $9875, from Buffalo to New York.
"Rate c ts. is ..................
$
"Total premium ...................
"Buffalo, AXay 17, 1883.
H. MOrSE & Co., Ajvplicant."

OCTOBER TERAI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

On receipt of this application, Worthington & Sill delivered
to H. Morse & Co. a certificate of insurance in the following
words:
"Providence Washington Insurance Co., Providence,
R. I.
"Security Insurance Co., New Haven, Conn.
,"New England Underwriters.
"Inland Marine Department.
"Worthington & Sill, Gen'l Agents, Buffalo, N. Y.
"N o. 668.

"Canal Cargo Certifieate.

$9875.

"This certifies that H. Morse & Co. insured under and
subject to the conditions of policy, No. 772, issued by the
New England Underwriters, in the sum of ninety-eight hundred seventy-five dollars, inboard cargo of boat IWilliam
Worden.' On wheat $9875, at and from Buffalo to New
York.
"Loss (if any) payable, to assured or order and return of
this certificate. This certificate of insurance is not valid until
countersigned by the authorized agents for this company at
Buffalo, N. Y.
"Buffalo, N. Y., May 17, 1883.
"WORTHINGTON

&

SILL,

"General Agents."
Upon the delivery of said certificate of insurance, Worthington & Sill entered in the book kept for that purpose, "H.
Morse & Co., boat 'William Worden,' fron Buffalo to New
York, $9875, rate 15 cts., premium $14.82, wheat." This certificate of insurance was endorsed in blank by H. Morse & Co.,
and delivered to Meadows, the agent of Armour, Plankiuton
& Co.
Thereupon Wager and H. Morse & Co. signed and delivered
to Meadows an affreightment contract or bill of lading as
follows:

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURAN'CE CO.

103

Opinion of the Court.

"[Vignette.]
"BUFFAL

Kay 17, 1883.
-

"Shipped by W. Meadows, in apparent good order, on
board the canal boat 'Wm.Worden,' .of Morse, whereof
is master, the following-described property, to
be transported to place of destination without unnecessary
delay, and to be delivered as addressed on the margin in like
good order, in the customary manner, free of lighterage, upon
payment of freight and charges as prescribed in this bill.
Consignees to pay all harbor towing from and to the usual
place of landing. Three week days, regardless of weather,
(including day of arrival, providing notice of arrival shall be
given before four o'clock r.M.,) after arrival and notice of
same, to be allowed consignees to discharge this cargo, after
which time the cargo or consignees are to pay demurrage at
the rate of two and one-half per cent per day upon the freight,
including tolls, for each and every .day of such denurrage
over the three days as above specified, until the cargo is fully
discharged. And it is agreed between the carriers and shippers
and assigns that in consideration, especially of the. rate of
freight hereon named, the said carriers having supervised the
weighing of said cargo inboard,.hereby agree that this bill of
lading shall be conclusive as between shippers and assigns and
carriers as to quantity of cargo received inboard and to be
delivered at port of destination, and that they will deliver the
full quantity hereon named. All damage caused by the boat
or carrier, or deficiency in the cargo from quantity as hereon
specified, to be.paid for by the carrier and deducted from the
freight, and any excess in the cargo to be paid for to the carrier by the consignee. In case grain becomes heated while in
transit, the carrier shall deliver his entire cargo and pay only
for any deficiency caused by heating exceeding fv6 bushels
for each one thousand bushels.
"The freight charges and demurrage payable to as directed
below or order, at place of destination, who is the only party
authorized to collect -the same, and whose receipt shall be in
full for all demands on this cargo or bill of lading.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"In witness whereof the said master of said boat hath
affirmed to two bills of lading, one marked ' Original' and one
marked ' Duplicate,' of this tenor and date, one of which being
accomplished, the other to stand void.
"7900 bu. No. 2 red wheat, ex cargo schr. ' R. Hallaran.'
"Freight to New York, five (5) cents per bu.
"Advanced charges, $200.

"II. Mo~sE & Co.,
"Per C. E. WOLFE.

"(Seventy-nine hundred bushel.)
"C. E.

WAGER.

"(In margin:) Armour, Plankinton & Co., New York.
"The freight charges and demurrage, to the amount of
$516.94, are payable by check to the order of the National
Bank of the Republic, in New York, such check to be delivered
to E. B. Brooke & Co., for such. bank; the balance is payable
to said E. B. Brooke & Co., who is the only party authorized to
collect the same, whose receipts shall be in full for all demands
therefor."
Meadows, before the William Worden started from Buffalo,
forwarded this bill of ladig, with the said certificate of
insurance attached thereto, to Armour, Plankinton & Co., at
New York.
Wager signed and delivered to I. Morse & Co. a collateral
or sub-affreightment contract or bill of lading, in the following
words and figures:
" BuFr'ALo,

2-ay 18, 1883.

"Shipped by H. Morse & Co., in apparent good order, on
board the canal boat 'William. Worden,' of Syracuse, whereof
Charles E. Wager is master, the following-described property
to be transported to place of destination, without unnecessary
delay, and to be delivered as addressed on the margin, in
like good order, in the customary manner, free of lighterage,

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSUPANCE CO.
Opinion of the Court.

upon payment of freight and charges, as prescribed in this

bill.
"Consignees to pay all. harbor towing from and to the usual
place of landing. Three week days, regardless of weather,
(including day of arrival, providing notice of arrival shall be
given before four o'clock P.m.,) after arrival and notice of same,
to be allowed consignees to discharge this cargo, after which
time the cargo or consignees are to pay demurrage at the rate
of two and one-half per cent per day upon the freight, including tolls, for each and every day of such demurrage over the
three days as above specified, until the cargo is fully discharged. And it is agreed between the carriers and shippers
and assigns that in consideration especially of the rate of
freight hereon named, the said carriers having supervised the
weighing of said cargo inboard, hereby agree that this bill of
lading shall be conclusive as between shippers and assigns and
carriers as to quantity of cargo received inboard and to be
delivered at port of destination, and that they will deliver the
full quantity hereon named. All damage caused by the boat
or carrier or deficiency in the cargo from quantity as hereon
specified to be paid for by the carrier, and deducted from the
freight, and any excess in the cargo to be paid for to the
carrier by the consignee. In case grain becomes heated while
in transit, the carrier' shall deliver his enti'e cargo and pay
only for any deficiency caused byr heating, exceeding five
bushels for each one thousand bushels.
"The freight charges and demurrage to the amount of
$are payable by check to the order of
vew
York, su6h check to be delivered to
for
such bank, the balance payable to said
, who is
the only party authorized to collect the same, whose receipt
shall be in full for all demands therefor.
"Tolls on this cargo having been advanced by HI. Morse &
Co., if refunded, must be to them or to their order.
"In witness whereof the said master of said boat hath
affirmed to two bills of lading, one marked,' Original' and one
marked ' Duplicate' of this tenor. and date, one of which being
accomplished, the other to stand void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

"7900 bushels of wheat.
"Freight to New York, per bushel, 5............$395
Captain's advance ..............................

00
319 44

On safe delivery, E. B. Brooke & Co. collect as
above and pay captain ....................... $75 56
"Hold, subject to our draft, $319.44.
H. Mo~s- &-Co.,
"Care E. B. Brooke & Co., New York.
Fero.
"J. W. Schlehr, Dept. Clerk."
Morse & Co. advanced to Meadows, the agent of Armour,
Plankinton & Co., $'200 for prior advances made by said agent
upon the wheat, being charges for carriage from Chicago to
Buffalo, and by the bills of lading the cargo was to be delivered upon payment of this advance and the freight. Pursuant
to the contract between Meadows, agent, and Morse & Co.,
the latter agreed and undertook, for and in consideration of the.
payment of $395, the payment of which was made a lien on
the cargo, to transport the same to New York, and to insure
the cargo. Morse & Co. paid the premium to the insurance
companies.
Upon the voyage the William Worden was whollr under
the control of the steamboat Sidney, and both boats were
navigated practically as one vessel. On May 28, 1883, while
proceeding on the voyage down the Hudson River, the William Worden struck the rocks on Esopus Island and sunki and
her cargo was damaged to the amount of $6175.89.
On June 26, 1883, the insurance companies paid to Armour,
Plankinton & Co. the sum of $9211.75 on account of the loss
of the cargo insured and upon an abandonment by the owners
to the insurance companies, and about the same time they paid
Morse & Co. the sum of $520 in full for their interest in the
cargo, in which sum was included $14.82, the premium theretofore paid by them on the policy.
Subsequently the insurance companies brought an action
in 'em against the boats William Worden and Sidney in
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York, and
in that action Wager intervened as owner of the vessels, and

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURA.NCE CO.

107

Opinion of the Court.

Morse & Co. became sureties for the Worden and for claimant's costs.
In this suit it was found that the carriers had been guilty
of negligence in their management of the said vessels in the
voyage, which had resulted in the loss, and the Circuit Court
decreed -that the two vessels be condemned in favor of the
insurance companies.
In May, 1887, the insurance companies filed in the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of New
York a libel and complaint against Henry Morse & Co. and
Charles E. Wager, Wvhereby the libelIants sought to be subrogated to the claims of the owners against the respondents as
carriers. This cause was so proceedet in that a decree in
favor of the libellants was rendered by the District Court
against the respondents for $6292.16, whereof $4617.16 was
payable by all the respondents, jointly and severally, and
$1675 was payable by Wager severally.
From this decree separate appeals were takeri, one by
H. Morse & Co. and one by Charles E. Wager, to the Circuit
Court of the-United States for the Northern District of New
York. The Circuit Court reversed the aecree of the District
Court againxst H. Morse & Co., and dismissed the libel as to
them, and affirmed the decree against Wager, and gave judgment against him, including interest and costs in both courts,
for $8446.87. From this. decree of the Circuit Court separate
appeals haye been taken to this court, one by the insurance
companies, complaining of the dismissal of the libel -against
H. Morse & Co., and the other by Charles E. Wager, complaining of the-cedree against'him.
We shhll first consider the questions arising under the
appeal of the insurance companies.
It is contended that the insurance companies, havingpaid the
loss to the owners of the cargo, are entitled to be subrogated
to the rights of the assured against the carriers.
It is too well settled by the authorities to admit of questi6n
that, as between a common carrier of goods and ail underwriter upon them, the liabilty to the owner for their loss in
destruction is primarily upon the carrier, while the liability of

OOTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

the insurer is only secondary. The contract of the carrier
may not be first in order of time, but it is fii'st and principal
in ultimate liability. In respect to the ownership of the goods,
and the will incident thereto, the owner and the insurer are
considered but one person, having together the beneficial right
to the indemnity due from the carrier for a breach of his contract or for non-performance of his legal duty. Standing thus,
as the insurer does; practically, in the position of a surety,
stipulating that the goods shall not be lost or injured in consequence of the peril insured against, whenever he has indemnified the owner for the loss he is entitled to all the means of
indemnity which the satisfied owner held against the party
primarily liable. His right rests upon familiar principles of
equity. It is the right of subrogation, dependent not at all
upon privity of contract, but worked out through the right of
the creditor or owner. Hence it has often been ruled that an
insurer, who has paid a loss, may use the name of the assured
in an action to obtain redress from the carrier whose failure of
duty caused the loss. Hall & Long v. Railroad Companies,
13 Wall. 367, 369.
But it is equally well settled that the right, by way of subrogation, of an insurer, upon paying for a total loss of the
goods insured,-to recover over against the carrier, is only that
right which the assured has, and that accordingly when a bill
of lading provides that the carrier, when liable for the loss,
shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have
been effected upon the goods, this provision is valid, as between
the carrier and the shipper; and that, therefore, such provision
limits the right of subrogation of the insurer, upon paying the
shipper the loss, to recover over against the carrier. Phcenix
Ins. Co. v. Erie & Vestern TransportationCo., 11T U. S. 312;
St. Louis, iron, Mo uitaii &e. Railway v. Commercial Union
Insurance Co., 139 U. S. 223.
If a valid claim by the underwriter to be subrogated to the
rights of the owner will not arise where the carrier has contracted with the owner that he, the carrier, shall have the
benefit of any insurance, it would seem to be clear that where
the carrier is actually and in terms the party insured, the

WAGER v. PROVIDENCE INSURANCE CO.

109

Opinion of the Court.

underwriter can have no right to recover over against the
carrier, even if the amount of the policy has been paid by the
insurance company to the owner on the order of the carrier.
The facts in the present case were that the, open policy
declared that it was issued on account of I. Morse & Co. for
whom it may concern, nd that it insured the several persons,
whose names should be thereafter endorsed thereon as owner,
advancee, or common carrier on goods' wares, merchandise, or
country produce, on his own boat, or -boats belonging to others,
loailed on commission or chartered.
Under this open policy, Morse & Co. applied to the insurance companies, stating that' insurance was wanted by H.
Morse & Co., on wheat valued at $9875, from Buffalo to New
York. Loss, if any, to be payable to Morse & Co. or order.
Upon this application, the insurance companies issued what is,
termed an. insurance certificate -to H Morse & Co., 'setting
forth that, .subject to the conditions of policy iNo. 772, HI.
Morse & Co. insured, in the sum of $9875, the inboard cargo
of boat William Worden; the loss, if any, to be payable 'to
assured or order, afid return of this certificate. The .premium was paid by H. Morse & Co.
Clearly, under this state -of facts, H. Morse & Co.. were,
nofninally at least, the parties insured, and came within the
terms of the policy, and, upon a loss, were. entitled to receive
the amount of the policy, and, of course in that event, the
insurers could not, after having paid I. Morse & Co. the
amount of the loss, recover it back from them under the prinThe question then arises
ciple of equitable subrogation.
whether a different conclusion should be reached because of t
fact that HI. Morse & Co., when they delivered the bill of lading
to Meadows as agent for Armour, Plankinton & Co., attached
thereto the insurance certificate endorsed by them in" blank.
So far as the insurance companies were concerned, H'.
Morse & Co. were under no obligation to transfer the policy to
Armour, Plankinton & Co., nor to make it payable. to them in
case of loss. That was a matter entirely between- H. Morse
& Co., as carriers, and Armour, Plankinton & Co., as consicnees and owners of the cargo.

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

When, subsequently, the insurance companies paid to
Armour, Plankinton & Co. the amount of the loss, they did
so, not by virtue 'of any contract between themselves and
the consignees, but of the contract between themselves and
H. Morse & Co., whereby they had agreed to pay the loss to
the latter or order.
We tibink, therefore, that the Circuit Court was 'right in
dismissing the libel against Il. Morse & Co., and its decree to
that effect should be. affirmed.
Coming now to.the appeal of Wager, No. 41, October term,
1893, we are met by the contention that Wager, as master of
the Sydney and as carrier; was entitled to the benefit of the
insurance, and that, hence, it was error on the part of the
Circuit Court to allow the insurance companies to recover
against him by way of subrogation. It is admitted that
Wager was not nominally, and in terms, insured; but the testimony. of Morse and of Wager himself is relied on as showing
that it was understood and intended that Wager was a beneficiary -under the policy.
We are not called upon to consider whether this .parol
evidence was admissible to affect the meaning and legal effect
of the policy and certificate of insurance, nor what the proper
conclusion would be, if the evidence were competent, because
the question of Wager's liability was determined and adjudi*cated against him in the case of The Sydney, in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, as stated in the
findings of facts in this case, and reported in 27 Fed. Rep.
119.

In that case, the libellants, the insurance companies, alleging that. they bad paid the owners of the cargo the loss
occasioned by the negligence of th carrier in charge of the
vessel., sought to be subrogated to the owner's cause of action,
and Wager, having been permitted to intervene as claimant,
by his answer admitted that he was owner of the vessel,
denied that the libellants had insured, the owners of the cargo;
and claimed that. he had paid the premium to the insurance
companies, upon the agreement that the benefit of the policy,
in case of loss, ohoiuld accrue to his benefit as carrier, and that,

BALL & SOCKET FASTENER CO. v. KRAETZER.

'111

Syllabus.

therefore, no right of subrogation in favor of the insurance
companies existed.
These issues of fact and law were determined against
Wager and in favor of the insurance companies, and a final
decree condemning the vessel was rendered. This decree remains unreversed and in full force.
It cannot be questioned that, in the present case, the
Circuit Court could, and this court on appeal can, take notice
of the former case in the Southern District, because the proceedings and decree therein are set up. at length in the answer
of Wager in the present case. It is true that Wager alleges,
in his answer, that he had prosecuted an -appeal to the
Supreme Court, which was thed pending. But the record of
that appeal shows that it was dismissed by this court for want
of jurisdiction. The Sydney, 139 U. S. 331.
We think, therefore, that the Circuit Court did not err in
regarding Wager as having been concluded by the trial and
decree in the former case, and in entering a final decree
agaihst him.
In both appeals the decree of the Circuit Court is

Affrmed.

M . JsTioE BROWN, not having heard argument in this
case, took no part in its decision.

BALL

AND

SOCKET FASTENER
KRAETZER.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COMPANY

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 58. 'Argued October 27, 1893. -Dicided

November 6,1893.

The fourth and seventh claims in letters patent No. 325,688, issued to Albert
G. Mend, September 8, 1885, for a "button" are not infringed by glove
fasteners manufactured ubder 'letters patent Nos. 359,614 and 359,615,
issued to Edwin J. Kraetzer, March 22, 1887; and though it would be
possible tQ nake ot A literal infringement of the sixtli cla.im, by on.

