LEHIGH ZINC & IRON CO. v. BAMFORD.

665

Syllabus.

LEHIGH ZINC AND IRON COMPANY v. BAMFORD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No.8.

Argued October 20, 1893.-Decided December 18, 1893.

The owners of a mine leased it to parties who agreed to pay "certain royalties upon its products. The lease contained a further provision that "in
case the .royalty due and payable to the parties of the first part according to the above rates shall in any year fall below the sum of one thousand dollars, then the party of the second part sliall pay to the parties of
the first part such additional sum, of money as shall make the royalty
for such year amount to the sum* of one thousand dollars, which oum
shall be held and taken to be the royalty for that year: Provided always,
that if sufficient ores cannot be found to yield said minimum payment,
and said party of the second part shall in consequence thereof fail to
pay said minimum sum of one thousand dollars yearly, then said party
of the second part shall, if required by said parties of the first part,
relinquish this lease and the privileges, hereby granted, and the same
shall cease thereupon." Held, that the lessees engaged to pay, as rent, in
each year, the royalties fixed in the lease; and if, in any year, the
royalties fell below the sum of one thousand dollars, they were to make
up the deficit, so that the latter sum should, in any event, be paid annually as rent.
A person who makes representations of material facts, assuming or intending to convey the impression that he has actual knowledge of the existence of such facts, when he is conscious 'that he has no such knowledge, is as much responsible for the injurious consequences of such
representations to one who believes and acts upon them, as if he had
actual knowledge of their falsity.
Deceit may be predicated of a vendor or lessor who makes material, untrue
representations in respect to his own business or .property, for the
purpose of their being acted upon,and which are in fact relied upon
by the purchaser or lessee, the truth of which representations the vendor
or lessor is bound, and must be presumed, to know.
GenerAl assertions by a vendor or lessor, that the property offered for sale
or to be leased is valuable or very valuable, although such assertions
turn out to be untrue, are not misrepresentations, amounting to deceit,
nor are they to be regarded as' statements of existing facts, upon which
an action for deceit may be based, but rather as the expressions of
opinions or beliefs.
Fraud upon the part of a vendor or lessor, by means of representations of
existing material, facts, Is not established unless it appears that such,

OCTOBER TERINM, 1893.
Statement of the Case.
representations were made for the purpose of influencing the purchaser
orlessee, and with knowledge that they were untrue; but where the rep
reseutdtions are material and are made by the vendor or lessor for the
purpose of their being acted upon, and they relate to matters which he
is bound to know; or is presumed to know, his actual knowledge of their
being untrue is not essential.

T.HIs action was brought to recover certain rents alleged to
be due under a written lease of May 2, 1883, between Charles
and Edwin Bamford, of England, and the Lehigh Zinc and
Iron Company, Limited, of Pennsylvania, The company acquired by the. terms of the agreement the exclusive right for
,tenyears to mine, dig, raise, crush, concentrate, roast, use and
remove, sell and dispose, of, all metals and minerals found or to
be found upon the Ieased premises.
The lease contained, -among other provisions, the following:
"Second. That the .party of the second part, for and in
consideration of the rights and privileges thus granted, hereto
covenant and agree to pay to the said parties of the first .part
the following rents, profits and tonnage due, to wit: Upon all
concentrated ores removed from or used upon the premises,
the same having been obtained by crushing, sizing, washing,
jigging, or separating ores mined upon said premises, a royalty
of one dollar and fifty cents per ton of two thousand pounds
(2000 lbs.) ; upon all concentrated ores which may be obtained
by crushing, sizing, washing, jigging, or separating ores or minerals hauled and brought to the said premises from other estates
and mines, a royalty for the use of the soil, buildings, machinery, and fixtures hereby leased sh*all be paid to the parties of
the first part as follows, viz : During two days of each week a
royalty of .fifty cents per ton of two thousand pounds of such
ore so concentrated when removed from or used upon the
premises aforesaid, and during the remaining five days of each
week a- royalty of one dollar for each ton of two thousand
pounds so concentrated when removed from the premises.
"Third. Upon all ores mined upon and removed from the
premises other than those above mentioned a royalty of one
dollar and fifty cents a ton shall be paid to the parties of the
first part; and it is also covenanted and agreed that the said

LEHIGH ZINC & IRON CO. v. BAMFORD.

667.

Statement of the Case.

party of the second part shall put all the engines, boilers, and
machinery which it shall use in good and substantial repair,
and keep and leave them in the same good order, ordinary
wear and tear excepted."
"Fifth. That the party of the second part shall pay or
cause to be paid to the parties of the first part or their duly
authorized agent or attorney at New York city on the twentieth
days of January, April, July, and October of each year all sums
of money found to be due by said party of the second part for
ores removed during the three full calendar months next preceding, and shall accompany each remittance with a detailed
statement of weights and amounts so accruing, specifying also
whence dsach ores-were originally obtained.
"Sixth. In case the royalty due and payable to the parties
of the first part according to the above rates shall in any year
fall below the sum of one thousand dollars, then the party of
the second part shall pay to the parties of the first part such
additional sum of money as shall make the royalty for such
year amount to the sum of one thousand dollars, which sun
shall be held and taken to be the royalty of that year: Provided always, That if sufficient ores cannot be found to yield
said minimum payment, and said party of the second partshall in consequence thereof fail to pay said minimum sum of
one thousand dollars yearly, then said party of the second part
shall, if -required by said parties of the first part, relinquish
this lease and the privileges hereby granted, and the same
shall cease thereupon."
The company acquired by the agreement the exclusive right
to purchase the leased estate, mining rights, etc., at the price
of $125,000, payable according to certain named terms.
The complaint alleged that the company entered upon the
leased premises and dug and carried away ores, but only in
such quantities that at the agreed rates the royalties fell below
$1000 in each of the years ending May 2, 1881, and May 2,
•1885. Judgment was asked for $1000 for each of those years
less the sum of $59.49, leaving a balance of $1940.51, with interest from May 2, 1881, on $940.51, and from May 2, 1885),on $1000.

OCTOBER TERMA,

1893.

Statement of the Case.

The company denied all indebtedness to the plaintiffs, and
asserted a counter claim for the sum of $8000. The answer
alleged that Charles Bamford, for himself and Edwin Bamford,
in order to induce the company to lease the property, represented the mine to be a valuable oreproducing one; that, properly worked, it would yield, and had yielded, a large amount
of zinc and other metals; that it was still a valuable mine for
such purposes, and would be a source of profitable investment
to the company; that when those statements and representations were made the mine was flooded to the extent of nearly
one hundred feet, so that it was impossible for the company's
officers, agents, and servants to make actual examination of it;
that, relying -upon and believing such statements and representations to be true, the defendant entered into the contract;
-thatimmediately after the execution of the lease the company,
in consequence of the above representations and statements,
purchased from the Bamfords a large quantity of tools, wagons,
material, and personal property, to be used in developing the
mine, paying therefor the sum of $883.74; and that the articles
so purchased were of no use or value except for the purpose
for which they were so purchased., The answer further alleged
that in developing the mine the company expended, in addition to moneys for materials and for cleaning the mine, nearly
$4000, the aggregate of all expenditures by it in that way
being between $5500 and $6000; that its officers devoted their
personal attention and labor to the business, the value of such
services being at least $2500; that-these expenditures were
made in good faith and in reliance upon Bamford's statements
as to the character of the mine; and that these representations,
so made to induce, and which did induce, the company to enter
into the lease, were entirely false, whereby it had sustained a
loss of at least $8000.
By stipulation between the parties the plaintiff9 had leave
to amend and did amend the complaint, claiming judgment
for the sum of $1000, with interest from May 1, 1886, for an
additional instalment of minimum rent due May 1, 1886.
At the trial the plaintiffs read in evidence the written contract of lease and rested their case. The company then moved

LEHIGH ZINC & IRON CO. v. BAMiFORD.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to dismiss the complaint upon grounds set forth in writing.
The court denied the motion, and to that ruling the defendants excepted.
The company introduced evidence tending to show that
Charles Bamford, prior to the execution of the lease, made the
representations stated in the answer and counter claim. The
bill of exceptions states that the defendants in the latter part
of 1883 ceased to work the mine and never resumed, and subsequently claimed that it was valueless for producing ores.
The plaintiffs introduced evidence tending to show that the
statements alleged to be made by Charles Bamford were in
fact true; that the mine properly worked would be a valuable
ore-producing one; that the plaintiffs made no statements
about it; and that the company was acquainted with its character and relied upon their own knowledge, and not upon any
statements by the plaintiffs. It appeared in evidence that the
company entered into possession and used for several months
the mines, buildings, machinery, and fixtures described in the
schedule of the lease, which buildings and fixtures cost upwards of 860,000. It did not appear that any complaint of
misrepresentation, failure, mistake, or disappointment was made
until the answer was filed in this action about August, 1885.
There was a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs for $3201.58,
for which sum judgment was rendered.
3h'. Sidney Irard for plaintiff in error.
I. It was error in the court to refuse defepdant's motion to
dismiss the complaint upon the close of the plaintiffs' case.
The lease in question was a lease for ten years of a mine, situated at East Hempfield, in the county of Lancaster, in the
State of Pennsylvania, under which the Lehigh Zinc and Iron
Company, Limited, agreed to pay a royalty of $1.50 per ton.
At the close of the plaintiffs' case, in the court below, the
plaintiffs had failed to prove that any ore had been taken
from the mine, with the exception of ores, the royalty on which
amounted to $59.49, which fact appears from the allegation in
the complaint, that the defendant had paid to the plaintiffs

OCTOBER TERMT,

1893.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the sum of $59.49 on account of royalties for ore taken out.
The plaintiffs i4ad elected,/in making the lease in question, to
provide that if the royalty did not amount to $1000 a year the
plaintiffs should have the right to determine the lease. Now,
it is submitted that it is clear from this provision that the true
intent of this contract was, that if the ores mined were sufficient to produce a royalty of one thousand dollars a year, the
mine should be worked and carried on by the defendant; otherwise, that the plaintiffs might at their option rescind the lease
and the same be determined. The sixth clause reads as follows:
In case the royalty due and payable to the parties of the first
part, according to the above rates, shall in any year fall below
the sum of one thousand dollars, then the party of the second
part shall pay to the parties of the first part such additional
sum of money as shall make the royalty for such year amount
to the sum of one thousand dollars, which sum shall be held
and taken to be the royalty of that year: Provided always,
That if sufficient ores cannot be found to yield said minimum
payment, and said party of the second part shall in consequence thereof fail to pay said minimum sum of one thousand
dollars yearly, then said party of the second part shall, if required by said parties of the first part, relinquish this lease and
the privilege hereby granted, and the same shall cease thereupon." . This proviso after the italics, it is submitted, shows clearly
what was the intention of both the partids to the contract, and
that such intention was, that unless the ores which could be
taken out should be of a sufficient amount to make a royalty
of. one thousand dollars, then the liability of the defendants
under the same should cease. No other. ponstruction of this
proviso will give it any force, for if it was not intended to have
this construction, there would have been no occasion for its
insertion at the end of the preceding sentence, That this was
the actual intent of the party there is no question, and it is
contended that this intention'is fairly deducible from the fact
of the insertion of this proviso at this point.
The position taken by defendant's counsel on the trial, that
no action could be maintained by the plaintiffs in .the court

LEHIGH ZINC & IRON CO. v. BAMFORD.

671

Opinion of the Court.

below, for the one thousand dollars per year until the end of
the term, is well taken, for the reason that, while it might not
within one year have mined sufficient ore to produce a royalty
of a thousand dollars; still the defendant was entitled, if the
plaintiffs did not exercise their right to rescind the lease, to
have the full term of ten years in which to mine the property
aid ascertain, if possible, whether the amount required to produce the minimum of royalty might not be obtained. In any
event the plaintiffs could not recover on the entire contract
more than the difference between the whole amount of the
royalties during the entire term, and the sum of $10,000, even
'if they could recover this sum by reason of the failure of defendants to work the mine. This action was prematurely brought.
II. The defendant requested the court to charge that if as
an inducement to defendant to enter into the lease Charles
Bamford represented the mine to be well supplied with ore,
and the defendant on the faith of such representation entered
into said lease, and in fact there was not stifficient ore in said
mine to be taken out in paying quantities, the plaintiffs could
not recover and the defendant was entitled to recover its expenditures under this lease. It is submitted that the refusal
of the court to charge as requested in this request is error, because the defendant, as has been suggested before, entered
into this lease upon the ,statements and representations of
-Mr.Charles Bamford as to the condition of the mine. If, in
point of fact., these statements were untrue, whether the statement was made wilfully or through ignorance, then the defendant, having gone on in reliance upon the statements of
Charles Bamford, and having expended large sums of money
and finding the mine to be worthless, was entitled to recover
the expenditures which it had incurred in endeavoring to
develop this mine.
Mrt,. L. A. Fuller,(with whom was 216'. -M. L.
brief,) for defendants in error.

T

owns on the

M . JusTio. HARLAN,after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM. 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

The defendants requested the court to charge the jury that
the plaintiffs could not recover rent for any particular year,
unless it appeared that the ores mined on the leased property
in that year, were sufficient, on the basis of the royalties stipulated, to amount to one thousand dollars; and that unless
enough ore was found to enable the company, giving proper
care and attention, to prosecute the mining without loss, then
the consideration, upon which its agreement was based, failed,
and plaintiffs could not recover. These propositions, embodied
in specific requests for instructions to the jury, -were rejected
by the court. The same propositions constituted the grounds
upon which the company, at the close of the plaintiffs' evidence, asked the court to dismiss the complaint. That motion
and the specific requests for instructions were- denied. The
action of the court in those respects is assigned for error.
In our opinion no error was committed by the court below.
Looking at all the provisions of the lease, it is clear that the
defendant engaged to pay, as rent, in each year, the royalties
fixed in the lease; and if, in any year, the royalties fell below
the sum of one thousand dollars, it was to make up the deficit,
so that the latter'sum should, in any event, be paid annually
as rent. The defendant took the chance of a failure to find
ore in sufficient quantities to justify working the mines, and
the plaintiffs took the chance of not obtaining more than one
thousand dollars, annually, during the existence of the lease,
for the use of buildings and fixtures that had cost them more
than sixty thousand dollars. To secure the payment, annually,
of at least one thousand dollars, the right was reserved to the
plaintiffs to terminate the lease, if the company failed, in any
year, to pay that sum as rent. And that the company might
get the advantage of any developments indicating that the
leased premises were of substantial value, the exclusive privilege was reserved to it of purchasing them at any time while
the lease remained in force for the price of one hundred and
twenty-five thousand dollars. The rulings of the Circuit Court
were in harmony with these views.
We are also of opinion that no error was committed in refusing the defendant's request for instructions upon the subject

LEHIGH ZINC

'&

IRON CO. v. BAMFORD.

673

Opinion of the Court.

of the alleged false representations. The charge, upon that'
issue, was very full and satisfactory. The court said, in substance, that a person who makes representations of material
facts, assuming or intending to convey the impression that he
has actual knowledge of the existence of such facts, when he
is conscious that he has no such knowledge, is as much responsible for the injurious consequences of such representations, to
one who believes and acts upon them, as if he had actual
knowledge of their falsity; that deceit may also be predicated
of a vendor or lessor who makes material, untrue representations in respect to his own business or property, for the purpose of their being acted upon, and which are in fact relied
upon by thie purchaser or lessee, the truth of which representations the vendor or lessor, is bound, and must be presuned, to
know. Touching the alleged representations as to the value
of the leased property, the court said that general assertions
by a vendor or lessor, that the property offered for sale or to
be leased is valuable or very valuable, although such assertions
turn out to be untrue, are not misrepresentations, amounting
to deceit, nor are they to be regarded as statements of existing
facts, upon which an action for deceit may be based, but
rather as the expressions of opinions or beliefs; that, as a
general rule, fraud upon the part of a vendor or lessor, by
means of representations of existing material facts, is not
established, unless it appears such representations were made
for the purpose of influencing the purchaser or lessee, and with
knowledge that they were untrue; but where the representations are material and are made by the vendor or lessor for the
purpose of their being acted upon, and they relate to matters
which he is bound to know, or is presumed to know, his adtual
knowledge of them being-untrue is not essential.
We perceive no objections to these instructions. They were
sufficient for the guidance of the jury in respect to the alleged
udgent ffirmed.
false repreentations by the plaintiffs.
VOl. cL-3

