KNAPP v.

IORSS.

Opinion of the Court.

KNAPP v. MORSS.
APPEAL FROM

THE CRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

UFFORD v. M[ORSS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 55, 310. Argued October 26, 1893.- Decided November 20, 1893.

The second claim in letters patent No. 233,240, for improvements in dress
forms, issued October 12, 1880, to John Hall, and by him assigned to
Charles A. Morss,-viz.: " 2. In combination with the standard a and ribs
1
2
c, the double braces e -, the sliding blocks fl and f , and rests h andh'-, substantially as and for the purposes set forth," when read and interpreted With reference to other and broader claims which were made by
the patentee and were rejected by the Patent Office, must either be held
to be invalid for want of invention, or must be so limited in view of that
action by the PatentOffice, and in view of the prior state of the art, as
not to be infringed by a combination leaving out one of the elements of
the patentee's device.
A claim in letters patent cannot be so construed as *to cover what was
rejected by the Patent Office on the application for the patent.
The combination of old elements which perform no new function, and
accomplish no new results, does not involve patentable novelty.
The end or purpose sought to be accomplished by a device is not the subject
of a patent, but only the new and useful means for obtaining that end.

IN equity to restrain the infringement of letters patent.
The case is stated in the opinion.
Mb'. John Z imberly Beach for appellants.
.M'. Payson E. Tucker and Mr. Charles F. Perkins for
appellee.
M
M_

. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the court.

These two causes, which were heard at the same time, are
substantially alike in every particular affecting their proper

OCTOBER TERIV, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

determination, and will, therefore, be considered together,
although they come from different jurisdictions. They are
suits for the infringement of letters patent No. 233,240, for
improvements in dress forms, issued October 12, 1880, to John
Hall, and by him assigned to Oharles A. Morss, the appellee.
In one cause the appellants, William H. Knapp and Charles
L. Knapp, are the manufacturers of the articles alleged to
infringe, while the appellants in the other cause, Samuel N.
Ufford & Son, are merely the selling agents of the manufactured articles. In both cases it was decreed below that the
second claim (the only one in controversy) of the patent was
infringed. From thege decrees the present appeals are prosecuted.
The invention relates to improvements in dress forms, by
means of which every part of the device is rendered adjustable,
so that it may be applied to a dress of any size or style and fill
it-out perfectly in order that trimming may be placed upon it.
The device described in the patent by which this result is to be
accomplished consists of upright ribs of thin, springy material
assembled around a central standard, which supports the whole
structure. The ribs are connected near their top and bottom
extremities to braces or stretchers, which extend obliquely
from the ribs to the standard, and are there concentrated
and hinged on small movable collars which encircle the standard. There is a single set of braces at the bottom,- while at
the top there is a double set. This double brace consists of a
series of arms or stretchers, part of which radiate from the
upper movable collar obliquely downward to the ribs, to which
they are fastened at a point near where the other- part of the
arms or stretchers are fastened. The lower series of stretchers
extend obliquely downward from the point on the ribs where
they are fastened to a collar separate from and independent of
the upper collar. Following each collar, which is loose, is a
rest which may be secured to the standard at any point desired
by a set screw, thus enabling the whole structure to be adjusted
and revolve upon the standard.
The second claim of the patent reads as follows: "2. In
combination with the.standard a and ribs q, the double braces

KNAPP? v. MORSS.
Opinion of the Court.

e2, the sliding blocksf andf and rests h and h2 substantially
as and for the purposes set forth."
The defences set up by the answer were invalidity in the
patent and non-infringement, and in support of the former
defence the following patents were relied on: To C. W. Wilson, May 3, 1870, No. 102,638 ; to F. A. Balch,' September 17,
1867, No. 68,831; to S. B. Ferris, August 27, 1878, No. 207,351;
to 0. Franke, September 7, 1875, No. 167,394.
The theory of the invention is that as the collar at the bottom of the standard is raised the braces will force the ribs to
expand to the circumference limited by the. tape or elastic
affixed to the lower extremities of the ribs. Should the collar
be pushed above the mean centre of expansion, which is
attained when the braces are at right angles with the standard,
the tendency to expand would cease and contraction would
begin. But'the proper degree of expansion produced by the
lower braces is never exceeded in expanding the dress form.
At that point the skirt hangs loosely on the form, and the resistance is so slight that this brace is of but little use. However,
'the lower brace is not one of the elements of the combination
of the second claim. But at the upper part of the form, where
expansion and opposition to contraction are alike desired, the
mechanical difficulty resulting from pushing the" single brace
beyond the mean centre of expansion is avoided by using
double braces. If the ribs were unrestrained, either by a tape
or a skirt of any fabric, the double braces would not be necessary, but as the chief purpose of the invention is to give a proper
contour to what is called the hip portion of the dress form, the
double braces are most essential. Inasmuch as the ribs at their
tops are confined by a tape to a circumference correspqnding
with the size of the waist, it is reasonably clear that if they
were expanded to their utmost tensi6n at the hip porti6n asingle set of braces would afford but slight resistance to contraction."
But by the use of the double set of braces, with the arms fastened to the ribs at or near the same point, and diverging
obliquely in opposite directions to collars, soume distance apart,
a'triangle is formed which is well known to offer the most
powerful resistance to contraction of any device used in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

whole range of mechanics. The opposing force brought to
bear by pushing the lower collar up and the upper collar down
operates on the ribs to give shape to the hip portion of the
skirt form closely resembling the human figure, and to oppose
all tendency to contraction caused either by the ribs being too
closely confined by the tape, or by the tight adjustment of the
skirt to the contour of the dress form.
In determining the proper construction to be placed upon
the second claim of the patent it is necessary to consider the
action of the Patent Office upon the original application of the
patentee, and also examine the prior art. In his original application the patentee sought to secure the following claims:
"1. A dress form consisting essentially of a central standard,
-one or more series of adjustable ribs, and corresponding series
of braces or stretchers hinged to one or more runners or sliding
blocks upon said standard and having their outer ends conn.ected with said ribs, whereby the dress form may be expanded and contracted substantially as and for the purpose set
forth.
"2. In combination with the standard a, rest A, sliding
blockf, and braces e, the ribs c, and elastic band d, substantially as and for the purpose described."
-These broad and general claims were rejected by the Patent
Office for the following reasons:
"The first claim is rejected on patents 202,713, Everett,
April 23, 1878, and 207,351, Ferris, August 27, 1878, (both in
dummies and hangers.)
-" There is no novelty in the elements of the second claim,
in view of the above patents in connection with the elastic
band shown in 75,864, Keffer, March 17, 1868, (blocking and
stretching hats,) which band is there used in the same way and
for the same purpose as in applicant's device."
The pAtentee acquiesced in the rejection, and thereupon
accepted his patent with its specific claims, the second of
which is alleged to be infringed.
It is well settled that the second claim must be read and
interpreted with reference to the rejected claims and to the
prior state of the art, and cannot be so construed as to cover

KNAPP v. MORSS.
Opinion of the Court.

either what was rejected by the Patent Office, Separd v. Car9'igan, 116 U. S. 593; Suttr v. Robinson, 119 U. S. 530, or
disclosed by prior devices.
A brief reference to the prior state of the art will serve
to show what limitations should be placed upon the claim in
question.
in 1878 a patent was issued to George W. Everett for a
skirt exhibitor, in which there was a standard and a waistband, divided into two segments. These segments were expanded and adjusted by a slide and socket mechanical device.
The standard and adjustable waist-band p rform the same
function as the standard and tape in the Hall patent. Vertical ribs were afterwards added to the waist-band, but the
owner of the patent did not claim such ribs as a part of his
invention.
In 1870, a patent was granted to C. W. Wilson for an
adjustable form for the manufacture of hoop-skirts. There is
in this device also a standard and an adjustable waist-band,
but in addition to these elements it was said there might be
"as many ribs as are necessary hinged to the waist-band."
These ribs are hinged near their lower ends, to jointed braces,
whose inner ends are hinged to a block sliding on the standard, and the position of the sliding block is determined by
a set screw. In the specification of this patent it is stated
that "in operation the adjustable band block may be drawn
out to make any size waist-band for skirts without its being
necessary to increase the circumference of the bottom of the
form, and, by simply moving the sleeve upon the shaft (standard) up or down, the size of the skirt is uniformly increased or
diminished." This invention contains all of the elements substantially of the Hall patent, except the double braces. It has
the standard, ribs, sliding blocks, and rests. It also has the
brace-expanding mechanism 'for the lower part, which performs the same function as that in the Hall patent.
It appears, so far, that all the elements of the claim have
been shown to have been anticipated except that of the double
braces. But it is manifest that this element is not new. It
was the principal novelty employed in the patent granted to
VOL. CL-15

OCTOBER TERI, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

S. B. Ferris, August 27, 1878, for a corset exhibitor. The
invention consists of a central standard with a block at the
top and also at the bottom. Between these blocks is an
umbrella-like framework, the braces of which extend beyond
the pointof junction with the outside ends from the standard,and, pressing against the interior of the corset, impart shapeliness to it. The ribs or braces are triangulated on the standard the same in principle as the double braces in the Hall
patent.
In the patent issued to F. A. Balch, -in 1867, for a winding
reel are shown the double braces, the standard, the sliding
collars, ind the rest with a set screw, comprising all of the
expanding mechanism of the Hall patent. The outer ends of
the braces are hinged on a blade which may be made as long
as desired, and it would require onlymechanical skill to adapt
this reel to the device patented by Hall. Such an adaptation,
produced by simply lengthening the ribs, would have secured
the accomplishment of the same result in exactly the same
way.
But, aside from these prior patents, the state of the art is
perhaps more clearly illustrated in the device used for opening
and shutting a common umbrella. In this device are found
all the elements of the combination of the second claim.
There are the standard, the collar with the rest, the double
braces, and the ribs. Because tht upper ribs are elongated so
as to hold the fabric which covers them, it cannot be said that
the .double braces are different in principle and operation from
those used in the patent in controversy. It would require but
ordinary mechanical skill to convert a skirt form into an
umbrella, or an umbrella into a skirt form like that described
in the Hall patent.
It is conceded by the appellee that all of the elements of the
second claim are old, except ribs c, which, it is claimed, constitute the new and patentable feature -of the Hall invention;
but, from the foregoing brief review of the prior art, we think
it clearly shown that the ribs c do not constitute any new
feature, They are shown in the Everett invention; in the
Wilson patent, where it is said there may be as many as neces-

KNAPP v. MORSS.
Opinion of the Court.

sary; and in the common umbrella; also in the Ferris device
for a corset exhibitor, where the function performed by the
ribs constitutes the chief feature of the invention; and in the
Balch reel short ribs are used, which might be lengthened to
adapt the device to the dress form patented by Hall.
But it is urge&on behalf of the appellee that the Hall patent
differs from all previous devices in presenting a structure which,
as an entirety:, is radially expansible in all directions from a
common centre, so as to preserve the symmetry of the form,
whatever its diameter may be, and by the combination of the
patent a new and'useful result is thus attained which involves
patentable novelty., In support of. the validity of the patent,
the principle stated, in -Loom Co. v. Higgins,105 U. S. 580, 591,
is inyoked. In that case it was laid down by the court, as a
general rule, though not an invariable one, "that if a new combination and arrangement of known elements produce a new
.and beneficial result, never attained before, it is evidence of
iqvention.". But we do not consider the Hall patent as comink within the priniciple there laid- down, for the reason that
the standard, the double braces, sliding blocks on the standard,
and the rests to hold. theb]ocks, as well as the ribs, which corn
stitute the combination c- the second claim; were not only
found in the prior devices
t.-they separately and in combination with such devices performed the same function, and op6rated in substantially the -same way as in 'the-RHall patdnt.
The combination of old -leints which perform no n~w function and accomplish no nIrw-results does not involve patentable novelty. Mosler &{fe Co. v. .oslev', 127 U.. S. 354, 361;
riailes v. Yan, To'meor 20 Wall. 353, 368; Reckendofer v.
.Paber, 92 U. S. 347; Pickering v. .3Cullough, 104 U. S. 310,
318; Peters v. flanson, 129 U. S. 541.
The use and purpose sought to be accomplished by the Hall
patent was the radial expansion of the dress form, but it is
well settled by the authorities that the end or purpose sought
to be accomuplished by the device is not the subjet of a patent.
The invention covered thereby must consist of new and useful
nmeans of'obtaining that end. Tn other words the subject of a
patent is the device or mechanial means by which the desired

OCTOBER TERM, 1893.
Opinion of the Court.

result is to be secured. Carver v. Hyde, 16 Pet. 513, 519;
IeRoy v. Tatham, 14 How. 156; Corning v. Burden, 15 How.
252; Barr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531;. Fidler v. Yentzer, 94
U. S. 288.
Tested by these authorities the validity of the patent in
question must be ascertained, not from a consideration of the
purposes sought to be accomplished, but of the means pointed
out for the attainment thereof, and if such means, adapted to
effect the desired results, do not involve invention, thby can
derive no aid or support from the end which was sought to be
secured. All that Hall did was to adapt the application of
old devices to a new use, and this involved hardly more than
mechanical skill, as was ruled in Aron v. Afanhattan Railway
Co., 132 U. S. 85, where it. was -said: "The same device
employed by him .(the patentee) existed in earlier patents; all
that he did was to adapt them to the special purpose to which
he contemplated their application, by making modifications
which did not. require invention, but -only the exercise of
ordinary mechanical sk.ill; and his right to a patent must rest
upon the novelty of the means he contrived to carry his, idea
into practical application."
There is another test as to the validity of the second claim,
If the Balch, Everett, Wilson, or Ferris patents, or even the
Umbrella, were subsequent in date to that of the Hall patent,
they would constitute an infringment thereof, for the rule is
well established that "that which infringes, if later, would
anticipate if earlier." Peters v. Active Mfg. Co., 129U. S.
530, 537; Thatcher Ml~ating Co. v. Burtis, 121 U. S. 286, 295;
Grant v. Walter, 148 U. S. 547, 554; Gordon;: v. Warder,
ante, 47.
SIf, however, the patent .could be sustained at all, it would
have to be restricted and confined to the specific combination
described in the second claim as indicated by tho letters of
referenO 'in the drawings, and each element specifically
pointed out i's an essential part thereof. Duf v. Sterling
Pump (o., 107 U S. 636i 639; Hewton v. Furst & Bradley
Co., 119 U. S. 373 ; Bragg v. Fitch,121 U. S. 478 ; Crawford
; .Dryfoos -v.Wiee,.121 U. S. 32.v. Ijeyscnger, 123,U. $,-#$
,

KNAPP v. MORSS.
Opinion of the Court.

For if not so restricted by the letters of reference the effect
would be to make the claim coextensive with what was rejected in the Patent Office.
If any validity could be conceded to the patent, the limita
tion and restriction which would have to be placed upon it by
the action of the Patent Office, and in view of the prior art,
would narrow the claim, or confine it to the specific structure
therein described, and as thus narrowed there could be no
infringement on the part of appellants if a single element of
the patentee's combination is left out of the appellants' device.
Sargentv. Hall Safe & Look Co., 114 U. S. 63;. Eddy v. Dennis,
95 U. S. 560; McCorimick v. Talcott, 20 How. 402.
The appellants' dress form, which is alleged -to infringe the
combination of elements particularly described in the second
claim of the Hall patent, does not contain several of the
specific elements of said claim; it has a tubular standard,
within which is a loose vertical rotable shaft extending above
the end of the standard. Surrounding this shaft are several
ribs. The shaft is screw-threaded at one portion with a left:
hand thread, and at a portion above the left-hand thread there
is a right-hand screw-thread. On each of these portions is a
corresponding nut, so that the shaft being rotated in one direction will cause the nuts to approach each other, or, rotated in
the opposite direction, the nuts will separate. Above the screwthreaded nuts is a fixed and immovable collar. To this collar
and the movable nuts are hinged the braces which are similar
to those described in the Hall patent. By turning the top of
the standard either to the right or to the left the whole form
is adjusted by one movement.
Comparing this device with the combination described in
the Hall patent, it is found that there are a standard, double
braces, and ribs, but there are no sliding blocks or rests, and
the function of the standard is doubled. There is no sliding
block whatever at the top of the upper braces, and the lower
collar is a screw-threaded nut resting upon corresponding screwthreads in the standard. It is clear that the sliding blocks and
the rests, two of the five elements specifically. described in the
Hall patent, are not employed in the dress form of the appel-

OCTOBER TERMf, 1893.
Dissenting Opinion-:- Brown, Shiras, JJ.

lants. If the Hall patent was a valid pioneer invention, the
doctrine of equivalents might be invoked with regard to the
sliding blocks and rests, and thus a different question would
be raised, but, being confined to the specific elements enumerated by letters of reference, it is neither entitled to a broad
construction, nor can any doctrine of equivalents be invoked
so as to make the appellants' device an infringement of the,
second claim in controversy.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the Hall- patent is invalid;
and further, if it codld be sustained at all, it would have to
be in the most restricted form, and thus restricted, it is not
.infringed by the appellants. It follows, therefore, that in
each case the judgment of the courts below must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with direction to dismiss
the bill.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN (with whom was MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS)
dissenting.

In the construction of his device Hall took the principle of
the common umbrella and of an adjustable reel for unwinding
yarn, and b1 adding to it ribs and elastic bands, adapted it to
an entirely different purpose, namely, to the construction of
an adjustable dress form, which has largely supplanted those
previously in use. While the changes made were not radical
in their character, I think they were such as to involve invention within the rule stated in Zoom Co. v. iHiggins, 105 U. S.
580, 591; The Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275; Gandy
v. -3fain Belting Co., 143 U. S. 587; and Toplif v. Toplif,
145 U. S. 156; and that the change made by the defendant
in using a collar fixed to the standard for the upper sliding
block, and a-nut and threaded standard for the lower sliding
block and rest of the Hall patent, was in fact the substitution
of well-known equivalents, and does not exonerate them from
thechai'ge of infringement.
The CHIEF JUSTICE did not sit in this case and took no part
in its decision.

