OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

to select negroes was because they did not know the
names of any who were qualified and the other said that
he was not personally acquainted with any member of
the negro race. This is, at best, the testimony of two
individuals who participated in drawing 1 out of the 32
jury panels discussed in the record. But even if their
testimony were given the greatest possible effect, and
their situation considered typical of that of the 94 commissioners who did not testify, we would still feel compelled to reverse the decision below. - What the Fourteenth Ameidment prohibits is racial discrimination in
the selection of grand juries. Where jury commissioners
limit those from whom grand juries are selected to their
own personal acquaintance, discrimination can arise
from commissioners who know no negroes as well as from
commissioners who know but eliminate them. If there
has been discrimination, whether accomplished ingeniously or ingenuously, the conviction cannot stand.
Reversed.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION v.
COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM OF CALIFORNIA, INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 39. Argued November 15, 1940.-Decided November 25, 1940.
1. Section 402 (b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended,
does not authorize an appeal to the Court of Appeals for the
'District of Columbia from an order of the Federal Communications Commission denying an application Under § 310 (b) for
consent to the transfer of a radio station license. P. 134.
with No. 40, Federal Communications Commisson v.
Associated Broadcasters, Inc., also on writ of certiorari, 310 U. S.
617, to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
*Together

COMM'N v. BROADCASTING SYSTEM.
132

133

Opinion of the Court.

2. Such an order is not one refusing an "application for a radio
station license," within the meaning of §402 (a) or § 402 (b)
(1). P. 136.
3. Implied adoption of a judicial construction upon the re-enactment
of 'a statute is merely one factor in the total effort to give fair
meaning to statutory language. P. 137.
71 App. D. C. 206; 108 F. 2d 737, reversed.

CERTIoRARi, 310 U. S. 617, to review the denial of
motions in two cases to dismiss appeals from an order
of the Federal Communications Commission refusing

consent to the transfer of a radio station license. The
proposed transferor and the proposed transferee had
joined in an application to the Commission for such consent, and took separate appeals from the order denying it.
Mr. Telford Taylor, with whom Solicitor General Biddle and Messrs. Joseph L. Rauh, Jr., Benedict P. Cottone,
and HarryM, Plotkin were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Duke M. Patrick for respondent in No. 39.
appearance for respondent in No. 40.

No

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We brought these two cases here, 310 U. S. 617, because
they raise questions of importance touching the distribution of judicial authority under the Communications
Act of 1934. (Act of June 19, 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, as
amended by the Act of June 5, 1936, 49 Stat. 1475, and
by the Act of May, 20, 1937, 50 Stat. 189; 4.7 U. S. C.
§ 151 et seq.)
Insofar as action of the Federal Communications Commission is subject to judicial review, the Act bifurcates
access to the lower federal courts according to the nature
of the subject matter before the Commission. Barring
the exceptions immediatelv to he noted. . 402 (a) assimi-

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

-lates "suits to enforce, enjoin, set aside, annul,, or suspend any order of the Commission under this Act" to
the scheme of the Act of October 22, 1913 (38 Stat. 219),
pertaining to judicial review of orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Therefore as to the general class
of orders dealt with by § 402 (a) jurisdiction rests exclusively in the appropriate district court, specially constitited, with direct appeal to this Court. Excepted
from. this scheme of jurisdiction is "any order of the
Commission granting or refusing an application for a
construction permit for a radio station, or for a radio
station license, or for renewal of an existing radio station
license, or for modification of an existing radio station
license, or suspending a radio operator's license." These
five types of orders, thus placed beyond the jurisdiction
.of the district courts, are then affirmatively dealt -with
by § 402 (b). As to them, that provision gives an appeal
"from decisions of the Commission to the Court of- Appeals of the District of Columbia," with ultimate
resort to this Court only upon writ of certiorari.
Our problem, then, is to apply this scheme of jurisdic•tion to the situation before us. Acting under § 310 (b)
of the Communications Act, the Cpmmission refused con'sent to an assignment to the Columbia Broadcasting
System of California of a radio station license held by the
..Associated Broadcasters. Columbia and Associated
thereupon sought in the Court of Appeals-for the District
review-of the Commission's denial of consent. The Commission moved to dismiss the appeals for want of jurisdiction. The court below,, with one justice dissenting,
denied the motions and entertained jurisdiction. 71 App.
D. C. 206; 108 F. 2d 737.
The crux of the controversy is whether an order of the
Commission, in the exercise of its authority under § 310
(b), denying consent to an assignment of a radio station
license is an order "refusing an application..,

for

COMM'N v. BROADCASTING SYSTEM.
132

135

Opinion of the Court.

a radio station license," within the meaning of § § 402 (a)
and (b). If it is, the court below was seized of jurisdiction. If it is not; that court was without it. In the language quoted in the margin, Congress. has made the
choice and it is for us to ascertain it.1
Primarily, our task is to read -what Congress has written. As a matter of common speech, the excepted types
of orders which alone can come before the Court of Ap
peals for the District of Columbia do not ihclude an
order refusing the consent required by § 310 (b). Refusing "an application . . . for a radio station license" ishardly an apt way to characterize refusal to assent to the
transfer of such a license from an existing holder. Nor
is there anything to indicate that the peculiar idiom of
the industry or of administrative practice has modified
'Sec. 402: "(a) The provisions of the Act of October 22, 1913
(38 Stat. 219), relating to the enforcing or setting aside of the' orders
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, are hereby made applicable
to suits to enforce, enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend any order of
the Commission under this Act (except any order of the Commission
granting or refusing an application for a construction permit for a
radio station, or for a radio station license, or for renewal of an existing radio station license, or for modification of an existing radio station
license, or suspending a radio operator's license). and such 'suits are
hereby authorized to be brought as provided in that Act.
"(b) An appeal may be taken, in the manner hereinafter provided,
from decisions of the Commission to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in any of the following cases:
"(1) By any applicant for a construction permit for a radio station,
or for a radio station license, or for renewal of an existing radio station
license, or for modification of an existing radio station license, whose
application is refused by the Commission.
"(2) By any other person aggrieved or whose interests are adversely
affected by any decision of the Commission granting or refusing any
such application.
('(3) By any radio operator whose license has been suspended by
the Commission."
If the assignee is coverel § 402 (b) (1) the assignor would be
within § 402 (b) (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

'

311 U. S.

the meaning that ordinary speech assigns to the language.. Instead of assimilating the requirements fo
transfers to applications for new licenses or renewals, the
Act as a whole sharply differentiates between them. Different considerations of pdlicy may govern the granting or
withholding of licenses from those which pertain to assent
to transfers. And Congress saw fit to fashion different
provisiohs for them. Compare §§ 307, 308, 309, and 319
with § 310 (b). There aie also differences in the formulated administrative practice for'iSposing of applications
for station licenses and requests for consents to transfer.
Nor do some similarities in treatment make irrelevant
the differences.
: A sensible reading of the jurisdictional provisions in
the context of the substantive provisions to which they
relate gives no warrant for denying significance to the
classification made by Congress between those orders for
which review can only come before the local district
courts, and-those five types of orders, explicitly characterized, which alone can come before the Court of Ap*jeals for the District. And an order denying consent to
an application for a transfer is not one of those five, for
it is not an application for "a radio station license" in
any fair intendment of that category.
What thus appears clear from a reading of the Communications Act itself is not modified by the collateral
materials which have been pressed upon us. That both
sides invoke the same extrinsic aids, one to fortify and
the other to nullify the conclusion we have reached, in
itself proves what dubious light, they shed. What was
said in Committee Reports, and some remarks by the
proponent of the measure in the Senate, are sufficiently
ambiguous insofar as this narrow.issue is concerned, to
invite mutually destructive dialectic, but not strong
enough either to strengthe". or wAken the force of what

COMM'N v. BROADCASTING SYSTEM.
132

137

Opinion of the Court.

Congress has enacted. See Sen. Rep. No. 781, 73d Cong.,
2d Sess., pp. 9-10; House Rep. No. 1918, 73d Cong., 2d
Sess., pp. 49-50; 78 Cong. Rec. 8825-26. This leaves for
consideration only the bearing of an earlier decision by
the Court of Appeals for the District on this very question, arising under the predecessor of the Communications Act, the Radio Act of 1927, 44 Stat. 1162, as
for
amended, 46 Stat. 844. In that Act, § i6'covered,
present purposes, the provisions of § 402 (b) of the Communications Act. Inter alia, it provided 'for appeals to
the court below by "any applicant for a station licenqe."
Construing that provision, the court below in Pote v.
Federal Radio Commission, 67 F. 2d 509, held that it
was without jurisdiction over an appeal by a transferee
to whom consent to a transfer had been denied. The
present § 402 was adopted after this decision and
another decision by the same court within, this field of
jurisdiction (Goss v. Federal Radio Commision, 67 F.
2d 507) had been presumably brought to the attention
of Congress. Hearings on S.2910, 73d Cong., 2d Sew.,
pp. 44-45. On the one hand it is insisted that, in the
light of these circumstances, the construction in the Pote
decision was impliedly enacted by Congress, while respondents urge that differences in the provisions regarding the Commission's power over consent to transfers
destroy the significance of the Pote case. But these
changes in § 310 (b), which stiffened the control of the
Commission over transfers, are wholly unrelated to the
technical question of jurisdiction with which we are now
concerned. We are not, however, willing to rest decision on any doctrine concerning the implied enactment
of a judicial construction upon reenactment of a statute.
The persuasion that lies behind that doctrine is merely
one factor in the total effort to give fair meaning to
language. And so, at the lowest, the Pote case certainly

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

.

311 U. S.

-does not detract from, but if anything .re~nforces, the
construction required by a clear-eyed reading of the
statute.
Reversed.
AMERICAN UNITED MUTUAL LIFE INSUIANCE
CO. v. CITY OF AVON PARK, FLORIDA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31. Argued November 12, 1940.--Decided November 25, 1940.
1. A plan for the composition of the debts of a municipality under
Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act comprised a refunding plan
whereby the municipality's fiscal agent (a private corporation)
would defray the expenses incident to"the refunding and would
be 'reimbursed therefor and compensated for its services by an
assessment of participating bondholders. A stated charge was
to be made for each $1000 bond, but the charge would be less
if the bondholder should sell to the fiscal agent accrued interest
coupons at a third of their face value. The fiscal agent solicited
acceptances of the plan, and acceptances representing more than
two-thirds of all claims affected were obtained. Exclusive !of
claims held by the fiscal agent as creditor and voted in favor
f the plan, however, the two-thirds required for confirmation
would have been lacking. The claims held by the fiscal agent
were acquired by it at about fifty cents on the dollar, some before
and others after it entered into the agency contract with the
municipality.; It did not appear from the record in the bankruptcy court whether the fiscal agent disclosed to creditors from
whom it solicited acceptances: that it was a creditor as Well as
fiscal agent of the municipality; the extent, or the circumstances
of Ohe acquisition, of the claims held by it; or its intent to 'vote
those claims in favor of the plan. No such disclosure was made
in the plan. HeWd that an order of the bankruptcy court confirming the plan of composition must be set aside. Pp. 141, 143.
2. Whether the fiscal agent's compensation for services rendered
would exceed the "reasonable compensation" authorized by § 83
(b) of the Act, requires evaluation of the aggregate of all benefits
which might accrue to it under the plan, including its speculative
interests. P. 144.

