RILEY CO. v. COMMISSIONER.

55

Syllabus.

54

the Commissioner,' and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed.' On a similar state of facts the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held undistributed profits
exempt from surtax.' We granted certiorari in both cases
to resolve this conflict.' The legal questions here presented are in all respects the same as those presented
in Helvering v. Northwest Steel Rolling Mills, ante, p. 46,
and on the authority of that case the decision below is
Affirmed.
J. E. RILEY INVESTMENT CO. v. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 50. Argued October 25, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
1. In the computation of net income in the case of mines, § 114 (b)
(4) of the Revenue Act of 1934 permits deductions, for depletion
on a percentage basis provided that the taxpayer in making his
"first return" under the Act elects to avail of that basis. Held
that an amended return, filed after the expiration of the statutory
period for filing the original return, including such extension of the
period as the Commissioner was empowered to grant, was not a
"first return" within the meaning of the section. P. 57.
2. That in the circumstances of this case the construction thus given
the statute works a hardship on the taxpayer, may be the basis
of an appeal to Congress for relief but not to the courts. P. 59.
3. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the decision of the Board of Tax Appeals in this case was correct and
must be sustained whether or not the court gave a wrong reason
for its action. P. 59.
110 F. 2d 655, affirmed.
'38 B. T. A. 1355.
'105 F. 2d 740.
'Northwest Steel Rolling Mills v. Commissioner, 110 F. 2d 286.
309 U.8. 692; post, p. 629.

OCT0BER TERM, 1940.

56

Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which, on petition
for redetermination of income tax, upheld the Commissioner's ruling denying percentage depletion.
Mr. Robert Ash for petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and Joseph M. Jones were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered- the opinion of the

Cpurt.
This case is here on certiorari to resolve the conflict
of the decision below (110 F. 2d 655) with C. H. Mead
Coal Co. v. Commissioner, 106 F. 2d 388.
Petitioner is engaged in the business of mining gold at
Flat, Alaska. The winter mail service to and from that
remote place was so uncertain and slow that, in order to
avoid delinquency in income tax returns, petitioner's officers were accustomed to use the forms for an earlier year.
Consequently petitioner's original return for the calendar
year 1934 was filed on a 1933 form which had been mailed
to petitioner by the Collector at Tacoma, Washington.
This return was executed on January 2, 1935, and reached
Tacoma on January 29, 1935. When it was executed
petitioner did not know of the provision 1 in the Revenue
'Section 114 (b) (4) provided:
"The allowance for depletion under section 23 (m) shall be, in the
case of coal mines, 5 per centum, in the case of metal mines, 15 per
centum, and, in the case of sulphur mines or deposits, 23 per centum,
of the gross income from the property during the taxable year, excluding from such gross income an amount equal to any rents or
royalties paid or incurred by the taxpayer in respect of the property.
Such allowance shall not exceed 50 per centum of the net income

of the taxpayer (computed without allowance for depletion) from the

RILEY CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
55

Opinion of the Court.

Act of 1934 (48 Stat. 680) allowing percentage depletion.
But petitioner did know that unless the law ,had been
changed it was not entitled to depletion, as it had no
basis for cost depletion. The Collector in sending the
1933 forms had not advised petitioner with respect to
percentage depletion. And it was found that if petitioner
had known of the statutory provision for percentage
depletion, it would have elected to take advantage of it.
Petitioner first actually learned of the provision in
August, 1935. On March 3, 1936, petitioner filed an
amended return for 1934 upon which a deduction of percentage depletion was taken; and it asked for a refund.
The Board of Tax Appeals upheld the Commissioner's
ruling denying percentage depletion and the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed.
See. 114 (b) (4) of the 1934 Act required the taxpayer
to elect in his "first return" whether the depletion allowance was to be computed with or without regard to
percentage depletion. The method so elected is applicable not only to the year in question but to all subsequent
taxable years.
We think that petitioner's amended return, filed on
March 3, 1936, was not a "first return" within the meaning
property. A taxpayer making his first return under this title in re-,
spect of a property shall state whether he elects to have the depletion
allowance for such property for the taxable year for which, the return
is made computed with or without regard to percentage depletion,
and the depletion allowance in respect of such property for such year
shall be computed according to the election made. If the taxpayer fails to make such statement in the return, the depletion
allowance for such property for such year shall be computed without
reference to percentage depletion. The -method, determined as above,
of computing the depletion allowance shall be applied in the case of
the property for all taxable years in which it is in the hands of such
taxpayer, or of any other person if the basis of the property (for
determining gain) in his hands is, under section 113, determined by
reference to the basis in the hands of such taxpayer, either directly

or through one or more substituted bases, as defined in that section."

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

of § 114 (b) (4). By §-53 (a) (1) of the 1934 Act, the
return was due on or before March 15, 1935. By § 53 (a)
(2) the Commissioner was empowered to grant a reasonable extension for filing returns ' but, so far as applicable
here, not exceeding six months. Haggar Co. v. Helvering, 308 U. S. 389, would compel the conclusion that had
the amended return been filed within the period allowed
for filing the original return, it would have been a "first
return" within the meaning of § 114 (b) (4). But we
can find no statutory support for the view that an amendment making the election provided for in that section
may be filed as of right after the expiratfon of the statutory period for filing the original return.
We are not dealing with an amendment designed
merely to correct errors and miscalculations in the original return. Admittedly the Treasury has been liberal
in accepting such amended returns even though filed after
the period for filing original returns.' This, however, is
not a case where a taxpayer is merely demanding a
correct computation of his tax for a prior year based on
facts as they existed. Petitioner is seeking by this
amendment not only to change the basis upon which its
taxable income was computed for 1934 but to adopt a
new method of computation for all subsequent years.
That opportunity was afforded as a matter of legislative
grace; the election had to be made in the manner and
in the time prescribed by Congress. The offer was liberal.
But the method of its acceptance was restricted. The'
offer permitted an election only in an original return or
ina timely amendment. An amendment for the purposes
of § 114 (b) (4) would be timely only if filed within the
2See Treasury Regulations No. 86, Arts. 53-1--53-4 inc.
8
See, for example, Treasury Regulations No. 86, Art. 43-2, governing the filing of amended returns for the purpose of deducting losses
which were sustained during a prior taxable year. Cf. Union Metal
Mfg. Co., 1 B. T. A. 395.

RILEY CO. v. COMMISSIONER.
55

Opinion of the Court.

period provided by the statute for filing the original return. No other time limitation would have statutory
sanction. To extend the time beyond the limits prescribed in the Act is a legislative, not a judicial, function.
Strong practical considerations support this position.
If petitioner's view were adopted, taxpayers with the
benefit of hindsight could shift from one basis of depletion to another in light of developments subsequent to
their original choice. It - seems clear that, Congress provided that the election must be made once and for all
in the first return in order to avoid any such shifts. And
to.require the administrative branch to extend the time
for filing on a showing of cause for delay would be to
vest in it discretion which the Congress did not see. fit
*to delegate.
Petitioner urges that this result will produce a hardship
here. It stresses the fact that it had no actual knowledge
of the new opportunity afforded it by § 114 (b) (4) of
the 1934 Act and that equitable considerations should
therefore govern. That may be the basis for an appeal
to Congress in amelioration of the strictness of that section. But it is no ground for relief by the courts from
the rigors of the statutory choice which Congress has
provided.
Finally, petitioner asserts that we cannot consider the
question of the timeliness f the amended return since
before the Board of Tax Appeals and the Circuit Court
of Appeals respondent urged oly that petitioner's claim
was based upon an amended, rather than an original,
return. But even on the assumption that that issue did
not embrace the question of timeliness, the Circuit Court
of Appeals was justified in affirming the decision of the
Board of Tax Appeals. Where the decision below is
correct it must be affirmed by the appellate court though
the lower tribunal gave a wrong reason for its action.
Helvering v. Gowran, 302 U. S. 238, 245-246.
Affirmed.

