SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 295
292

Syllabus.

v. United States, 60 F. 2d 953, therefore, is obvious and
substantial. See O'Brien v. United States, 69 App. D. C.
135; 99 F. 2d 368.
Section 125 of the Criminal Code makes no distinction
between the false assertions of the fact of prior statements and the false assertions of any other fact. Nor
can we see any reason to make one. As the Government
points out, the denial of the fact that certain statements
have been. made may be equally as clear, deliberate, and
material a falsehood as the denial of any other fact.
And since statements made to government agents are
generally one of the bases upon which criminal proceedings are instituted and indictments returned, such a distinction might substantially impede effective administration of criminal law.
The facts stated in the indictment are clearly sufficient
to charge a violation of the perjury statute. Accordingly,
the orders quashing the indictments are reversed and the
'cause is remanded.
Reversed.
L. SINGER & SONS ET AL. V. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 14, 15, 1940.-Decided December 16,
1940.

1. In order that one may sue as a "party in interest" under paragraph 20, § 402 of the Transportation Act of 1920, to enjoin the
construction of a railroad extension not authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission, he must show that the extension will
*Tognther with No. 35, Kansas City, Missouri, v. L. Singer & Sons
et al., also on writ of certiorari, 309 U. S. 653, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Statement of the Case.

311 U. S.

bring about a change in the transportation system by which his
own special and peculiar interest may be directly and materially
affected. P. 303.
2. Numerous commission merchants who did business and owned
property in and about an established city produce market alleged
in their bill against a railroad company that the market adequately
served the consuming public in its vicinity and dealt in produce
shipped to and from other States; that the city was engaged in
constructing new buildings for it at large cost and that the market
'had adequate transportation facilities; that an adjoining city was
constructing a new market, at great expense, partly with funds
to be procured by sale of its bonds to the railroad company;
that the company proposed at large expense to furnish trackage
to serve this new market, which would constitute an extension
of its lines for which it had procured no certificate from the
Interstate Commerce Commission; that the construction and operation of such extension would injure and destroy the business and
property of the plaintiffs in and about the existing market, by
creating an unnecessary rival market at an inconvenient place
without increase of produce to be handled or customers to be
served; that it would result in unnecessary duplication of railroad
facilities, at large cost, without increasing the freight to be handled;
would divert traffic from railroads now serving the existing market
and cause destructive competition betwen them and the defendant, and needless and wasteful expenditure by the defendant;
that the alleged extension would thus directly and adversely affect
the property interests of the plaintiffs and the public by bringing
about a material change in the transportation situation and would
constitute an unnecessary burden upon interstate commerce, directly and adversely affecting the welfare of the plaintiffs and the
public interest, Held:
(1) That the plaintiffs were without standing to maintain the
suit as "parties in interest" under paragraph 20, § 402, Transportation Act of 1920. P. 300, et seq.
(2) That thie city in which the existing market is located was
properly denied leave to intervene as a party plaintiff. P. 305.
109 F. 2d 493, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 653, to review the affirmance of
a decree dismissing a bill praying for an injunction
against the construction and operation of an alleged extension of the lines of the defendant railroad company.

SINGER & SONS v; UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 297
295

Opinion of the Court.

The decree also denied an application of the City of
Kansas City, Missouri, to intervene as a plaintiff.
Mr. Ruby D. Garrett, with whom Messrs. John M.
Cleary and Fred Ruark were .on the brief, for petitioners
in No. 34.

Mr. William E. Kemp, with whom Mr. John M. Cleary
was on the brief, for petitioner in No. 35.
Mr. Henry N. Ess, in No. 34, and Mr. Thomas W.
Bockes, in, No. 35, with both of whom Mr. A. C. Spencer
was on- the briefs, for the Union Pacific Railroad Company, respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Undertaking to proceed under Paragraphs 18, 20 and
21, § 402, Transportation Act, 19201 (41 Stat: 456, 477,
U. S. C. Title 49, § 1) petitioners, by bill filed December
30, 1938, in, the United States District Court Western
District of Missouri, asked a decree enjoining respondent from constructing or operating an alleged
extension, 26 F. Supp. 721.
1

Transportation Act, 1920, § 402:

"Paragraph '(18) . . . no carrier by railroad subject to this Act
shall undertake the extension of its line of railrbad . . unless and
until there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificate that the present or future public convenience and necessity
require or will require the construction . . . of such . . . extended
line . . .' Paragraph '(19) The application for and issuance of any
such certificate shall be under such rules and regulations as to hearings and other matters as the Commission may from time to time
prescribe, . . .' Paragraph '(20) ...
Any construction ... contrary to the provisions . . . of paragraph (18) . . . may be enjoined
by 'any court of competent jurisdiction at the suit of the United
States, the Commission, any commission or regulating body of the
State or States affected, or any party in interest. . .. ' "

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The bill describes them thus:-'Plaintiffs are engaged in the business of buying and
selling at wholesale and retail, fruits, vegetables and
other food products within and adjacent to the so-called
City Market of Kansas City, Missouri, located at and
near the intersection of Fourth and Walnut Streets in
said City, or are directly interested in or connected with
said business. Said market has been in existence at said
location for more than seventy-five years serving greater
Kansas City and vicinity as a wholesale and retail produce market, and also serving numerous territories in
other states to and from which perishable and other
produce bought and sold -in said market is transported.
The City of Kansas City, Missouri, is now engaged in
the construction of new wholesale and retail market
buildings and facilities in said vicinity at a cost of approximately $500,000.00. Said market is now and for
a long period of time has been served by existing transportation facilities of various trunk line railroads, and
said existing transportation facilities are suitable, convenient and adequate to meet the requirements of the
market. The market is easily accessible to its customers
through the facilities of said railroads and also by the
use of streets and hard-surfaced highways radiating in
every direction therefrom."
Answering, the respondent alleged that petitioners
were not parties "in interest" within Paragraph 20, § 402,
Transportation Act and had no right to sue. The District Court sustained this defense and dismissed the bill.
26 F. Supp. 721. Upon appeal its action. was affirmed.
109 F. 2d 493. The matter is here by certiorari.
The Circuit Court of Appeals made the following summation of the bill"The complaint of the plaintiffs shows that they are
commission merchants doing business on the Kansas
City,. Missouri, produce market, an old and well-estab-

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 299
295

OpiniQn of the Court.

lished market which adequately serves the consuming
public in its vicinity and receives produce from,. and
ships produce to, other states; that Kansas City, Missouri, is now engaged in constructing new market buildings for this market at a cost of about $500,000; that
the market has suitable and adequate transportation
facilities of all kinds; that the adjoining city of Kansas
City, Kansas, proposes to build and is building a 'Food
Terminal' or produce market on a tract of land which it
owns, at a cost of about $4,000,000, of which $1,710,000
is a grant from the Public Works Administration of the
United States, and that the balance of the necessary
funds will be procured by a sale of the City's bonds to
the defendant railroad company; that the defendant
proposes, at an expense of some $500,000, to furnish
trackage to serve this Kansas City, Kansas, market;
that this trackage constitutes an extension of the defendant's lines of railroad,. for the construction of which it
has procured no certificate of convenience and necessity
from the Interstate Commerce Commission as required
.by law; that the construction and operation of the proposed extension in Kansas City, Kansas, Will adversely
affect and will destroy the business and properties of the
plaintiffs and the large investments which they have
made in and adjacent to the Kansas City, Missouri, produce market; that it will create an unnecessary and uncalled for rival market at an inconvenient place without
creating any more produce to be handled or any more
customers to be served; that it will result in the unnecessary duplication of railroad facilities at a cost of
$500,000 without increasing the amount of freight to be
handled; that it will divert traffic from other railroads
which are now adequately handling the traffic to the
Kansas City, Missouri, produce market, and will cause
destructive competition between the defendant and other
railroads and will cause a wasteful and needless expendi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

ture 6-f money by the defendant; that 'for each and all
of the reasons aforesaid, the construction and operation,
or the construction, or the operation of the said extension or extensions of railroad by the defendant to said
proposed produce market in Kansas City, Kansas, will
directly and adversely affect the property interests of
the plaintiffs and the public generally by bringing about
a material change in the transportation situation, and
will constitute an unnecessary burden upon interstate
cormnerce directly and adversely affecting the welfare
of plaintiffs and the public interest.'" 109 F. 2d 493.
It is not alleged that the respondent has ever served
the produce market in Kansas City, Missouri, or that
petitioners make or receive shipments over its lines or
that the proposed extension will deprive them of any
shipping facilities. Evidently the real purpose was to
obstruct construction of a competitor and the theory
upon which the proceeding rests would permit petitioners to sue if any railroad should extend its lines to any
market competing with the market at Kansas City,
Missouri.
Concerning the purport of the allegations of the bill,
the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly said:
. "It is obvious that the only basis for the plaintiffs'
claim that the alleged extension of the lines of the de.fendant -to the Kansas City, Kansas, market will particularly injure them is that they do business upon the
Kansas City, Missouri, market, and that if the proposed
rival market in Kansas City, Kansas, functions, it, will
divert business from the market-upon which they operate and will thus hurt them, their business, and their
investments in Kansas City, Missouri, and that, since the
proposed extension of its tracks by the defendant is
necessary to enable the rival market to function, such
extension will therefore injure the plaintiffs. It seems
equally obvious that, except for the fact that the pro-

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 301
295

Opinion of the Court.

posed extension is essential to the operation of the rival
market in Kansas, it could not possibly have any direct
or immediate effect upon the plaintiffs, their property or
their business in Missouri, other than the effect which a
wasteful expenditure by the defendant of its money
would have upon the public generally. The proximate
cause of the injury to the plaintiffs will be the competition created by the construction and operation of the
rival market, and not the construction or operation of
the transportation facilities furnished to it by the defendant or by others engaged in the transportation
business."
It declared that the question whether petitioners were
"parties in interest" within Paragraph 20 must be determined upon consideration of Western Pacific R. Co. v..
Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47, and concluded"The plaintiffs have no definite legal right which is
threatened. They are, however, persons whose welfare
may be adversely affected by the bringing about of. a
material change in the transportation situation, in the
sense that the extension proposed by the defendant, if,
built and operated, will enable a competitive market to
function to their detriment. In that sense, we think it
may safely be said that the proposed extension of de-fendant's lines may.adversely affect the plaintiffs' welfare. We are of the opinion, however, that their complaint discloses that their welfare cannot be directly, but
only indirectly and consequentially, affected by the proposed extension. They are not in competition with the
defendant. They are not engaged in the transportation
business. Their only peculiar interest in that business
is in the effect which changes in it may have upon
the market where they do business and upon rival
markets now or hereafter established in the territory
which the plaintiffs serve. . . . We conclude that the
statute is not to be so liberally construed as to enable

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

those who fear adverse effects upon their business from
the establishment of competitive enterprises requiring
transportation facilities, to maintain suits to enjoin railroads from constructing what are claimed to be unauthorized extensions to serve such enterprises."
A dissenting opinion by Judge Stone likewise relied
upon Western Pacific R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., but
took the view that the challenged action might directly
and substantially affect petitioners' welfare -since their
financial interests would suffer from the proposed rival
market which could not come into existence without the
proposed extension.
The purpose and effect of Paragraphs 18, 20 and 21
were much considered in Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266 and Western
Pacific R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S.47.
In the first of these causes a railroad sought to prevent another from building an extension. The meaning
of the term "party in interest" was not discussed. But
the opinion asserts that by the Transportation Act of
1920, "Congress undertook to develop and maintain, for
the people of the United States, an adequate railway
system. It recognized that preservation of the earning
capacity, and conservation of the financial resources, of
individual carriers is a matter of national concern; that
the property employed must be permitted to earn a reasonable return; that the building of unnecessary lines
involves a Waste of resources and that the burden of this
waste may fall upon the public; that competition between carriers may result in harm to the public as well
as in benefit; and that when a railroad inflicts injury
upon its rival, it may be the public which ultimately
bears the loss."
Also "the prohibition of Paragraph 18 is absolute. If
the proposed track is an extension and no certificate has.

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
295

303

Opinion of the Court.

been obtained, the party in interest opposing construction is entitled as of right to an injunction."
In the second cause it was claimed that the Western
Pacific was not "a party in interest" within the statute.
The Circuit Court of Appeals accepted that view, 46 F.
2d 729; we concluded otherwise but did not undertake to
announce an inclusive and exclusive definition of the term.
The circumstances disclosed a special interest in that
complainant with probability.,bf direct loss from what the
defendant-not another-proposed to do. The .ortion
of the opinion, presently specially important, follows"If, as the court below seems to have assumed, a
'party in interest' must possess some clear legal right for
which it might ask protection under the rules commonly
accepted by courts of equity, the paragraphs under consideration would not materially aid the Congressional
plan for promoting transportation. On the other hand,
there was-no purpose to permit any individual so inclined to institute such a proceeding. The complainant
must .possess something more than a common concern
for obedience to law.. See Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U. S. 447, 488. It will suffice, we think, if the bill discloses that some definite legal right possessed by complainant is seriously threatened or that the unauthorized
and therefore unlawful action of the defendant carrier
may directly and adversely affect the complainant's
welfare by bringing about some material change in the
transportation situation."
The Transportation Act, 1920, was designed to protect the public against action which might .endanger its
interest. In order to aid that general purpose, Paragraph 20, § 402, provides that suit for an injunction may.
be instituted by the United States, the Commission
(I. C. C,), any Commission or Regulative Body of the
state or states affected, or any "party in interest. Such

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

a suit cannot be instituted by an individual unless he
"possesses something more than a common concern for
obedience to law." The general or common interest finds
protection in, the permission- to sue granted to public
authorities, An individual may have some special and
peculiar interest which may be directly and materially
affected by alleged unlawful action. See Detroit & M.
Ry. Co. v. Boyne City, G. & A. R. -0", 286 F. 540. If
such circumstances arb shown he may sue; he is then
"party in interest" within the meaning of the statute. In
the absence of these circumstances he is not such a
party.
We cannot think Congress supposed that the development and maintenance of an adequate railway system
would be aided by permitting any person engaged in
business within or adjacent to a public market to demand
an injunction against a carrier seeking only to serve a
competing market by means of an extension not authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The right to sue under the. statute is individual.. Petitioners are not helped by uniting.
The Circuit Court of Appeals after reviewing all the
facts reached the conclusion that the welfare of petitioners could only be indirectly and consequentially affected
by the proposed extension; that their interest in the
transportation situation "is in the effect which- changes
in it may have upon the market where they do business
and upon rival markets now or hereafter established in
the territory which the plaintiffs serve." It held this
was not enough. We agree. A mere extension to the
plant of a competitor which in no other way affects the
complaihing parties in no proper sense brings about a
material change in the transportation system directly
affecting their peculiar interest which they have the right
to prevent by suit.
The challenged judgment must be affirmed.

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
295

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

305

J.

No. 35.
The City of Kansas City, Missouri, sought to intervene
in No. 34. The District Court denied its motion. The
Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. In view of what we
have decided in No. 34 this denial necessarily must be
affirmed.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER:

I quite agree with my Brother STONE that unfair loss
may be cast upon a community by the unjustified extension of a railroad line, and that such loss is one consequence of the evils of unregulated railroad building
which the Transportation Act was intended to check.
But our immediate problem is to determine how a community can challenge such a proposed improper extension. Can a city, in other words, come into a Federal
Court and urge its special relation to an alleged violation
of § 1 (18-22), of the Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat.
456, 477, 49 U, S. C. § 1 (18-22)? The answer, of course,
depends on the scheme of enforcement that Congress
has devised for the Act. After making administrative
provisions for securing a certificate from the Interstate
Commerce Commission as a prerequisite to the construction of.an "extension," the Act subjects any construction in violation of its licensing system to an injunction
"at the suit of the United States, the Commission, any
commission or regulating body of the State or States
affected, or any party in interest." § 1 (20).
A city deeming itself adversely affected by a proposed illegal extension would naturally turn to its state
commission to assert its interests. If, for any reason, the
state agency does not employ its power under § 1 (20)
on behalf of the city's claims, the latter can invoke the
law-enforcing authority of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and also enlist the power of the Attorney
General to initiate litigation. It is reading § 1 (20)
276055--41-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of

FItANKFURTER, J.

311 U. S.

without illumination of the scheme and purposes of the
Transportation Act to expand the categories of public
agencies explicitly named by Congress for enforcing
§ 1 (18) by including a city as a "party in interest."
To do so would disregard recognition of a state utility
commission as the special repository of all the interests
of a state'in this particular field, and of the Interstate
Commerce Commission as the national organ for enforcing the body of interstate commerce acts. Clearly, therefore, Kansas City can not be deemed a "party in interest" for the litigious purposes of that phrase in § 1 (20).
But it would indeed be strange to find that while the
city was not given power to resort to a court, a private
and more limited sufferer from the same economic threat
may have such legal standing. Such a paradox exposes
the appropriate scope of "party in interest" in'§ 1 (20).
The guiding considerations in the application of that
section are to be found in the reach of the functions of
the Interstate Commerce Commission and of its state
analogues. They are relied on for the enforcement of
railroad legislation neither grudgingly nor with scepticism. In these agencies are lodged the resources for compounding the manifold ingredients of "the public
interest." To entrust the vindication of this public interest to a private litigant professing a special stake in
the public ir erest is to impinge on the responsibility of
the public at horities designated by Congress. If there
be insufficient assurance that unlawful railroad construction will be resisted by a state commission representing
all the interests of a state that are affected, the Interstate Commerce Commission may be moved to enjoin
illegality.
Who then is a "party in interest"? As a part of the
very system through which the national policy is to be
achieved, a railroad has been deemed by this Court a
"party in interest" to effectuate the railroad policy intro-

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 307
295

Opinion of

FRANKFURTER,

J.

duced by the licensing system of the Transportation
Act. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 266, 277; Western Pacific R. Co. v. Southern
Pacific Co., 284 U. S. 47. And one who in a proceeding
initiated before the Interstate Commerce Commission
has been treated by it as a party to the litigation, cf.
Los Angeles Passenger Terminal Cases, 100 I. C. C. 421;
142 I. C. C. 489; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 283 U. S. 380, 393-94, may perhaps be
deemed a "party in interest" in the further pursuit of
claims before a court after adverse action by the Commission. Compare Interstate Commerce Comm'n v.
Oregon-Washington R. Co., 288 U. S. 14, and Federal
Communications Commission v. Sanders Bros. Radio
Station, 309 U. S. 470. But to allow any private interest to thresh out the complicated questions that arise
out of § 1 (18-22)'-as, for instance, whether a proposed construction is an "extension" or a "spur," compare Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 266-is to invite dislocation of the scheme
which Congress has devised for the expert conduct of the
litigation of such issues. It also would put upon the
district courts the task of drawing fine lines in determining when a private claim is so special that it may be set
apart from the general public interest and give the
claimant power to litigate a public controversy. These
inquiries are so harassing and unprofitable as to be
avoided, unless Congress has explicitly cast the duty
upon the courts. Against any such implication, in the
absence of rather plain language, the whole course of
'The fact that, in order to raise the bare legal question of petitioner's right to sue, the illegality of the proposed extension was conceded by the pleadihgs, does not touch the force of the argument.
' With reference to the present circumstances themselves, the Attorney General, at the request of the Interstate Commerce Commission, has chosen a different remedy to protect the public interest.
See United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 32 F. Supp. 917.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
SToNE,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

federal railroad legislation and the relation of the Interstate Commerce Commission to it admonishes. The interests of merely )rivate concerns are amply protected
even though they must be channelled through the Attorney General or the Interstate Commerce Commission
or a state commission.
Therefore, the court below made proper dispositions of
these cases.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE BLACK, MR. JUSTICE

DOUGLAS, and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, having concurred in
the Court's opinion, also join in these views.
MR. JUSTICE STONE:

I think that the complainants, petitioners in No. 34,
are proper parties to maintain this suit, that the decree
should be reversed and, on the remand, the petition of
Kansas City for intervention should be considered in
light of that conclusion and of §§ 212 and 213 of the
Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 45a and of Rule 24 of the
Rules of Civil Procedure.
On the Ileadings it stands conceded that the proposed
extension of respondent's line is unauthorized and unlawful, and the sole question we have to decide is
whether the interest of petitioners in maintaining this
suit, as disclosed by their pleadings, satisfies the requirement of the statute which authorizes it to be brought
by "any party in interest."
Section 1 (18) of the Transportation Act of 1920, 41
Stat. 474, 477, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (18), forbids the extension
of its line by a railroad without a certificate of the Interstate Commerce Commission that "the present or future
public convenience and necessity require or will require"
the construction of the extension. Similarly it prohibits the abandonment of any portion of a line of railroad without a like certificate permitting the abandon-

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 309
295

STONE,

J., dissenting.

ment. Section 1 (19) requires the Commission to give
notice of application for a certificate to the governor of
the state in which the proposed extension is to be constructed and to publish the notice in each county through
which the line of railroad is constructed or operated.
By § 1 (20) the Commission is authorized 'fo attach to
its certificate such "conditions as in its judgment the
public convenience and necessity may require," and authorizes any court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin' the
prohibited construction or abandonment "at the suit of
the United States, the Commission, any commission or
regulating body of the state or states affected, or .any
party in interest; .

.

."

By § 1 (22) spur, industrial,

side tracks and the like are excluded from the authority
of the Commission and the railroad may build them
without applying for a certificate.
The interest of petitioners in maintaining the suit as
shown by the pleadings is derived from the injury to
the public which, it is specifically alleged, will result
from the proposed extension through the injury to the
community in Kansas City, Missouri, and vicinity, of
which community petitioners are a part and in which
they are property owners, and the consequent injury
alleged to affect them individually. The public injury,
it is alleged, will be caused by (a) the loss or serjous
impairment in utility of the Kansas City public produce
market and the destruction or serious diminution of
values of property and business and of financial investments in and about the market, wl{ich will be brought
about by the extension, through the creation of a rival
market and the diversion of traffic to it'at a point in
Kansas City, Kansas, far removed from the center of
population of Kansas City, Missouri, and to the inconvenience of the great majority of the citizens of both
cities who are served by the existing market, which is
adequate to the needs of the community; (b) by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
STONE,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

unnecessary duplication of railroad facilitieb in the Kansas City district at large cost, with wasteful and needless expenditures by respondent and no increase in
freight to be handled; and (c) by the diversion of traffic
to respondent railroad from other railroads and destructive competition between the railroads operating in the
vicinity.
Special injury is shown to complainants (petitioners
in No. 34) by the allegations that they are owners of
business property and investments in the existing market area and vicinity, and that their property will be
reduced in value in consequence of the diversion of
traffic to the rival market. The petitioner, Kansas City,
Missouri, in intervention, in No. 35, alleges the like injury to the public which it represents and sets upspecifically the threatened loss in value and utility of a large
public market structure which it is now building at great
cost, and the threatened loss to it of taxes through diminution in property values in the city.
The statute does not define the "parties in interest"
whom it permits to sue to restrain an unauthorized extension. It cannot be assumed that the phrase is meaningless or that the statute should be read as though the
words were omitted. Obviously the parties intended
must have, as do petitioners, an interest in the outcome
of the litigation other than the "common concern for
obedience. to law." See Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U. S. 447, 488. And as the language of the statute
plainly indicates, afid as we have held, they may be, as
are petitioners, others than the public bodies named in
the statute as appropriate plaintiffs. Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. Railroad Commission, 283 U.. . 380, 393,
394. And they may maintain the suit although the
injury which they allege is not strictly an actionable
wrong independently of the paragraphs in question.

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO.
295

STONE,

311

J., dissenting.

Western Pacific R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 284 U. S.
47.
The statute draws no distinction between direct and
indirect injury as the test of plaintiff's interest. Nor is
any reason advanced for saying that his interest is more
significant because the injury which he suffers is labeled
"direct" rather than "indirect." In any case, that suffered by petitioners does not seem to be any the less
direct than that which an extension may inflict upon a
competing railroad which admittedly may sue to enjoin
it. Western Pacific R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., supra;
cf. Claiborne-Annapolis Ferry Co. v. United States, 285
U. S. 382. If the statute imposes any requirements other
than those indicated by the phrase "party in interest,"
they must be implied from the purposes of the statute,
its context, and from the reasons for permitting others
than the public bodies named in it to bring the suit. Cf.
New York Central Securities Co. v. United States, 280
U. S. 12, 24. On the other hand if maintenance of the
present suit by petitioners is consistent with those purposes and aids them and is in harmony with the reasons
for allowing any party in interest to sue, the conclusion
would seem inescapable that petitioners are proper
plaintiffs.
It is not denied that the statutory language and the
legislative history of the paragraphs in question require
consideration by the Commission of the interests of
cities, towns and communities which are adversely af-fected by a proposed extension of a line of railroad, in
order to determine whether "public convenience and
necessity" require the extension. The phrase "public
convenience and necessity" has long been used to signify
the final result of the balancing of the consequences
which flow from the proposed action to all those matters
of public concern which are affected by it. Cf.. Chesa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

peake & Ohio Ry. Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 35, 42;
United States v. Lowden, 308 U. S. 225. And we have
held that in the administration of the cognate provision
relating to abandonment of railroad lines the Commission must consider as a part of the public convenience
and necessity the interests of local communities affected
by the proposed abandonment. Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 153, 168. A community may suffer
injury through the loss of railroad service and diversion
of traffic resulting from the construction and operation
of a railroad extension without any compensating public
advantage which is comparable in kind and amount with
injury sustained by the abandonment of a line of railroad. One as well as the other should receive the consideration of the Commission in determining whether
it should grant or withhold a certificate. Such appears
to be its settled practice on applications for a certificate
authorizing extension.'
'See Aroostook Valley R. Co., Construction, 105 I. C. C. 643;
Minnesota Western R. Co., Construction, 111 I. C. C. 377; Northern
Oklahoma Rys., Construction, 111 I. C. C. 765; Construction of Piedmont & Northern Ry. Co., 138 I. C. C. 363; Western Pacific California R. Co., 162 1. C. C. 5. And in balancing the public conveniences and necessities involved, that is to say the public interest in an
adequate transportation system and the public interest in protecting
local communities from undue injury from extensions of relatively
small transportation importance, the Commission has sometimes
found the injury to existing community interests persuasive ground
for refusing the certificate. Construction by Aroostook Valley R.
Co., supra; Construction' by Minnesota Western R. Co., supra.
The broad scope of the Commission's inquiry is evidenced by the
questionnaire which applicants for an extension must answer.
Among the data required -is the nature of the population, the territory, the industries involved, the names and character of towns near
to but not served by the extension. See In the matter of Applications under Paragraphs (18) and (21), Inclusive, Section 1, of the
Interstate Commerce Act for Certificates of Public Convenience and
Necessity for the Construction or Extension of Lines of Railroad,

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 313
295

STONE, J., dissenting.

It is plain that the purpose of the statute is the protection of the public interest and that in the administration of its provisions by the Commission public interest is of paramount concern. That interest is primarily
that railroad extensions, as the statute provides, shall
not be built or operated without receiving the approval
of the Commission, and that the Commission shall grant
its permission only if the piblic convenience and necessity so require.
In determining who may bring the suit to restrain.
the proposed construction as provided by § 1 (20), it is
significant that the suit is brought -to restrain an act
which the statute declares unlawful, the construction of
an .extension without the certificate of the Commission,
§.1 (18), and that the function of the court is not that
of thfe Commission in granting or withholding a certificate. The only issue which can be litigated in such a
suit, brought by a proper plaintiff, is whether in fact
the proposed construction is of a spur or sidetrack, the
only new trackage which a railroad may lawfully build
without recourse to the Commission. It is an issue which
is by paragraphs (18) and (22) of § 1 made a judicial,
not an administrative question and involves no more
complexities of litigation than many other cases which
courts are called on daily to decide. In any case the
issue is one which Congress directed to be litigated
in a suit brought under § 1 (20), and its complexity is
unaffected by the particular plaintiff who brings the
suit.
If the proposed construction is an extension the injunction must issue as of right, but its only effect is to
compel the railroad before proceeding further to apply
to the Commission for a certificate of public convenience
and necessity which is the public purpose of the Act.
January 22, 1924. III-A Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Corn.mission, 333=-335, 351.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE, J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270
U. S. 266, 273. The court is thus called on to decide no
administrative issue which must be submitted to the
Commission in advance of suit, and any decree which
it may render involves no embarrassment to the Commission or otherwise in the administration of the Act.
While the Commission itself may bring the suit, it is
under no statutory duty to do so and its only other authority in the premises is to grant or withhold the certificate when applied for. One injured by an unauthorized extension and opposed to its construction, whether
a state commission, a competing railroad or any other
injured party, is not authorized to initiate any proceeding before the Commission and its only protection as of
right from the consequences of the threatened public
wrong is that afforded by suit authorized by § 1 (20).
See Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co.,
supra, 272-274.
In considering the scope of the application of the
statute t140. Court has recognized that the public interest which the Commission is to protect includes the public interest in the maintenance of an adequate transportation system and that a railroad whose welfare,
although not its legal right, is adversely affected by an
unauthorized and therefore unlawful extension of the
line of another is a "party in interest" entitled to maintain suit to enjoin the extension. Western Pacific R. Co.
v. Southerh Pacific Co., supra; cf. Claiborne-Annapolis
Ferry Co. v. United States, supra. And it has held that
one other than a carrier (a municipality), who has "a
proper interest in the subject matter," may institute a
proceeding before the Interstate Commerce Commission
under § 1, paragraphs 18 to 22, to obtain a certificate of
public convenience, so as to enable a railroad to build
an extension to a new station which a state commission
has ordered it to build. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 315
SToNE, J., dissenting.

295

Railroad Commission, supra, 393, 394. Compare Detroit & M. Ry. Co. v. Boyne City, G. & A. R. Co., 286
F. 540.
But it has never held, unless it has done so now, that
the public concern in protecting large communities from
destruction of their business and financial interests by
diversion of traffic to rival communities by railroad extensions, is not included in that public convenience and
necessity which the Commission must consider in granting or withholding a certificate; or that one not a railroad who is a member of a community adversely affected
and whose own business or property, interests are so
adversely affected is not a "party in interest" within
the meaning of the statute.
If the statute permits some protection through commission action of the public interest in the preservation
of communities adversely affected by the construction
of railroad extensions, no plausible reason has been advariced for saying that an individual member of such a
community whose property or financial interests are adverisely affected by the proposed unauthorized extension,
and who would be a proper party to the proceeding
before the Commission on application for a certificate,2
2 It

is settled policy of the Interstate Commerce Act and related

statutes to permit shippers, cities, commercial organizations and
other interested parties to participate in proceedings before the Commission and in those before the courts where the application of the
statute is involved. Section 9, 24 Stat. 382, 49 U. S. C. § 9, permits
any person "claiming to be damaged" by a carrier to make complaint
to the Commission or to bring suit in a district court. Communities,
shippers and associations may make complaint to the Commission
under § 13 (1), 49 U. S. C. § 13 (1), 24 Stat. 383 as amended, 36
Stat. 550. See, United States v. Merchants & Manufacturers Traffic
Assn., 242 U. S. 178. Section 42 provides that in actions to stop
rebates and concessions "all persons interested in or affected by the
rate or regulation or practice" may be made parties. Sections 212
and 213 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 45a, provide that "communities, associations, corporations, firms and individuals who are

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

311 U. S.

is not a party in interest, entitled to bring suit quite
as much as a competing railroad whose property interests are likewise affected. On the contrary, petitioners
have a special and peculiar interest in preventing the
unlawful extension and in securing, before the extension
is built, such consideration of the community interest
as the Commission gives, and which can be insured only
by resort to the suit authorized by § 1 (20).
True, the statute is concerned with the protection
of the public interest but in order that the public intefest might not suffer, and that private injury might not
be inflicted through a public wrong, the construction of
an unlawful extension, Congress did not restrict the authority to bring suit to public agencies-the United
States, the Commission or state commissions. Congress
by providing that applications for certificates of convenience need not be made for local spur or side tracks,
recognized that such constructions are too trivial to require a proceeding before the Commission. Instead it
gave authority to bring the suit to private parties in
interest, who because of the injury especially inflicted
upon them through the adverse effect of the unlawful
extension on the public, have a peculiar incentive to
protect the public interest with which the statute is
concerned, see Federal Communications Comm'n v. San.ders Bros. Radio Station, 309 U. S. 470, 477, and who by
restraining an unauthorized "extension" insure the expert consideration by the Commission in the situation
in which Congress required it.
Just as Congress gave authority to a railroad to sue
to enjoin an unauthorized extension by its competitor in
order to effect the railroad policy of the Act, it gave
like authority to complainants to effect its public policy
with respect to a community injuriously affected by an
interested in the controversy or question" before the Commission or
in any suit which may be brought under the Act may intervene.

U. S. v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RY. CO
295

Syllabus.

unlawful railroad extension. The statute gives no warrant for saying that the one may bring suit but that the
other can only ask some public body to bring it; and
neither interferes with the functions which the Com-

mission is authorized to perform and which, as we have
seen, are distinct from those assigned to the court by
§ 1 (20).
Maintenance of the suit by complainants is thus
within the fair meaning of the words of the statute. It
aids rather than obstructs the administration of the Act;
it effectuates the public policy of the Act and is within
the reason for permitting others than public agencies
to bring the suit. They are "parties in interest" to which
the statute refers.
Since the suit was properly brought the district court
should entertain and decide the petition of Kansas City
for intervention in the light of 28 U. S. C. § 45a and Rule
24 of the Rules of Civil Procedure.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE REED concur in
this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. ET AL.; and
NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. 'ET AL. V.
UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

Nos. 3 and 4. Argued March 4, 5, 1940. No. 3, reargued October
15, 16, 1940.-Decided December 16, 1940.

1. In a suit under the Act of June 25, 1929, for an accounting, etc..
between the United States and the Northern Pacific Railway

Company, with respect to the land grants made by the United
States to that, company's preaecessor, decision on the following
propositions of the Government, each. advanced as a defense to

