292

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. HARRIS.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 52. Argued November 22, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
1. An indictment charging the defendant with having falsely testified
under oath before a federal grand jury-in answer to a question
material to the investigation, and knowing the answer to be falsethat he did not make certain statements to Government agents
concerning earlier conversations with others regarding the operation of places of ill repute, sufficiently charges perjury in violation
of § 125 of the Criminal Code. Pp. 293, 295.
2. The alleged perjury consists not in the accused having contradicted
before the grand jury earlier statements made by him in conversation with others, but in his having sworn falsely that he had never
told Government agents he had made such statements. P. 294.
Reversed.
APPEAL

under the Criminal Appeals Act from an order

of the District Court quashing an indictment for perjury.
Mr. Gordon B. Tweedy argued the causes, and Solicitor
General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, "Joseph W. Burns, and Herbert
Wechsler were on the briefs, for 'the United States.
No appearance for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In a proceeding before a grand jury, appellees were
asked whether, in 1937, they had made certain statements to government agents concerning earlier conver*Together with No. 53, United States v. Kenny, also on appeal
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
New Jersey.

UNITED STATES v. HARRIS.
292

Opinion of the Court.

sations with one Ray Born and others regarding the operation of places of ill repute. They denied having made
the statements. The grand jury thereupon found the
indictments 1 now before us which charge, in effect, that
appellees' testimony was false, that it was material to
the investigation of the grand jury, and that appellees
therefore committed perjury in violation of § 125 of the
Criminal Code (35 Stat. 1111, 18 U. S. C. § 231).2
Appellees promptly moved to quash the indictments
on the ground that they failed "to charge an offense
against the United States." After hearing on the motions, the trial judge entered orders in both cases quashing the indictments because they did not charge an
offense under the statute. The cases are here on appeals
from these rulings. 18 U. S. C. § 682, 28 U. S. C. § 345;
see United States v. Borden Co., 308 U. S. 188, 193.
The sole question presented by the two cases is
whether the indictments charge an offense under the
statute. The indictment against May Harris alleged
that ".

.

. the said May Harris . . . at the times she

made the statements aforesaid [before the grand jury],
then and there well and fully knew that they were, as
a matter of fact, false and untrue in that, and for the
reason that, May Harris aforesaid then and there well
and fully knew that she did in fact tell and inform the
' Although appellees were indicted separately, the indictments in
all material respects are identical, and the appeals present the same
question. They are therefore treated in one opinion.
-'Section 125. Whoever, having taken an oath before a competent
tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which a law of the United
States authorizes an oath to be administered, that he will testify,
declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written testimony,
declaration, deposition, or certificate by him subscribed, is true, shall
willfully and contrary to such oath state or subscribe any material
matter which he does not believe to be true, is guilty of perjury,
and shall be fined not more, than two thousand dollars and imprisoned not more than five years.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

said Special Agents . . . that she had gone to Ray Born
in 1932 and talked to him . . .; that she had spoken to
Lou Kissel . . .; that she had paid money to said James
McCullough..." ,"
The trial judge apparently thought that the alleged
perjury consisted of contradicting, before the grand jury,
the earlier statements made by ,appellees in conversations with Born and others, for in the opinion accompanying lhe orders quashing the indictments he stated:
".. . I am satisfied . . . that perjury cannot be predicated upon a contrary statement made by the witness
at a time prior to or after the making of the sworn statement, notwithstanding the claim that the witness on her
oath denied that she made such statements, which, it is
averred, can be proven by two or more credible witnesses." Hte cited several cases to show that mere proof
of prior inconsistent or contradictory statements would
not support a charge of perjury. See Phair v. United
States, 60 F. 2d 953, 954; Clayton v. United States, 284
F. 537, 540.
It is evident, however, that the indictment charged
perjury not in the mere making of contradictory and
inconsistent statements concerning these conversations,
but in swearing falsely before the grand jury that appellees had never told the government agents they had had
such conversations. Moreover, proof that appellees had
,told government agents that they had conversed with
Born and others would not be evidence of mere previous
inconsistent or contradictory statements by appellees
affecting only their credibility as witnesses, but would be
direct evidence of the offense itself and hence would
support the charge made in the indictment. The difference between the instant cases and such cases as Phair
'The charge in the indictment against Marie Kenny, mutatis
mutandis, is identical with the one quoted.

SINGER & SONS v. UNION PACIFIC R. CO. 295
292

Syllabus.

v. United States, 60 F. 2d 953, therefore, is obvious and
substantial. See O'Brien v. United States, 69 App. D. C.
135; 99 F. 2d 368.
Section 125 of the Criminal Code makes no distinction
between the false assertions of the fact of prior statements and the false assertions of any other fact. Nor
can we see any reason to make one. As the Government
points out, the denial of the fact that certain statements
have been. made may be equally as clear, deliberate, and
material a falsehood as the denial of any other fact.
And since statements made to government agents are
generally one of the bases upon which criminal proceedings are instituted and indictments returned, such a distinction might substantially impede effective administration of criminal law.
The facts stated in the indictment are clearly sufficient
to charge a violation of the perjury statute. Accordingly,
the orders quashing the indictments are reversed and the
'cause is remanded.
Reversed.
L. SINGER & SONS ET AL. V. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 14, 15, 1940.-Decided December 16,
1940.

1. In order that one may sue as a "party in interest" under paragraph 20, § 402 of the Transportation Act of 1920, to enjoin the
construction of a railroad extension not authorized by the Interstate Commerce Commission, he must show that the extension will
*Tognther with No. 35, Kansas City, Missouri, v. L. Singer & Sons
et al., also on writ of certiorari, 309 U. S. 653, to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

