MILLIKEN v. MEYER.
454

Syllabus.

their real local competitors, can operate only to discourage
and hinder the appearance of interstate commerce in the
North Carolina retail market. Extrastate merchants
would be compelled to turn over their North Carolina
trade to regular local merchants selling by sample. North'
Carolina regular retail merchants would benefit, but to
the same extent the commerce of the Nation would suffer
discrimination.
The freedom of commerce which allows the merchants
of.each state a regional or national market for their goods
is not to be fettered by legislation, the actual effect of
which is to discriminate in favor of intrastate businesses,
whatever may be the ostensible reach of the language.
Revwrsed.
MILLIKEN

ET AL.

v. MEYER, ADMINISTRATRIX.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF COLORADO.

No. 66. Argued December 13, 1940.-Decided December 23, 1940. .
1. Where its judgment is challenged in another State, the jurisdiction.
of a state court over the parties or the subject matter is 'open to
inquiry. P. 462.
2. If the judgment on its face appears to be a record of a court of
general jurisdiction, then jurisdiction over the parties and the subject
matter will be presumed, unless disproved by extrinsic evidenceor
by the*record itself. P. 462.
3. Where a judgment of a state court having jurisdiction of the parties
and the subject matter is challenged in another State, the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution precludes any inquiry
into the merits of the cause of action, the logic'or consistency of
the decision, or the validity of the legal principles on which the
judgment is based. P. 462.
4. A judgment in personam rendered in the State of his domicile against
a defendant 'who, pursuant to a statute of that State providing for
Cf. Bacardi Corporationv.. Domenech, ante, pp. 150, 156-157.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the service of process on absent defendants, was personally served
in another State, held valid and entitled to full faith and credit under
the Federal Constitution. P. 463.
A court of another State can not refuse to give full faith and
credit to such judgment on the ground of an inconsistency between
the judgment and the findings.
5. An incident of domicile is amenability to suit within the State even
during sojourns without the State, where the State has provided a
reasonable method for apprising the absent party of the proceedings

against him. P. 464.
105 Colo. 532; 100 P. 2d 151, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 310

U. S. 622, to review the affirmance of a

judgment which denied full faith and credit to a foreign
judgment.
Mr. Jean S. Breitenstein,with whom Messrs. Harold H.
Healy and Edward M. Freeman were on the brief, for
petitioners.
Mr. Fred S. Caldwell submitted for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Colorado Supreme Court held null and void a
judgment of the Wyoming court against the claim of
Milliken that that judgment was entitled to full faith and
credit under the federal constitution. 101 Colo. 564; 76
P. 2d 420; 105 Colo. 532; 100 P. 2d 151. The case is
here on a petition for certiorari which we granted because
of the substantial character of tme federal question which
is raised.
The controversy is over a 1/64th interest in profits
from operation of certain Colorado oil properties. Transcontinental' on August 31, 1922, contracted to pay Meyer
'Transcontinencal Oil Co. In June, 1923, Transcontinental had
disposed of a one-half interest in the properties in question to Texas
Production Co. In April, 1931, Ohio Oil Co. acquired the remaining
interest of Transcontinental in the properties.

MILLIKEN v. MEYER.
457

Opinion of the Cburt.

4/64ths of those profits. Milliken asserted a claim to
a two-thirds interest in that 4/64ths share. As a settlement of that dispute Transcontinental on May 3, 1924,
contracted to pay Milliken a 2/64ths interest and Miliken assigned 2 to, Transcontinental all his claims against
Meyer pertaining to the lands in question and to Meyer's
4/64ths interest in the profits.
Later Milliken instituted suit in the Wyoming court
alleging a -joint adventure with Transcontinental and
Meyer and charging a conspiracy on their part to defraud
him of his rights. He sought a 6ancellation of the contracts of May 3, 1924, and an accounting from Transcontinental and Meyer. Meyer, who was asserted to be
a resident of Wyoming, was personally served with process in Colorado pursuant to the Wyoming statutes; 8.but
he made no appearance in the Wyoming cause.4

Trans-

continental appeared and answered. The court. found
that there was a joint venture between Milliken and
'Milliken's son, Carl S. Milliken, had an interest in the" Milliken
claim which he likewise assigned to Transcontinental.
' Wyo. Comp. Stat. 1920, § 5636 provided: "Service by publication
inay be' had in either of the following cases: ... 6. In actions
where the defendant, being a resident of this state, has departed
from the county of his residence with the intent to delay or defraud
his creditors, or to avoid the service' of a summons, or keeps himself
concealed with like intent."
Sec. 5641 provided:
"Personal service out of state. In Wi cases where service may. be
made by publication under the provi~i'ons of this chapter, personal
service of a copy of the summons and the petition in said action
may be made out of the state, and such summons. when issued for
service out of the state, shall be returnable at the option of the patty
having, it issuedi,. pn the second, third pr f6urth Monday after its
date, and shall require the defendant or defendants named therein
to answer the petition in said action on or before the third Saturday
after the return day named in said summons."
'His deposition, however, was taken on oral interrogatories con'
cerning his legal residence in Wyoming.

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Transcontinental; that the contracts of May 3, 1924, were
valid; and that the action against Transcontinental
should be dismissed with prejudice. It found, however,
that there was a joint venture between Milliken and
Meyer; that they were entitled to share equally in 6/64ths
of the net profits; and thac, while Meyer had regularly
received 4/64ths, he had refused to account to Milliken
for his 1/64th part. The court did not purport to decree
the 1/64th interest to Milliken or anyone else but entered
an in personam judgment against Meyer for the profits
which Meyer had withheld from Milliken, together with
interest thereon; and enjoined Transcontinental from
paying, and Meyer from receiving, more than 3/64ths
of the net profits. This was on July 11, 1931. Thereafter the 1/64th share was withheld from Meyer and
paid over to Milliken.' In 1935 respondent instituted
this suit' in the Colorado court praying, inter alia, for-a
judgment against Milliken for the sum- withheld under
the Wyoming judgment and paid to Milliken, for an
injunction against Milliken attempting to enforce the
Wyoming judgment, and for %decree that the Wyoming
judgment was a nullity for want of jurisdiction over
Moyer or his property. The bill alleged, inter alia, that
Meyer at the time of service in the Wyoming court had
long ceased to be a resident of Wyoming and was a resident of Colorado; that the service obtained on him did
By the Ohio Oil Co. one of the vendees of Transcontinental.
These payments were to Margaret M. Milliken to whom Milliken's
interests had been assigned.
'Texas Production Ca. and Ohio Oil Co. were joined as defendants.
They filed separate answers and cross-complaints which are not
material here. It should be noted, however, that the Ohio Oil Co.
in its answer set up the contract between Milliken and Transcontinental whereby Milliken assigned all of his rights against Meyer
in the lands and the 4/64ths interest in question to Transcontinental
and alleged that Milliken was estopped thereby to make any claims
4gains it for the disputed 1/64th interest.

MILLIKEN v. MEYER.
457

Opinion of the Court.

not give the Wyoming court jurisdiction of his person
or property; and that such judgmen+. was violative of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Milliken's answer alleged, inter alia, that Meyer was a resident of Wyoming at the time of the Wyoming action and
that the Wyoming judgment was entitled to full faith
and credit in Colorado under the federal constitution.
The Colorado court, on issues joined, found that Meyer
was domiciled in Wyoming when the Wyoming suit was
commenced, that the Wyoming statutes for substituted
service were constitutional, that the affidavit for constructive service7 on Meyer was filed in good faith, substantially conformed to the Wyoming statute and stated
the truth, that Wyoming had jurisdiction over the person
of Meyer, that the Wyoming decree' was not void, and
that the bill should be dismissed.
That judgment was reversed by the Supreme Court of
Colorado. It did not pass on the question of whether dt
not the Wyoming court had jurisdiction of the parties and
subject matter.. It held that the Wyoming decree was
void. on its face because of an irreconcilable contradiction
between the findings and the decree. In its view the finding of the Wyoming court that Milliken's assignment of
May 3, 1924, to Transcontinental of his claims against
Meyer was valid, deprived the court of any ground upon
which it could predicate a judgment against Meyer, since
'While the affidavit for constructive service stated in accordance
with § 5636 of the Wyoming Comp. Stat., supra, note 3, that Meyer
concealed himself in order to avoid service of summons, the present
record does not show wlther or not the Wyoming court so foun.
'The Wyoming~judgment does not seem to have been proved by
respondepte in accordance with the provisions of R. S. § 905, 28
U. S. C. § 687 in their suit in Colorado to set it aside. Nor was
that judgment so proved by the answers. But since the Colorado
trial court gave the Wyoming judgment full faith and credit despite
lack of such proof, respondents cannot here claim that. that was
error.

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the only basis for an action by Milliken against Meyer
rested upon the claim before its assignment.
Where a judgment rendered in one state is challenged
in another, a want of jurisdiction over either the person
or the subject matter is of course open to inquiry. Grover & Baker Sewing Machine Co. v. Radcliffe, 137 U. S.
287; Adam v. Saenger, 303 U. S. 59. But if the judgment
on its face appears to be a "record of a court of general
jurisdiction, such jurisdiction over the cause and the parties is to be presumed unless disproved by extrinsic evidence, qr by the record itself." Adam v. Saenger, supra,
at p. 62. In such case the full faith and credit clause of
the Constitution precludes any inquiry into the merits
of the cause of action, the logic or consistency of the decision, or the validity of the legal principles on which the
judgment is, based. Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230;
Roche v. McDonald, 275 U. S. 449; Titus v. Wallick, 306
U. S. 282. Whatever mistakes of law may underlie the
judgment (Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308) it is "conclusive as to all the media concludendi." Fauntleroy v.
Lum, supra, at p. 237.
Accordingly, if the Wyoming court had jurisdiction
over Meyer, the holding by the Colorado Supreme Court
that the Wyoming judgment was void because of an inconsistency between the findings and the decree was not
warranted.
On the findings of the Colorado trial court, not impaired
by the Colorado Supreme Court, it is clear that Wyoming
had jurisdiction over Meyer in the 1931 suit. " Domicile
in the state is alone sufficient to bring an absent defendant within the reach of the state's jurisdiction for purposes
of a personal judgment by means of appropriate substituted service. Substituted service in such cases has been
* quite uniformly upheld where the absent defendant was
served at his usual place of abqde in the state (Huntley
Y. Baker, 33 Hun 578; Hurlbut v. Thomas, 55 Conn. 181;

MILLIKEN v. MEYER.
457

463.

Opinion of the Court.

10 A. 556; Harryman v. Roberts, 52 Md. 64) as well
as where he was personally served without the state. In
re Hendrickson, 40 S. D. 211; 167 N. W. 172.. That such
substituted service may be wholly adequate to meet the
requirements of due process was recognized by this Court
in McDonald v. Mabee, 243 U. S. 90, despite earlier intimations to the contrary. See Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S.
714, 733; Burdick, Service as a Requirement of Due Process in Actions In Personam, 20 Mich. L. Rev. 422. Its
adequacy so far as due process is concerned is dependent
on whether or not the form of substituted service provided
for such cases and employed is reasonably calculated to
give him actual notice of the proceedings and an opportunity to be heard. If it is, the traditional notions of
fair play and substantial justice (McDonald v. Mabee,
supra) implicit in due process are satisfied. Here there
can be no question on that score. Meyer did not merely
receive actual notice of the Wyoming proceedings. While
outside the state, he was personally served in accordance
with a statutory scheme which Wyoming had provided for
such occasions. And in our view the machinery employed
met all the requirements of due process. Certainly then
Meyer's domicile in Wyoming was a sufficient basis for
that extraterritorial service. As in case of the authority
of the United States over its absent citizens (Blackmer
v. United States, 284 U. S. 421), the authority of a state
over one of its citizens is not terminated by the mere
fact of his absence from the state. The state which accords him privileges and affords protection to him aid
his property by virtue of his domicile may/also exact
reciprocal duties. "Enjoyment of the privileges of residence within the state, and the attendant right to invoke
the protection of its laws, are inseparable" from the various incidences of state citizenship. See Lawrence v.
State Tax Commission, 286 U. S. 276, 279, New. York ex
rel. Cohn v. Graves, 300 U. S. 308. The responsibilities

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus

311 U. S.

of that citizenship arise out of the relationship to the
state which domicile creates. That relationship is not
dissolved by mere absence from the state. The attendant
duties, like the rights and privileges incident to domicile,
are not dependent on continuous presence in the state.
One such incident of domicile is amenability to suit
within the state even during sojourns without the state,
where the state has'provided and employed a reasonable
method for apprising such an absent party of the proceedings against him. See Restatement, Conflict of Laws,
§§ 47, 79; Dodd, Jurisdiction in Personal Actions, 23 Ill.
L. Rev. 427. Here such a reasonable method was so provided and so employed.
Reversed.
STONER v. NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 74. Argued November 13, 1940.-Decided December 23, 1940.
In suits against an insurer upon policies providing for payment of benefits and waiver of premiums in the event -of the insured's "total disability," an intermediate appellate court of Missouri had held that the
evidence for, the insured was sufficient to go to the jury. Subsequently, the insurer sued the insured in a federal court in that
State, for a declaratory judgment that it was no longer obliged to
pay disability benefits or to waive payment of premiums. In this
suit, the parties were the same as in the earlier suits in the state
courts, the issues were identical, and the evidence consisted of a
transcript of the evidence in one of the state court suits, supplemented only by additional items introduced by, and favorable to, the
insured. The suit was tried without a jury and judgment was for
the insured:'Held:
1. Reversal by the Circuit Court of Appeals, with direction to
enter a declaratory judgment for the insurer, was erroneous. P. 467.
.2. The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, determining in
effect that the evidence on the issue.of total disability required a find-

