SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
.205

211,

Syllabus.

without more furnishes supplies to an illicit distiller is
not guilty of conspiracy even though his sale may have
furthered the object of a conspiracy to which the distiller
was a party but of which the supplier had no knowledge.
On this record we have no occasion to decide any other
question.

Affirmed.
SCHRIBER-SCHROTH CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST
CO. ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 9.

Argued October 24, 25, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

1. The claims of a patent are interpreted in the light of the specifications, but with reference also to its file-wrapper history. P 217.
2.. It is a rule of patent construction that a claim in a patent must
be read and interpreted with reference to claims that have been
cancelled or rejected and the claims allowed can not by construction be read to cover what has thus been eliminated from the
patent. P. 220.
3. While this rule is most frequently invoked when the original and
cancelled 'laim is broader than that allowed, the. rule and the
reason for it are the same if the cancelled or rejected claim be
narrower. P. 221,
4. The patentee may not, by resort to the doctrine of equivalents,
give to an allowed claim a scope which it might have had but
for amendments, the cancellation of which amounts to a disclaimer.
P. 221.
5. The patent to Jardine, No. 1,763,523, (Claims 1, 8, and 11),
relating to pistons for internal combustion engines, claims -the
combination of a piston-head, a divided skirt, and webs connecting'
Together. with No. 10, Aberdeen Motor Supply Co. v. Cleveland
Trust Co. et al., and No. 11, F. E. Rowe Sales Co. v. Cleveland
Trust Co. et al., also on writs of certiorari, 309 U. S. 648, to the
'Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The Chrysler Corporation was joined as a party plaintiff in the original suits and
is a nominal respondent here.

212

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

the head and skirt portions and supporting two wrist-pin bosses.
Assuming that, with the aid of the specification, these claims
might be ,construed to claim flexible webs, devised to act in co6peration with the other elements to make the piston respond to
physical compression and thermal expansion, as an element of
the combination which they do not claim expressly, such construction is:precluded because the patentee, by amendments while
his application Was pending, made additional claims like those
mentioned but specifying flexible webs, and thereafter withdrew
them, upon their being rejected in interference proceedings. Pp. 215,
222.
108 F. 2d 109, reversed.

CERTIoRARI, 309 U. S. 648, to review a decree sustaining
a atent in suits to restrain infringements.
Messrs. John H. Sutherland arm, John 11. Bruninga for
petitioners.
Messrs. Arthur C. Denison and F. 0. Richey, with
whom Messrs. Win. C. McCoy and Milton Tibbetts were
on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE SToNE delivered the opinion of the
Court.*
Decision in these cases turns on the question whether,
in the light, of the patent office history of the Jardine
patent on a piston for gas engines, the court below, in
construing the specifications and claims, erroneously included one element, "flexible" or "yielding': webs, in the
patented combination.
A related question was considered by this Court inconnection with the Gulick and Maynard patents, also
involved in this litigation, in Schriber-Schroth Co. v.
Cleveland Trust Co., 305 U. S. 47. Respondent, the
Cleveland Trust Company, is the assignee in trust under
a pooling agreement of some eighty patents relating-t
"The opinion appears here as amended by an order of February 3,
1941, reported in 312 U. S.

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
211

213

Opinion of the Court.

pistons for gas engines. It brought suit in the district
court for northern Ohio against petitioners, three piston
dealers, customers of the Sterling Products Company, to
restrain infringement of five of the patents, including the
Gulick patent No. 1,815,733, applied for November 30,
1917 and allowed July 31, 1931, the Jardine patent No.
1,763,523, applied for March il,1920 and allowed June
10, 1930, and the Maynard patent No. i,655,968, applied
for January 3, 1921 and allowed June 10, 1928.
The cases were consolidated and tried before a special
master who, upon the basis of elaborate special findings,
concluded that the Gulick patent was invalid because
of want of invention and because of the addition to the
application by'amendment in 1922 of a new element of
the alleged invention; that the Maynard patent was
invalid for want of invention and for failure to describe
and claim the alleged invention, and that the Jardine'
patent was invalid as not showing invention over. the
prior art exhibited by Ricardo, Franquist and Long. He
held the other patents invalid for reasons not now
material.
. The districf court adopted the master's findings and
gave its decree for petitioners. The court of appeals
reversed as to two of the five patents, holding the Gulick'
and Maynard patents valid and infringed. 92 F. 2d
330. The elements of the combination as stated in claim
.39, of the Gulick patent, are:
"A piston for an engine cylinder comprising a skirt, a
head separated from the skirt wall around its entire
periphery, said skirt being longitudinally split to render
the skirt wall yieldable on every diameter in response to
cylinder wall pressure, wrist pin bosses, and ineans
rigidly connecting said bosses to the head and yieldingly
connecting said bosses to the skirt whereby said skirt is
yieldable in response to cylinder wall pressure."
Reference to a combination, including with other element web ,connections "whereby said piston skirt is

OCTOBER 'rtuvti, ,uv.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

rendered yieldable during operation in response to cylinder wall pressure" appears in number 18, one of the sustained claims.
The court of appeals found invention in both the
Gulick and Maynard patents, in a combination of elements of which one was "webs laterally flexible," which
was not specifically described' or claimed in the Gulick
patent before its amendment of 1922 and was never so
described or claimed in the Maynard patent.
Conceding that other elements in the combinations
were old in the piston art it said: "But to combine insulation of head from skirt, retraction of the bosses from the
skirt periphery, connection of such bosses to the skirt
with webs laterally flexible and yet so carried from the
head as to support the load upon the wrist pin with
sufficient strength and rigidity, and to utilize the mechanical force of the cylinder wall upon the skirt and
the thermal expansion of the bosses so as to compensate
evenly and fully for head expansion and to -secure a
balanced flexibility of the skirt with no bending concentration at any point therein, discloses, we think, a meritorious concept beyond the reach of those skilled in the
art." 92 F..2d at 334.
Upon an examination of the Gulick application before
amendment and the Maynard patent we concluded, 305
U. S. 47, that neither described or claimed flexible or
yieldable webs as an element in the patented inventions.
For that reason alone we held that, if the flexible web
constituted an essential element of the inventions, both
patents failed to satisfy the requirement of the statute
that the patentee describe his invention so that others
may construct and use it after the expiration .ofthe patent
and that it "inform the public during the life of the
patent of the limits of the monopoly asserted, so that
it may be known which features may be safely used or
manufactured without a license and which may not,"

.SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
•211

215

Opinion of the Court.

Permiutit Co. v. Graver Corp., 284 U. S.52, 60; that consequently the patent monopoly did not extend beyond
the invention described and explained by the patent as
the statute requires and could not be enlarged by amendment so as to embrace in the invention an element not
described or claimed in the application as filed, at least
when adverse rights of the 'public had intervened. See
chriber-SchrothCo. v. Cleveland Trust Co., supra, 57.
Upon the remand the court of appeals held in the
present suit, Schr'ber-Schroth Co. v. Cleveland Trust
Co., 108 F. 2d.109, that the elements of the combination
described and claimed in the Gulick patent before amendment and in the Maynard patent without including the
flexible web element which was added only. by amendment to the Gulick patent, did not disclose invention
over the prior art. But considering that the flexible web
element which had not been included in the combination
patented by Gulick and Maynard had been described and
claimed in the Jardine patent, it recalled its mandate to
the district court by which it had directed dismissal without prejudice of the suit brought on that patent. See
Schriber-Schroth Co. v. Cleveland Trust Co., supra, 112,
113. Upon an examination Of. the Jardine specifications
and claims it found there described and claimed the invention which it had previously found in Gulick and Maynard,
but which this Court had found .the patentees had failed
to describe and claim in their applications.
The Jardine claims, 1, 8 and 11, whicL it sustained,
'reci-te the webs as an element but do not describe them
as flexible or. point to flexibility as an element in the
invention claimed. But in the specifications of the.pat-:
ent, which so far as now material appeared in Jardine's
application describing the invention, he makes 'specific
reference to the webs constructed in such proportions as
to enable them 'to "bend" in 'response to the. reaction
force of the cylinder wall on the outer faces of the guide

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

segments as the piston expands, and to the co6peration
of the "bending" web with the thermal expansion of the
guide part of the piston without a corresponding increasQ
in its outer diameter.' He explained the principle of
his device saying, "I have found that these difficulties can
be overcome by constructing a piston with its skirt or
guide portion supported and slotted or divided in a manner to permit deformation and deflection of parts thereof
without interfering with the performance of the essential
functions of the respective parts."
Reading specifications and claims together, the Court
of. Appeals interpreted the latter as incorporating the
elment of web flexibility in the combination claimed
and concluded that Jardine had explained and claimed
"the principle of operation of his machine and the flexibility -of its webs." It said that "the knowledge that
was not Gulick's or was by him concealed is clear to
Jardine and by him proclaimed." It held the Jardine
patent valid and infringed as it had found Gulick infringed in its earlier decision.
1

An excerpt from the Jardine Specifications reads:
"The webs 6 and -guide segments preferably are so designed that
this displacement of the segments 10, 10', is permitted by virtue
of a bending of the webs 6 at points remote *from the guide segments. To this end, as shown in Fig. 4, the thickness of the guide
segments is increased toward the webs 6 and the webs 6 are decreased in thickness from the guide portions inward toward the
bosses to points in line with the inner ends'of the slots 11. .This
gives in effect a cantilever structure weakest at its support,
Thus the reaction force of the cylinder wall on the outer faces of the
guide segments as the piston expands tends to cause bending of the
webs 6 along said lines 13. Due to the bending of the web sections
6 and the forcing together of each pair of segments, the guide part
of the piston may undergo a considerable thermal expansion without
a corresponding increase in the outer diameter thereof and thus a
small initial clearance can be used without danger of scoring or
seizure of the piston."

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
211

217

Opinion of the Court.

We granted certiorari, 309 U. S. 648, on a petition which
raised, among others, the question whether the court of
appeals had misinterpreted or unduly limited this Court's
earlier decision in this case and its decision in Permutit
Co. v. Graver Corp., supra, by refusing to hold a patent
invalid where a feature found to be -an essential element
of the patented combination was not mentioned in the
claims of the patent and was in fact surrendered during
the prosecution of the application and after adverse
decisions in interferences.2
The clims of a patent are always to be read or interpreted in the light of its specifications, Hogg v. Emerson,
11 How. 587; Carnegie Steel Co. v. Cambria Iron Co.,
185 U. S. 403; Smith v. Snow, 294 U. S. 1; and we may
assume that if ih the present case the specifications and
claims of the patent were to be interpreted without reference to its file wrapper history, the webs referred to in
the claims are the webs described in the specifications as
capable of bending in co6peration with the slotted piston
guides or skirts so as to compensate for ther'mal expansion and so supply the element of webs laterally flexible
which was wanting to Gulick and to Maynard. But the
particular invention to which the patentee has made
claim in conformity to the. statute is not always to be
'A question raised by the petition for certiorari was whether respondent could prosecute its suit for injunction in the absence, as a
party, of the licensee to whom respondent had granted the exclusive
right to manufacture, under the' patents in question, aluminum pistons, the only field in which concededly the patent- has present
practical utility. The special master found against petitioners on
this point and no exceptions were taken to his finding, nor was the
point argued when the case was first before the circuit court of
a ppeals and this court. The court below'thought that in view
of these circumstances the right of respondents to an injunction was
no longer an issue. We do not here pass on the question since we
find that, in any case, for reasons appearing in the opinion, no
injunction should issue.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

ascertained from an inspection of the specifications and
claims of the patent alone. Where the patentee in the
course of his application in the patent office has, by
amendment, cancelled or surrendered claims, those which
are allowed are to be read in the light of those abandoned
and an abandoned claim cannot be revived and restored
to the patent by reading it by construction into the
claims which are allowed. Hence, petitioners argue, the
effect to be given to the omission from the Jardine claims
of any reference to the flexible web feature, which the
court below thought distinguished his alleged invention
from that of the Gulick and Maynard patents, cannot
rightly be determined without some examination of the
claims pointing to flexible webs ks a feature of his invention, which Jardine added to his application by amendment and later surrendered as a result of interference
proceedings in the patent office.
The Jardine patent was described as of the slipper type
of piston although not limited to that type, the skirt consisting of two separated parts circumferentially separated
from the piston head, supported by the webs which connect the skirt or slippers with the piston head and support wrist pin bosses from which the skirt is retracted or
cut away. The claims of the Jardine application as filed
or later amended and ultimately allowed made no reference to the webs as flexible, yielding, or resilient, which
the court of appeals found, when cooperating with other
structural elements, to be a distinguishing feature of
Jardine's invention. Claim 8 of the Jardine patent,
which is typical of the three which the court below
sustained, reads:.
"In a piston for an internal combustion engine, the
combination of a head having a cylindrical ring flange,
oppositely disclosed Webs integral with the flange and
carrying diametrically opposite piston pin bosses, a skirt
integral with said webs and cit Away to expose the sides

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST CO.
211

219

Opinion of the Court.

of said webs and separated from the ring flange by circumferential slits and provided with a longitudinal slit
disposed between the ends of the webs."
Claims 5 and 6 refer to the "skirt portion cut away from
the head to expose the bosses."
*While the application was pending Jardine amended
his claims so as to supply this omission. In various
forms he claimed the piston head, skirt and web combination with piston head separated at its flange or
periphery from the skirt, the skirt slotted or separated
into parts and connected with the head by the webs, variously described as "yielding ribs," "resilient arms," "skirt
carriers . . . susceptible of being slightly flexed radially"
or as "joining means being resiliently yieldable," or as
"means for yieldingly connecting the said skirt section
with said head." These claims, as a result of being
thrown into interference with Hartog, No. 1,842,022, applied for February 16, 1920, allowed January 19, 1932,
and in some instances with Gulick and with Long, No.
1,872,772, applied for March 7, 1919, allowed. August 23,
1932, Were rejected by the patent office. Jardine then
withdrew all of these amendments. Of these amended
and cancelled claims, claim 18 [19 E] is typical. It
reads as follows:
"In a piston of the class described, a cup-like head
comprising a pressure receiving end and a wall portion, a
skirt circumferentially disconnected from the wall portion
of the head and divided from end to end, and skirt carriers connecting said skirt to the pressure receiving end,
said skirt carriers being disconnected from the wall portion of the head and susceptible of being slightly flexed
radially."
Upon comparison of the withdrawn claim with claim 8
of the patent as allowed it will be observed that-both are
combi4ation claims for a piston having a head, a divided
or slotted skirt -isconrected from the will portion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

head and connected with the head by ribs, webs or skirt
carriers. The only material difference in view of what
has been said to be the invention is the statement in
the withdrawn claims that the skirt carriers (webs) are
"susceptible of being slightly flexed radially" or the like.
Whatever would have been the proper construction of
the claims as allowed, read in the light of the specifications alone, there being no amendments, the question
now presented is whether in view of the amendments and
their withdrawal the patent can rightly be construed as
including the flexible webs in the claim allowed.
In addition to the fact of the cancellation of the only
claims specifying flexing webs or their equivalents as a
feature of the invention, it is to be noted that at no time
during the prosecution of the Jardi application did, he
urge that he was the inventor of a piston having flexible
webs. Before the interferences and in distinguishing his
invention from the Ricardo piston, Jardine urged as his
only advance over Ricardo the addition of the slotted
skirt which "changes the structure and the resistance to
a disposal of the forces within and without the piston
when the piston is in use," although in this litigation it
is contended that the Ricardo patent did not disclose flexing webs. In submitting the final amendment cancelling
the flexible web claims in interference and presenting the
claims 8 and 11 of the Jardine patent held valid by
the court below, there is no mention' of flexing webs,
the features stressed being in the case of claim 8 that the
webs are integral with the ring flange and in the case of
claim 11 that the webs are integral with the flange and
extend "convergingly inwardly" therefrom.
It is aule of patent construction consistently observed
that a clai, in a patent as allowed must be read and
interpreted ith reference to claims that have been can-,
celled or rejected, and the claims allowed cannot by construction be read to cover what was thus eliminated from

SCHRIBER CO. v. CLEVELAND TRUST. CO.
211

221

Opinion of the Court.

the patent. Shepard v. Carrigan,116 U. S. 593; Sutter
v. Robinson, 119 U. S. 530; Roemer v. Peddie, 132 U. S.
313; Phoenix CasterCo. v.Spiegel, 133 U. S. 360; Hubbell
v. United States, 179 U. S. 77; Weber Electric Co. v.
E. H. FreemanElectric Co., 256 U. S. 668; I. T. S. Rubber
Co. v. Essex Rubber Co., 272 U. S. 429, 443. The patentee may not, by resort to the doctrine of equivalents,
give to an allowed claim a scope vhich it might have
had without the amendments, the Qancellation of which
amounts to a disclaimer. Smith - Magic City Club,
282 U. S. 784, 790; Weber Electric Co. v. E. H. Freeman
Electric Co., supra,677, 678; I. T. S.. Rubber Co. v. Essex
Rubber Co., supra, 444. The injurious consequences to
the public and to inventors and patent applicants if patentees were thus permitted to revive cancelled or rejected
claims and Testore them'to their patents are manifest.
See Leggett v. Avery, 101 U. S. 256, 259.
True, the rule is most frequently invoked when the
original and cancelled claim is broader than that allowed,
but the rule and the reason for it are the same if the
cancelled, or rejected claim be narrower. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co., 152 U.S. 425, 429; Wim.
B. Scaife & Sons Co. v. Falls City Woolen Mills, 209 F.
210, 213; see Computing Scale Co. v. Automa~tic Scale
Co., 204 U. S. 609, 620, 621; cf. in case of, disclaimer
Altooma Publix Theatres, Inc. v. Tri-Ergon Corp.,. 294
U. S. 477, 492, 493.
. In view of the prior art which precluded, as the court
below held, invention in Gulick and Maynard, absent
the flexible webs, and in Jardine without the inclusion of
the surrendered flexible web feature in the patented combination, it does not appear why the patent office allowed
the broad claims after rejecting the narrower ones. But
in any case the patentee, having acquiesced in their rejection, is no longer free to gain the supposed advantage
of the rejected, claims by a construction of the allowed

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

claims as equivalent to them. Morgan Envelope Co. v.
Albany Paper Co., supra.
The application of that principle in the present case
is not foreclosed as respondent suggests because the combination of elements surrendered differs from the combination which the court below found to be preserved in
the allowed claims and in which it found invention. The
combination which it found to be preserved in Jardine's
claims was "a combination with balanced skirt flexibility
due to co-operation of longitudinal and vertical slotting
with flexing webs supporting retracted bosses and connected to a skirt thereby made responsive ,to physical
compression and thermal expansion so as to permit of
minute clearances between piston and cylinder, a concept
perceived in Gulick as amended and minus amendment
no longer perceived." 108 F. 2d 114.
But the amended and cancelled claims are to be read
in the light of the specifications. So read, cancelled claim
18 [19 E], already quoted, claims a piston "of the class
described" and embraces the combination in which the
court below found invention, longitudinal and vertical
slotting, flexing webs supporting "retracted bosses" and
connected to a skirt thereby made responsive to physical
compression and thermal expansion. True the amended
and cancelled claim and allowed claims 1, 8 and 11 did
not specifically mention retraction of the skirt from the
bosses. Nor did either the amended claims or. the allowed
claims specify balanced skirt flexibility due to co~peration
of the parts. For them recourse must be had to the
'specifications and drawings in which the court below
found the elements of the invention which it described
*but in which, absent the flexible web element, it found no
invention. In view of such want of invention and of the
prior art, the only material difference between the amended
and the allowed claims is the presence in the former of the
flexible web element and, in consequence of the surrender
of the former particularizing the flexible web feature of

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
Syllabus.

211

the alleged invention, -the latter cannot be construed as
including that feature.
We have no occasion to determine. whether, in view
of the prior art, the Jardine patent disclosed invention
if the flexible web feature had not been surrendered.
Without it the court below concluded that Jardine, like
Gulick and Maynard, disclosed no invention. It rejected
the Schmiedeknecht patent, No. 1,256,265,. one of those
in suit, on like grounds, saying, "It discloses no web flexibility co-operating with other elements of resiliency, to
achieve the balanced flexibility perceived in Jardine on
the basis of which alone the latter is thought to be
valid

....

"

We accept this conclusion as supported by

the evidence of the prior a~t in the master's findings and
the only one which could be reached consistently with
the decision below with respect to the Gulick and Maynard patents which stand adjudged as invalid.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

WEST

ET AL.

V. AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND

TELEGRAPH CO.
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 44 gnd 45.

Argued November 13, 1940.-Decided December 9,
1940.

1. In a suit in a federal court for equitable relief in protection of
legal rights growing out of an unlawful transfer of stock by a
corporation, the state laws defining those rights' are the rules of
decision. P. 236.
2. A rule announced and applied by state courts as the law of the
State, though not passed on by the highest state court, may
not be.rejected by a federal court because it thinks that the rule is
unsound in principle or that another is preferable. P. 236.

