OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS; TOOL AND DIE MAKERS LODGE NO.
.35, ETC. v. NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS
BOARD.

-INTERNATIONAL

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 16. Argued October 24, 1940.--Decided November 12, 1940.
1. The National Labor Relations Board, finding that a labor organization, having a closed-shop contract With an employer, had been
"assisted" in its organizational drive by unfair labor practices of the
employer, was authorized to order the employer to cease and desist
from giving effect to the contract. P. 75.
2. The finding of the National Labor Relations Board in this case
that a labor organization had been "assisted" by unfair labor practices of the employer is supported by substantial evidence. P. 75.
3. The Board's findings in this case having been confirmed by the
court below, there is no need here to review the evidence in detail. P. 75.
4. In determining, upon the record of this case, whether a labor organization was "assisted" by unfair labor practices of the employer, the Board could properly consider not only the employer's
activities during the organization's membership drive but also
previous and subsequent activities. P. 79.
5. That, in respect of the period between the time as of which a
labor organization claims to have obtained a majority of the
workers in an appropriate unit and the date of the execution of
a closed-shop contract between it and the employer, the Board
made no finding that the claimed majority was maintained by unfair labor practices, is not material in this case. The finding of the
Board that'the labor organization did not represent an uncoerced
majority of the employees in such iuit when the closed-shop contract
was executed is adequate to support the conclusion that the maintenance as well as the acquisition of the alleged majority was
wrongfully achieved. P. 78.
6. An employer may be found under the National Labor Relations
Act to have "assisted" a labor organization by unfair labor practices, even though the empl6yees through whose activities the
employer is regarded as having so assisted were not employed in
a "suPervisory" capacity, and even though their acts were not

I. A. OF M. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

expressly authorized or were not such as might constitute a basis
of employer liability under the doctrine of respondeat 8uperior.
Pp. 79-80.
7. Where, as here, there is ample evidence to support an inference
that the employees believed that certain solicitors, though bona
fide members of a labor organization and professedly acting therefor, were in fact acting for and on behalf of the employer, the
Board may jfstiiably find that the employees did not have the
complete and unhampered freedom of choice which the Act
contemplates. P. 80.
8. Where, in a proceeding under § 10 of the National Labor Rela-tions Act,- the Board finds that a labor organization has been
assisted by unfair labor practices of the employer, it may order
the employer to deal exclusively, for purposes of collective bargaining, with a rival labor organization; and the Board may properly
refuse to act upon a notice received. from the first labor organization, prior to the issuance of its order, that that organization has
obtained a majority of the employees in an appropriate baTgaining
unit. P. 81.
71 App. D. C.175; 110 F. 2d 29, affirmed.

CERTmORARI, 309 U. S. 649, to review a decision affirming
an order of the National Labor Relations Board.
Mr. Joseph A. Padway, With whom Mr. Herbert S.
Thatcher was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Robert B. Watts, with whom Soliciior General
Biddle, Assistant Solicitor General Fahy, and Messrs.
Thomas >E. Harris, Laurence A. Knapp, Mortimer B.
Wolf and Miss Ruth Weyand were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
There are two questions here (or decision: (1)
whether on the facts of this case the National Labor
Relations Board was without authority in finding that
an industrial unit was appropriate for collective bargaining purposes to the exclusion of a craft unit; and (2)

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

whether the Board had authority to require the employer
to bargain with that industrial unit, despite a claim submitted to the Board by the craft unit before the order
issued that the latter then had been designated by a
majority of all the employees. We granted certiorari
because of the importance of these questions in the adimistration of the National Labor Relations Act (49
Stat. 449) and because of an asserted conflict between
the decision below (71 App. D. C.. 175; 110 F. 2d 29) and
Hamilton'-Brown Shoe Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 104 F. 2d 49, on -the second question.

The Board found, in proceedings duly had under § 10
of the Act, that the employer, Serrick Corporation, had
engaged in unfair labor practices within the meaning of
the Act. It ordered the employer to cease and desist
from those practices and to take certain affirmative action. More specifically, it directed the employer to cease
giving effect to a closed-shop contract with petitioner
covering the toolroom employees; to deal with U. A. W.,
an industrial unit,2 as the exclusive bargaining agent oi
its employees, including the toolroom men; to desist
from various discriminatory practices in favor of peti.,tioner and .against U. A. W.; and to reinstate and make
whole crtain employees who had been improperly discharged. The employer has complied with the Board's
order. But petitioner, an intervener in the proceedings
before .the Board, filed a petition in the court below to
review and set aside those portions of the order which
direct the employer to cease and desist from giving effect
to its closed-shop contract with petitioner and to bargain
exclusively with U. A. W. The court below affirmed the
order ofthe Board.
1 Petitioners,

labor organizations affiliated with the American Fed-

eration of Labor, are treated herein in the singular.
'United Automobile Workers of America, Local No. 459 (herein
called U. A: W.) is affiliated with the Congress of Industrial Organizations .(C, I. 0.).

I. A. OF M. v. LABOR -BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

Abrogation of petitioner's dosed-shop contract.-The
Board found that the closed-shop contract between petitioner and the employer was invalid under § 8 (3) of the
Act 8 because it had been) "assisted" by unfair labor practices of the employer, because petitioner did not represent an uncoerced majority of the toolroom employees at
the time the contract was executed, and because for this
and other reasons it was not an appropriate bargaining
unit. We think there was substantial evidence that petitioner had been assisted by unfair labor practices of the
employer and that therefore the Board was justified in
refusing to give effect to its closed-shop contract.
Since the court below has confirmed the findings of the
Board there is no need to review the evidence in detail.
National Licorice Co. v. National Labor Relations Board,
309 U. S. 350, 357. It is clear that the employer had an
open and avowed hostility to U. A. W. It is plain that
the employer exerted great effort, though unsuccessfully,
to sustain its old company union, the Acme Welfare Association, as a bulwark against U. A. W. And it is evident
that the employer, while evincing great hostility to.
U. A. W. in a contest to enlist its production force, acqui'Sec. 8 (3) provides:
"It shall be an unfair labor practice for an employer--...
"(3) By discrimination in regard to hire or tenure.'of employment
or any term or condition of employment to encourage or discourage
membership in any labor organization: Provided, That nothing in
this Act, or in the National Industrial Recovery Act (U. S. C., Supp.
VII, title 15, secs. 701-712), as amended from time to time, or in
any code or agreement approved or prescribed thereunder, or in any
other statute of the Uhited States, shall preclude an employer from
making an agreement with a labor organization (not established, maintained, or assisted by any action defined in this Act as an unfair
labor practice) to require as a condition of employment membership

therein, if such labor organization is the representative of the em-:
ployees as provided in section 9 (a), in the appropriate wlective
bargaining unit covered by such agreement when made."

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

esced without protest in the organization by petitioner of
the toolroom employees. The main contested issue here.
is narrowly confined. It is whether or not the- employer
"aaiisted" the petition er in enrolling its majority.
Fouts, Shock, Dininger, Bolander, Byroad and Baker
were all employees of the toolroom. Four of these--.Fouts,
Shock, Byroad and Bolander-were old and trusted em-'
ployees. Fouts was "more or less an assistant foreman,"
having certain employees under him. Shock was in
charge of the toolroom during the absence of the fore,man. Dininger' and Bolander were in. charge of the second and third shifts respectively, working at night. Prior
to mid-July, 1937, they had been actively engaged on
behalf of the company union. When it became apparent
at that time that the efforts to build up that union were
not successful, Fouts, Shock, Byroad and Bolander suddenly shifted their support from the company union to
petitioner and moved into the forefront in enlisting the
support of the employees for petitioner. The general
manager told Shock that he would close the plant rather
than deal with U. A. W. The superintendent and Shock'
repIorted to toolroom employees that the employer would
not recognize the C. I. 0. The superintendent let it be
known that the employer would deal with an A. F. of L.
union. At the same time the superintendent also stated
to. one of the employees that some of the "foremen don't
like the C. I. 0." and added, with prophetic vision, that
there was "going to be quite a layoff around here and
these fellows that don't like the C0 I. 0. are going to lay
those fellows off first." During working hours, Byroad
conducted a straw vote among the employees and under
the direction of Fouts and Shock left the plant to seek
out an organizer for petitioner. Fouts solicited among
workmen in the toolroom stating that his purpose was to
"beat" the U. A. W. For a week preceding August 13,
Shock spent much time, as did Byroad, going "from one

I. A. OF M. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

bench to another soliciting" for petitioner. Baker likewise solicited. Dininger offered an employee a "good rating" if he would join petitioner. Not less than a week
before August 13, the personnel director advised two employees to "join the A. F. of L." Byroad spent considerable time during working hours soliciting employees,
threatening loss cf employment to those who did not sign
up with petitioner and representing that he was acting in
line with the desires of the toolroom foreman, McCoy.
This active solicitation for petitioner was on company
time and'was made openly in the shop. Much of it was
made in the presence of the toolroom foreman, McCoy,
who clearly knew what was being done. Yet the freedom
allowed solicitors for petitioner was apparently denied
solicitors for U. A. W. The plant -manager warned some
of the latter to check out their time for a conference with
him on U. A. W. and questioned their right to discuss
U. A. W. matters on company property. The inference is
justified that U. A. W. solicitors were closely watched,
while those acting for petitioner were allowed more leeway.
Five U. A. W. officials had been discharged in June,
1937, because of their union activities. The known antagonism of the employer to U. A. W. before petitioner's
drive for membership started made it patent that the
employees were not free to choose U. A. W. as their bargaining representative. Petitioner started its drive for
membership late in July, 1937, and its closed-shop contract was signed August 11, 1937.1 On August 10, 1937,.
the U. A. W., having a clear majority of all the employees,
presented to the employer a proposed written contract
for collective bargaining. This was refused. On August
13, 1937, all toolroom employees who refused membership in petitioner, some 20 in number, were discharged.
'The contract, though dated August 6,1937, was actuallyexecuteu
on August 11, 1937.

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

On August 15, 1937, the management circulated among
the employees a statement which, as found by the Board,
was a thinly veiled attack on the U. A. W. and a firm
declaration that the employer would not enter into any
agreement with it.
Petitioner insists that the employer's hostility to
U. A. W. cannot be translated into assistance to the petitioner and that none of the acts of the employees above
mentioned, who were soliciting for petitioner, can be
attributed to the employer.
We disagree with that view. We agree with the court
below that the toolroom episode was but an integral part
of a long plant controversy. What happened during the
relatively brief period from late July to August 11, 1937,
cannot properly be divorced from the events immediately
preceding and following. The active opposition, of the
employer to U. A. W. throughout the whole controversy
has a direct bearing on the events during that intermediate period. Known hostility to one union and clear
discrimination against it may indeed make seemingly
trivial intimations of preference for another union pow:
erful assistance for it. Slight suggestions as to the employer's choice between unions may have telling effect
among men who know the consequences of incurring that
employer's strong displeasure. The freedom of activity
permitted one group and the close surveillance given
another may be more powerful support for the former :
than campaign utterances.
To be sure, it does not appear that the employer instigated the introduction of petitioner into the plant. But
the Board.was wholly. justified in finding that the employer 'assisted" it in its organizational drive. Silent
approval of-or acquiescence in that drive for membership
and close surveillance of the competitor; the intimations
of the employer's choice made by superiors; the fact that
the employee-solicitors had been closely identified with

I. A. OF M. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

the company union until their quick shift to petitioner;
the rank and position of those employee-solicitors; the
ready acceptance of petitioner's contract and the contemporaneous rejection of the contract tendered by U. A. W.;
the employer's known prejudice against the U. A. W.
were all proper elements for it to take into consideration
in weighing the evidence and drawing its inferences. To
say that the Board must disregard what preceded and
what followed the membership drive would be to require
it tc shut; its eyes, to potent imponderables permeating
this entire record. The detection and appraisal of such
imponderables are indeed one of the essential functions
of an expert administrative agency.
Petitioner asserts that it had -obtained its majority of
toolroom employees by July 28, 1938, and that there was
no finding, by the Board that that majority was maintaindd between then and the date of execution of the
closed-shop contract by unfair labor, practices. In this,
case, however, that is 'an irrelevant refinement. The
existence of unfair labor practices throughout this whole
period permits the inference that the employees did not
have that freedom of choice which is the essence of collective bargaining. *And the finding of the Board that
petitioner did. not represent an uncoerced majority of
toolroom employees when the closed-shop contract was
executed is adequate to support the conclusion that the
maintenance as well as the acquisition of the alleged
majority was contaminated by the employer's aid.
Petitioner attacks the Board's conclusion that 'its membership drive was headed by "supervisory" employees-*Fouts, Shock, Dininger and Bolander. According to p.titioner these men were not foremen, let alone supervisors
entrusted with executive or directorial functions, but
merely "lead men" who by reason of long expeience were
skilled in handling new jobs and hence directed the set-up
of the work.'- Petitioner's argument is that since these

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinioi of the Court.

311 U. S.

men were not supervisory their acts of solicitation were
not coercive and not attributable to the employer.
The employer, however, may be held to have assisted
the formation of a union even though the acts of the
so-called agents were not expressly authorized or might
not be attributable to him on strict application of the
rules of respondeat superior. We are dealing here not
with private rights (Am'algamated Utility Workers v.
Consolidated Edison Co., 309 U. S. 261) nor with technical concepts pertinent to an employer's legal responsi1ility to third persons for acts of his servants, but with a
clear legislative policy to free the collective bargaining
process from all taint of an employer's compulsion, domination, or influence. The existence of that interference
must be determined by careful scrutiny of all the factors,
often subtle, which restrain the employees' choice and
for which the employer may fairly be said to be responsible. Thus, where the employees would have just cause
to believe that solicitors professedly for a labor organization were acting for and on behalf of the management,
the Board would be justified in concluding that they did'
.not have the complete and unhampered freedom of choice
which the Act contemplates.' Here there. was ample
evidence to support that inference. As we have said,
Fouts, Shock, Dininger and Bolander all had men working under them. To be sure, they were not high in the
factory hierarchy and apparently did not have the power
to hire or to fire. But they did exercise, general authority over the employees and were in a strategic position
to translate to their subordinates the policies and desires
of the management. It is clear that they did exactly.
that. Moreover, three of them-Fouts, Shock and Bolander-had been actively engaged during the preceding
'See Consuner8 Power Co. v. National Labor Relations Board,
113 F. 2d 38, 44. Cf. Suift & Co. v. NationalLabor Relations Board,
106 F. 2d 87. 93.

I. A. OF M. v. LABOR BOARD.
Opinion of the Court.

72

weeks in promoting the company union. During the
membership drive for petitioner they stressed the fact
that the employer would prcqer those who joined petitioner to those who joined U. A. W. They spread the
idea that the purpose in establishing petitioner was "to
beat the C. I. 0." and that the employees might withdraw from the petitioner once this objective was reached.
And in doing these things they were emulating the example set by the management. The conclusion then is
justified that this is not a case where solicitors for one
union merely engaged in a zealous membership drive
which just happened to coincide with the management's
desires. -Hence the. fact that they were bona fide members of petitioner did not require the Board to disregard
the other circumstances we have noted.
By § 8 (3) of the Act discrimination upon the basis
of union membership constitutes an unfair labor practice unless made because of a valid closed-shop contract.
But that section authorizes an order under § 10 abrogating such a contract with a labor organization which
has been assisted by unfair labor practices.' The presence
of such practices in this case justified the Board's conclusion that petitioner did not represent an uncoerced
majority of the toolroom employees. §§ 7, 8 (1). This
conclusion makes it unnecessary to pass upon the scope
of the Board's power to determine the appropriate bargaining unit under § 9 (b).
Alleged change in status of petitioner.-Petitioner
challenges the order directing the employer to bargain
exclusively with U. A. W., on the ground that prior to
the issuance of the order petitioner had obtained an overwhelming majority of the production employees and had
so notified the Board. Petitioner made no showing at
the hearing that a majority of the employees had shifted
to it after the employer refused to bargain" with U. A. W.
Nor did it seek leave from the court below to adduce
27655o-41-6

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

31 UU. S.

such additional evidence pursuant to § 10 (e). Nevertheless it contends that the Board on receipt of the notification should have ordered an election or at least have
made an investigation.
We agree with the court below, that the Board in
failing to act on this request did not commit error. This
was not a certification proceeding 6 under § 9 (c); it was
an unfair labor practice proceeding under § 10. Where
as a result of unfair labor practices a union cannot be
said to represent an uncoerced majority, the Board has
the power to take appropriate steps to the end that the
effect of those practices will be dissipated. That necessarily involves an exercise of discretion on the part of the
Board-discretion involving, an expert judgment as to
ways and means of protecting the freedom of choice
guaranteed to the employees by the Act. It is for the
Board, not the courts, to determine how the effect of
prior unfair labor practices may be expunged. National
Labor Relations Board v. Pennsylvania Greyhound Lines,
303 U. S. 261, 271; National Labor Relations Board v.
Falk Corp., 308 U. S. 453, 461. It cannot be assumed
that an unremedied refusal of an employer to bargain
collectively with an appropriate labor organization has
no effect on the development of collective bargaining.
See National Labor Relations Board v. Pacific Greyhound
Lines, 303 U. S. 272, 275. Nor is the conclusion unjustified that unless the effect of the unfair labor practices
is completely dissipated, the employees might still be
subject .to improper restraints and not have the complete.
fr6edom of choice which the Act contemplates.- Hence
the failure of .the Board to, recognize petitioner's notice
of change. was wholly proper. National Labor'Relations
Board v. Bradford Dyeing Assn., 310 U. S. 318, 339-340.
'U. A. W. did in fact file a petition for certification under § 9 (c).
But this was dismissed by the Board since it found for reasonp stated
that U. A. W. was the appropriate bargaining unit.

NEUBERGER v. COMMISSIONER.
72

83

Syllabus.

Sec. 9 of the Act provides adequate machinery for
determining in certification proceedings questions of representation after unfair labor practices have been removed
as obstacles to the employees' full freedom of choice.
Affirmed.
NEUBERGER v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF -APPEALS FOR THE
.ECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 5. Argued October 16, 17, 1940.-Decided November 12,
Y940.
1. *Under § 23 (r) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1932, a taxpayer's distributive share of partnership profits derived from sales or exclanges of stocks and bonds that were not capital assets (as
defined in § 101), is a "gain" to the extent of which he is entitled
to a deduction of a loss sustained by him in similar transactions
for his individual account. P. 88.
2. That §§ 184-188 of the Revenue Act of 1932 advert to instances
in which partnership income retains its identity in the individual
maxim expressio
partner's return, does not by application of the
unius est. exclusio alterius require disallowance of the deduction
here claimed. The maxim is not a rule of law but an aid to construction, and -may not override the clear intent of Congress.
P. 88.
3. Where the intent of Congress is plain, the scope of an Act may
not be narrowed by administrative interpretation. P. 89.
4. Cases variously 'emphasizing the character of partnerships as
business units, or as associations of individuals, but not involving
§ 23 (r) (1), are of little aid in ascertaining its meaning. P. 89.
5. The findings of the Board of Tax Appeals in this case show that
the allowance of a deduction of the amount claimed would not
exceed the limit prescribed by § 23 (r) (1). P. 89.
6. The construction here given § 23 (r) (1) is consistent with the
legislative history of amendatory legislation as well as that of the
section itself. T. 89.
7. Shearer v. Burnet, 285 U. S. 228, distinguished,
P. 90.
104 F. 2d 649, reversed.

