138

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

.

311 U. S.

-does not detract from, but if anything .re~nforces, the
construction required by a clear-eyed reading of the
statute.
Reversed.
AMERICAN UNITED MUTUAL LIFE INSUIANCE
CO. v. CITY OF AVON PARK, FLORIDA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 31. Argued November 12, 1940.--Decided November 25, 1940.
1. A plan for the composition of the debts of a municipality under
Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act comprised a refunding plan
whereby the municipality's fiscal agent (a private corporation)
would defray the expenses incident to"the refunding and would
be 'reimbursed therefor and compensated for its services by an
assessment of participating bondholders. A stated charge was
to be made for each $1000 bond, but the charge would be less
if the bondholder should sell to the fiscal agent accrued interest
coupons at a third of their face value. The fiscal agent solicited
acceptances of the plan, and acceptances representing more than
two-thirds of all claims affected were obtained. Exclusive !of
claims held by the fiscal agent as creditor and voted in favor
f the plan, however, the two-thirds required for confirmation
would have been lacking. The claims held by the fiscal agent
were acquired by it at about fifty cents on the dollar, some before
and others after it entered into the agency contract with the
municipality.; It did not appear from the record in the bankruptcy court whether the fiscal agent disclosed to creditors from
whom it solicited acceptances: that it was a creditor as Well as
fiscal agent of the municipality; the extent, or the circumstances
of Ohe acquisition, of the claims held by it; or its intent to 'vote
those claims in favor of the plan. No such disclosure was made
in the plan. HeWd that an order of the bankruptcy court confirming the plan of composition must be set aside. Pp. 141, 143.
2. Whether the fiscal agent's compensation for services rendered
would exceed the "reasonable compensation" authorized by § 83
(b) of the Act, requires evaluation of the aggregate of all benefits
which might accrue to it under the plan, including its speculative
interests. P. 144.

AMERICAN INS. CO. v. AVON PARK.
138

139

Syllabus.

3. That the fiscal agent's position in, the plan is speculative does
not dispense with the necessity for the definitive finding demanded
by the Act as to the reasonableness of -compensation for services
rendered. P. 144.
4. To the extent that the benefits accruing to the fiscal agent under
the plan might exceed "reasonable compensation" for services re]4dered, the allowance was not authorized by § 83, (b). P. 144.
5. Also, if excess benefitf. should accrue to -the fiscal agent, the plan
would not then comply with § 83 (e) (1), for it would discriminate unfairly in favor of the, fiscal agent as creditor. 1P. 144.
6. Since the fiscal agent in soliciting creditors' acceptances of the
plan is not shown to have made full disclosure with respect to
its dual capacity as fiscal agent and creditor, it can not be said
that the assents were fairly obtained, nor that its acceptance of
the plan was in "good faith" within the meaning of § 83 (e)
(5). P. 144.
7. The control which the bankruptcy court has over the whole process of formulation and approval of plans of composition or reorganization, and the obtaining of assents thereto, is to be exercised
in accordance with principles of equity, so far as consistent with
the Act. P. 145.
8. The duty of. the court in cases such as this requires scrutiny
of the circumstances surrounding the acceptances, the special ot
ulterior motives which may have induced them, the time of acquiring the claims so voting, tne amount paid therefor, etc. Only
after such investigation can the court exrcise the "informed,
independent judgment" essential to confirmation of a plan. P. 145.
9. It is the responsibility of the court before entering an-' order -of
confirmation to be satisfied that the plan in its practical .incidence
embodies a fair and equitable bargain openly arrived at and
devoid of overreaching_however subtle. P. i46.10. Te -bankruptcy court, in permitting claims held by the tiscal
agent as creditor to be included in computing the statutory percentage of 'assents, without protecting other creditors by -requiring
full disclosure and other appropriate safeguards, and in allowing
compensation to the fiscal agent without scrutinizing the latter's
speculative interests, did not in this case discharge its responsibilities under the Act. P. 146.
11. The provision of § 83 (b) for. allowance of "reasonable compen-'
sation" for "services rendered" necessarily implies "loyal and
disinterested service in the interest of the persons" for whom the
claimant purported to act. P. 147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

12. Approval representing the required percentage of claims affected
is not the exclusive test of whether a plan of composition satisfies
the statutory standard; it is independent of, not a substitute for,
the statutory standard. P. 148.
13. Claims are "controlled" by the municipality and required by
§ 83 (d) to be excluded in computing the statutory two-thirds
required for confirmation of the plan not only when the holder
of the claims is an agent of the municipality within the doctrine
of respondea superior, but also when there is such close identity
of interests between the claimant and the municipality that the
claimant's assent to the plan may fairly be said to be more the
product of the municipality's influence and to reflect more the
municipality's desires than an expression of ap investor's independent business judgment. P. 148. 14. Should there be presented in this case another plan of composition involving a fiscal agency contract, the question of the legality
of such contract under the state law would be a relevant inquiry
for the District Court, as bearing on whether the municipality "is
authorized by law to take all action necessary to be taken by it to
carry out the plan,"'within the meaning of § 83 (e) (6). P. 149.
108 F. 2d 1010, reversed.

CERTIORA , 309 U. S. 651, to review the affirmance of
an order confirming a plan for the composition of the
debts of a municipality under Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act.

Mr. Giles J. Pattersonfor petitioner.
Mr. Robert J. Pleus for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The District Court confirmed a plan for the, composition of the debts of respondent under Ch. IX of the
Bankruptcy Act (50 Stat. 653; 52 Stat. 939, 940).1 The
The Act of August 16, 1937 (50 Stat. 653) under which the petition
was filed expired June 30, 1940, except in respect to proceedings initiatd on or prior to that date. That Act, however, was amended by

AMERICAN INS. CO. v. AVON PARK.
i38

141

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed that order. 108 F. 2d
1010. Petitioner, a creditor of the city, having objected
to the confirmation in the courts below, brought the case
here on a petition for certiorari, which we granted in
view of the importance of the problems in the administration of the composition and reorganization provisions
of The
the Act.
city's composition was a refirnding plan worked
out by it and its fiscal agent, 2 R. E. Crummer & Co.
Pursuant to the fiscal agency contract both parties were
to use their best efforts to induce the creditors to participate in the plan. The city was not to pay any of the
costs of the refunding, as Crummer was to defray all expenses incident to assembling the bonds, printing the
refunding bonds, representing the city in proceedings to
validate the new bonds, obtaining a legal opinion approving the bonds, etc. The fiscal agency contract providedthat Crummer was to be compensated for its services and
reimbursed for its expenses by assessing charges against
the participating bondholders. This charge was $40 for
each $1000 bond; or in case the bondholders elected to
sell Crummer the interest coupons, accrued to July 1,
1937, at one-third of their face amount 8 the charge was
to be $20 per $1000 bond.
the Act of June 28, 1940 (76th Cong. 3d Sess., c. 438, 54 Stat. 667),
which, inter alia, extended for another two years the time for filing
petitions.
R. E. Crummer & Co. is a Delaware corporation organized prima.
rily to represent clients of an affiliate (see infra, note 4) who had
purchased bonds in Florida. Beginning in 1931, it had habdled the
debt problems of over 200 taxing units.
a Under the original plan all such accrued interest coupons were to
be acquired by Crummer at 33%% of the face amount, which when
refunded into new bonds, would be held.by it subject to purchase by
the City at not exceeding 50% of the face thereof for the first six
months, 60% for the succeeding six months, 70% for the next six
months, and 75% for the following six months. Due to fears of

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Crurnmer solicited assents to the plan. Approximately
69% of the bondholders accepted. But for the claims
held by the Crummer interests,' and voted in favor of
the plan, the requisite two-thirds statutory vote, however, would not have been obtained. Some of these
claims had been purchased prior to the fiscal agency contract, some later. The average price was apparently
about
500them
on the dollar. The inference seems clear that
some of
were acquired in order to facilitate consummation of the composition by placing them in
friendly hands. But the record does not show whether
or not Crummer disclosed to the bondholders when their
assents were solicited that it was a creditor as well as-the
city's fiscal agent, the extent of the claims held by it and
iAs affiliate, the circumstances surrounding their acquisiillegality, the plan was 'modified.. As modified it provided that compensation of. the fiscal agent was to be 4% of the principal debt with
the right of any creditor -to sell to Crumier the interest accruals at
33%% of their face amount. In the latter event the charge against
him was reduced to 2% and Crummer held the securities so obtained
subject to the right of the city to acquire them at the rates. above
indicated.' The fiscal agent estimated that it would get substantially
the same amount of money out of the plan whichever option the
bondholders elected.
Interest accruals were to be escrowed. Proceeds of the collection
of delinquent taxes were to be remitted to the escrow agent who would
reduce the amount owed .by the city under the escrow by such
amount as would result in the particular proceeds constituting a
pro tanto payment and discharge at 50% of par during the first six
months, 60% during the next six months, 70% during the next six
months, and 75% during the following six months.'
Thus in effect the interest accruals could be offset against delinquent
taxes, the city being able to retire some of its debt at less than par
if it could stimulate tax collections. The proceeds received by the
escrow agent were to be held for the benefit of the depositors.
'R. E. Crummer & Co. and Brown-Crummer Investment Co. R. E.
Crummer was president, of both. A majority of the boards of both
corporations was identical. The Crummer interests had acquired over
a third of the claims.

AMERICAN INS. CO. v. AVON PARK.
138

143

Opinion of the Court.

tion, and its intent to V-ote those claims in favor of the
plan. No such disclosure was made in-the plan.
The District Court, however, found that the two-thirds
of the aggregate amount of claims affected by the plan,
required by § 83 (d), 11 1. S. C. § 403 (d), for confirmation, had assented. It also found that Crummer's . compensation was fair and reasonable, that the plan and its
acceptance were in good faith, and that the plan was
fair, equitable and for the best interests of the creditors,
and did not discriminate unfairly in favor of 'any creditor.
We disagree. The order of confirmation must be set
aside. It cannot be said that the plan does not discriminate unfairly in favor of any creditor, that the acceptances were in good faith, that the requisite two-thirds
vote of approval had been obtained.
Crummer had at least 5 three financial stakes in this
composition: (1) the fee to be collected from the bondholders; (2) its speculative position in such of the interest
accruals as it might acquire from the bondholders at a
third of their face amount; (3) the profit which might
accrue to it or its affiliate, as a result of the refunding, on
bonds acquired at default prices.
The court found that the first of these items was reasonable. But it apparently deemed the others irrelevant
to the inquiry.
There were -other emoluments for Crummer. It was granted
"exclusive authority" to act for and on behalf of the city for a period
of three years "in all matters connected with, or relating to, the exchange." :And in case any, bonds or coupons were presented for payment or suit instituted thereon the city agreed to give - Crummer
notice before any terms of settlement were agreed upon. These pro-

visions, the fact that the Crummer interests hold large blocks of
claims acquired at default prices, the likely interest of Crummer in
the accrued coupons and its strategic position all point towards future
speculative possibilities which are not inconsiderable, whatever may
be said of their unhealthy impact on -the city and the public investors
alike.

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Clearly, however,- no finding could be made under
§ 83 (b), 11 U. S. C. § 403 (b), that the compensation to
be received by the fiscal agent was reasonable without
passing on the worth of the aggregate of all the emoluments accruing to the Crummer interests as a result of
consummation of the plan. Since that inquiry would
necessitate an appraisal of the fiscal agent's speculative
position in the plan, perhaps the definitive finding demanded by the Act could not be made. Yet that is a
chance which the fiscal agent, not the bondholders, must
take; for it is the -agent who is seeking the. aid of the
court in obtaining one of the benefits of the Act. Moreover, to the extent that the aggregate benefits flowing to
the Crummer interests exceeded reasonable compensation for services rendered, their reward would exceed what
the court could authorize under § 83 (b), 11 U. S. C.
§ 403 (b). Furthermore, if any such excess benefits
would accrue to them, then the plan would run afoul of
§ 83 (e) (1), 11 U. S. C. § 403 (e) (1). For in that event
the plan would discriminate unfairly in favor of the
Qrummer interests as creditors.
Hence the lack of that essential finding would be fatal
in any case. It is especially serious here in view of the
fact that without the vote of the fiscal agent the requisite two-thirds acceptance would not have been obtained.
Where it does not affirmatively appear that full and
complete disclosure of the fiscal agent's interests was
made to the bondholders when their assents were solicited, it cannot be said that those assents were fairly
obtained. Cf. Rogers v. Guaranty Trust Co., 288 U. S.
123, 143. And where without such disclosure the fiscal
agent's vote was cast for acceptance of the plan, it cannot
be said that such acceptance was in "good faith" within
the meaning of §83 (e) (5), 11 U. S. C. § 403 (e) (5).
Here the fiscal agent was acting in a dual capacity. While

AMERICAN INS. CO. v. AVON PARK.
138

145

Opinion of the Court.

it was representing the city, it likewise purported to
represent the interests of bondholders. The vry minimum requirement for fair dealing was the elementary
obligation of full disclosure of all its interests. And the
burden was on it to show at least that such disclosure
was made. Equity and good conscience obviously will
not permit a finding that an acceptance of a plan by a
person acting in a representative capacity is in "good
faith" where that person is obtaining an undisclosed benefit from the plan.
We have emphasized that full disclosure is the minimum requirement in order not to imply that it is the
limit of the power and duty of the bankruptcy court in
these situations. As this Court stated in Securities and
Exchange Commission v. United States Realty & Improvement Co., 310 U. S. 434, 455: "A bankruptcy court
is a court of equity, § 2, 11 U. S. C. § 11, and is guided
by equitable doctrines and principles except in so far
as they are inconsistent with the Act ....

A court

of equity may in its discretion in the exercise of the jurisdiction committed to it grant or deny relief upon performance of a condition which will safeguard the public
interest." And see Pepperv. Litton, 308 U. S. 295, 304,
et seq. These principles are a part of the control which
the court has over the whole process of formulation and
approval of plans of composition or reorganization, and
the obtaining of assents thereto. As we said in Case v.
Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., 308 U. S. 106, 114,
"The court is not merely a ministerial register of the
vote of the several classes of security holders." The. responsibility of the court entails scrutiny of the .circumstances surrounding the acceptances, the special or ulterior motives which may have induced them, the time
of acquiring the claims so voting, the amount paid therefor, and the like. See Continental Insurance Co. v.
276055--41--10

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Louisiana Oil Refining Corp., 89 F. 2d 333. Only after
such investigation can the court exercise the "informed,
independent judgment" (National Surety Co. v. Coriell,
289 U. S. 426, 436; Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products
Co., supra, p. 115) which is an essential prerequisite for
confirmation of a plan. And that is true whether the
assents to the plan have been obtained prior to the filing
of the petition or subsequently thereto. Where such investigation discloses the existence of unfair dealing, a
breach of fiduciary obligations, profiting from a trust,
special benefits for the reorganizers, or the need for protection of investors against an inside few, or of one class
of'investors from the encroachments of another, the court
has ample power to adjust the remedy to meet the ned.
The requiremetit of full, unequivocal disclosure; the
limitation of the vote to the amount paid for the securities (In re McEwen's Laundry, Inc., 90 F. 2d 872); the
separate classification of claimants (see First National
Bank v. Poland Union, 109 F. 2d 54, 55); the complete
subordination of some claims (Taylor v. Standard Gas &
Electric Co., 306 U. S. 307; Pepper v. Litton, supra),
indicate the range and type of the power which a court
of bankruptcy may exercise in these proceedings. That
power is ample for the exigencies of varying situations.
It is not dependent on express statutory provisions. It
inheres in the jurisdiction of a court of bankruptcy. The
necessity for its exercise (Pepperv. Litton, supra, p. 308)
is based on the responsibility of the court before entering
an order of confirmation to be satisfied that. the plan in
its, practical incidence embodies a fair and equitable bargain openly arrived at and devoid of overreaching, however subtle. Neglect of that duty is apparent here by
inclusion of the vote of the claims held by the Crummer
interests in computing the requisite statutory assents,
without protection of the public investors through the

AMERICAN INS. CO. v. AVON PARK.
1VA

147

Opinion of the Court.

requirement of full disclosure and of other appropriate
safeguards. By the same token allowance of compensation to Crummer without scrutiny of Crummer's speculation in the securities does not comport with the standards for surveillance required of courts of bankruptcy
before confirming plans of composition or reorganization
or before making such allowances. The scope of the
power of the court embraces denial of compensation to
those who have purchased or sold securities during or
in contemplation of the proceedings. As in case
of reorganizations under former § 77B, the provision in
§ 83 (b), 11 U. S.' C. § 403 (b), for allowance of "reasonable compensation" for "services rendered" necessarily
implies ."loyal and disinterested service in'the interest
of the persons" for whom the claimant purported to act.
In re Paramount-PublixCorp., 12 F. Supp. 823, 828.
Beyond that is the question of unfair discrimination
to which we have adverted. Compositions under 'Ch.
IX, like compositions ' under the old § 12, envisage equality of treatment of creditors. Under that section and
its antecedents, a composition would not be confirmed
where one creditor was obtaining some special favor or
inducement not accorded the others, whether that consideration moved from the debtor or from another. In'
re Sawyer, Fed. Cas. No. 12,395; In re Weintrob, 240 F.
532; In re M. & H. Gordon, 245 F,. 905. As stated by
Judge Lowell in In re Sawyer, supra, "if a vote is influenced by the expectation of advantage, though without
any positive promise, it cannot be considered an -honest
and unbiased vote." That rule of- compositions is but
part of the general'rule of "equality between creditors"
(Clarke v. Rogers, 228 U. S. 534, 548) applicable in all
bankruptcy proceedings. That principle has been imbedded by Congress in Ch. IX by the express provision
against unfair discrimination. That principle .as applied

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

to this case necessitates a reversal. In absence of a find-

ing that the aggregate emoluments receivable by the
Crummer interests were reasonable, measured by the
services rendered, it cannot be said that the consideration accruing to them, under or as a consequence of the
adoption of the plan, likewise accrued to all other creditors of the same class. Accordingly, the imprimatur of
the federal court should not have been placed on this
plan. The 'fact that the vast'majority of security holders may have approved a plan is not the test of whether
that plan satisfies the statutory standard. The former
is not a substitute for the latter., They are independent.
See Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra, pp.
114-115.

Since the cause must be remanaed, there are two other
matters which should be mentioned. Section 83 (d), 11
U. S. C. § 403 (d), provides that in computing the statutory two-thirds vote necessary for confirmation of a plan
all claims "owned, held, or controlled" by the city shall
be excluded. So far as appears, the claims held by the
Crummer interests were not owned by or held for the
city. Yet it is by no means clear that they were not
"controlled" 'by the city within the meaning of the Act.
Claims held by a city's fiscal agent presumptively would
Seem to fall in that prohibited category. The abuse at
which the Act is aimed is not confined to those cases
where the holder of the claims is an agent of the city
within the strict rules of respondeat superior. Rather,
the test is whether or not there is such close identity of
interests between the claimant and the city that the
claimant's assent to the plan may fairly be said to be
more the product of the city's influence and to reflect
more the city's desires than an expression of an investor's
independent, business judgment. Here there was such a,
close identity of interests between Crummer and the city

AMERICAN INS. CO. .v. AVON PARK.
138

149

Opinion of the Court.

vis-a-vis the refunding as to raise grave doubts as to the
propriety of allowing those claims to vote in any event.
That, however, is a question for appropriate findings by
the court should another plan be presented.
Petitioner also urges that the fiscal agency contract
between Crummer and the city was illegal under the
decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida in Taylor v.
Williams, 142 Fla. 402, 562, 756; 195 So. 175, 181, 184;
196 So. 214, and W. J. Howey Co. v. Williams, 142 Fla.
415, 562, 756; 195 So. 181, 184; 196 So. 214. Under § 83
(e) (6), 11 U. S. C. § 403 (e) (6), the court must be
satisfied that the city "is authorized by law to take all
action necessary, to be taken by it to carry out the plan"
before it may enter a decree of confirmation. Plainly
that finding could not be made if it was clear, for example, that a taxpayer could enjoin the issuance of the new
bonds or the levy of assessments therefor. The courts
below did not pass on the applicability of these recent
Florida decisions to this fiscal agency contract, since they
were decidd after the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the order of confirmation. Nor do we.undertake to decide the question, in view of our disposition of the case.
It is, however, a relevant inquiry to be made by the
District Court as, if and when another plan of composition is presented, which directly or indirectly involves
any such fiscal agency contract.
For the reasons stated we reverse the judgment below
and remand the cause to the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

