WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.

.107

Order.

WISCONSIN, MINNESOTA, OHIO, AND PENNSYLVANIA v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY
DISTRICT OF CHICAGO Er AL*
MICHIGAN v. - ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY
DISTRICT. OF CHICAGO ET 'A.
NEW YORK v. ILLINOIS AND THE SANITARY
DISTRICT OF CHICAGO

ET AL.

Nos. 2, 3, and 4, Original. Order entered November 25, 1940.

ORDER.
Upon consideration of the motion of the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania,. Michigani, New
.York, and Illinois, and in accordance wilh the following,.
-stipulation:
"Whereas, the State of. Illinois contends that also
during the period intervening between the effectiv e
date of the decree and'since then substantial amounts
.of flocculent active sludge and sewage sludge haveaccumulated in the Brandon Road Pool and '.that the
existence of such accumulation also adds to.the menace
of the health of the persons living adjacent thereto
(which contention is denied by the respondent Greit
Lakes States) and,
Whereas, the Special Master in. the above captioned
causes, the Honorable Monte M. Lemann, before the
close of the hearings, suggested that the'Attorney Gen-.
eral of the State of Illinois and the Attorneys General
of the States of Wisconsin, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and New York (hereinafter referred to
as the opposing Great Lakes States) consider the .makFor the opinion and decree in these casessee 281 U.S. 179,696; see
Iso, 309 U. S. 569, 636.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Order.

311 U. S.

ing of an agreement to permit a temporary increase in
diversion from 1500 cubic second feet plus domestic
pumpage now authorized by the decree of the United
States Supreme Court of April 21, 1930, to 10,000 cubic
second feet plus domestic pumpage of water from Lake
Michigan through the Chicago Sanitary Canal for one
continuous period of ten days so as to scour out the
Brandon Road Pool at Joliet, Illinois, and attempt to
remove whatever flocculent active sludge and sewage
.sludge may have accumulated in said pool, and
Whereas, the Special Master suggested that any sucn
agreement between the State of Illinois and the opposing Great Lakes States would be without prejudice to
any of the parties to the above captioned causes, and
Would be solely for the purpose of trying by this means
to remove whatever flocculent active sludge deposits
and sewage sludge may have accumulated in the Brandon Road. Pool by reason of the introduction of
untreated sewage and sludge from treated sewage.
Nothing in this stipulation shall be construed as an
admission by the opposing Great Lakes States as in
any manner or form whatsoever waiving, abandoning
cor prejudicing any of the positions of the opposing
Great Lakes States hereinbefore stated or at any time
taken in these causes or in the course of the present
hearings; and said opposing Great Lakes States hereby
affirm and again advance each and every contention
and allegation set forth in the return of Wisconsin,
Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and New
York as respondents to rule to show cause issued on
application of the State of Illinois, as Petitioner,' for a
temporary modification of Paragraph 3 of the Decree
of April 21, 1930, filed in this Court on February 26,
1940; and said opposing Great Lakes States agaih deny
each and every allegation contained in the Petition of

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
107

Order.

the State of Illinois herein, filed in this Court on Janu.
ary 15, 1940, and deny the positions taken during the
course of the present hearings by Illinois, and,
Whereas, it is further understood that the State of
Illinois does not by reason of this stipulation or motion
or test in any manner or form waive, abandon or prejudice any of its positions at any time stated or taken
in this proceeding, and the State of Illinois hereby
affirms and again advances each and every, contention
and allegation set forth in its petition, and it is not to
be construed as an admission by the State of Illinois
that such temporary increase in diversion of water for
a period of ten days will either remedy or ameliorate
effectively the conditions in Brandon Pool which Illinois contends have constituted the alleged menace to
health complafined of, and,
Whereas, it is the position of the opposing Great
Lakes States that any accumulation of sewage wastes
and sludge in the Brandon Road Pool since the decree
of the United States Supreme Court went into full
operation on December 31, 1938, has not created any
nuisance condition either from the standpoint of public health, navigation or in any other way, and that
such temporary increase in diversion is in no wise necessary to protect the interests of public health or
navigation, and
Whereas, the oppQsing Great Lakes States are nevertheless, in a spirit of conciliation and accommodation,
willing to enter into the agreement suggested by the
Special Master upon the express condition-(a) that
such agreement shall not be construed as in any way
waiving, abandoning or prejudicing any of the positions
of the opposing Great Lakes States hereinbefore %stated
-or at any time taken in these causes or in the
course of the present hearing; (b) that nothing in this

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Order.

311 U. S.

stipulation nor the fact of the consent of the opposing

Great Lakes States to such temporary expedient shall
be construed as an admission or evidence of any claim
of the State of Illinois or the Sanitary District of Chicago in the premises and shall not be used as 4 precedent for any future request for any additional temporary diversion over and above the amounts fixed by
the decree of April 21, 1930.
by
and between the parties to the above captioned causes,
by their respective counsel, that a temporary increase
in diversion from 1500 cubic second feet plus domestic
pumpage now authorized by the United States Supreme
Court decree of April 21, 1930, to 10,000 cubic second
feet plus domestic pumpage of water from Lake Michigan through the Chicago. Sanitary Canal may' be authorized for one continuous period of ten days for the
pupose of trying to remove whatever flocculent active.
sludge -deposits and sewage sludge may have accurnu'
lated in the said Brandon Road Pool. It is underitood
that a record of said operation will be made and the
results thereof- incorporated in the record of the
hearing.
Now,

THEREFORE, IT IS STIPULATED AND AG.REED

IT Is FURTHER STIPULATED AND AGREED

that any such

agreement will be without prejudice to any party to
the above captioned causes and that such agreement
is not to be used as a precedent for any future request
for additional temporary diversion in excess of the
amounts fixed by the United States Supreme Court
Decree of April 21, 1930.
. IT Is FURTHER STIPULATED AND AGREED

that a motion

in accordance with this stipulation may be filed with
the United States Supreme Court and that an order
in accordance with the terms of this stipulation may

WISCONSIN v. ILLINOIS.
107

All

Order.

thereupon be entered by said Court without notice to
any of said parties.
STATE OF ILLINOIS,

By JOHN E. CASsIDY,

Attorney General of the State of Illinois.
STATES OF WISCONSIN, MINNESOTA,
OHIO, PENNSYLVANIA, MICHIGAN,

AND ,NEW YORK,

By HERBET H. NAUJOKS,
Special Assistant to Attorneys GeneraL
Dated this 31st day of October, 1940."
It is ordered that the Sanitary District of Chicago be
and it hereby is authorized to increase its diversion of
water from the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence System or
watershed through the Chicago Drainage Canal from
1,500 cubic feet.per second in addition to domestic pumpage to 10,000 cubic feet per second in addition to domestic
punupage for one continuous period of ten days from an
appropriate hour on December 2, 1940, to the same hour
on December 12, 1940, after which period all the provisions of the decree entered April 21, 1930, 281 U. S. 696,
shall be and remain in full force and effect until further
order of this Court.

