570

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Appellee.

RAILROAD COMMISSION OF TEXAS
ROWAN & NICHOLS OIL CO.

311. U. S.
ET AL.

V.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 218. Argued December 12, 13, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.
1. An order of the Texas Railroad Commission limiting the daily
allowable production of the East Texas oil field and providing a
method for its distribution among the several well owners, held:
(1) Consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, p. 572.
(2) Not so clearly a violation of a State statute, Vernon's Texas
Annotated Civil Statutes, art. 6049c, § 7,) as to warrant an injunction in the federal courts, p. 577,
as applied to an operating company which challenged the basis
of the formula and claimed that .by its minimpm and maximum
"allowables" it unduly favored wells of small capacity and impaired the future productivity of wells in high-producing and
"thinly" drilled areas. Cf., Railroad Commission v. Rowan &
Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S. 573; post, p. 614.
2. In matters of this kind the due process clause does nbt require
that, the judgment of an expert state commission be supplanted
by the individual view of judgep based on the conflicting testimony, prophecies and impressions of expert witnesses. P. 576.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, which enjoined the enforcement of an order regulating production of oil ih the East Texas field.

Mr. James P. Hart, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Messrs. Gerald C. Mann, Attorney
General, Edgar W. Cale, Tom D. Rowell, Jr., and E.:R.
Simmons, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief,
for appellants.

Mr. Dan Moody, with whom Mr. Rice M. Tilley was
on the brief, for appellee.
The decision of this Court in 310 U. S. 573, was not
decisive of the, issues in this case. The order in that

R. R. COMMISSION v. OIL CO.
570

571 '

Opinion of the Court.

case was materially different. The order here attacked
subjects the appellee to a greater degree of discrimination, in that it receives a smaller percentage of the allowable oil under this order than under the old order in the
first case.
Under Texas law the owner of land owns the oil and
gas in place thereunder, and under the conventional
form of oil and gas lease, such as is involved in this
case, the lessee owns the oil and gas in place, and is
entitled to a fair chance to recover the same, or its
equivalent in kind; or, otherwise stated, to an equal
opportunity with other operators to realize for his
leasehold.
The present order of the Commission, allocating approximately 75% of the "allowable" on a per well basis,
which, as to such 75%, admittedly gives no consideration
to reserves under the respective lea~es, ability of wells
to produce, pressures, sand conditions, or density of drilling on the respective leases, ignores the differences that
would have to be taken into consideration in arriving
at any reasonable or equitable distribution. Such 9 rder
results in waste by causing premature encroachment of
water and low pressure areas; and is arbitrary, unjust,
unreasonable, and confiscatory. It operates to deny appellee the equal protection of the law, takes its property
without due process, and contravenes the laws of
Texas.
MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In conformity with the regulatory scheme devised by
Texas for exploiting and safeguarding its oil resources,
the Railroad Commission of that state in 1938 issued an
order formulating a method for distributing among well
owners the total amount of oil which it then allowed to

572

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Cotirt.

311 U. S.

be produced in the East Texas field. The enforcement
of this order, was enjoined by lower federal courts at the
suit of the complainant in the present case, Rowan &
Nichols Oil Company, 28 F. Supp. 131; 107 F. 2d 70.
To avoid the dislocation resulting from this judicial
frustration of its order, the Commission, by an order of
September 11, 1939, had to devise a new plan of proration. Its action in doing so was again promptly challenged in a federal district court in Texas. A decree enjoining the Commission followed, and an appeal from
that decree is the matter now before us. Judicial Code,
§ § 238, 266, as amended, 28 U. S. C. § § 345, 380.
The challenged order of the Commission concededly
satisfies all procedural requirements. It was part of a
continuous process of administrative responsibility, preceded by a specific hearing affecting the immediate situation, with full opportunity given to the Oil Company to
develop the facts and arguments which it later renewed
below and here.
The Commission's action now in controversy cannot be
severed from the earlier order which it replaced. Both
set limits, incontestably valid, Champlin Rig. Co. v. Commission, 286 U. S. 210, on the daily production of the
East Texas field. In both litigations the'Oil Company
claimed to be a victim of illegalities in the method of
distributing this total allowable production among the
different classes of oil producers.
So far as relief in the federal courts is concerned, we
found in the prior phase of this continuing litigation that
the order of the Commission was without infirmity. 310
U. S. 573; post, p. 614. In the order which was then
before us each well was allowed 2.32 per cent of its hourly
potential production, except that wells not capable of
producing 20 barrels a day at open flow were, in conformity with the Marginal Well Statute (Vernon's Texas Annotated Civil Statqtes, art. 6049b), allowed full capacity,

R. R. COMMISSION v. OIL CO.
570

Qpinion of the Court.

and wells which could not produce over 20 barrels
a day at 2.32 per cent of their hourly potential were
allowed 20 barrels a day. The order distributed, in
round numbers, a total allowable of 522,000 barrels as
follows: 5,250 a day to 451 wells having a capacity of
less than 20 barrels; 380,640 to 19,032 wells which at 2.32
per cent of hourly potential could not produce over 20
barrels; 136,610 to 6,325 wells at the rate of 2.32 per cent
of hourly potential. This adjustment by the state's
expert agency of what in our former opinion we called
"as thorny a problem as has challenged the ingenuity
and wisdom of legislatures" was attacked on two grounds.
It was claimed that an hourly potential formula fatally
omitted other relevant factors, especially acre-feet of
sand. Further it was urged that the minimum allowance
of 20 barrels, which nearly absorbed the total production,
constituted an illegitiiate discrimination against highproducing and thinly drilled areas. We rejected these
arguments as an attempt to substitute a judicial judgment for the expert process invented by the state in a
field so peculiarly dependent on specialized judgment.
We said in effect that the basis of present knowledge
touching proration was so uncertain and developing, that
sounder foundations are only to be achieved through the
fruitful empiricism of a continuous administrative process: Further, that ought not to be stifled by drawing
from the generalities of the Constitution allegiance to
one as against another speculative assumption even
though delusively clothed in formil findings of fact.
In the order now before us the Commission'allowed a
total production of 691,000 barrels, and the formula of
allocation took into consideration two other factorsbottomhole pressure and the quality of the surrounding
sand of the wells-as well as hourly potential. By this
formula 514 wells incapable of producing 20 barrels a
day at open flow absorbed 6,245 barrels, 25,456 wells were

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S

allotted a minimum of 20 barrels, thus absorbing 509,000
barrels, leaving 176,000 barrels to be distributed among
these latter wells according to the new allocation formula.
Under the first order, the minimum per well allowance
of 20 barrels accounted for 98 per cent of the limited
production; under the later order only 75 per cent was
needed to satisfy the 20 barrel allowance. The lease
involved in this litigation was allowed by the first order
an output of 154 barrels a day, or .029 per cent of the
total allowable; now it may produce 260 barrels a day,
which is .037 per cent of the total. This comparison of
the practical operation of the two orders exposes the
emptiness of the claim that a constitutional line can be
drawn between them.
The accommodation of conflicting private interests in
the. East Texas oil field, with. due regard to the public
welfare, is beset with perplexities, both geological and
economic. As we read the records in these cases, this
picture, emerges. The huge oil resources of that region,
viewed in cross-section from east to west, are roughly triangular in shape. On the lower western side the pressure of an oil-water face furnishes the principal energy
of the field. As the oil is withdrawn, the pressure is decreased. The drive of- the water from the west forces
the oil eastward, and the westernmost wells are first exhausted. The reduced pressure in the field shortens the
life of the wells on the extreme eastern edge, with the
result that the wells nearer the center of the field, like
those of the Rowan & Nichols Company, are likely to be
most long-lived. Thus it is that a production formula
dependent on current reserves of oil in place-a consideration which greatly influenced the court below and was
urged before us--contains elements of unfairness to wells
on the edge of the field- by disregarding the migration
of oil from west to east. Other factors further complicate the situation. The surface is often divided into

R. R. COMMISSION v. OIL CO.
570

Opinion of the Court.

small tracts, and the Commission, acting under the
authority of the Texas statutes, has permitted the drilling of wells by small owners in order to prevent practical
forfeiture of their interests. Small producers have investments in existing wells with low capacities, and these
wells need a minimum daily production sufficient to justify their enterprise. In addition to all this, any scheme
of proration duly mindful of all those considerations,
hardly mathematically commensurable, which constitute
the total well-being of a society, must assure the continued operation of a sufficient number of wells for an
adequate exploitation of the state's oil resources.
In achieving a reconciliation of these tangled and
partly conflicting aims, the Commission evidently, regarded the 20 barrel minimum allowance as a guiding
factor, taking its cue doubtless in part from the policy
underlying the Texas Marginal Well Statute, supra.
The justification for' the Commission's order was its conviction that the minimum allowance accelerates the rate
of production of the densely drilled areas on the edges
of the field most subject to losses from the migration of
the oil, that such allowance is an appropriate incentive
to the drilling, of small tracts, and that thereby investment losses in low-producing wells are minimized.
Nothing in the Constitution warrants a rejection of
thee expert conclusions. Nor, on the basis of intrinsic
skills and equipment, are the federal courts qualified to
set their independent judgment on such matters against
that of the chosen state authorities. For its own good
reasons Texas vested authority over these difficult and
delicate problems in its Railroad Commission. Presumably that body, as the permanent representative of the
state's regulatory relation to the oil industry equipped to
deal with its ever-changing aspects, possesses an insight
and aptitude which can hardly, be matched by judges
who are called. upon to intervene at fitful intervals.

576

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Indeed, we are asked to sustain the district court's decree
as though it derived from an ordinary litigation that had
its origin in that court and as though Texas had not an
expert Commission which already had canvassed and determined the very issues on which the court formed its
own judgment. For it appears that the court below
nullified the Commission's action without even having
the record of the Commission before it. When we consider the limiting conditions, of litigation-the adaptability of the judicial process only to issues definitely circumscribed and susceptible of being judged by the techniques and criteria within the special competence of lawyers--it is clear that the Due Process Clause does not
require the feel of the. expert to be supplanted by an
independent view of judges on the conflicting testimony
and prophesies and impressions of expert witnesses.
This record gives little justification for confidence in
such testimony as the basis for judicial dogmatism.
Take, for instance, the question of the amount of recoverable oil remaining in'the field. One expert testifying
this case gave an estimate of 3,180,for the Company .in
000,000 barrels, while in another case a year previously
his estimate had been a billion barrels less. Similarly,
in regard to the crucial issue of the 20 barrel minimum,
although it was common ground that some minimum
was essential to avoid fatal losses of investment, what
that minimum should be was clearly not shown to be
capable of mathematical ascertainment, and no expert
on behalf of the Oil Company proved that the minimum
of the Commission bore no relation to the legislative
policy to be enforced by the Commission.
The Constitution does not provide that the federal
courts shall strike'a balance between ascertainable facts
and dubious inferences underlying such a complicated
and elusive situation as is presented by -the Texas oil
fields.in order to substitute the court's wisdom -for that

R. R. COMMISSION v. OIL CO.
570

Opinion of the Court.

of the legislative body. Standard Oil Co. v. Marysville,
279 U. S. 582. The real answer to any claims of inequity
or to any need of adjustment to shifting circumstances
is the continuing supervisory power of. the expert commission. In any event, a state's interest in the conservation and exploitation of a primary natural resource is
not to be achieved through assumption by the federal
courts of powers plainly outside their province and no
less plainly beyond their special competence. The
Fourteenth Amendment was not intended for such
ends.
The court below also erred in holding the order a violation of the Texas statute requiring proration on a "reasonable basis." Vernon's Texas Annotated Civil Statutes, art. 6049c, § 7. In denying the petition for rehearing in the earlier cases we held that whatever rights the
state statute may afford are to be pursued in the state
courts, post, p. 614.
The decree is vacated and the case is remanded to the
district court for dismissal of the complaint.
Vacated.

The

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, and
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS dissent for the reasons stated in

the dissenting opinion in Railroad Commission of Texas
v. Rowan & Nichols Oil Co., 310 U. S. 573. They are of
opinion that the facts disclosed by the record do not
differ materially from those found in the earlier case and
require the affirmance of the judgment.

276055o-.-41-37

