122

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

command over'aU that he needed to remain in substantially the same financial situation as before."
The general principles approved in Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5, are applicable and controlling. The
challenged judgment should be affirmed.

The CHIEF Justic and MR.JusnCE ROBERTS concur
in this opinion.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. EUBANK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 205. Argued October 25, 1940.-Decided November 25, 1940.
Renewal commissions paid in 1933 by insurance companies to the
assignee of an agent, pursuant to assignments made by the agent, in
1924 and 1928, of'such commissions as should become payable to him
for services which had been rendered in writing policies of insurance
under agency contracts, held, under ยง 22 of the Revenue Act of 1932,

income taxable in 1933 to the assignor. Following Helvering v.
Horst, ante, p. 112. P. 124.
110 F. 2d 737, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post; p. 630, to review the reversal of an
order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 39 B. T. A. 583, sustaining a determination of a deficiency in income tax.

Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs. J.
Louis Monarch and Morton K. Rothschild were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry J. Rudick, with whom Mr. John W. Drye,
Jr. was on the brief, for respondent.
The taxable status of assigned income depends upon
ownership or control of the property which produces the

HELVERING v. EUBANK.
122

123

Argument for Respondent.

-income. The respondent did not retain any such ownership or control, and is not taxable on the income.
The contract right to receive the renewal commissions, even though it may have resulted from services
of the assignor, constituted a property right capable of
assignment; and-the disposition of that right did not
correspond to an assignment of earnings. Lucas v. Earl,
281 U. S. 111, distinguished.
The commissions were not wholly the product of services personally rendered by the taxpayer. Assuming,
however, that the commissions were entirely the result
of respondent's individual efforts, Lucas v. Earl does not
require that they be taxed to him. That case related to
earnings qua earnings and not to a separately -disposable
contract right received as compensation for services.
The doctrine that earnings are always taxable to the
earner produces absurd results. Suppose an agent owning a right to renewal commissions becomes bankrupt
and the right to such commissions is sold by the trustee in bankruptcy to an outsider. Would the-agent be
taxable on the commissions paid to the purchaser because they were earned by the agent? Suppose the
agent had sold his right to the future commissions, would
he be subject to tax not only on the proceeds of sale,
but on the larger amount of commissions as well because
he had "earned" these commissions? Or suppose the
agent had 'died owning the right tq receive the renewal
commissions. Application of the sweeping doctrine advocated by the Government would require him to be
taxed after his death. This view was specifically rejected in Seattle First National Bank v. Henricksen, 24
F. Supp. 256, appeal dismissed, 100 F. 2d 1015.
A future commissions contract in the nature of a royalty contract, such as is here involved-the income from
which is in no way dependent upon future services of
the assignor, and the income from which has not yet

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

arisen, and will arise, if at all, by the happening of events
over which the assignor has no. control-may be assigned
so as to relieve the assignor of the tax on the income
therefrom in just the same way that the same sort of
property arising from sources other than personal services may be assigned so as to relieve the assignor of tax.
The right to assign a contract of this character arising
from personal services offers no more opportunity for tax
avoidance than the right to assign a -similar contract
arising from any other source.
By leave of Court, Mr. W. A. Sutherland filed a brief,
as amicus curiae,urging affirmance.
MR. Justice SToNE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a companion case to Helvering v. Horst, ante,
p. 112, and presents issues not distinguishable from those
in that case.
Respondent, a general life insurance agent, after the
termination of his agency contracts and services as agent,
made assignments in 1924 and 1928 respectively of renewal commissions to become payable to him for services
which had been rendered in writing policies of insurance
under two of his agency contracts. The Commissioner
assessed the renewal commissions paid by the companies
to the assignees in 1933 as income taxable to the assignor
in that year under the provisions of the 1932 Revenue
Act, 47 Stat. 169, ยง 22 of which does not differ in
any respect now material from ยง 22 of the 1934 Revenue
Act involved in the Horst case. The Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit reversed the order of the Board of
Tax Appeals sustaining the assessment. 110' F. 2d 737;
39 B. T. A. 583. We granted certiorari October 14,
1940.
No purpose of the assignments appears other than to
confer on the assignees the power to collect the commis-

T-ELVERING v. EUBANK.
122

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

sions, which they did in the taxable year. The Government and respondent have briefed and argued the case
here on the assumption that the assignments were voluntary transfers to the assignees of the right to collect the
commissions as and when they became payable, and the
record affords no basis for any other.
For the reasons stated at length in the opinion in the
Horst case, we hold that the commissions were taxablE
as income of the assignor in the year when paid. The
judgment below is
Reversed.

The separate opinion of MR. JusucE McREYNOLDS.

The cause was decided upon stipulated facts. The following statement taken from the court's opinion discloses
the"The
issues.
question presented is whether renewal commissions payable to a general agent of a life insurance company after the termination of his agency and by him
assigned prior to the 'taxable year, must be included in
his income despite the assignment.
"During part of the year 1924 the petitioner was employed by the Canada Life Assurance Company as its
branch manager for the state of Michigan. His compensation consisted of a salary plus certain commissions.
His employment terminated on September 1, 1924.
Under the terms of his contract he was entitled to renewal
commissions on premiums thereafter collected by the
company on policies written prior to the termination of
his agency, without the obligation to perform any further services. In November 1924 he assigned his right,
title, and interest in the contract as well as the renewal
commissions to a corporate trustee. From September 1,
1924 to June 30, 1927, the petitioner and another, constituting the firm of Hart & Eubank, were general agents
in New York City for the Aetna Life Assurance Coin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
MCRzYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

311.U. S.

pany, and from July 1, 1927 to August 31, 1927, the petitioner individually was general agent for said Aetna Company. The Aetna contracts likewise contained terms
entitling the agent to commissions on renewal premiums
paid after termination of the agency, without the performance of any further services. On March 28, 1928,
the petitioner assigned to the corporate trustee all commissions to become due him under the Aetna contracts.
During the year 1933 the trustee collected by virtue of
the assignments renewal commissions payable under the
three agency contracts above mentioned, amounting to
some $15,600. These commissions were taxed to the petitioner by the Commissioner, and the Board has sustained
the deficiency resulting therefrom." 110 F. 2d 738.
The court below declared"In the case at bar. the petitioner owned a right to
receive money for past services; no further services were
required. Such a right is assignable. At the time of assignment there was nothing contingent in the petitioner's
right, although the amount collectible in future years
was still uncertain and contingent. But this may be
equally true where the assignment transfers a right to
income from investments, as in Blair V. Commissioner,
300 U. S. 5, .and Horst v. Commissioner, 107 F. 2d 906
(C. C. A. 2), or a right to patent royalties, as in Nelson v.
Ferguson, 56 F. 2d 121 (C. C. A. 3), certiorari denied,
286 U. S. 565. By an -assignment of future earnings a
taxpayer may not escape taxation upon his compensation in the year when he earns it. But when a taxpayer
who makes his income tax return on a cash basis assigns
a right to money payable in the future for work already
performed, we believe that he transfers a property right,
and the money, when received by the assignee, is not
income taxable to the assignor."
Accordingly, the Board of Tax Appeals was reversed;
and this, I think, is in accord with the statute and our
opinions.

HELVERING v. EUBANK.
122

McREYNOLDS, J.,

dissenting.

The assignment in question denuded the assignor of
all right to commissions thereafter to accrue under the
contract with the insurance company. He could do nothing further in respect of them; they were entirely beyond
his control. In no proper sense were they something
either earned or received by him during the taxable year.
The right to collect became the absolute property of the
assignee without relation to future action by the
assignor.
A mere. right to collect future payments, for services
already performed, is not presently taxable as "income
derived" from such services. It is property which may
be assigned. Whatever the assignor receives as consideration may be his income; but the statute does not
undertake to impose liability upon him because of payments to another under a contract which he had transferred in good faith, under circumstances like those here
disclosed.
As in Helvering v. Horst, just decided, the petitioner
relies upon opinions here; but obviously they arose upon
facts essentially different from those now presented.
They do not support his contention. The general principles approved in Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U. S. 5,
and applied in Helvering v. Horst, are controlling and
call for affirmation 'of the judgment under review.

The CHIEF JusTIcE and MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS concur
in this opinion.

