OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

VANDENBARK v. OWENS-ILLINOIS GLASS CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No.. 141.

Argued December 13, 1940.-Decided January 6, 1941.

A judgment of a District Court, ruled by the state law and correctly
applying that law as interpreted by the state supreme court when
the judgment was rendered, must be reversed, on appeal, if in the
meantime the state court has disapproved of its former rulings and
adopted a contrary interpretation. P. 541.
110 F. 2d 310, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

post, p. 635, to review the affirmance of a

judgment dismissing an action for damages on account
of personal injuries alleged to have been caused by the
negligence of the defendant.
Messrs. Paul D. Smith and Thomas H. Sutherland for
petitioner.
Mr. Lawrence Earl Broh-Kahn, with whom Mr. Lloyd
T. Williams was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This certiorari brings before us for review the determination of the Circuit Court of Appeals that cases at
law sounding in tort, brought in the federal courts on
the ground of diversity of citizenship, are ruled by the
state law as declared by the staie's highest court when
the judgment of the trial court is entered and not by the
state law as so declared at the time of entry of the
appellate court's order of affirmance or reversal. WE
granted the certiorari because of the uncertainty cf the
upon this question as contained in this Court's former
-w
decisions.

VANDENBARK v. OWENS-ILLINOIS CO. 539
538

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner here, Virginia Vandenbark, the plaintiff below, is a citizen of Arizona. The defendant, respondent here, the Owens-Illinois Glass Company, is a
corporation of Ohio. Petitioner brought an action in the
United States District Court for the Northern District
of Ohio alleging that as an employee of respondent she
had contracted various occupational diseases including
silicosis through the negligence of respondent. The trial
court sustained a motion to dismiss on the ground that
the petition failed to state a cause of action. This ruling
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals with the
statement that under the law of Ohio no recovery was
permitted, at the time of the judgment in the trial court,
for the type of occupational disease alleged by the petitioner to have been contracted by her as the result of
respondent's negligence.1
It is conceded that at the time th'e motion to dismiss
was sustained neither the Ohio Workmen's Compensation
Act I nor the common law, as interpreted by the supreme
court of that state, gave a right of recovery to petitioner.
The constitution of Ohio' authorized the passing of laws
establishing a state fund out of which compensation for
death injuries or occupational diseases was to be paid
employees in lieu of all other rights to compensation or
damages from any employer who complied with the law.
At the time of the dismissal of the petition by the trial
court no provision had been made by statute for any of
the occupational diseases included in petitioner's complaint. Respondent had fully complied with the Workmen's Compensation Act. The Ohio constitution and
compensation statutes passed pursuant to its authority
had been consistently construed by the Ohio courts as
'Vandenbark v. Owens-Illin-'-' GJ. s Co., 110 F. 2d 310, 312.
'Ohio Gen. Cod. ,ep,
f331) § 1465-70.

.540

0OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

withdrawing -the common law right and as denying any
statutory right to recovery for petitioner's occupational
diseases.4 After the action of the trial court in dismissing"
the petition, the Ohio supreme court reversed its former
-decisions and, in an opinion expressly overruling them,
declared ocupational diseases such as complained of by
petitioner compensable under Ohio common law.5
While Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins' made the law of the
sate, as declared by its highest court, effective to govern
tort cases cognizable in federal courts on the sole ground
of diversity, there was no necessity there for discussing
at what step in the cause the state law would be finally
determined. In that case no change occurred in the
state decisions between the accident and our judgment.
There is nothing in the Rules of Decision section to point
the way to a solution.'
During the period when Swift v. Tyson8 (1842-1938)
ruled the decisions of the federal courts, its theory of
their freedom in matters of general law from the authority of Atate•-courts pervaded opinions of this Court involving even state statutes or local law. As a consequence
some decisions hold that a different interpretation
of state law by state courts after a decision in a fed"Zajachuck v.: Willard Storage Battery Co., 106 'Ohio St. 538 i
140 N. E. 405; Mabley & Carew Co. v. Lee, 129 Ohio St. 69, 73;
193 N. E. 745.
'Tiff v. National'Bronze & Aluminum Foundry Co., 135 Ohio ,St.
191, 205; 20 N. E. 2d 232.

0304 U.'S. 64.
U. S. Code, Title 28, § 725. "Laws of States as rules of decision.
The laws' of the several States, except where the Constitution,
treaties, or statutes of the United States otherwise require or provide,
shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, in the
'courts of the United States, in cases where they apply."

a 16 Pet. 1.

VANDENBARK v. OWENS-ILLINOIS CO.. 541
Opinion of the Court.

538

eral trial court does not require the federal reviewing
court to reverse the trial court.'
In Burgess v. Seligman, cited in the preceding note, a
statute of Missouri relating to the liability of stockholders of a Missouri corporation was interpreted by the state
supreme court contrary to the prior decision of the federal trial court. This Court affirmed the trial court,
saying
"So when contracts and transactions have been entered
into, and rights have accrued thereon under a particular
state of the decisions, or when there has been no decision, of the State tribunals, the Federal courts properly
claim the right to adopt their own interpretation of the
law applicable to the case, although a different interpretation may be adopted by the State courts after such
rights have accrued."
What we conceive, however, to be the true rule to
guide a federal appellate court where there has been a
change of decision in state courts subsequent to the judgment of the district court was stated, before any of the
opinions just cited, in United States v. Schooner Peggy.',
The Court there said
'"It is, in the general, true, that the province of an
appellate court is only to enquire whether a judgment
when rendered was erroneous or not. But if, subsequent
to the judgment, and before the decision of the appellate
court, a law intervenes and positively changes the rule
which governs, the law must be obeyed, or its obligation
denied."
'Pease v. Peck, 18 How. 595, 599; Morgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1;
Burgess v. Seligman, 107'U. S. 20, 33; Concordia Insurance Co. v.
School District, 282 U. S..545, 553.
"Cf. Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal Co., 215 U. S. 349, 356.
'

1 Cranch 103, 110.

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

It is true this Court was speaking of the intervention of
a treaty and also that it expressed a caution against
retrospective operation between private parties but the
principle quoted has found acceptance in a variety of
situations. Kibbe v. Ditto 12 and Moores v. National
Bank " hold that subsequent decisions as to married
women's rights control review. Sioux County v. National
Surety Company " gives effect to a later decision on a
statute as to surety bonds. In Oklahoma Packing Co. v.
Oklahoma Gas Co.,'1 we applied as determinative a state
decision, clarifying the local law, handed down after the
decree then under consideration here.
While cases were pending here on review, this Court
has acted to give opportunity for the application by
the lower courts of statutes enacted after their judgments
or decrees."0 It has vacated judgments of state courts
because of contrary intervening decisions," and has accepted jurisdiction by virtue of statutes enacted after
cases were pending before it. 8 Where, after judgment
below, a declaration of war changed the standing of one
litigant from an alien belligerent to an enemy, this Court
took cognizance of the change and modified the action
below because of the new status."9 Similarly repeal of
criminal laws or of a constitutional provision without a
saving clause deprives appellate courts of jurisdiction to
93 U. S. 674; see discussion of this case in Bauserman v. Blunt,

147 U. S. 647, 655-56.
-104 U. S. 625, 629.
- 276 U. S. 238, 240.

"'309 U. S. 4, 7-8.
"Dinsmore v. Southern Express Co., 183 U. S. 115; Missouri
ex rel. Wabash Ry. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 273 U. S. 126, 130;
Carpenterv. Wabash Ry.Co., 309 U. S. 23, 26.
" Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503; Dorchy v.
Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 291; Pattersonv. Alabama, 294 U. S. 600, 607.
"Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445, 478; Freeborn v.
Smith, 2 Wall. 160, 174.
" Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248 U. S. 9, 21.

VANDENBARK v. OWENS-ILLINOIS CO. 543
Opinion of the Court.

538

entertain further proceedings under their sanctions."
These instances indicate that the dominant principle is
that nisi prius and appellate tribunals alike should conform their orders to the state, law as of the time of the
entry. Intervening and conflicting decisions will thus
cause the reversal of judgments which were correct when
entered.
Respondent earnestly presses upon us the desirability
of applying the rule that appellate courts will review a
judgment only to determine whether it was correct when
made; that any other review would make the federal
courts subordinate t6 state courts and their judgments
subject to changes of attitude or membership. of state
courts, whether that change was normal or induced for
the purpose of affecting former federal rulings.- While
not insensible to possible complications, we are of the
view that, until such time as a case is no longer sub
judice, the duty rests upon federal courts to apply' state
law under the Rules of Decision statute in accordance
with the then controlling decision of the highest state
court.2' Any other conclusion.would but perpetuate the
confusion and injustices arising from inconsistent federal
and state interpretations of state law.,
Reversed.
MR. JUSTIcE McREYNOLDS concurs in the result.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration

or.decision of this case.
United Stats v. Chambers, 291 U. S. 217, 222.
have applied the rule enunciated in the case of Erie R. Co.
v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, that state faw as determined by the
state's highest court is to be followed as a rule of decision in the
federal courts, to determinations by state intermediate appellate
courts. West v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., ante, p. 223;
Fidelity Union Trust Co. v. Field, ante, p. 169; Six Companies of
California v. Joint Highway District, ante, p. 180; Stoner v. New
r ork Life Insurance Co., ante, p. 464.
'We

