46

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U.S.

in that suit were not representing the petitioners. here
whose substantial interest is in resisting performance.
The defendants in the first suit were not treated by the
pleadings or decree as representing others or as foreclosing by their defense the rights of others; and, even though
nominal defendants, it does not appear that their interest
in defeating the contract outweighed their inferest in
establishing its validity. Fora court in this situation to
ascribe to either the plaintiffs or defendants the performance of such functions on behalf of petitioners here, is to
attribute to them a power that it cannot be said that they
had assumed to exercise, and a responsibility which, in
view of their dual interests it does not appear that they
could rightly discharge.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and
MR. JUSTICE REED concur in the result.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. NORTHWEST STEEL ROLLING
MILLS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 121. Argued October 23, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
1. Provisions of tax statutes granting exemptions are to be strictly

. construed. P. 49.

2. Section 26 (c) (1) of the Revenue Act of 1936 allows, in the computation of the tax imposed by § 14 on undistributed -profits, a
credit for such undistributed earnings as the corporation could
not distribute without violating "a provision of a written contract
executed by the corpor tion

..

,

which provision expressly deals

with the payment of dividends." Held that, where the restriction
on distribution by the corporation was the result of a prohibition
by state law, the credit was not allowable. P. 49.
3. The corporation's charter, taken together with the state law, does

not in such, case'constitute, within the meaning of § 26 (c) (1),

HELVERING v. NORTHWEST STEEL MILLS.
46

47

Opinion of the Court.

"a written contract executed by the corporation" which "expressly deals with the payment of dividends." P. 51.
4. The conclusion that § 26 (c) (1) does not authorize a credit when
the distribution of profits is prohibited by state law is further supported by consideration of § 26 (c) (2) of the Act and by the
legislative history of the section. P. 49.
5. As here construed and applied, the taxing Act does not violate
the Fifth Amendment, (a) by discriminating, in the allowance of
a credit, between corporations which are barred from distributing
dividends by "written" contracts and those which are restrained
by oral contracts or by state law; or (b) by imposing a tax on
undistributed "income" of a corporation which has an existing
deficit. P. 52.
6. Nor does it violate the Tenth Amendment, since the reserved
powers of the States over corporations-to prescribe their powers.
and condition the exercise thereof-are not infringed. P. 53.
7. The tax is authorized by the Sixteenth Amendment. Although
imposed on the income only if not distributed, the tax nevertheless is on income and not on capital, it being imposed on profits
earned during a definite period-the tax year. P. 53.
110 F. 2d 286, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 629, to review the reversal of a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals which sustained the
Commissioner's determination of a tax deficiency.
Mr. Richard H. Demuth, with whom Solicitor General
Biddle, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key and L. W. Post were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Walser S. Greathouse, with whom Mr. D. G.
Eggerman was on the brief, for respondent.
MR.JusTIcE, BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent corporation, because of a previously existing deficit, was prohibited by state law 1 from distributing
"'No corporation shall pay divideis ... except from the surplus
of the aggregate of its assets over the aggregate of its liabilities. ...
Wash. Rev. Stat. Ann. (Remington, 1932), tit. 25, § 3803-24.

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

as dividends its profits earned in 1936. Notwithstanding
this state prohibition, the Commissioner held respondent
liable under the 1936 Revenue Act ' for surtax on undistributed profits. The Board of Tax Appeals sustained
the Commissioner; " the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.' On a similar state of facts the Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit held undistributed profits taxable. 5
We granted certiorari in both cases to resolve this
conflict.'
Section 14 of the 1936 Act imposed a general surtax on
corporate profits earned but not distributed as dividends
during the tax year. Section 26 (c) (1) of the Act relieved from such surtax all undistributed profits which
the corporation could not distribute as dividends "without
violating a provision of a written contract executed by
the corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision
expressly deals with the payment of dividends."
The only "written contract executed by the corporation" upon which respondent relies for its claimed exemption is its corporate charter, granted by the State
of Washington. Upon the premises that respondent's
Washington charter was a written contract, and that the
Washington laws prohibiting dividend payments were by
operation of law a part of that' contract, the court below
concluded that the taxpayer had satisfied the. requirements of § 26a (c) (1).
We must therefore decide whether § 26 (c) (1) authorized a credit or deduction to corporations prohibited by
'49
1 Stat. 1648, 1655.
*The memorandum opinion of the Board is not officially reported;

the Board relied on its earlier opinion in Crane-Johnson Co. v.
Commissioner, 38 B. T. A.1355.
'110 F. 2d 286.
Crane-Johnmon Co. v. Commissioner, 105 F. 2d 740.
"309 t. S. 692; post, p. 629.

HELVERING v. NORTHWEST STEEL MILLS.

49

Opinion of the Court.

46

state law from distributing dividends. And respondent
strongly urges that the Act, if construed to deny such
credit, is unconstitutional.
First. It is material that we are dealing here with a
generally imposed surtax upon the undistributed net income of corporations, and that respondent's claim is for a
credit in the nature of a specially permitted deduction.
It has been said many times that provisions granting
special tax exemptions are to be strictly' construed.!
Measured by this sound standard it. is probably not
necessary to go beyond the plain words of § 26 (c) (1) in
search of the legislative meaning. Certainly, at first
blush, few would suppose that when Congress granted
a special exemption to corporations whose dividend payments were prohibited by executed written contracts, it
thereby intended to grant an exemption to corporations
whose dividend payments were prohibited by state law.
The natural impression conveyed by the words "written
contract executed by the corporation" is that an explicit
understanding has been reached, reduced to writing,
signed and delivered. True, obligations not set out at
length in a written contract may be incorporated by specific reference, or even by implication. But Congress
indicated that any exempted prohibition against dividend
payments must be expressly written in the executed contract. It did this by adding a precautionary clause that
the granted credit can only result from a provision which
"expressly deals with the payment of dividends."
That the language used in § 26 (c) (1) does not authorize a credit for statutorily prohibited dividends is further
supported by a consideration of § 26 (c) (2). By this
section, a credit is allowed to corporations contractually
'E. g., Deputy v. du Pont, 308 U. S. 488, 493; White v. United
States, 305 U. S. 281, 292; New Colonial Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292
U. S. 435, 440.
276055--41.4

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

obligated to set earnings aside for the payment of debts.'
That: this section referred to routine contracts dealing
with ordinary debts and not to statutory obligations is
obvious-yet the words used to indicate that the section
had reference only to a "written contract executed by the
corporation" are identical with those used in § 26 (c) (1).
There is no reason to believe that Congress intended that
a broader meaning be attached to these words as used in
§ 26 (c) (1) than attached to them under the necessary
limitations of 26 (c) (2).
Respondent urges that the legislative history of § 26
(c) (1) supports its contention. But, on the contrary,
that history points in the other direction. The original
House Bill contained separate relief provisions (1) for
deficit corporations such as respondent; (2) for corporations contractually obligated to pay debts; and (3) for
corporations contractually prohibited from paying dividends.' The Senate Finance Committee struck out all
three of these House provisions, but substituted an equivalent for the third."0 An amendment from the Senate
floor restored an equivalent of the second." But the
bill as finally passed contained no express relief provision
relating to deficit corporations.
It is true, as respondent contends, that a charter has
been judicially considered to be a contract insofar as it
849 Stat. 1664. The credit allowed is "An amount equal to the
portion of the earnings and profits of the taxable year which is required (by a provision of a written contract executed by the corporation prior to May 1, 1936, which provision expressly deals with the
disposition of earnings and profits of the taxable year) to be paid

within the taxable year in discharge of a debt, or to be irrevocably
set aside within the taxable year for the discharge of a debt; to the
extent that such amount has been so paid or set aside."
* H. R. 12395, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., §§ 14, 15, and 16; see H. Rep.

No. 2475, 74th Cong., 2d Ses., pp. 8-9.

"*See S. Rep. No. 2156, 74th Cong., 2d Ses., pp. 12-13, 15-16.
ft, ong. Rec. 9071, 74th Cong., 2d Bess.

HELVERING v. NORTHWEST STEEL MILLS.

51

Opinion of the Court.

46

grants rights, properties, privileges and franchises. 1 To
this extent it has been said that an Act of Incorporation
is a contract between the state and the stockholders. 8
But it does not follow that Congress intended to include
corporate charters and related state laws in the cautiously
limited area permissible for tax credits and deductions
under this section. Nor have the courts considered that
all the provisions of laws providing for the grant of corporate franchises are necessarily contractual in their
nature. The same legislative Act is a law as well as a
grant, and this Court has held that the same legislative
enactment may be both a contract-which cannot be im-paired-and a law, subject to repeal, modification, alteration, or amendment within the general legislative pow*ers. 14 Respondent's chief reliance is upon that charter
provision which required that it conform to the existing
and future laws of Washington. But that provision is
not a grant and is not a contract. -With or without such
a charter provision, it was the duty of the corporation to
conform to valid Washington statutes. The corporation
was subject to the law of Washington; it -could not rise
above it. A corporate charter to operate a particular
business in a particular manner does not deprive the
state of its inhereit power of legislation touching corporate actiyities. And the grant of a franchise does not
exempt the corporation from the requirement that it
obey state legislation validly adopted in the interests of
the public welfare.' 5 It cannot be said, therefore, that
the charter provision that the corporation should obey
Washington law, including the statutory prohibition
Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518;
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 429.
12

The. Binghamton Bridge, 3 Wall. 51, 73.

'"

14Oregon &

California Railroad Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 393,

427.
"Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U. S. 322, 345.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S

against distributing dividends, was a provision of a written contract executed by respondent. More, the Constitution of the State of Washington under which the
general corporation laws were enacted provides that "All
-laws relating to corporations may be altered, amended,
or repealed by the legislature at any time, and all corporations doing business in this state may, as to such
business, be regulated, limited, or restrained by law." 16
It is clear, therefore, that what prohibited respondent
from distributing dividends was not the provision of an
executed written contract expressly dealing with the payment of dividends. On the contrary, what prohibited
respondent from paying dividends was a valid law of the
State of Washington."
Second. Respondent contends that the' tax statute, as
construed, offends the Fifth, Tenth and Sixteenth Amendments. None of those contentions is valid. 8
It is argued that the Act offends the Due Process clause
of, the Fifth Amendment because it permits credits or
deductions in the case of corporations restrained from a
distribution of dividends under a given type of written
contract, while not permitting any credit or deduction to
corporations restrained from distribution by oral contracts
or 'by the laws of a state. This contention is without
merit. It is not necessary to point out the many obvious reasons that might underlie the distinctions here
drawn in granting special deductions from a generally
imposed tax.
Respondent also urges that the tax as applied to it
amounts to a confiscation of its property without Due
Process of law because the tax is imposed, not on income,
"Washington Constitution, Article 12, § 1.
'Respondent contended that the stock certificates satisfied the
statutory requisites even if the charter did not; but what we have
here said with respect .to the charter applies equally to the certificates.
" Cf. Helvering v. National Grocery Co., 304 U. S. 282.

HELVERING v. NORTHWEST STEEL MILLS.
46

53

Opinion of the Court.

but only on undistributed income, and that there can be
no undistributed income so long as the corporation has
an existing deficit. But the surtax here is imposed upon
the undistributed net income of the corporation "for each
taxable year." It is true that the surtax is imposed upon
the annual income only if it is not distributed, but this
does not serve to make it anything other than a true tax
on income within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment. Nor is it true, as respondent urges, that because
there might be an impairment of the capital stock, the
tax on the current annual profit would be the equivalent
of a tax upon capital. Whether there was an impairment of the capital stock or not, the tax here under consideration was imposed on profits earned during a definite
period---a tax year-and therefore on profits constituting
income within the meaning of the Sixteenth Amendment.
It is contended that the statute as here applied violates
the Tenth Amendment because. it interferes with the
authority of the states to prescribe the powers of corporations and tht conditions under which their powers may
be exercised. But the statute in no way limits' th6 powers of the corporation. It imposes a tax as authorized
by the Sixteenth Amendment and does not infringe upon
the powers reserved to the state by the Tenth Amendment. 19 The court below was in error; its judgment is
reversed and the cause is remanded with directions to
affirm the judgment of the Board of Tax Appeals.
Reversed.

"Helvering v. National Grocery (.o., supra, at 286-287. And cf.
Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, 17: "Congress cannot accommodate
its legislation to the conflicting or dissimilar laws of the several states
nor control the diverse conditions to be found in the various states
which necessarily work unlike results from the enforcement of the
same' tax."

