WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
Syllabus.

211

the alleged invention, -the latter cannot be construed as
including that feature.
We have no occasion to determine. whether, in view
of the prior art, the Jardine patent disclosed invention
if the flexible web feature had not been surrendered.
Without it the court below concluded that Jardine, like
Gulick and Maynard, disclosed no invention. It rejected
the Schmiedeknecht patent, No. 1,256,265,. one of those
in suit, on like grounds, saying, "It discloses no web flexibility co-operating with other elements of resiliency, to
achieve the balanced flexibility perceived in Jardine on
the basis of which alone the latter is thought to be
valid

....

"

We accept this conclusion as supported by

the evidence of the prior a~t in the master's findings and
the only one which could be reached consistently with
the decision below with respect to the Gulick and Maynard patents which stand adjudged as invalid.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this
case.

WEST

ET AL.

V. AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND

TELEGRAPH CO.
ON WRITS OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 44 gnd 45.

Argued November 13, 1940.-Decided December 9,
1940.

1. In a suit in a federal court for equitable relief in protection of
legal rights growing out of an unlawful transfer of stock by a
corporation, the state laws defining those rights' are the rules of
decision. P. 236.
2. A rule announced and applied by state courts as the law of the
State, though not passed on by the highest state court, may
not be.rejected by a federal court because it thinks that the rule is
unsound in principle or that another is preferable. P. 236.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U.S.

3. In deciding local questions it is the duty of the federal court
to ascertain from all available data what the state law is and
apply it, however superior a different rule may appear from the
viewpoint of general law and however much the state rule may
have departed from prior decisions of the federal courts. P. 237.
4. Where an intermediate state appellate court rests its considered
judgment upon the rule of law which it announces, that is a
datum for ascertaining state law which is not to be disregarded
by a federal court unless it is convinced by other persuasive data
that the highest court of the State would decide otherwise. P. 237.
This is the more so where, as in this case, the highest state court
has refused to review the lower court's decision, rendered in one
phase of the very litigation which is being prosecuted by the same
parties before the federal court.
5. The Ohio County Court of Appeals, by a judgment which the
Supreme Court of the State declined to review, decided that an
action against a corporation for damages resulting from its issue
of a certificate for shares of its stock in the name of one who was
a life tenant of the stock, without disclosing on the face of the
i certificate that the stockholder was a life tenant or the interest
of the remaindermen, followed by a wrongful transfer of the stock
to a third person, was premature because no demand had been
made on the corporation to reinstate the plaintiffs' rights in the
stock and because the corporation had not refused this in advance
of the suit. In a second suit brought in the federal court after a
sufficient demand had been made, in which the same plaintiffs
sought equitable relief and damages from the same corporation,
the'Circuit Court of Appeals, declining to follow the ruling of the
state Court of Appeals, held that a demand was not essentialthat the cause of action accrued when the stock was issued to the
life tenant and, counting from that time, was barred by a statute
of limitations, or laches. Held:
(1) No reason appears for supposing that, if the second suit
had been brought in a state court, the state Court of Appeals
would depart from its previous ruling or that the Supreme Court
of the State would grant the review which it withheld before.
P. 238.
(2) The law thus announced and applied by the state Court of
Appeals is the law of the State, applicable to a case between the
jame parties in the federal court; and the federal court is not free
to apply a different rule, however desirable it may believe it to be,

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
223

Argument for Petitioners.

and even though it may think that the state Supreme Court may
establish a different rule in some future litigation. P. 238.
(3) Since the cause of action under the Ohio law did not arise!
until demand, which was either when the suit was brought in the
state court or when tie formal demand was made, the statute of
limitations did not begin to run until one or the other of those
dates. P. 238.

(4) No special circumstances are shown effective under Ohio
law to limit'the time of demand or shorten the statutory period
after demand; the findings of the District Court that the plaintiffs were not esiopped or guilty of laches Were supported by evidence and should not be disturbed. P. 239.
108 F. 2d 347, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 310 U. S. 618, to review a decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals which (upon separate appeals
by the petitioners and respondent here, but on a single

record) reversed a decree of the District, Court requiring
the 'espondent corporation to procure shares of its common stock to be held in a trust during the life of a decedent's widow and to be ultimately distributed to remaindermen, as directed by the will. Jurisdiction was
by diversity of citizenship.
Mr. H. L. Deibel, with whom Mr. Orlin F. Goudy was
on the brief, for petitioners.
The decision of the state court on the issue of demand
is res judicata in state and federal courts. Blair v..
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 300 U. S. 5; De Sollar v. Hanscome, 158 U. S. 216; Freeman on Judgments,
5th ed, §§ 745, 1465; North Carolina R. Co. v. Story,
268 U. S. 288; Mitchell v. Bank, 180 U. S. 471.
The decision of the state court creates a right which
is protected by the Fifth Amendment.
The law of Ohio requires demand, and the federal
courts are bound by the law of the State, statutory or
common law, in diversity of citizenship cases. Erie R.
Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64; 'Ruhlin v. New .York Life
276055 o41-15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Arguintt for Petitioners.

311 U. S.

Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 202; Rosenthal v. New York Life Ins.
Co., 304 U. S. 263; Lyon v. Mutual Benefit Assn., 305
U. S. 484, 489; Cities Service Oil Co. v. Dunlap, 308 U. S.
208; Martin v.. Cobb, 110 F. 2d 159, 163; Erie R. Co. v.
Hilt, 247 U. S. 97; Burms Mortgage Co. v. Fried, 292
U. S. 487.
Federal courts are bound to decide a case as they
think the state courts would decide it, and not as they
think the state courts should decide it.
It would be arbitrary to have regard only for the
adjudications of the highest state court..
If it be the correct doctrine that the decisions of the
highest court only are the state law, the judgment below
is nevertheless erroneous, because the Supreme Court of
Qhio has expressly held demand prerequisite in actions
by shareholders of corporations' for recognition of their
rights and for mesne dividends. Steverding v. develand Co-operative-Stove Co., 121 Ohio St. 250.
Whether the petitioners are regarded as remaindermen, or as absolute owners, they are seeking to restore
their rights in the shares, and the principle of the
Steverding case should be applied. Cf., Cleveland &
Mahoning R. .Co. v. Robbins, 35 Ohio St. 483.
Failure of the state Supreme Court to order certification is in some degree an approval of the decision of the
state Court of Appeals, and lends it partial sanction, and
to this extent is the Supreme Court's pronouncement of
the laiv.
Only a fraction of the cases litigated in the Ohio nist
prius courts-and reviewed in the Court of Appeals, reach
the Supreme Court. The highestcourt has absolute and
arbitrary discretion in ruling on motions to certify; it
may certify in any case- and from its conclusions there
is no appeal. The judgments of the Court of Appeals
therefore are usually final. The constitution provides
they "shall be final iii all cases," with named exceptions.

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
223

227

Argument for Petitioners.

Although the Ohio Court ot Appeals can review only
the cases that are tried in the lower courts of its district, as prescribed by constitutional provision, it has
state-wide jurisdiction in some oases, e. g. in quo
warranto.
The fact is that no court is bound by any decision in
the State of Ohio, whether rendered by a low court or a
high court. A nisi court may with entire impunity disregard and overrule the judgments of even the Supreme
Court in other cases. And occasionally, on further examination, the Supreme Court concurs. Stare decisis
does not bind a court to follow even its own prior decisions. There is no binding force in this doctrine except
that .the:-put~lic interest' requires certainty aid uniformity. Kearney v. Buttles, 1 Ohio St. 362, 366; State v.
Yates, 66 Ohio St. 546.
But the decisions of the Ohio Courts of Appeals are
of importance in all the courts of, the State, and declare
the law of Ohio, in' the absence of adverse pronouncements by the Supreme Court, and not merely the law of
their districts.
'The only sound rule in diversity of citizenship cases
is, that the federal courts should decide as they think the
state courts would decide in the same case. All the reasoning of all the state tribunals may be scrutinized.
That is' done in the 'state courts, and should be done in
the federal courts.
Since demand was required, the action can not be
barred by any statute of limitations. Even if demand
were not necessary, the action would not be barred.
The appellants are not barred by laches.
* The unauthorized sale of the stock by the life tenant
terminated her life estate, and accelerated all rights in,
and accruing from,' the stock to the remaindermen as of
the time of the sale. And the sale, having been made
possible by the wrongful act of. respondent, is to' be laid

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

at respondent's door, as of the time it recognized the
sale, cancelled the West certificate and issued- a new certificate to a third person.
A corporation must respond to shareholders for losses
resilting from unauthorized -and wrongful transfers.
Equity will afford complete relief, including damages.
Mr. William B. Cockley for respondent.
The defendant was not' negligent. in transferring its
stock 'without limitation. This action is barred by the
statute of limitatiops, by laches, and bythe final judginent of the Ohio Court of Appeals.
The opinion of tl~e Ohio Court of Appeals is a misapplication of well~ettled Ohio law.
The refusal of the Ohio Supreme Court to grant the
plaintiffs' motion to certify did not imply approval of the
opinion of the Ohio Court of Appeals.
The opinion of the Ohio Court of Appeals should not
be considered binding, on the federal courts. The rule
of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64, 78 and other
decisions of this Court is that the law of a State must
be established by its legislature or by its highest court.
Lyons v. Mutual Benefit Health & Accident Assn., 305
U. S. 484, 489-490; Wichita Royalty Co. v. City National
Bank, 306 U. S. 103, 107; Russell v. Todd, 309 U. S. 280,
293. These cases establish the rule of binding authority
for the decisions of the highest court of a -State arid a
persuasive authority only for the decisions of inferior
state courts. This has been the interpretatiorf of the decisions of this Court not only by the Sixth Circuit in the
instant case but, by other Circuits. Six Companies v.
Joint Highway District No. 18 of California, 110 F. 2d
620; Field v. Fidelity Union"Trust Co., 108 F. 2d 521;
Hack v. American Surety..Co.; 96 F. 2d 939. Cf., Erie R.
Co. v. Hilt, 247 U. S. 97; 99.

WEST 'v. A. T. &'T. CO.
223

Argument for Respondent.

Graham v. White-Phillips Co., 296: U. S. 27, clearly
held that the decision of an intermediate appellate court
in Illinois construing the Negotiable Instrument Law
was not binding upon the federal court sitting in
Illinois.
Even if. the rule of Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins were to be
extended -it ought not to include decisions by the Court
of Appeals of Ohio. There are nine Courts. of Appeals
in Ohio, each having jurisdiction in a particular district. The Eighth District has jurisdiction in only a
single county, namely, Cuyahoga. It has no jurisdiction
over suits brought in -the other eighty-seven counties of
the State. Its judgments are final except in cases involving questions under the state or federal constitution and
"cases of public or great general interest in which the
supreme court may direct any court of appeals to certify
its record to that court." Ohio CQnst., Art. IV, § 6. In
practice this means that the Supreme Court can, by
granting a motion to certify, review practically any case
decided by any Court of Appeals.
The decisions of the Court of Appeals of Cuyahoga
County are not binding upon the courts of the other
eighty-seven counties of Ohio but are of persuasive authority only. Common Pleas judges of the other- 87
counties and the Courts of Appeals of the'other eight
districts are 'under no obligation to accord the opinion
in West v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co. any
greater weight than its reasoning compel. Nor does the
fact that a motion to certify this decision was denied by
the Ohio Supreme Court add to its authority. Village
of Brewster v. Hill, 120 Ohio St. 343.
The'only Ohio court, therefore, that is bound by the
decision of the Court of Appeals of Cuyahoga County is
the Common Pleas Court of that county. If the plaintiffs' claim in this case is recognized it will mean that

OCTOBER TERM, 1940
Argument for Respondent.

311 U. S.

the decision*of the Ohio Court of Appeals of Cuyahoga
County can be ignored by the courts of eighty-seven of
eighty-eight counties inOhio, as it can by the Supreme
Court of Ohio, but will be binding upon justices of the
peace, municipal courts and the Common Pleas Court of
Cuyahoga County and upon all the federal .courts, including the highest.
'Moreover, it means that a plain misinterpretaion and
misconstruction of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
.Ohio ncorporated in the opinion in this bAse can be corrected in a later case in practically all the courts of Ohio
but can not be corrected by any of the fedei!a courts.
Finally, it means, as the Circuit Court. of Appeals said,
that a decision proceeding upon a mistriderstanding of
a former decision of the Sixth Circuit Court' of Appeals
can not be corrected by that court or by this Court
There are other consequences of moment. If the rule
sought by the plaintiffs were put in°effect every. cause
* of action supported by a doubtful, decision of a Court of
Appeals of Ohio would jbe brought in:.the federal court
where diversity or other jurisdictiono, ground existed for
the very purpose of preventing the Ohio courts from correcting the unsound rule.
We point out further that the District Court for thp
Eastern Division of the Northern District of Ohio has
jurisdiction in some nineteen counties. These same nineteen counties include all or parts *of the territorial jurisdiction of three Ohio Courts of Appeals. Under the rule
advocated by the petitioners a single judge sitting in the
Eastern Division of the Northern District of Ohio might
.conceivably have three different rules of lw from which
to choose as announced by the' three'Ohio Courts of Appeals -in
his district. And why stop "here? If each Court
of Appeals in Ohio can declare the law.of theState binding on the federal .court, theoretically there could be nin e,.

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO. '
223

.231

Opinion of the Court.

such decisions from which the District Judge might.
choose.
The opinion of the Ohio Court of Appeals in this case
can not be accepted by the federal courts without. (a)
denying full faith and credit to the judgment rendered
in the Same case, and (b) perpetuating a plain misconstruction of well-settled Ohio law.
Plaintiffs' claims as. to the relief are wholly unwarranted.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in this case, in which
jurisdiction rests exclusively on diversity of citizenship,
declined, to follow the ruling in West v. American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 54 Ohio App. 369; 7 N. E. 2d
805;.7 Ohio Opinions 363, of the Cuyahoga County Court
of Appeals, an intermediate appellate court of Ohio. The
question for decision is whether, in refusing to follow the
rule of law announced by the state court, the court below
failed to apply state law within the requirement of § 34
of the Judiciary'Act of 1789 and of our decision in Erie
RailroadCo. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.
1
In 1926 an Ohio decedent, domiciled at death in Cuyahoga County, bequeathed his estate, including ninetytwo shares of the common, stock of respondent, to his
widow for life, with remainder to petitioners, the .sons
of decedent's first wife, who 'was the sister of his widow.
February 2, 1927, the widow tendered to respondent,
for transfer, certificates for the ninety-two shares of stock
standing in decedent's name, each endorsed with an
assignment of the shares evidenced by the certificate, to
the widow, signed in her name as executrix of decedent's
estate.. Accompanying the certificate were duly attested
documents as follows: A copy of decedent's will, a cer-

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of .the Court.

311 U. S.

tificate of the Cuyahoga County Probate Court of the
qualification of the widow as executrix under the will;
copy of. an application of the executrix for the distribution in kind of the estate, consisting of specified corporate
stodks including the ninety-two shares of respondent's
stock, with the appended consent of petitioners to the
distribution in kind, and a copy of the journal of the
probate court showing that it had granted the application
and ordered the distribution.
Thereupon respondent issued a new cdrtificate for the
ninety-two shares in the name of the widow which did
not disclose her limited interest as life tenant or that of
petitioners as remaindermei. October 31, 1929 the.
widow endorsed and deliverea the certificate as collateral
security for her brokerage account to a stock broker to
whom respondent issued a new certificate in his name as
stockholder on November 4, 1929. In March, 1934, petitioners' first learned of- this disposition of the shares by
the widow. and in June, 1934, brought suit against respondent in the Cuyahoga County Court of Common
Pleas, :seeking recovery of damages for the wrongful'
transfer of the shares. In addition to' defenses onthe'
merits respondent set up the Ohio four-year statuteof
limitations. After. a trial on the merits the trial court
gave judgment for .petitioners, which the Cuyahoga
County Court of Appeals reversed. The state Supreme
Court denied petitioners' 'Motion to require the court of
appeals to certify its record to the Supreme Court fof
review because of "probable error" in the case, after
which the Court of Common Pleas entered "final judgment against appellees [petitioners hIre] and in favor of
appellant [respondent here]" upon the Mandate of the
Court of Appeals Rtating "the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas is reversed for reasons stated in opinion
on file and final judgment is hereby rendered for appel-

WEST
223

. A. T, & T CO.

233.

Opinion of the Court.

lant, no error appearing in the record." The opinion of
the appellate court was not filed but copies were furnand it appears of record.
ished
Thecounsel
state court of appeals held that upon the tender
for transfer of the certificates of stock by the executrix
it was the duty of respondent to issue a new certificate
showing on its face the respective interests of the le tenant and of the petitioners as remaindermen; that the
transfer of the shares by respondent to the broker without
the endorsement of the certificate by petitioners was unauthorized and wrongful, that the unlawful disposition
of the-stock by the life tenant did nqt terminate the life
interest or accelerate the rights of the remaindermen, but
that the refusal of respondent after 'demand by petitioner
to recognize and restablish petitioners' rights in the
stock, or other stock of equal par value, was a conversion
of it entitling petitioners to damages to the extent of the
value of their interest in the stock or to a decree of restitution directing respondent to issue a new certificate for
the ninety-two shares in such manner as would protect
the respective interests of all parties.
Construing the relevant provisions of the Ohio Uniform
Stock Transfer Act (Ohio G. C., §§ 8673-1-22) the
court held that as a prerequisite to recovery for conversion of petitioners' interest in the stock it was necessary
that respondent repudiate petitioners' title and that the
petitione:s should allege and prove that respondent had
refused to recognize petitioners' right in the stock andl
to issue an appropriate certificate for it. As petitioners had failed to allege or prove any demand on respondent or any refusal by it in advance of suit to recog-.
nize petitioners' rights or to issue an appropriate
certificate, the court directed judgment for respondent in
conformity to its mandate.
On June 18, 1937, following the denial of petitioners'
motion by the state Supreme Court, in January, 1937,

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

petitioners made demand on respondent, the sufficiency
of which is not questioned, to restore to petitioners their
rights in the shares, and on July 14, 1937, petitioners
brought the present suit in the federal district court for
'Northern Ohio. The bill of complaint, after alleging the
facts already mentioned which the state court had found
to establish the wrongful transfer of the stock by respondent and after reciting the course and results of the litigation in the state courts and the demand on respondent,
set up petitioners' right to relief according to the decisions of the state courts and prayed judgment that respondent issue to petitioners a certificate for the ninetytwo shares of stock aid for back dividends with interest,
and damages, and 'generally for other relief.
The trial court found that the cause of action did not
accrue until the demand made upon respondent; that
suit was not barred by the prior adjudication in the state
court since that suit, in which no demand was alleged or
proved, was on a different cause of action from that now
asserted; that.it was not barred by limitations or laches
and that the remainder interests had not been accelerated
by the wrongful disposition and transfer of the stock.
It accordingly decreed that respondent procure by purchase or otherwise ninety-two shares of its common stock,
issue a certificate for it to a trustee, which was directed
to hold' the stock during the' lifetime of the widow for
the benefit of respondent and upon her death to make
distribution of it to the remaindermen as directed by
the will.
'The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit dismissed
the appeal of petitioners raising questions not now material and on the appeal Pf the respondent, reversed the
decree of the district court, 108 F. 2d 347. It held contrary .to the ruling of the state court that demand upon
respondent was not prerequisite to the accrual of petitioners' cause of action and that petitiopers' right of re-

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
223

235 "

. Opinion of the Court.

covery was barred by limitations and laches. We granted
certiorari, 310 U. S. 618, upon a petition which set up
that the Court of Appeals had erroneously failed to apply
the Ohio law with respect to the necessity for a demand
as defined by the state court of appeals in the litigation
between the present parties and that the court below had
erroneously applied the Ohio rule of limitations and of
laches, all questions of public importance concerning the
interrelation of state and federal courts.
The court below thought that demand was not an essential part of the cause of action where the suit was
brought by remaindermen not entitled to possession of
the stock certificate, consequently that the district court
had erred in following the ruling of the state court of
appeals and that both had misconstrued and misapplied
an earlier decision of the court below in American Steel
Foundries v. Hunt, 79 F. 2d 558, where demand was held
to be prerequisite to a suit brought by one who had acquired shares by purchase but had failed to present the
endorsed certificate to the corporation for transfer before
bringing suit. It cted decisions of similar purport by
the Ohio Supreme Court but recognized that the only
Ohio case passing upon the question whether demand is
prerequisite to suit in the case of a. remainderman is
the decision of the state court of appeals in West v.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., supra. It held
that it was not bound to follow the decision of an intermediate appellate court of the state and so was free to
adopt and apply what it considered to be the better rule
that demand is unnecessary and consequently is not a
part of the petitioners' cause of action. From this it
concluded that the cause of action which it thought had
accrued in 1927 when the stock certificate was issued to
the life tenant, was barred by the four-year statute of
limitations applicable to causes of action "for an injury
to the ights of the plaintiff not arising on contract

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

-

.311'U.S.

§ 11224 Ohio G. C., or by laches if demand were
necessary.'
Since the equitable relief sought in this suit is predicated upon petitioners' legal rights growing out of respondent's unlawful transfer of the. stock to the assignee
of the life tenant, the state "laws" which, by § 34 of the
Judiciary.Actof 1789,'c. 20, 28 U. S. C., § 725, are made
"the rules of decision.-in trials at common law" define
the nature and extent of petitioners' right. See Russell
v. Todd, 309 U. S. 280 289.. And the ru.es of decision
established by judicial decisions c. state courts are "laws"
as well as those prescribed by statute. Erie Railroad Co.
Y. Tompkins, supra, 78. True, as was,intimated in the
Erie Railroad ease, the highest court of the state is the
ifnal.arbiter of what is state law. When it has spoken, its
pronouncement is to be accepted by federal courts as defining state law unless it has later given clear.and persuasive indication that its pronouncement -will be modified, limited or restricted. See Wichita Royalty Co. v.
City NationalBank, 306 U. S. 103,107. But the obvious
purpose of § 34 of the Judiciary Act is to avoid the
maintenance within a state of two divergent or conflicting systems of law, one to be applied inthe state courts,
the otherfto be availed of in the federal courts, only in
case of diversity of citizenship. That object would be
thwarted if the federal courts were free, to choose their
own rules of decision whenever the highest court of the
state has not spoken..
A state is 'not Without law save as its highest court has
declared it. There are many rules of decision commonly accepted and acted upon by the bar and inferior
courts which are nevertheless laws of the state although
the highest court of the state has never passed upon
them. In those circumstances. a federal court is not free
to reject the state rule merely because it has not received
the sanction of the highest state court, even though it

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
223

Opinion of the Court.

thinks the rule, is unsound in principle or that another
is preferable. State law is to be applied in the federal
as well as the state courts and it is the duty of the former.
in every case to ascertain from all the available data what
the state law is and apply it rather than to prescribe a
different rule, however superior it may appear from the
viewpoint of "general law" and however much the state
rule may hav e departed from prior decisions of the federal courts. See Erie Railroad Co. v; Tompkins, supra,
78; Russell v. Todd, supra, 203.
Where an intermediate appellate state court rests its
considered judgment upon the rule of law which it announces, •that is a datum for ascertaining state law
which is not to be disregarded by a federal court unless
it is convinced by other persuasive data that the highest
court of the state would decide otherwise. Six Companies of Californiav. Joint Highway District, ante, p.
180; Fidelity Union Trust Co. v. Field, ante, p. 169. Cf.
Graham v. White-Phillips Co., 296 U. S. 27; Wichita
Royalty Co. v. City National Bank, supra, 107; Russell
v. Todd, supra. This is the more so where, as in this
case, the highest court has refused to review the lower
court's decision rendered in one phase of the very litigation which is now prosecuted by the same parties before
the federal court. True, some other court of appeals of
Ohio may in some other case arrive at a different conclusion and the Supreme Court of Ohio, notwithstanding
its refusal to review the state decision against the petitioner, may hold itself free to modify or reject the ruling
thus announced. Village:of Brewster v. Hill, 128 Ohio.
St. 343, 353; 190 N. E. 766.' Even though it is arguable
Article IV, § 6 of the Ohio Constitution provides that: '°Judgments of the courts of appeals shall be final in all cases, except cases
involving questions arising under the Constitution of, the United
States or of this state .... and cases of public or great general:
interest in which the supreme cburt may direct any court of ap e
,!

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

that the Supreme Court of Ohio will at some later time
modify the rule of the West case, whether that will ever
happen remains a matter of conjecture. In the-meantime the state law applicable to the'se par'ties and in this
case has been authoritatively declared by the highest
state court in which a decision could-,be had. If the
present suit had been brought in the Cuyahoga county
court no reason is advanced . for supposing that the
Cuyahoga court ,of appeals would depart from its previous ruling or that the Supreme Court of the state
would grant the review which it Withheld before. We
think that the law thus announced and applied is the
law of the state applicable in the same case and to the
same parties in the federal court and. that the federal
court is not free to apply a different rule however desirable it may believe it to be, and even though it may
think that the, state Supreme Court may establish a
different rule in some future litigation.
Whether the state court of appeals in the first suit
defined the cause of action as arising out of the failure
of respondent-to describe correctly the interests of the
parties, in the certificate issued to the widow in 1927,
or out of the wrongful transfer. in 1929, is immaterial to
the question of the period of limitation. In either case,
since the cause of action under the Ohio law did not
arise until demand, which was either on June 2, 1934,
when the suit was brought in the state court, or June 18,
1937, when the formal demand was made, the statute of
.

limitations did not begin to run until one or the other
of- those dates. See Keithler v. Foster, 22 Ohio St. 27.,
to certify its, record to that court ... and whenever the judges
of a court of appeals find that a ji~dgment upon which they have
agreed is in conflict :with a'judgment p onounced upon the same
question by any other court of appeals of the state, the judges shall
certify the record of the case to the supreme court for review and

final determination."

WEST v. A. T. & T. 00
223

239

Opinion of the Court.

It is unnecessary to decide whether, as petitioners contend, the suit was on contract or statutory liability to
which the six-year statute applies, § 11222, Ohio G. C.,
or "for the recovery of personal property or for taking
or detaining it," in which case the cause of action is not
deemed to accrue "until the wrongdoer is discovered . . ." § 11224, Ohio G. C., see Cleveland & Mahoning R. Co. v. Robbins, 35 Ohio St. 483, 502, or
whether as the court below held the cause of action was
"for injury to, the rights of the plaintiff not arising on
contract . . .," in which case the statute runs from the
date of the injury when demand is not required. § 11224,
Ohio G. C. For in any event since under Ohio law no
cause of action arose until demnd, was made, the fouryear period would run either from the date of the first
suit, or from that of the formal demand, and had not
expired on July 14, 1937, when the present suit was commenced in the district court.
The court below, also held that if demand were to be
deemed a prerequisite to suit petitiohers were barred by
their "unnecessary delay" in making it, citing Keithler v.
Foster, supra, for the proposition that demand must be
made within four years after the cause arose (1927 or
1929), the time limited by the statute for bringing an
action if no demand were necessary. But the Supreme
Court in that case thought it correct to apply the rule
relied upon by the circuit court of appeals only when
i"no cause for delay can be shown." Cf. Stearns v. Itibben Dry Goods Co., 11 Ohio C. C. (N.S.) 553; 31 Ohio
C. C. 270; affirmed 84 Ohio St. 470; 95 N. E. 1157. Here
no special circumstances are shown for }I .iting the time
of demand or shortening the statutory period after
demand.2 Both the state court. and the district court
'In Keithler v. Foster, 22 Ohin St. 27,. the demand on a sheriff
for moneys collected on an execution sale in 1855 was not. made
until 1867. The Supreme Court in holding that the suit brought

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

in this case have ruled that petitioners are not estopped
by their consent to distribution, which both courts interpreted as a consent only to a lawful distribution by a
lawful procedure. The district court also found that the
evidence relied upon to show lack of diligence on the part
of petitioners in prosecuting inquiries which would have
disclosecj"the unlawful transfer failed of its purpose and
was ir.iifficient to establish either estoppel or laches. At
most -the evidence shows that in 1930 one of the petitioners became suspicious that the life tenant had suffered losses in the stock market and made inquiry of
one corporation whose stock was included in the estate
only to learn that the stock certificate had been properly
issued to the widow as life tenant of the estate and that
he made no further inquiries. The record is barren of any
on the sheriff's bond in 1868 was not barred by the ten year statute
of limitations said that where "the statute begins to run, in cases
like this, from the time of demand, it would be but reasonable to
hold, in the absence of other special circumstances, when nbademand
is shown to have been made within the statutory period fbr bringing
the action, that, for the purpose of setting the statute in operation,
a demand will be presumed at the expiration of that period, from
which time the statute will begin to run."
In Douglas v. Corry, 46 Ohio St. 349; 21 N. E. 440; Townsend v.
Eichelberger, 51 Ohio St. 213; 38 N. E. 207, on which respondent
relies, no suit was brought until after the expiration of the additional
limitation period after the demand was made or presumed as in
Keithler v. Foster, supra.
Here, even if demand were presumed at the end of a four year

period, which began to run either in 1927 or 1929, the state court
action was timely when begun on June 2, 1934. It was dismissed
in, February, 1937. The present action was begun in July, 1937.
§ 11233 of the Ohio G. C. provides: "In an action commenced, or
atempted to be commenced, if in due time a judgment for the
plaintiff be reversed, or if the plaintiff fails otherwise than upon
the merits, aud the time limltd for the commencement of such
action at the date of ,revet sal or failure has expired, the plaintiff
... may commence, a new action within one year after such
date

"

WEST v. A. T. & T. CO.
223

ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

evidence to suggest that petitioners had any ground for
suspicion that respondent had issued the certificate to
the life tenant in any improper or unlawful form before
March, 1934, when they discovered the misappropriation
of the stock. They brought suit in the state court the
following June. We think there was no want of diligence
on-the part of petitioners in presenting and prosecuting
their demand and that the findings of the trial court are
supported. by the evidence and should not have been
disturbed.
The judgment will be reversed, but as other points
involving questions of state law argued here were. not
passed upon by the Court of Appeals the cause will be
remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistenit with this opinion.
Reversead.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I concur in the opinion of the court in so far as it holds
that the Circuit Court of Appeals should have treated
the decision of the Cuyahoga County. Court of Appeals,
under the circumstances of this case, as expressing the
law of Ohio with respect to the necessity of a demand
prior to institution f suit. I do not, however, agree
that the judgment should be reversed.
I am unable to say that the court below erred in holding that, under Ohio law, the four-year period of limitations applied to petitioners' cause of action, and that
delay of demand for more than four years after the cause
of action accrued barred the suit. Both holdings seem
to me to be supported by decisions of the Ohio -courts;
Keithler v. Foster, 22 Ohio St. 27; Douglas v. Corry,
46 Ohio St. 349; 21 N. E. 440; Townsend v. Eichelberger,
51 Ohio St.'213; 38 N. E. 207; Stearns v. Hibben Dry
Goods Co., 11 Ohio C. C. (N. S.) 553, 31 Ohio C. C. 270;
affirmed 84 Ohio St. 470; 95 N. E. 1157. There is here
-276055-41

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
ROBITS, J., dissenting.

311 U.S.

no place for any presumption of demand, as in Keithler
v. Foster, for here the suit in the state court was dismissed on the express ground that no demand had in
fact been made; and in the present suit in the United
States District- Court the averment of the complaint
is that demand was made June 18, 1937, at least eight
years after the cause of action accrued. In such circumstances, as the other cited cases show, a demand made at
a date beyond the period of limitations, does not. toll
the statute. In the Douglas case the averment was that
demand was made nine years after the cause of action
accrued and suit was brought within four years thereafter.
In the Stearns case it was alleged demand was made
four years and nine months after accrual of cause of
action, and suit begun within four years thereafter. The
statute of limitations was held a bar in both.
Though the action was in equity, an action at law
might have been maintained (Stearns v. Hibben Dry
Goods Co., supra; Russell v. Todd, 309 U. S. 280, 289),
and the statute governing such, an action is applicable.
Not only have petitioners failed to show "special circumstances" justifying their delay in making demand
(Keithler v. Faster, supra), but the court below has held
they were guilty of laches, an independent ground of
decision, which, though the question be a close one, we
ought not, under our settled practice, to reexamine.
For these reasons I think that, despite the erroneous
view of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the law of
Ohio on the point decided by the State Court of Appeals,
the judgment should be affirmed.

