150

OCTOBER TERM, 1940,
Syllaour.

311 U. S.

BACARDI CORPORATION OF AMERICA v. DOME-

NECH, TREASURER OF PUERTO RICO,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT:

No. 21.

Argued October 22, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

1. The General Inter-American Convention for Trade-Mark and
Commercial Protection signed at Washington on February 20,
1929, and ratified'by the United States, by Cuba and by-other
American countries, is a part of our law; and no special legislation in the United States was necessary to .make it effective
there. P. 161.
2..The treaty binds the Territory of Puerto Rico, and can not be
overridden by the Puerto Rican legislature. P. 162.
3. The treaty should be construed liberally to give effect,-to its'
purpose. Where a provision fairly admits of two constructions,
one restricting, the other enlarging, rights claimed under it, the
more liberal construction is to be preferred. P. 163.
4. When a foreign mark is entitled, by virtue of the treaty, to registration in a ratifying State, and is duly registered there, a substantive right to its protection in that State attaches. P. 163.
5. A ratifying State can not escape the obligation of protecting the
owner in his use of a foreign trade-mark, duly registered under
the treaty, by refusing that protection to its own nationals.
P. 164..
It is the plain purpose of the treatyto prevent a ratifying State
• from denying protection to the foreign mark because of its origin
or previous registration in the foreign country. Protection against
piracy necessarily presupposes the right to use the marks thus
protected.
6. The treaty recognizes the right to transfer separately for each
country the right to use and exploit trade-marks registered under
it when the transfer is executed in accordance with the .law of the
place where it is made and is duly recorded. P. 165.
7. A statute of Puerto Rico prohibiting the bse on distilled spirits
manufactured in Puerto Rico of trade-marks which had previously
been used anywhere outside of Puerto Rico, excepting any that
had been used on spirits manufactured in Puerto Rico on or before
a date specified or that had been-used exclusively in'continental
United States prior to that date, held discrimiriatory, in violation

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH..
150

Opinion of the Court.

of the above-mentioned treaty, when applied to Cuban trademarks on rum, duly registered but not within the statutory exceptions, and which a corporation, under license from the Cuban
owner, sought to use in connection with the manufacture and sale
of rum in Puerto Rica. Pp. 154, 167.
8. The fact that a corporation applied, under Puerto Rican laws,
for a permit to engage in the business of rectifying distilled spirits
in Puerto Rico, did not estop it from questioning the validity of
later legislation discriminating against its foreign trade-marks in
violation of the treaty. P. 166.
9. A regulation of the Puerto Rican legislature providing that distilled spirits (with certain exceptions not material here) may be
shipped or exported from the Island only in cofitainers holding
not more than one gallon, is within the local police power and
not inconsistent with' the Federal Alcohol Administration Act.
P. 167.
109 F. 2d 57, reversed inpart; affirmed in part.

CERTIORARI,

309 U. S. 652, to review a decree which

reversed a decree permanently enjoining the Treasurer
.of Puerto Rico from enforcing against the plaintiff cor-'
poration legislation regulating the use of trade-marks on
distilled spirits and forbidding export of spirits in bulk.
Messrs. Edward S. Rogers and Preston B. Kavanagh,
with whom Messrs. Karl D. Loos and Jerome L: Isaacs
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William Cattron Rigby, with whom Messrs.
George A. Malcolm, Attorney General of Puerto Rico,
and Nathan R. Margold were on the brief, for Manuel
V. Domenech, Treasurer of Puerto Rico, respondent; and
Mr. David A. Buckley, Jr. for Destileria Serralles, Inc.,
intervenor-respondent.
MR. CHImF JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of.
the Court.
This case presents the question of the validity of legis* lation of Puerto Rico prohibiting the use of trade marks,
brands, or trade names, on distilled spirits manufactured

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

in Puerto Rico if the marks, brands, or names had previously been used anywhere outside Puerto Rico, unless
they had been used on spirits manufactured in Puerto
Rico on or before February 1, 1936, or in the case of trade
marks they had been used exclusively in continental
United States prior to that date.
'Petitioner, Bacardi Corporation of America, brought
this suit in the District Court of the United States for
Puerto Rico against the Treasurer of Puerto Rico to have
this legislation declared invalid and its enforcement enjoined. The complaint charged invalidity under the
Fifth Amendment and the commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States, the Organic Act of Puerto
Rico, the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, and the
General Inter-American Trade-Mark Convention of 1929.
The Destileria Serralles, Inc., a Puerto Rican corporation,
was permitted to intervene as a defendant.
The District Court held the legislation invalid and issued a permanent injunction.' The Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed the decree and directed the dismissal of
the complaint. 109 F. 2d 57. "In view of the importance
of the questions, we granted certiorari. 309 U. S. 652.
The findings of the District Court, which were not disturbed by the rulings of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
show the following:
Petitioner, Bacardi Corporation of America, is a Pennsylvania corporation 'authorized to manufacture distilled
spirits. By agreement, petitioner became :entitled to
manufacture and sell rum in Puerto Rico under the trade
marks and labels of Compania Ron Bacardi, S. A.; a Ci-u.
ban corporation. For more than twenty years, save for
the period during 'national prohibition, the Cuban corporation and its predecessors had sold rum in Puerto Rico
and throughout the United States under trade marks

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

Opinion of the Court.

which included the word "Bacardi," "Bacardi y Cia," the
representation of a bat in a circular frame, and certain
distinctive labels. These trade marks were duly registered in the United States Patent Office and in the Office
of the Executive Secretary of Puerto Rico prior to the
legislation here in question.
Bacardi rum has always been made according to definite secret processes, has been extensively advertised and
enjoys an excellent reputation. Under petitioner's agreement with the Cuban corporation, all rum designated by
the described trade marks and labels was to be manufactured under the supervision of representatives of the
Cuban corporation and to be the same kind and qualitv
as the rum that the latter manufactured and sold.
.In March, 1936, petitioner arranged for the installation
of a plant in Puerto Rico. Since March 31, 1936, petitioner has been duly licensed to do business in Puerto
Rico under its laws relating to foreign corporations.
Petitioner's basic permits from the Federal Alcohol Administration were amended so as to enable petitioner to
operate in Puerto Rico and its labels were approved.
Petitioner rented a building in Puerto Rico and spent
large sums in installing its plant.
On May 15, 1936, the legislature of Puerto Rico passed
Act No. 115 known as the "Alcoholic Beverage Law"
which, after providing for permits, prohibited the holder
of a permit from manufacturing any distilled spirits
which were "locally or nationally known under a brand,
trade name, or trade-mark previously used on similar
products manufictured in a foreign country, or. in any
other place outside Puerto Rico,." with a proviso excepting brands, trade names, or trade ,marks used on spirits
"manufactured in Puerto Rico on February 1, 1936," and
also "any. new brand, trade name, or trade-mark which

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

may in the future be used in Puerto Rico." 1 This Act
was declared to be of an experimental nature. It was
repealed by Act No. 6 of June 30, 1936, which contained
a similar provision and added a prohibition against exports in bulk. 2 That Act was to be in force until September 30, 1937. It was, however, converted into permanent legislation by the provisions of Act No. 149 of
May 15, 1937, known as the "Spirits and Alcoholic
Beverages Act." 8
Declaring it to be the policy of the legislature "to protect the renascent liquor industry of Puerto Rico from all
competition by foreign capital," the Act of 1937 provided in § § 44 and 44 (b) as follows:
'These. provisions were as follows (Laws of Puerto Rico, 1936, pp.
610, 644, 646):
"(g) No holder of a permit under this title shall manufacture,
distill, rectify, or bottle, either for himself or for others, any distilled
spirit locally or nationally known under a brand, trade name, or
trade-mark previously used on similar products manufactured in a
foreign country, or in any other place outside Puerto Rico; Provided,
(1) That such limitation, aimed at protecting the industry already
existing in Puerto Rico, shall not apply to any brand, tra~ie name, or
trade-mark used by a manufacturer, rectifier, distiller, or bottler of
distilled spirits manufactured in Puerto. Rico on February 1, 1936;
and (2) such restriction shall- not apply to any new brand, trade
name, or trade-mark which may in the future be used in Puerto
Rico."
"(h) If any kind,, type, or brand of distilled spirits of a foreign
origin becomes nationally or internationally known by reason of its
bearing "or showing as its brand, trade name, or trade-mark, the
proper name of the manufacturer thereof, such name shall not, in
any manner or form whatever, appear on the labels for any distilled
spirit of said kind or type manufactured, distilled, rectified, or bottled in Puerto Rico."
"Laws of Puerto Rico, Third Special Session, 1936, p. 78.
'Laws of Puerto Rico, 1937, p. 392.
'This declaration is as follows:
"Section 1 (b). Declarationof Policy. It has been and is the intention and the policy of this Legislature to protect the renascent

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

Opinion of the Court.

"Section 44.-No holder of a permit granted in
accordance with the provisions of this or of any other,
Act shall distill, rectify, manufacture, bottle, or can any
distilled spirits, rectified spirits, or alcoholic beverages on
which there appears, whether on the container, label,
stopper, or elsewhere, any trade mark, brand, trade name,
commercial name, corporation name or any other designation, if said trade mark, brand, trade name, commer7'
cial name, corporation name, or any Other designation,
design, or drawing has been used previously, in whole or
in part, directly or indirectly, or in any'other manner,
anywhere outside the Island of Puerto Rico: Provided,
That this limitation shall not apply to the designations
used by a distiller, rectifier, manufacturer, bottler, or
canner of distilled spirits manufactured in Puerto Rico
on or before February 1, 1936."
"Section 44 (b) .- Distilled spirits, with the exception
of ethylic alcohol, 180' proof or more, industrial alcohol,
alcohol denatured according to authorized formulas, and
denatured-rum for industrial purposes, may be shipped
or exported from Puerto Rico to foreign countries, to
the continental United States, or to any of its territories
or possessions, or imported into Puerto Rico, only in containers holding not more than one gallon, and each container shall bear the coirresponding label containihg the
information prescribed by law and by the regulations of
the Treasurer;

. .

.

It is these sections which petitioner attaiks.
liquor industry of Puerto Rico from all competition by foreign capital
so as to avoid the increase and growth of financial absenteeism and
to, favor said domestic industry so that it may receive adequate
protection against any unfair competition in the Puerto Rican market, the continental American market, and in any other possible
.purchasing market."
.'There foilowed in § 44 (b), after the provision quoted in the text,
a proviso relating to the liquidation of a stock of.rum where a rectifier wishes to withdraw from business.

OCTOBER -TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

Section 7 of the Act of 1937 amended the proviso of
§ 44 so as to make its limitation applicable, in regard to
trade marks only, to such "as shall have been used exclusively in the continental United States" prior to February 1, 1936.6 Petitioner asserts that in the absence of
this last provision, there would have been two distillers
whose trade marks would be subject to the prohibition
of§ 44, that is, petitioner and one other; and that § 7
protected the other manufacturer, leaving petitioner,
whose marks had been used in foreign countries and not
exclusively in continental United States, the only concern
affected by the prohibition. The District Court said that
the Act had the appearance of being framed so as to
exclude only the plaintiff and that it was difficult to conceive of "a more glaring discrimination." In this relation
petitioner cites the critical reference in McFarland v.
American Sugar Refining Co., 241 U. S. 79, 86, to a statute which "bristles with severities that touch the plaintiff
alone." The Circuit Court of Appeals while recognizing
the immediate bearing of the provision as thus challenged
sustained it "as applying to all who might later engage
in the business." ,
That construction, however, does not touch the essential character of the discrimination which the statute
seeks to effect in the use of trade marks. The statute
does not deal with the admission of corporations, foreign
to Puerto Rico, for the purpose of transacting business
in the Island. Petitioner received its local license. Nor
'Section 7 is as follows:"In regard to trade marks, the provisions
of the Proviso of Section 44 of Act No. 6, approved June 30, 1936,
and which is hereby amended, shall be applicable only to such trade
marks as shall have been used exclusively in the continental United
States by any distiller, rectifier, manufacturer, bottler, or canner of
distilled spirits prior to February 1, 1936, provided such trade marks
have not'been used, in whole or in part, by a distiller, rectifier, manu-

facturer, bottler, or canner of distilled spirits outside of the continental United States, at any time prior to said date."

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

Opinion of the Court.

does the statute prohibit the manufacture of rum in
Puerto Rico. That is allowed. Petitioner received permits from Puerto Rico for that manufacture as well as
the basic permits from the Federal Alcohol Administration. The statutory restriction is not on doing business
or manufacturing apart from the use of petitioner's trade
marks and labels to designate its product. As to these
trade marks and labels, the prohibition does not rest on
lack of proper registration under the local law. Petitioner's trade marks have been duly registered in the
United States and Puerto Rico. Nor does the prohibition of use proceed on the ground that the trade marks,
as such, are invalid. The Cuban corporation which
licensed petitioner to manufacture and sell Bacardi products and to use Bacardi trade marks had for many years
sold its rum in Puerto Rico, although the rum was not
manufactured there. There is no question of deception
or unfair methods of competition. Petitioner is prohibited from the use of its trade marks, although valid and
duly registered and although the product to which they
are applied is otherwise lawfully made and the subject
of lawful sale, solely because the marks had previously
been used outside Puerto Rico and had not been used on
spirits manufactured in Puerto Rico, or exclusively in
continental United States, prior to February 1, 1936.
The first question thus presented is whether this discriminatory enactment conflicts with the General InterAmerican Convention for Trade Mirk and Commercial
Protection signed at Washington on February 20, 1929.7
This treaty was the culmination of the efforts of many
years to secure the co6peration of the American States in
The Convention was ratified by the United States on February
11, 1931, and proclaimed February 27, 1931. 46 Stat. 2907. It was
ratified by Cuba in 1930. Id., p. 2976. It has also been ratified by
Colombia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama and
Peru. Bulletin, U. S. Trade-Mark Association, 1936, p. 174.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

uniform trade mark protection. As previous Conventions had not proved satisfactory,8 the Sixth International
Conference of American States, held at Havana in 1928,
recommended to the Governing Board of the Pan American Union the -calling of a special conference "for the
purpose of studying in its amplest scope the problem of
the Inter-American protection of trade marks." Delegates from the respective States: were appointed accordingly and from their proceedings the Convention of 1929
resulted. There were obvious difficulties to be surmounted. These inhered in the differences between the
principles of trade mark protection in the Latin American
countries, where the civil law is followed; and the common
law principles obtaining in the United States. The Convention states that the Contracting States were "animated by the desire to reconcile the 0ifferent juridical
systems which prevail in the several American Republics" and resolved to negotiate the Convention "for the
protection of trade marks, trade names, and for the repression of unfair competition. and false indications of
geographical origin."
By Chapter I, entitled "EqUality of Citizens and Aliens;
as to Trade Mark and ,Commercial Protection," the respective Contracting States bind themselves to grant to
-the nationals of the other Contracting States the same
rights and remedies which their laws extend to their own
nationals.
By Chapter II, entitled "Trade Mark 'Protection,"pro,vision is made for registration or deposit of trade marks
in the proper offices of the Contracting. States. Article
3 then specifically provides:
"Every mark duly registered or legally' protected in one
of the Contracting States shall be admitted to registra•Ladas, "The International Protection of Trade Marks by the
.American Republics," pp. 11 et 8eq.; Derenberg, "Trade-Mark Protection and Unfair Trading," pp. 779 et seq.

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

Opinion of the Court.

tion or deposit and legally protected in the other Contracting States, upon compliance with the formal provisions of the domestic law of such States."
The grounds upon which registration or deposit may
be refused or canceled are then set forth, including those
cases where the distinguishing elements of marks infringe
.rights already acquired by another person in the country
where registration or deposit is claimed, or where they
lack an appropriate distinctive character, or offend public
morals, etc. (Art. 3). It is further provided that labels,
industrial designs and slogans used to identify or to advertise goods shall receive the same protection accorded to
trade marks in countries where they: are considered as
such, upon compliance with the requirements of the domestic trade mark law (Art. 5). The owner of a mark
protected in one of the Contracting States is permitted
to oppose registration or deposit of an interfering mark.
(Art. 7); and the owner of a mark refused registration
because of an interfering mark has the right to apply for
and obtain the cancellation of the interfering_ mark on
meeting stated requirements. (Art. 8.)
There .is another provision that "the use and exploitation Of trade aarks may be transferred separately for
each country" and properly recorded. (Art. 11.)
Chapter III provides for the "Protection of Commercial Names," Chapter IV for the "Repression of Unfair
Competition," and Chapter V for the "Repression of False
Indications of Geographical Origin or Source." The remaining chapters relate to remedies and contain general
provisions. Among the latter is one to the effect that
the provisions of the Convention "shall have the force
of law in those States in which international treaties
possess that character, as soon as they are ratified by their
constitutional organs." An accompanying Protocol establishes an Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau where
marks may be registered.

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

The text of the provisions above mentioned relating
to the protection of trade marks is set forth in the
margin. 9
"Chapter I. Equality of Citizens and Aliens as to Trade Mark
and Commercial Protection.
"Article 1. The Contracting States bind themselves to grant to
the nationals of the other Contracting States and to domiciled foreigners who own a manufacturing or commercial establishment or an
agricultural development in any of the States which have ratified or
adhered to the present Convention the same rights and remedies
which their laws extend to their own nationals or domiciled persons
with respect to trade marks, trade names, and the -repression of unfair competition and false indications of geographical origin or source."
"Chapter II. Trade Mark Protection.
"Article 2. The person who desires to obtain protection for his
marks in a country other than his own, in which this Convention is
in force, can obtain protection either by applying directly to the
proper office of the State in which he desires to obtain protection,
or through the Inter-American Trade Mark Bureau referred to in
the Protocol on the Inter-American Registration of Trade Marks, if
this Protocol has been accepted by his country and the country in
which he seeks protection."
"Article 3. Every mark duly registered or legally protected in one
of the Contracting States shall be admitted to registration or deposit
and legally protected in the other Contracting States, upon compliance with the formal provisions of the domestic law of such States.
"Registration or deposit may be refused or canceled of marks:
"1. The distinguishing elements, of which infringe rights already
acquired by another person in the country where registration or deposit is claimed.
"2. Which lack any distinctive character or consist exclusively of
words, symbols, or signs which serve in trade to designate the class,
kind, quality, quantity,. use, value, place of origin of the products,
time of production, or which are or have become at the tnime registration or deposit is sought, generic or usual terms in current language
or in the commercial usage of the country where registration or deposit is sought, when the owner pf the marks seeks to appropriate
them as a distinguishing element of his mark.
"In determining the distinctive character of a mark, all the cir-.
cumstances existing should be taken into account, particularly the

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

161

Opinion of the Court.

This treaty on ratification became a part of our law.
No special legislation in the United States was necessary
to make it effective. Head Moiney Cases, 112 U. S. 580,
duration of the use of the mark and if in fact it has acquired m the
country where deposit, registration or protection is sought, a significance distinctive of the applicant's goods.
"3. Which offend public morals or ,which may be contrary to
public order.
"4. Which tend to expose persons, institutions, beliefs, national
symbols or those of associations of public interest, to ridicule or
contempt.
"5. Which contain representations of racial types or scenes typical
or characteristic of any of the Contracting States, other than that
of the origin of the mark.
"6. Which have as a principal distinguishing element, phrases,
names or slogans which constitute the trade name or an essential
or characteristic part thereof, belonging to some person engaged in
any of the other Contracting States in the manufacture, trade or
production of articles or merchandise of the same class as that to
which the mark applied." ...
"Article 5. Labels, industrial designs, slogans, prints, catalogues.
or advertisements used to idenuify or to advertise goods, shall receive the same protection accorded 'to trade marks in countries
where they are considered as such, upon complying with the requirements of the domestic trade mark law."
"Article 7. Any owner of a mark protected in one of the Contracting States in accordance with its ' domestic law, who may know
that some other person is using or applying to register or deposit
an interfering mark in any other of the Contracting States, shall
have the right to oppose such use, registration or deposit and shall
have the right to employ all legal means, procedure or recourse
provided in the country in which such interfering mark is being
used or where its registration or deposit is being sought, and. upon
proof that the person who is using such mark or applying to
register or deposit it, had knowledge of the existence: and continuous use in any of the 'Contracting States of the mark on which
opposition is based upon goods of the same class, the opposer may
claim for ,himself the preferential right to use such mark in the
country where the opposition is made or priority to register or
deposit it in such country, upon compliance with the requirements
276055 °-41----11

162

OCTOBER TERM' 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

598, 599; A8akura v. Seattle, 265 U. S. 332, 341. The
treaty bound Puerto Rico and could not be overriden by
ihe PuertoRican legislature. Asakura v. Seattle, 8upra;
established by the domestic legislation in such country and by this
Convention."
"Article 8. When the owner of a mark seeks the registration or
deposit of the mark in a Contracting State other than that of
origin of the mark and such registration or deposit is refused because of the previous registration or deposit of an interfering mark,
he shall have the right to apply for and obtain the cancellation
or annulment of the interfering mark upon proving, in accordance
with the legal procedure of the country in which cancellation is
sought, t4e stipulations in Paragraph (a) and those of either Paragrap i (b) or (c) below:
"(h) That he enjoyed legal protection for his mark in another of
the Contracting States prior to the date of the application for the
registration or deposit which he seeks to cancel; and
. "(b) that the claimant of the interfering mark, the cancellation of
which is sought, had knowledge of the use, employment, registration
or deposit in any of the Contracting States of the mark for the
specific goods to which said interfering mark is applied, prior to
adoption and use thereof or prior to the filing of the application
or deposit of the mark which is sought to be cancelled; or
• "(c) that the owner of. the mark who seeks cancellation based
on a prior right to the ownership and use of such mark, has traded
or trades with or in the country in which cancellation is sought,
and,, that goods designated by his mark have circulated and circulate in said country from a date prior to the filing of the application for registration or deposit- for the mark, the cancellation which
is claimed, or prior to the adoption and use of the same."
"Article 11. The transfer of the ownership of a. registered or de.posited mark in. the country of its original registration shall be
effective and shall bQ recognized in the other Contracting States,
provided that reliable proof, be furnished that such transfer has
been executed and registered in accordance with the internal law
of the State in,which such transfer took place. Such transfer shall
be recorded, in--~urdance with the legislation of the country in
which it is to be effective.
"The use and exploitation of trade marks may be transferred
separately for each country, and such transfer shall be recorded
upon the production of reliable proof that such transfer has been

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

163

Opinion of the Court.

Nielsen v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 47, 52; United States v. Belmont, 301 U. S. 324, 331. According to the accepted
canon, we should construe the treaty liberally to give
effect to the purpose which animates it. Even where a
provision of a treaty fairly admits of two constructions,
one restricting, the other enlarging, rights which may be
claimed under it, the more liberal interpretation is to be
preferred. ,Jordan v. Tashiro, 278 U. S. 123, 127; Nielsen
v. Johnson, supra;Factorv. Laubenheimer, 290 U. S. 276,
293, 294.
Here, the clear purpose of the treaty is to protect the
foreign trade marks which fall within the treaty's purview. The basic condition of that protection, as set
forth in Article 3, is that the mark shall have been "duly
registered or legally protected" in one of the Contracting
States. This phrase shows the endeavor to reconcile the
conflicting juridical principles of these States,- the words
"or legally protected" being added to the words "duly
registered" with the apparent intent to cover traae marks
which were entitled under the common law to protection
by reason of appropriation and use.' ° - If duly-registered
or legally protected in one of the Contracting States, the
mark is to be admitted to registration or deposit and is to
be legally protected in the other Contracting States.
The condition of that protection in the other States is
.compliance "with the formal provisions" of the domestic
law. This clearly indicates that formalities or procedural requisites are envisaged and that, when these
have been met, it is the intent of the treaty to confer a
substantive right to the protection of the foreignmark.
The intent to give this right of protection if the maik is
entitled to registration under the treaty, is shown with
executed in accordance with the internal law of the State in which
such transfer took place. Such transfer shall be recorded in accordance with the legislation of the country in which it is to be
effective."
10 Derenberg, op cit., p. 788.

'164-

ocroBDTERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

abundant clarity by the provisions of the same article
setting forth the grounds, relating to infringement of
previously acquired rights or -lack of distinctive character,
etc., upon which registration may be refused or canceledin the country where protection is sought. Also by the
provisions as to the right of the owner of a mark protected in one of the Contracting States to oppose registration in another State of an interfering mark (Art. 7);
and by the provisions as to the right of the owner of a
mark, having its origin in one State and-seeking registration in another, ,to obtain cancellation or annulment of
an interfering mark which stands in the way of the registration sought, upon proving priority of right as stated.
(Art. 8.) Then there is the additional recognition of the
right to-transfer the ownership of a registered mark and
also to transfer separately for each country the use and
exploitation of trade marks when the transfer is executed
in accordance with the law of the place where it is made
and is duly recorded. It will be observed that the right
of protection of the foreign marks, on compliance with
the prescribed formalities, is accorded in each of the
ratifying States irrespective of citizenship or domicile.11
-When the foreign mark is entitled by virtue of the treaty
to registration in a' ratifying State, and is duly registered there, the substantive right toits protection in that
'State attaches.
.In this view, the contention that a ratifying State, on
de registration of a foreign mark in accordance with
the treaty, is not, bound to protect the owner in the use
of that mark provided it refuses that protection to its
own nationals necessarily fails. Undoubtedly the Con-.
tracting States are bound respectively to give to the nationals of -the other Contracting States the same rights
-nd remedies that are extended to their own nationals.
'See Bulletin, U. S. Tade Mark Asociation, 1931, p. 173; EYeren-

berg, op. cit., p. 788.

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

Opinion of the Court.

That is provided in Article 1. But that provision does
not exhaust the rights given by the treaty. These rights
under Article 3 extend to the legal protection of the foreign marks when duly registered. When protection is
sought for such marks a ratifying State cannot escape the
obligations of the treaty and deny prctection by the Simple device of embracing its own nationals in that denial.
That would make a mockery of the treaty. It is its
plain purpose to prevent a ratifying State from. denying
protection to the' foreign mark because of its origin or
previous registration in a foreign country. It'is said that
the object of the treaty- is to prevent piracy. That is
true, but the argument does not meet the issue. Protection against piracy necessarily presupposes the right
to use the marks thug'protected.
We are here concerned with the construction of the
treaty only as it involves the determination of the validity of the statutory discrimination against the foreign
marks which have been duly registered in the United
States and Puerto Rico. The Bacardi marks are of Cuban
origin. We must assume upon this record that they
.were duly registered and were valid in Cuba.. Botb the
United States and Cuba have ratified the treaty'
The
right of the Cuban corporation which owned the marks
to make a separate transfer to petitioner of thi right
to use and exploit them in Puerto Rico is recognizedby"
the treaty. Despite this, Puerto Rico has attempted'-to
deny the right to use these marks on rum manufactured
in Puerto Rico for the sole reason that the marks had
been used outside Puerto Rico and had not been used on
spirits made there, or exclusively in continental United
States, before the given date. That is, the very fact of
n' The

Solicitor General has submitted to the Court a communica-

tion by the 'Cuban Embassy in Washington to the Secretary of
State of th6 United States relating to the interest of-,Cuban nationals.
and the Cuban Government in the question hee presented.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

origin in Cuba, which makes the treaty applicable, is
asserted as a ground, for denying the right to use the trade
marks, duly registered, on a product otherwise lawfully
manufactured in Puerto Rico.
That Puerto Rico makes its rule applicable to its own
citizens who may possess such foreign marks cannot avail
to purge the discrimination of its hostility to the treaty.
The same reasoning, if admitted to sustain this particular
,discrimination, would justify as against the-treaty a local
statute denying the right to use, in Puerto Rico any foreign trade mark in any circumstances.
The exigencies of local trade and manufacture which
prompted. the enactment of the statute cannot save it,
as the United States in exercising its treaty making power
dominates local policy.
We are not impressed by the argument that petitioner
is estopped by acts of acquiescence to challenge the valid.ity of the Puerto Rican legislation. It is said that petitioner, having accepted the privilege-to engage in the
local business, is, bound by the prescribed conditions.
The' basis of the contention fails. It does not appear
that petitioner applied for a permit under the Act of
1937 Which is the subject of att ck. 'Petitioner did apply,
on March 31, 1986, for a permit to engage in the business
)qf rectifying distilled spirits. At that time the legislation
of 'Puerto Rico did not ,discriminate against petitioner's
,tade marks, and the legislation of May 15, 1936, was
.of a temporary character. Apart from that, it is not the
right to manufacture, aside from the use of trade marks,
that is in dispute here but the right to use petitioner's
trade marks upon its product. Nothing has been shown
,.to warrant a finding of estoppel to assert the invalidity
of the discrimination thus attempted in violation of the
treaty. 'W. W. Cargill Co. V. Minnesota, 180 U. S. 452,
468; Hanover Fire Insurance Co. v. Harding, 272 U. S.

BACARDI CORP. v. DOMENECH.
150

167

Opinion of the Court.

494, 507; Power ManufacturingCo. v. Saunders,274 U. S.
490, 497; Frost v. Corporation Commission, 278 U. S.
515, 527, 528.
. We conclude that, upon this ground of repugnance to
the treaty, the decree of the. District Court insofar as
it enjoined the enforcement of § 44 of, Act No. 6 of June
30; 1936, as amended by Act No. 149 Of May 15, 1937,
(including the amendment made by § 7 of that Act)
with respect to petitioner's trade marks, was right, and
that the reversal in that relation by the' Circuit Court of
Appeals"was erroneous.
We have no occasion to consider the other grounds of
objection to § 44 which haye been urged under the Constitution -and laws of the United States and the Organic
Act of Puerto Rico.
A different situation is presented with respect to § 44
(b) of Act No. 149 of 1937, prohibiting bulk shipments
of distilled spirits. This prohibition does not appear to
offend any right conferred by the treaty and we think
an adequate basis for it is found in the police power of
Puerto Rico as applied to traffic in intoxicating liquors.
We have. recently said that "The aim of the Foraker Act
'and the Organic Act was to give Puerto Rico full power
of local self-determination, with an autonomy imilar
to that of the states and incorporated territ orie."
Puerto Rico v. Shell Company, 302 U. S. 253, 261, 262.
*See, also, Puerto Rico v. Rubert Hermanos,309 U. S. 543,
547. As the grant of legislative power in respect of local
matters was "as broad and comprehensive as language
could make it" (Puerto Rico v. Shell Company, supra),
we think the legislature of Puerto Rico in the exercise of
its police power had full authority to deal with the manufacture' of, and traffic in, intoxicating liquors, so far as the
Island was affected, in the absence of a treaty violatiol
such as we .have found in the prohibition of the use of

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

valid trade marks upon liquors which were otherwise permitted to be manufactured and sold. The legislature of
Puerto Rico could thus have absolutely interdicted the
manufacture or sale (Mugltr v. Kansas, 123 .U.S. 623),
the importation into the Island (State Board of Equalization v. Young's Market Co., 299 U. S. 59, 62; Mahoney
V. Joseph Triner Corp., 304 U. S..401, 404) and the exportation from the Island. Ziffrin v. Reeves, 308 U. S.
.132, 139. Having this power, the legislature of Puerto
Rico could adopt measures reasonably appropriate to
carry out its inhibitions. That broad power necessarily
embraced the limited exercise which we find in § 44 (b)
with respect to shipments in bulk. Nor do we find anything in the Federal Alcohol Administration Act which
•militates'against that provision. The Circuit Court of
-Appeals did not err in its decision in this respect.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals in relation
16 § 44 is reversed and the decree of the District Court
is modified so as to eliminate the injunction against the
enforcement of § 40 3 and § 44 (b) of Act No. 149 of
May 15, 1937, and as thus modified is affirmed.
It is so ordered.

11

Section 40 was embraced in the decree of the District Court but
is n6t the subject of attack in this Court.

