CONTINENTAL CO. v. TENNESSEE.
i
1

5

/Counsel for Parties.

the performance of the duties as herein imposed and a
schedule of their disbursements in the premises. Upon
application to the Clerk of this Court, the Commissioners
or either of them will be furnished with a copy of this
decree'as their authority for their actions in thepremises.
All other matters are reserved until the coming in of
the Report of the Commissioners.

CONTINENTAL ASSURANCE CO. v. TENNESSEE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 117.

Decided October 21, 1940.

Where a state statute imposes upon a foreign insurance company
for the privilege of entering the State and doing local business
a license tax measured by a percentage of *the premiums that
will accrue and be paid to it on policies issued in the State, throughout the lives of such policies, the State may, consistently with due
process, continue to collect such percentage on premiums which
accrue from such policies after. the company's withdrawal from
the State, and which are paid to it at its office in another State.

P. 6.
176 Tenn. 1; 137 S. W. 2d 277; 138 id. 447, dismissed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree of the Court of
Chancery of Davidson County, Tennessee, sustaining the
right of the State to collect from the Assurance Company
2'Y2% of premiums paid to it by residents of Tennessee
after its withdrawal from the State. The case came
before this Court on the appellant's Jurisdictional Statement and the appellee's Statement in Opposition.
Messrs. Charles C. Trabue, Jr. and William P. Smith
were on the brief for appellant.
Messrs. Roy H. Beeler, Attorney Gxeneral of Tennessee,
and Nat Tiptan were on the brief for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.

6

Opinion of the Court

311

U. S.

P=R CURIAM.
The State of Tennessee brought this suit to enforce payment of privilbge taxes measured by premiums on policies
of insurance issued while appellant was doing business
/vithin the State, but upon' which the premiums were paid
after its withdrawal from the State. Appellant contended
that since its withdrawal it had transacted no business
within the State; that the policyholders. there had mailed
their premiums on unmatured policies to the home office
of appellant in another State; and that to hold it liable for
*the taxes demanded would deprive it of its property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution
.-of the UnitedStates.
'TheSupreme Court of Tennessee sustained the tax. It
construed the statutory provisions to mean "that the tax
is levied upon the right to do business in the state, measured by a percentage of annual premiums to the exclusion
of all other taxes, the tax on the annual premiums to be
paid throughout the life of policies issued";- that though
."measured by two and a half per cent of premiums receivedon policies issued by the company while exercising
its license from the state, the tax was levied upon the privilege of entering the state and engaging in the insurance
business, and not upon the annual premiums"; and that
the appellant "by its compliance with the statute adopted
and agreed to the, construption we have given it, and cannot now repudiate its provisions." 137 S' W. 2d 277.
This construction of the statute distinguishes the case
from that of ProvidentSavings & Life Assurance Society
v. Kentucky, 239 U. S. 103. There the question under the
statute, as it had been construed by the state court, was
whether the insurance company continued to do business
within the State for the period under consideration, despite the fact that it had withdrawn from the State, merely
because of the'receipt'of premiums after withdrawal. Th

REPUBLIC STEEL CORP. v. LABOR BOARD.
Syllabus.

tax was not laid upon the privilege of doing business during the period that the company was actially within the
State, the tax on that privilege being measured by the
premiums received during the life of the policies. Id., pp.
110, 111. The Supreme Court of Tennessee emphasized
the point of this distinction in its opinion on rehearing.
138 S. W. 2d 447. Compare State v. Insurance Company,
106 Tenn. 282, 333-335; 61 S. W. 75.
The appeal is dismissed for the want of a substantial
federal question.

Dismissed.
REPUBLIC STEEL CORPORATION V. NATIONAL

LABORRELATIONS BOARD

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

* No. 14. Argued October 17, 1940.-Decided November 12, 1940.
1. The National Labor Relations Board, having ordered the reinstatement with back pay of employees found to have been discharged or denied reinstatement in violation of the National Labor
Relations Act, and having directed the employer to deduct from
the back pay such amounts as were received by 'the employees from
governmental agencies for services performed meanwhile on work
relief projects, was without authority further to require the employer to pay over to the governmental agencies the amounts so
deducted. Pp. 9, 12.
2. The National Labor Relations Act is essentially remedial. The
provision of ยง 10 (c) authorizing the Board to order "such afffmative action, including reinstatement of employees with or without
back pay, as will effectuate the policies of this Act" is remedial,
not punitive. Affirmative action to' effectuate the policies'of this
Act is action to achieve the remedial objectives which the Act
sets forth. It is not enough to justify the Board's requirements
to say that they would have the effect of deterring persons from
violafing the Act. Pp. 10-11.
*The reasons assigned by the Board for the requirement in question-reasons which relate to the nature and purpose of worl

