282

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

gagee to purchase at the sale and to receive credit for
the indebtedness of the debtor in satisfaction of the purchase price and with the privilege of the debtor to redeem within ninety days upon payment of the sales price
and interest thereon, as provided by § 75 (s) (3) of the
Act.
To the extent indicated, we modify the judgment; and
we remand the cause to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Modified.

DECKERT

ET AL.

V. INDEPENDENCE SHARES
CORP. ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 17. Argued October 18, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
1. A bill of complaint filed in the District Court by purchasers
of securities under a financial plan which involved a trust, alleged
in substance that the vendor sold the securities by means which
rendered it liable to the purchasers under the Securities Act of
1933; that the vendor was insolvent, was threatened with many
lawsuits, and its assets were in danger of dissipation or depletion;
and that the trustee .was in possession of assets consisting in part
of payments made by the purchasers. The bill prayed the appointment of a receiver for the vendor, with power to liquidate assets
and to pay claims of the complainants; an injunction restraining
the trustee from transferring or disposing of assets of the trust;
and general relief. Held:
(1) An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from an interlocutory order granting an injunction was authorized by § 129
of the Judicial Code and was not premature. P. 286.
(2) Upon such appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals could properly
determine the correctness of'the District Court's denial of motions
*Together with No. 18, Deckert et al. v. Pennsylvania Company
for Insurances on Lives and Granting Annuities, also on writ of certiorqi, 309 U. S. 648, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.

DECKERT v. INDEPENDENCE CORP.
282

283

Statement of the Case.

to dismiss the bill, although normally such denial would be appealable only after a final decree. P. 287.
(3) Motions to dismiss the bill because it failed to state a cause
of action, and because the District Court lacked jurisdiction, were
properly denied. P. 287.
. (4) The District Court had jurisdiction of the suit under § 22
(a) of the Securities Act, irrespective of the amount in controversy
or the citizenship of the parties. P. 289.
(5) The grant of a temporary injunction by the District Courtrestraining the transfer of funds held by the trustee for the account
of the -vendor, upon security being given to protect the defendants--was proper to preserve the status quo pending final determination of the questions raised by the bill. P. 290.
The grant of a temporary injunction is within the- discretion of
the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal unless it be
contrary to equity or an abuse of discretion.
'(6) The allegations of the bill sufficiently showed that the legal
.remedy against the vendor, without recourse to the fund in possession of the trustee, would be inadequate. P. 290.
(7) Orders of the District Court allowing the bringing in of
two additional plaintiffs, and referring the issue of insolvency
to a master, were interlocutory and not reviewable except upon
appeal from a final decree. P. 290.
2. The relief of purchasers who have been sold securities by means
which render -the seller liable under the Securities Act of 1933,
is not restricted to a money judgment. P. 287.
3. The jurisdiction conferred on the District Court by § 22 (a) of
the Securities Act of suits "to enforce any liability or duty" created by the Act, implies the power to make effective the right
of recovery afforded by the Act, and the power to make the
right of recovery effective implies the power to utilize any of
the procedures or actions normally available to a litigant in the
exigencies of the particular case. P. 28K
4. A suit-to rescind a contract induced by fraud, and to recover
the consideration paid, is cognizable in equity, at least where the
legal remedy is inadequate. P. 289.
108 F. 2d 51, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 309 U. S. 648, to review the reversal of
interlocutory orders of the District Court, 27 F. Supp.
763, including the denial of motions to dismiss and the

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

grant of a temporary injunction, in a suit based upon the
Securities Act of 1933.
Mr. Harry Shapiro for petitioners.
Mr. Robert F. Irwin, Jr., with whom Mr. George M.
Kelvin was on the brief, for respondents in No. 17.
Mr. Walter Biddle Saul, with whom Mr. Francis H.
Bohlen, Jr., was on the brief, for respondent in No. 18.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the oinion of the
Court.
Two important questions are presented by these petitions. The first is whether the Securities Act of 1933
(48 Stat. 74) authorizes purchasers of securities to maintain a suit in equity to rescind a fraudulent sale and
secure restitution of the consideration paid, and to enforce the right to restitution against a third party where
the vendor is insolvent and the third party has assets
in its possession belonging to the vendor. The second
question is whether such purchasers must show that the
amount in controversy.exceeds $3,000 exclusive of interest and costs as required by § 24 of the Judicial Code as
amended C28 U. S. C. § 41).
Petitioners, with one exception residents of Pennsylvania, are owners and holders of Capital Savings Plan
Contract Certificates purchased from Capital Savings
Plan, Inc., since merged with and now Independence
Shares Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation. These
certificates required the holders to make certain installment payments to The Pennsylvania Company for Insurances on Lives and Granting Annuities, also a Pennsylvania corporation.1 Pennsylvania, after deducting
'For convenience the three corporations just named will be referred
to as Capital, Independence, and Pennsylvania.

DECKERT v. INDEPENDENCE CORP.
282

285

Opinion of the Court.

certain fixed charges, used the balance of these installment payments to purchase Independence Trust Shares
for the benefit of the certificate holders. Independence
Trust Shares, issued by Pennsylvania, represented interests in a trust of common stocks of 42 American corporations deposited by Independence with Pennsylvania.
Pursuant to trust agreement and indenture between
Pennsylvania and Independence, Pennsylvania collected
dividends and profits from the stocks and administered
the trust.
Petitioners brought this suit in the District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Pennsylvania, Independence, two affiliated companies, and certain officers and directors of Independence whose residence does not appear. The action against the affiliated
companies has been dismissed.
The bill alleges that Independence and its predecessor
Capital were guilty of fraudulent misrepresentations and
concealments in their sale and advertisement of contract
certificates to petitioners and others similarly situated in
violation of the Securities Act of 1933. It alleges that
Independence is insolvent and threatened with many law
suits, that its business is virtually at a standstill because
of unfavorable publicity, that preferences to creditors are
probable, and that its assets are in danger of dissipation
and depletion. Petitioners therefore pray the appointment of a receiver for Independence with power to collect.
and take possession of the assets of Independence and the
trust assets held by Pennsylvania,- liquidate the assets,
determine the claims of petitioners and other certificate
holders and pay them, and wind. up and dissolve the
corporations. They also seek relief incidental to the
above and an injunction restraining Pennsylvania from
transferring or disposing of any of the assets of the corporations or of the trust. There is the usual prayer for
general relief.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

None of the original petitioners' claims exceeds $3,000
and respondents contend that the aggregate of all of
them will not exceed $3,000. It is conceded that the
assets sought to be reached are greatly in excess- of

$3,000.
Respondents answered ' the bill and thereafter moved
to dismiss it. The motions were heard with petitioners'
motions for a temporary injunction and the addition of
two plaintiffs. The trial judge denied the motions to
dismiss, approved the addition of two plaintiffs, but reserved decision on the application for a receiver. He
directed the appointment of a master to take testimony
and file a report on the question of the insolvency of
Independence, and enjoined Pennsylvania from transferring or otherwise disposing of the sum of $38,258.85 representing certain charges, income, and proceeds received
in administration of the trust. 27 F. Supp' 763.
Pennsylvania, Independence, and the individual defendants appealed from these orders. The Circuit Court
of Appeals did not expressly consider whether the appeals were premature. It thought that the Securities
Act did not authorize a bill seeking equitable relief
against a third party which has assets belonging to the
vendor, and therefore, that Pennsylvania was not a
proper party to the suit since no cause of action under
the Securities Act was stated against it. It reversed all
of the orders appealed from and remanded the cause
with directions to allow petitioners to amend their complaint to state a claim for a money judgment at law
against Independence only. 108 F. 2d 51. We granted
certiorari because of the importance of the questions
presented. 309 U. S. 648.
We believe that the appeals from the order granting
the temporary injunction were not premature. It is true
that § 128 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 225) authorizes circuit courts of appeals to review only final decisions. But § 129 of the Judicial Code (28 U. S. C. § 227)

DECKERT v. INDEPENDENCE CORP.
282

287

Opinion of the Court.

expressly excepts from the general rule certain ihterlocutory orders and decrees. It provides in part: "Where,
upon a hearing in a district court . . . an injunction is
granted . . .by an interlocutory order or decree ..

. an

appeal may be taken from such interlocutory order or
decree to the circuit court of appeals. . . ." Thus by
the plain words of § 129 the Circuit Court of Appeals
was authorized to consider the appeals from the temporary injunction. Compare EnelOw v. New York Life
Insurance Co., 293 U. S.379; Shanferoke Coal & Supply
Corp. v. Westchester Service Corp., 293 U. S. 449.
However, this power is not limited to mere consideration of, and action upon, the order appealed from. "If
insuperable objection to maintaining the bill clearly appears, it may be dismissed and the litigation terminated." Meccano, Ltd. -0. Wanamaker,. 253 U. S. 136,.
141. See also Eagle Glass & Mfg. Co. v. Rowe, 245 U. S.
275; Metropolitan Water Co. v. Kaw Valley Drainage
District,223 U. S.519; Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg.
Co., 177 U. S. 485; Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165
U. S. 518. Accordingly, the Circuit Court of Appeals
properly examined the interlocutory order denying the
motions to dismiss, although generally it could consider
such an order only on appeal from a final decision. Reed
v. Lehman, 91 F. 2d 919; Miller v. Pyrites Co., 71 F. 2d
804. Compare Gillespie v. Schram, 108 F. 2d 39; Rodriguez v. Arosemena, 91 F. 2d 219; Kneberg v. Green Co.,
89 F. 2d 100; Satterlee v. Harris,60 F. 2d 490.
Respondents' motions sought to dismiss the bill because
it failed to state any. cause of action and because the
District Court lacked jurisdiction. :We hold that these
motions were correctly denied.
We think the Securities Act does not restrict purchasers
seeking relief under, its provisions to a money judgment.
On the contrary, the Act as a whole indicates an intention
to establish a statutory right which the litigant may en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court:

311 U. S.

force in designated courts by such legal or equitable
actions or procedures as would normally be available to
him. Undoubtedly any suit to establish the civil liability
imposed by the Act must ultimately seek recovery of
the consideration paid less income received or damages
if the claimant no longer owns the security. § 12 (2);
15 U. S. C. § 77 (1) (2). But § 12 (2) states the legal
consequences of conduct proscribed by the Act; it does
not purport to state the form of action or procedure
the claimant is to employ.
Moreover, in § 22 (a) (15 U. S. C., § 77v) specified
courts are given jurisdiction "of all suits in equity and
actions at law brought to enforce any liability or duty
created by this subchapter." 2 The power to enforce
implies the power to make effective the right of recovery
afforded by the Act. And the power to make the right
of recovery effective implies the power to utilize any of
the procedures or actions normally available to the litigant according to the exigencies of the particular case.
If petitioners' bill states a cause of action when tested
by the customary rules governing suits of such character,
the Securities Act authorizes maintenance of the suit, providing the bill contains the allegations the Act requires.
That it does not authorize the bill in so many words is
no more significant than the fact that it does not in terms
authorize execution to issue on a judgment recovered
under § 12 (2).
We are of opinion that the bill states a cause for
equitable relief. There are allegations that Independence
is insolvent, that its business is practically halted, that it
is threatened, with many law suits, that its assets are
endangered, and that preferences to creditors are probable. There are prayers for an accounting, appointment
of a receiver, an injunction pendente lite, and for return
of petitioners' payments. Other allegations show that
2

Emphasis added.

DECKERT v. INDEPENDENCE CORP.

289

Opinion of the Court.

282

although petitioners dealt with independence their installments were paid to Pennsylvania and that the complicated arrangement between Pennsylvania and Independence might make it extremely difficult to obtain
satisfaction of any claim established against Independence.
The principal objects of the suit are rescission of the
Savings Plan contracts and restitution of the consideration paid, including recovery of the balance, held by Pennsylvania for account of Independence, which consisted in
part of the payments alleged to have been procured by
the fraud of Independence. That a suit to rescind a
contract induced by fraud and to recover the consideration
paid may be maintained in equity, at least where there
are circumstances making the legal remedy inadequate,
is well established. Tyler v. Savage, 143 U. S. 79; Montgomery v. Bucyrus Machine Works, 92 U. S. 257; Boyce's
Executors v. Grundy, 3 Pet. 210. See Black, Rescission
and Cancellation, 2d edition, § 643, et seq.; Williston,
Contracts, 3d edition, § 1525, et seq.; Pomeroy, Equity
Jurisprudence, 4th edition, § § 881, 1092.'
It is enough at this time to determine that the bill
contains allegations which, if proved, entitle petitioners
to some equitable relief. Whether or not they sufficiently
allege or prove their right to all of the relief prayed in
the bill we do not decide because the question is not before us. Hence, if the District Court had jurisdiction
it was proper to consider whether injunctive relief should
be given in aid of the recovery sought by the bill.
We agree with the courts below that the Securities Act
confers jurisdiction of the suit upon the District Court
irrespective of the amount in controversy or the citizenship of the parties. Section 22 (a) provides in part:
'In Falk v. Hoffman, 233 N. Y. 199, 202; 135 N. E. 243, 244,
Judge Cardozo said.:"Equity will not be over-nice in balancing the
efficacy of one remedy against the efficacy of another when action will
baffle, and inaction may confirm, the purpose of. the wrongdoer."
276055--41-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

"The district courts of the United States . . . shall have
jurisdiction . . . of all suits in equity and actions at law
brought to enforce any liability or duty created by this
subchapter." This is plainly a suit to enforce a liability
or duty created by the Act. That the District Court
therefore has jurisdiction is evident from the provision
quoted. Accordingly, the only remaining question is
whether the injunction was proper.
We hold that the injunction was a reasonable measure
to preserve the status quo pending final determination
of the questions raised by the bill. "It is well settled
that the granting of a temporary injunction, pending
final hearing, is within the sound discretion of the trial
court; and that, upon appeal, an order granting such an
injunction will not be disturbed unless contrary to some
rule of equity, or the result of improvident exercise of
judicial discretion." Prendergastv. New York Telephone
Co., 262 U. S. 43, 50-51; Meccano, Ltd. v. Wanamaker,
253 U. S. 136, 141. As already stated, there were allegations that Independence was insolvent and its- assets
in danger of dissipation or depletion. This being so, the
legal remedy against Independence, without recourse to
the fund in the hands of Pennsylvania, would be inadequate. The injunction was framed narrowly to restrain
only the transfer of $38,258.85, and the trial judge required petitioners to furnish security for any losses respondents might suffer. In view of this we cannot say
that the trial judge abused his discretion in granting the
temporary injunction.
We conclude that the orders granting the temporary
injunction and denying the motions to dismiss were
correct and should have been sustained. The orders allowing the addition of two plaintiffs arid referring the
issue of insolvency to a master were interlocutory and

DECKERT v. INDEPENDENCE CORP.
282

291

Opinion of the Court.

not appealable (28 U. S. C. § 225),' and should have been
reversed only if petitioners were not entitled to any
equitable relief. See Meccano, Ltd. v. Wanamaker, 253
U. S. 136; Smith v. Vulcan Iron Works, 165 U. S. 518.
The Circuit Court of Appeals properly did not consider
them on the merits, and if ultimately there is an appeal
from a final decree the correctness of these orders may
be examined.
The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.

' An order allowing the addition of plaintiffs is interlocutory and
not appealable: Central. Calijornia Canneries Co. v. Dunkley Co.,
282 F. 406, 410. See Oneida Navigation Corp. v. W. & S. Job
& Co., 252 U. S. 521; Cyclopedia of 1ederal Procedure, Vol. 5,

§ 2608.
An order of reference to a master is generally interlocutory and
not appealable, at least if not for a mere ministerial purpose:
George v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 293 U. S. 377. See Latta v.
Kilbourn, 150 U. S.524; McGourkey v. Toledo & Ohio Central Ry.
Co., 146 U. S. 536; Hill v. Chicago & Evanston R. Co., 140 U. S.
52; Beebe v. Russell, 19 How. 283; Craighead v. Wilson, 18 How.
199; Forgay v. Conrad,6 How.. 201; Cyclopedia of Federal' Procedure.
Vol. 5, 2618.

