WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
272

273

Syllabus.

Sewall Key and Edward H. Horton were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Eugene J. McGivney for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case involves respondent's income tax for the
tax year 1933. It is in all respects governed by our decision in Helvering v. Oregon Mutual Life Ins. Co., ante,
p. 267, and on the authority of that case the decision
below is
Affirmed.
WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL LIFE INSURANCE
CO. ET AL. CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 51.

Argued November 20, 22, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.

1. Under § 75 (s) (3) of the Bankruptcy Act, the debtor, upon his
request, must be afforded an opportunity to redeem the property
at its current value (as reappraised, 'or as fixed by the court after
hearing, pursuant to provisions of the section), before the property
may be ordered sold at public sale. P. 277.
2. The debtor's right, upon request, to redeem pursuant to the procedure prescribed in the first proviso of § 75 (s) (3) can not be
defeated by the request of a secured creditor for a public sale
under the second proviso. P. 279.
3. The power of the bankruptcy court under § 75 (s) (3) to appoint
a trustee and order a sale or other disposition of the property
- if the debtor "at any time fails to comply with the provisions
of this section, or with any orders of the court made pursuant
to this section, or is unable to refinance himself within three years,"
may not be exercised so as to deprive the debtor of his right to
redeem at the reappraised value or at the value fixed by the
court. P.280.
276055°--41-18

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Counsel for Parties.

311 U. S.

4. Provisions of the Bankruptcy Act for the relief of farmer-debtors
must be liberally construed to give the debtor the full measure
of the relief afforded by Congress. P. 279.
5. Pursuant to § 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy Act, a farmer-debtor
had been adjudged bankrupt and proceedings against him had been
stayed. Subsequently, a mortgage creditor petitioned the bankruptcy court for an immediate sale of the property, alleging,
inter alia, that the debtor's financial condition was beyond hope
of rehabilitation and that he had failed to comply with provisions
of § 75 (s) (3) and orders of the court pursuant thereto. The
debtor answered and filed a cross-petition under § 75 (s) (3)
requesting a reappraisal of the property or that its value be fixed
by the court after hearing, and that he be allowed to redeem at
the value so determined and free from any liability on account
Df any deficiency. Upon hearing, the court found the value of
the property but ordered its sale without affording the debtor
an opportunity to redeem at that value. Held:
(1) That the debtor's cross-petition should have been granted;
that he was entitled to have the property reappraised or the
value fixed at a hearing; that the value having been thus determined, he was then entitled to have a reasonable time, fixed by
the court, in which to redeem at that value; and that if he
did so redeem, the land should be turned over to him free and
clear of encumbrances and his discharge granted. P. 281.
Only in case the debtor failed to redeem within a reasonable
time would the court be authorized to order a public sale.
(2) As thus modified, the order of the court should stand,
granting the mortgagee the privilege of purchasing the property
at the sale and of crediting the indebtedness of the debtor against
the purchase price; the debtor to have the privilege of redemption
within ninety days, upon payment of the sales price and interest
thereon, as provided by § 75 (s) (3) of the Act. P. 281.
108 F. 2d 361, modified.

CERTiORARI, 310 U. S. 618, to review the affirmance of
an order of the bankruptcy court directing that the property of a debtor be sold.
Mr. Samuel E. Cook, with whom Mr. William Lemke
was on the brief, for petitioner.

WRIGHT v. UNION QENTRAL INS. CO. 275
273

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Arthur S. Lytton, with whom Mr. Virgil D. Parish
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUsTIcE DOUGLAS
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

This case involves the same debtor and the same 200
acre tract of land as were involved in Wright v. Union
Central Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 502. As revealed in that
case, the debtor is a farmer who filed a petition under
§ 75 of the Bankruptcy Act and later amended it under
§ 75 (s), asking to be adjudged a bankrupt.1 This Court
held that the 200 acre tract was subject to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court and that § 75 (n) extending the period of redemption was constitutional. The
present record does not disclose all that has transpired
in this proceeding. For example, it does not appear
whether the debtor asked for an appraisal under § 75 (s)
which it is the duty of the court to make on such request
and in which eVent the three-year stay provided for in
§ 75 (s) (2) may start to run only after such appraisal
has been made. John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v.
Bartels, 308 U. S. 180; Borchard v. CaliforniaBank, 310
U. S. 311. But such problem is not sharply presented by
the record before bs. The narrow issue presented by this
petition for certiorari and which moved us to grant it is
whether under § 75 (s) (3) the debtor must be accorded
'Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, 47 Stat. 1467, 1470; Act of June 28,
1934, c. 869, 48 Stat. 1289; Act of August 28, 1935, c. 792, 49 Stat,
942, 943. The petition was amended October 11, 1935, as authorized
by § 75 (s) as enacted by the Act of August 28, 1935. See. 75 has
been further amended by the Acts of March 4, 1938, and June 22,
1938, 52 Stat. 84, 85, 939, and by the Act of March 4, 1940, c. 39, 54
Stat. 40, but in respects not material here. Sec. 75, as now in force,
appears in'll U. S. C. §.203.

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U. S.

an opportunity, on his request, to redeem the property
at the reappraised value or at a value fixed by the court
before the court may order a public sale.
On July 22, 1938, respondent filed a petition praying
that the proceeding be dismissed or, in the alternative,
that an immediate sale be had, and alleging, inter alia,
that the debtor's financial condition was beyond all reasonable hope of rehabilitation, that he had failed to
comply with the order of the court requiring two-fifths
of the crops to be delivered to the trustee, that he had
made no offer of composition, and that he had failed to
pay taxes and insurance and had made no payment on
principal since 1925 and none on interest since 1930.
The debtor's motion to dismiss the petition was denied.
On October 5, 1938, the debtor filed both an answer to
the petition, and a cross petition under § 75 (s) (3) to
have the land appraised or a date set for hearing and
after hearing evidence to have its value fixed, to be allowed to redeem at that value, and to be discharged
from liability on account of any deficiency. Respondent
answered alleging that the debtor was not entitled to
redeem at such value and that by the terms of § 75 (s)
(3) its request for a sale took precedence over any such
right of the debtor. The court held a hearing at which
evidence was adduced. It found, inter alia, that the
amount owed by the debtor to respondent was $15,903.68, that the value of the property was $6,000, that
there was no evidence upon which might be based a reasonable hope or expectation of the debtor's financial rehabilitation, that there was-no evidence of his ability to
effect a refinancing of the property at that value, and
that he had failed and refused to obey orders of the court.
Accordingly it ordered that the property be sold "at
public sale to the highest bidder and for cash, without
any relief Whatever from valuation and appraisement
laws"; that respondent be allowed to purchase at the sale

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO.
273

277

Opinion of the Court.

and to "utilize and be given credit for all or any part of
the indebtedness of [the] debtor"; and that the debtor
be barred from all equity of redemption in the property
if it be not redeemed by him "within the time and in the
manner allowed and provided" by § 75 (s) (3).2 On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals that order was
affirmed, 108 F. 2d 361, the court stating that the facts
not only authorized the entry of the order but made such
action imperative. We granted certiorari because of the
importance of the problem to the orderly administration
of the Act.
We think that the denial of an opportunity for the
debtor to redeem at the value fixed by the court before
ordering a public sale was error.
The provision in § 75 (s) (3) that at the end of three
years, or prior thereto, the debtor may pay into court
the amount of the appraisal of the property, is followed
by two provisos.' The first states that "upon request of
-Sec. 75 (s) (3) grants the debtor ninety days to redeem any property sold at a public sale, by paying the amount for which it was
sold, together with 5% interest, into court.
"Sec. 75 (s) (3) reads as follows:
"At the end of three years, or prior thereto, the debtor may pay
into court the amount of the appraisal of the property of which he
retains possession, including the amount of encumbrances on his exemptions, up to the amount of the appraisal, less the amount paid
on principal: Provided, That upon request of any secured or unsecured creditor, or upon request of the debtor, the court shall cause
a reappraisal of the debtor's property, or in its discretion set a date
for hearing, and after such hearing, fix the value of the property, in
accordance with the evidence submitted, and the debtor shall then
pay the value so arrived at into court, less payments made on the
principal, for distribution to all secured and unsecured creditors, as
their interests may appear, and thereupon the court shall, by an
order, turn over full possession and title of said property, free and
clear of encumbrances to the debtor: Provided, That upon request
in writing by any secured creditor or creditors, the court shall order
the property upon which such secured creditors have a lien to be sold
at public auction. The debtor'shall have ninety days to redeem any

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

any secured or unsecured creditor, or upon request of the
debtor, the court shall cause a reappraisal of the debtor's
property, or in its discretion set a date for hearing, and
after such hearing, fix the value of the property, . . .
and the debtor shall then pay the value so arrived at into
court . . ." The second provides that "upon request in
writing by any secured creditor or creditors, the court
shall order the property upon which such secured creditors have a lien to be sold at public auction."
True, the granting of a request for a public sale is
mandatory. But so is the granting of a request for a
valuation at which the debtor may redeem. Yet a
reconciliation of these seemingly inconsistent remedies
is not difficult if the purpose and function of the Act
are not obscured. This Act provided a procedure to
effectuate a broad program of rehabilitation of distressed
farmers faced with the disaster of forced sales and an
oppressive'burden, of debt. Wright v. Union Central
Life Ins. Co., supra; John Hancock Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Bartels, supra; Kalb v. Feuerstein, 308 U. S. 433.
Safeguards were provided to protect the rights of secured
creditors, throughout the proceedings, to the extent of
the value of the property. John Hancock Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Bartels, supra, at pp. 186-187; Borchard v.
CaliforniaBank, supra, at p. 317. There is no constitutional claim of the creditor to more than that. And so
long as that right is protected the creditor certainly is
in no position to insist that doubts or ambiguities in the
property sold at such sale, by paying the amount for which any such
property was sold, together with 5 per centum per annum interest,
into court, and he may apply for his discharge, as provided for by
this Act. If, however, the debtor at any time fails to comply with
the provisions of this section, or with any orders of the court made
pursuant to this section, or is unable to refinance himself within three
years, the court may order the appointment of a trustee, and order
the property sold or otherwise disposed of as provided for in this
Act."

WRIGHT v. UN1ON CENTRAL INS. CO. 279
273

Opinion of the Court.

Act be resolved in its favor and against the debtor.
Rather, the Act must be liberally construed to give the
debtor the full measure of the relief afforded by Congress (John Hancock Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Bartels,
supra; Kalb v. Feuerstein, supra), lest its benefits be
frittered away by narrow formalistic interpretations
which disregard the spirit and the letter of the Act.
Equal protection to debtor and creditor alike can be
afforded only by holding that the debtor's request for
redemption pursuant to the procedure prescribed in the
first proviso of § 75 (s) (3) cannot be defeated by a
request of a secured creditor for a public sale under the
second proviso. Certainly equal protection of debtor and
creditor would not be obtained if the contrary view were
followed. Then the debtor's rights under the first proviso
would be either dependent on the outcome of his race
of diligence with a creditor, for which customarily he
would be poorly equipped (Cf. Kalb v. Feuerstein,
supra); or they would be defeasible at the instance of
a creditor. Under our construction, however, the debtor
will be given the benefit of an express mandate of the
Act. And the creditor will not be deprived of the assurance that the value of the property will be devoted to
the payment of its claim. For, as indicated in Wright
v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440, 468, if the debtor did
redeem pursuant to that procedure, he would not get the
property at less than its actual value. In that case this
Court, in sustaining the constitutionality of § 75 (s),
emphasized that the Act preserved the right of the mortgagee to realize upon the security by a judicial sale. By
our construction the exercise of this right is merely deferred or postponed until the other conditions and requirements of the Act, prescribed for the protection of
the debtor, have been met. It is eventually denied the
creditor only in case he is paid the full amount of what
he, can constitutionally claim.

280

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Opinion of the Court.

311 U.S.

Respondent, however, places great reliance on that
part of § 75 (s) (3) which provides that if the debtor
"at any time fails to comply with the provisions of this
section, or with any orders of the court n~ade pursuant
to this section, or is unable to refinance himself within
three years, the court may order the appointment of a
trustee, and order the property sold or otherwise disposed
of as provided for in this Act." This provision is somewhat ambiguous. And no significant light is thrown on'
its meaning by the Committee Reports.' To be sure -it
was relied on by this Court in Wright v. Vinton Branch,
supra, pp. 460-462, for the conclusion that the three-year
stay provided for in § 75 (s) (2) is not an "absolute
one" but that "the court may terminate the stay and
order a sale earlier." (p. 461.) But there is nothing in
that opinion or in the Act which says that that power
of the court may be utilized so as to wipe out the clear
and express right of the debtor under § 75 (s) (3) to
redeem at the reappraised value or at the value fixed
by the court. Nor can the existence of that power be
fairly implied. The power of the court to "order the
property sold or otherwise disposed of as provided for in
this Act" cannot be taken to mean a discretionary power
to terminate the proceedings through the exclusive device
of a public sale. Congress has provided that certain
contumacious conduct on the part of the debtor or his
inability to refinance himself within three years may be
an appropriate basis for a termination of the proceedings
or for an acceleration thereof. We cannot infer, however, that Congress intended that such facts should have
any further legal significance under the Act. To hold
that they empowered the court to deprive the debtor
of his express and fundamental statutory right to redeem
SS. Rep. No. 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.; H. Rep. No. 1808, 74th
Cong., 1st Sems.

WRIGHT v. UNION CENTRAL INS. CO. 281
.273

Opinion of the Court.

at the reappraised value or at the value fixed by the court
would be to imply a power .of forfeiture wholly incompatible with the broad design of the Act to aid and protect farmer-debtors who were victims of the general economic depression. Wright v. Vinton Branch, supra,
p. 466. Such an important remedial right cannot be lost
by mere implication. And to hold that the court has
the discretion to deny or to grant the debtor's right to
redeem at the reappraised value or at the value fixed
by the court, dependent on general equitable considerations, would be to rewrite the Act, so as to vest in the
court a power which Congressdid not plainly delegate.
This discretionary power o Ahe coirt is exhausted when
the court terminates the 3 roceedings or accelerates their
termination. Such term=ation can be effected only pursuant to the precise piocedure which Congress has provided. And so we return to our reconciliation of the two
apparently conflicting provisos of § 75 (s) (3).
We hold that the debtor's cross petition should have
been granted; that he was entitled to have the property
reappraised or the value fixed at a hearing; that the
value having been determined at a hearing in conformity with his request, he was then entitled to have a
reasonable time, fixed by the court, in which to redeem
at that value; and that if he did so redeem, the land
should be turned over to him free and clear of encumbrances and his discharge granted. Only in case the
debtor failed to redeem within a reasonable time would
the court be authorized -to order a public sale.
Some question has been raised as to the propriety of
certain provisions of the public sale order, -particularly
those which give the creditor the right to utilize all of its
indebtedness in bidding for the property.
The majority of the Court is of opinion that except
for the modification we have indicated the order for sale
should stand with the privilege of the respondent mort-

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1940.
Syllabus.

311 U. S.

gagee to purchase at the sale and to receive credit for
the indebtedness of the debtor in satisfaction of the purchase price and with the privilege of the debtor to redeem within ninety days upon payment of the sales price
and interest thereon, as provided by § 75 (s) (3) of the
Act.
To the extent indicated, we modify the judgment; and
we remand the cause to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Modified.

DECKERT

ET AL.

V. INDEPENDENCE SHARES
CORP. ET AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 17. Argued October 18, 1940.-Decided December 9, 1940.
1. A bill of complaint filed in the District Court by purchasers
of securities under a financial plan which involved a trust, alleged
in substance that the vendor sold the securities by means which
rendered it liable to the purchasers under the Securities Act of
1933; that the vendor was insolvent, was threatened with many
lawsuits, and its assets were in danger of dissipation or depletion;
and that the trustee .was in possession of assets consisting in part
of payments made by the purchasers. The bill prayed the appointment of a receiver for the vendor, with power to liquidate assets
and to pay claims of the complainants; an injunction restraining
the trustee from transferring or disposing of assets of the trust;
and general relief. Held:
(1) An appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals from an interlocutory order granting an injunction was authorized by § 129
of the Judicial Code and was not premature. P. 286.
(2) Upon such appeal the Circuit Court of Appeals could properly
determine the correctness of'the District Court's denial of motions
*Together with No. 18, Deckert et al. v. Pennsylvania Company
for Insurances on Lives and Granting Annuities, also on writ of certiorqi, 309 U. S. 648, to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit.

